Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer, 15+yrs in E-Commerce, Web Design, Digital Media, & SEO, Converting High Volume Leads into Sales Boynton Beach, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer BiotrackTHC Medical - Fort Lauderdale, FL April 2016 to December 2018 • Built an Enterprise level Administration/ Billing Portal with PHP, Angular, Node.Js   • Designed and Programmed Digital Menu Board using PHP for Biotrack’s brick and mortar customers.  • Programmed scripts to pull, parse & push data from a Window’s Based POS into web based applications.  • Generated automated SQL reports using PHP and cron.  • Implemented development workflow using Git and Jira   • Integrated SalesForce triggers into the Companys’ Web Form, CRM and Client Portal built. Front- End Web Developer                                                                                       Zimmerman Advertising - Fort Lauderdale, FL January 2016 to March 2016 • Created pixel-perfect landing pages, web applications and web assets using Angular, Node.js, Gulp.js, JSON and other web technologies for the following companies Boston Market, Jamba Juice, Fresh Market, Chuck E. Cheese, Michaels, Steak N Shake, Smokey Bones and Broward Heath.  • Responsible for Developing a single page Client Approval Application for animated web assets using Angular that supported 2 data connection, .NET and PHP.  • Created responsive newsletters in HTML and CSS that supported multiple email clients.  • Created CSS3 and JavaScript animated web assets for Web Marketing Campaign. Front- End Web Developer/Designer Strategic Legal Web - Boynton Beach, FL January 2014 to December 2015 • Ongoing development & maintenance of a network of Internet-based law web based application.  • Designed and programmed sites that have low bounce rates using web technologies eg Drupal, WordPress and CSS libraries like Bootstrap which best adapted to a user’s device, which resulted in reduced bounce rates Front- End Web Developer/Designer                                                                         Mikes Cigars - Bay Harbor, FL January 2010 to December 2014 • Built affiliate micro-sites with OpenCart, Magento & WooCommerce, and used Rest API to update stock  • Created custom CMS, CRM and E-commerce application  • Programmed features like abandoned cart, one click checkout, which helped increase sales  • Built in responsive and mobile-first design concepts.  • Built automated and triggered SQL Reports for Warehouse Management  • Worked with third party GIT projects to expedite projects Front- End Web Developer  Navigant Marketing - Miami, FL March 2009 to December 2009 • Converted PSD designs into CSS and web assets for Email, Flash Banners and web based application.   • Created and maintained web based applicationa.  • Built custom web based solutions for the following accounts: Wyndham Hotels and Resorts, Howard Johnson, Baymont Inn & Suites, Wingate by Wyndham, Ramada Worldwide, Viva Resorts, Jackson Health System, Holtz Children’s Hospital and Mercantil Commercebank Front End Developer Pow Inc. - Miami Beach, FL August 2006 to March 2009 • Converted PSD designs into CSS and web assets that can be used in any web based application. Education B.A. in Graphic & Web Design Miami International University of Art And Design - Miami, FL A.S. in Computer Science Florida Institute of Technology - Melbourne, FL C.P. in Advanced Web Design University of Miami - Miami, FL Skills Angular, Front End, Javascript, UI, React