Sr. Front End Web Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Web Developer - Northern Trust Corp Sarasota, FL ? Over 7+ years of extensive professional experience in Developing, Testing, Integrating, Implementing and Leading User Interface (UI) web applications.  ? Experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  ? Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, and Ajax that follows with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards and are browser compatible.  ? Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, angular.js, Ext.js, Responsive design.  ? Proficient in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) i.e. web applications using Backbone.js, node.js, handlebars and mustache.js. Experience with working on JavaScript frameworks like jQuery, Angular JS, Node JS.  ? Hands on experience working on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome and checking cross browser compatibility.  ? Experience in DOM (Document Object Model) to use in interacting with objects in HTML, XHTML and XML documents. Consuming bootstrap like Blue-UI components that are compatible for different browsers and resolutions.  ? Implemented the service using Node.js for performance, development, maintenance and deployment reasons. Extensively used HTML5 for audio and video playback and also Worked as a front- end web developer, Node.js and Angular JS based applications  ? Expert in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  ? Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Netbeans, EditPlus, Notepad++, Eclipse, Adobe Photoshop, and Dreamweaver.  ? Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications. Designed Web pages and Mobile application as Adaptive Responsive Design. Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory  ? Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, JavaScript functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  ? Worked with the team, helping them build out their markup and CSS. My Specialty is large scale CSS (Sass), focusing on reusability and modularity.  ? Experience with Version Control tools like Git, CVS, VSS and SVN for Source Code version management and merging Source code after intermittent Project releases.  ? Developed Responsive Web Design pages for various applications compatible for Mobiles, Tablets, and Desktop. Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data  ? Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  ? Effective problem solving skills, outstanding interpersonal skills, good in written and verbal communication. Ability to work independently as well as within a team environment. Driven to meet deadlines.  ? Expertise in Database Design, Creation and Management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, Functions DDL, DML and SQL queries. Coding as per WCAG 2.0 standards and proficient in avoiding SANS top 25 of every year.  ? Developed Interactive web charts with High Charts and D3. Hands on experience using various Operating - Systems like Windows, UNIX, Linux. Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End Web Developer Northern Trust Corp - Sarasota, FL September 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Built pages from Photoshop mock-ups using JavaScript, JQuery, XHTML, CSS, and HTML.  ? Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  ? Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  ? Thorough understanding of the differences and bugs in various browsers and browser versions. Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies.  ? Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT AND ANGULAR JS, and Bootstrap. Knowledge of human factors and usability, best practices for interface design  ? Developed reusable components using Custom Directives in Angular JS. Developed claim screens for customers using ANGULAR JS, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3 AND JAVASCRIPT.  ? Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams  ? Deep understanding of JavaScript and the JQuery framework. Performed analysis for the client requirements based on the developed detailed design documents.  ? Developed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Data Models. Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  ? Designed the web UI using ASP.NET, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, Web Forms and AJAX controls. Followed the Agile and Scrum development methodologies  ? Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  ? Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages. Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  ? Developed applications using Angular JS single page applications SPAs to improve page performance.  ? Implement all changes to the forum templates, which are primarily XHTML/CSS, but do include a proprietary form of conditional logic, as well as JavaScript. Created JSPs and developed the screens as per the file structure.  ? Involved in developing HTML, XHTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures. Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  ? Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML. Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp JSON, jQuery and Ajax.  ? Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application. Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript. Knowledge of Node.js and frameworks available like Express.  ? Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers. Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  ? Integrated with back end code (PHP) for highly interactive AJAX based applications. Maintained 24/7 high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP, and MySQL.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, XHTML, AJAX, Node.js, JSON, XML, ECLIPSE, SVN, Linux, Apache, PHP, and MySQL. Sr. Front End Web Developer UnitedHealth Group - Miami, FL May 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Bootstrap with MySQL database.  ? Developed the website on Ruby on Rails. Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client side validations using JQuery functions. Developed dynamic UI using Angular JS.  ? Coded XHTML/CSS, JavaScript, at times using jQuery JavaScript framework. Developed source code to consume JSON response received through AJAX calls using JQuery.  ? Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, XHTML, CSS3, HTML5 widgets / libraries for complex UI controls.  ? Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes. Responsible for JavaScript / AJAX UI upgrades and improvements. Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  ? The tech stack is AngularJS, LESS, Bootstrap and cutting edge server side technologies. Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with AngularJS controllers under specific modules, manipulating nodes in DOM tree  ? Implemented JQuery frontend for Insurance policy display for employees using JQuery. Facilitated User Testing sessions to solicit feedback on prototypes.  ? Implemented JavaScript module patterns using asynchronous script loading. Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  ? Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE6.  ? Hand-code primarily in XHTML, XML, XSD, XSL and CSS. Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with Junit.  ? Worked on D3, HighCharts for creating the web charts. Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags using box model. Followed Web Accessibility Guidelines while coding the website.  ? Used Web Developer, Firebug, and IE developer toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility  ? Working in close coordination with Client to resolve issues arising using agile methodologies.  ? Involved in Agile/SCRUM based approach to UI Development.    Environment: HTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Node.js, XHTML, XML, MV* Framework, AngularJS, Apache Tomcat, Notepad++, Sublime text, IntelliJ, MySQL, Microsoft Azure, Tortoise SVN. Front End Web Developer Allergan - Miami, FL April 2010 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Interacted with clients to understand their existing applications and design the site according to their system requirements.  ? Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals and help define strategy, content, and features.  ? Responsible for daily maintenance, bug fixes, new feature and custom project development requests for E-Commerce clients utilizing HTML/XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Struts.  ? Developed web forms using HTML for the application, developed data insertion forms and validating using JavaScript.  ? Participated in day-to-day meeting, strong reporting and effective communication with project manager and developers. Participated in bug thrashing sessions to discuss and resolve bugs with developers.  ? Designed web pages and used applications that meet business and user goals through a positive user experience. Responsible for creating the look and feel of the public website.  ? Worked with designer who designed user interfaces and prototypes for a web-based internal system.  ? Worked on front- end pages that were developed in a professional manner using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQUERY.  ? Developed and implemented user interfaces as per latest W3C standards. Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and JQUERY.  ? Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Involved in fixing Front- End issues with the layouts.  ? Actively used XML (documents and transformations) for creating templates with dynamic data from XML file. Extensively used/modified JQUERY to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  ? Worked with backend developers to convert HTML/CSS non-functional pages into dynamic JSP pages. Developed cross-browser pages using CSS, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, and JavaScript  ? Involved in documenting the details related to Changes occurring in the system, following the Quality processes.  ? Created job details, activity diagrams, test cases and communicated with the client on a regular basis. Involved in documenting the details related to Changes occurring in the system, following the Quality processes.  ? Developed web applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML.  ? Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques. Designed applications that execute on various browsers such as Internet Explorer.  ? Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, and Opera using various debugging tools like Firebugs/IE Developer Tools.    Environment: HTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, XHTML, AngularJS, Bootstrap, XML, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Oracle, Microsoft Azure, Git. Software Developer RaceTrac - Tampa, FL February 2007 to March 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis, Code development, implementation  ? Development, enhancement, maintenance and support of Java J2EE applications, implementations, performance improvement, and review of all deliverables.  ? Planned the shutdown of required applications and systems, with different support groups and business heads.  ? Analyzed the impact on the existing system of the shutdown of specific applications on existing system. Used Eclipse editor to develop the different J2EE components like EJB, Client jars and Application EAR modules.  ? Provided callout support on rotation basis. Provided L2 and L3 support for Web Applications.  ? Prepared technical reports & documentation manuals during the program development  ? Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS & JavaScript  ? Developed Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML and Used Log4j for logging Errors  ? Implemented the database connectivity using JDBC with Oracle 9i database as backend.  ? Designed and developed Application based on Struts Framework using MVC design pattern. Developed Struts Action classes using Struts controller component  ? Used CVS for version controlling and JUnit for unit testing. Deployed the application on WebSphere Application server    Environment: Struts2.0, JSP2.0, Servlets, XML, Oracle 9i, XHTML, JDBC 3.0, JavaScript, UML, HTML, ANT, CVS, Log4J, JUnit, IBM RAD, WebSphere Application server, Web Services 1.2 Education Master's