Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer - Apple Inc Bothell, WA Innovative, out-of-box thinker; and performance-driven professional with 15+ years of hands-on web design experience. Bright, accurate, quick learner, and detail-minded. With proven ability to adapt well to change and work effectively under pressure and prioritize. Self-directed, take charge, and adheres to schedules. In-depth knowledge of HTML, CSS, SCSS, JavaScript and PhotoShop. Complete understanding of HTML production with over 15 years of experience, including creating web pages from Adobe PhotoShop files, trouble shooting pages for cross-platform and cross-device display, and producing web pages that adhere to the design and still function in different browsers and devices. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Developer Apple Inc - Cupertino, CA October 2011 to Present Web developer for the Apple Online Store. Mentored new hires on how to build content for the store. Worked with different teams from marketing and design to back- end engineering to launch products world-wide, including: MacBook Pro with Retina display, iPhone 5, iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c, iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, iPad Air, iPad mini, iPad Pro, and Apple Watch. Was a key leader in implementing SCSS into the code base of the store. Played a key roll in 2 major redesigns of the store, and launched a mobile optimized web version, and three app versions of the store. Senior Web Developer Tigerlogic Corporation - Portland, OR June 2010 to March 2011 Lead developer on the Tigerlogic website. Worked with a team to redesign and recode yolink.com and tigerlogic.com. Responsible for development of CSS and HTML standards on the entire site. Cleaned up and modernized code that in some cases was over 7 years old. Part of the team that was part of the launch of PostPost.com (now Postano.com) Edited the video for the PostPost launch viewed on Youtube over 30,000 times. Front End Web Developer Checkpoint Software - San Carlos, CA January 2010 to April 2010 Developed the Check Point website. Responsible for posting of world wide events. Create websites from PhotoShop files. Front End Web Developer Checkpoint Software - San Carlos, CA August 2008 to November 2008 Developed the ZoneAlarm website, both flat files and JSP pages. Performed content management with Smart CVS. Created websites from PhotoShop files. Front End Web Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA June 2007 to February 2008 Responsible for daily updates to internal as well as external sites. Worked with Documentum content management tools. Built and updated 508 compliant sites. Front End Web Developer CNET Networks - San Francisco, CA December 2006 to May 2007 Performed production work on ZDNet, Tech Republic, and BNET. Used custom CNET content management tools to build BNET, and update videos on ZDNet. Created CSS table less layouts for ZDNET and Tech Republic. Published CIO vision series videos with WordPress. Collaborated with content managers to create HotSpot and Spotlight on advertising elements on the various sites. Front End Web Developer FriendFinder - Palo Alto, CA July 2006 to December 2006 Produced Newsletters for distribution to over 20 million site members. Front End Web Developer Force 10 Networks - San Jose, CA January 2006 to July 2006 Maintained all content on Force10's website. Performed all day to day edits as well as design of new pages. Published press releases, white papers. Responsible for new hardware launches, and intranet maintenance. Converted legacy pages to current standard CSS pages. Front End Web Developer Apple Inc - Cupertino, CA July 1996 to December 2005 Re-designed the promotional product pages to increase sales and interests in various programs. Boosted efficiency of new promo pages resulting in reduced number of calls to our support staff. Re-designed all "Feedback" pages to allow space to provide support and sales information of related products. Increased participation from users, and with end result of obtaining information to enhance Apple products. Lead producer and designer for the "Small Business" site.    Generated millions of dollars of additional revenue by collaborating with designers to create holiday gift guides, for the Apple Online Store. Coordinated the world wide launch of Mac OS X 10.0.    Coded approximately 15 dynamic pages that were used for several different products on the Apple Online Store. For Macworld NY 1999, created the first iBook and AirPort websites, worked on the redesign of the online store. Project involved building the iBook site in over 10 foreign languages. Created and launched the entire original iMac website with only 12 hours notice.    Designed and created hardware and software product websites for Apple Platform Marketing group. Played key role in a team of writers and designers on sites including Power Macintosh, Mac OS 8, Java, and QuickTime.    Created and launched several sites for various groups inside Apple. These sites included Cocoa: a kids programming language; Apple Java: detailing Apple's use of the Java programming language; AppleShare IP: a program for to remote access Macs; AppleNet: news and information of Apple's involvement in different internet projects; and Cyberdog: a web browser for the Mac platform. Education Javascript Class Stanford University - Palo Alto, CA July 2016 General Studies MT. San Antonio College - Walnut, CA 1994 to 1995 General Studies Moorpark College - Moorpark, CA 1995 Skills CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), PHOTOSHOP (10+ years) Additional Information SKILLS  Internet, Languages 15+ Years - HTML, CSS, SCSS Javascript, JSP  Graphic Design 15+ Years - Photoshop, ImageReady, Illustrator  Software/Other Tools 1-10+ Years - git, SVN, MS Word, Excel, Mail, Keynote, BBEdit, Fetch, Adobe Flash, Transmit, WebObjects, CVS, Wordpress, Bugzilla, DHTML. XHTML, Documentum, XMetal, Visual Studio 2008