Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End Developer - Sabre Corinth, TX Kira Kovach is a Senior Front End Developer (FED) with functional expertise in a diverse set of front- end technologies (including Magento). Kira complements her technical capabilities with a strong focus on design principles and usability tools. With over 12 years of extensive, hands-on expertise in designing and developing web and ecommerce applications.    Kira has the unique combination of technical, functional and design experience to contribute to both early stages conceptual projects all the way to redesign and front end overhaul projects. Coupled with a client first attitude and diverse industry background, Kira has the required attributes to contribute to a client's success.    Technical Skills    UI Languages:  HTML4/ 5, CSS2/3, SCSS, XHTML, XML, XSL, HTML E-mail, JavaScript, JQuery. Additional Knowledge in WCAG, AMP. Knowledge in PHP, MySQL & Java.    IDE, Editors: Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Aptana, PHPStorm, Visual Studio, Sublime & Vim  Cross Browser Scripting IE, Firefox, Opera, Chrome, Safari  Design Applications: Photoshop CC, Illustrator CC, In-Design CC, TMPEG, XMPie, uProduce, uStore, & Paint Shop Pro Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front End Developer Sabre - Southlake, TX March 2017 to August 2018 • Made layout and functionality updates using HTML5, XML, XSL, CSS3, JavaScript, and PHP.  • Regularly worked maintenance items for 36+ Concrete5 and 63+ CDE (XSL) sites.  • Utilized Waze and testing to ensure that 25+ sites were WCAG AA compliant, Keyboard Accessible, and Screen Reader Accessible.  • Implemented AMP pages for 3 clients.  • Worked with backend developers to encrypt two outside customer recognition programs to sync with Sabre’s booking engine.  • Created custom blocks and regex patterns for use with Concrete5 and Sabre’s CMT software.  • Provided training for new employees and contractors on Sabre’s technologies.  • Worked with a scrum based team to fulfill and complete client projects. Developer Robofirm - Dallas, TX June 2016 to January 2017 • Worked with copious clients using both my frontend and backend knowledge of Magento.  • Administered a mobile first strategy with all clients.  • Upgraded a client's website to a Responsive Design. Site had to be updated to current coding standards and technologies.  • Completed Magento Patch UATs for each client.  • Worked with a team to redesign and update Robofirm's website using Drupal 8 platform.  • Applied AMP standards and Drupal 8 module for Robofirm's blog.  • Implemented retina image code and files for Robofirm's website. Senior Front End Developer MonkeySports - Allen, TX December 2014 to June 2016 • Made layout design, navigation, wire frame and color scheme updates using HTML5, XML, CSS3, Bootstrap(responsive), JavaScript, and PHP.  • Involved in Magento Upgrade from 1.10 to 1.14.1. Included Frontend updates, QA documentation and project management of multiple departments, extension research, and launch.  • Built customized integration for HTML5/KineticJS modules for use on custom products.  ? Updated 2 sites to responsive design and started migration for sites from Yahoo platform to Magento. Senior Front End Developer Kinectra - Plano, TX August 2014 to November 2014 • Led the front- end development for a custom built eco-friendly marketplace.  • Developed and led a team to build custom theme for Magento marketplace using HTML4/5, XML, PHP, JavaScript, and CSS2/3, responsive web design and Bootstrap.  • Responsibilities include modeling stores, themes/skins, implementing UX/UI mockups with CSS & JavaScript building from scratch using Magento blocks and structure  ? Strong experience with Magento Commerce (creating modules, extending out-of-the-box functionality, layout creation and theming), user interface and interactive concepts including Search Engine Optimization (SEO)  ? Led the cross-browser usability strategy and development  ? Managed the team responsible for front- end QA testing and bug fixes E-Commerce Specialist Success Partners - Dallas, TX March 2011 to August 2014 Success Partners is a media, marketing and technology provider that provides clients with conceptual design to production ready e-commerce solutions    ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript for over 23 e-commerce websites through both Zen Cart then Magento.  ? Responsibilities include modeling stores, themes/skins, implementing UX/UI mockups with CSS & JavaScript using Magento blocks and structure  ? Developed site structure functionality to support Magento Admin and Magento Backend.  ? Managed web site design to meet XMPie, uProduce, uStore and uPlan requirements.  ? Worked closely with technology teams to continually optimize site performance Video Plus - Dallas, TX July 2006 to March 2011 Your Success Store Project Lead  Video Plus is a media and marketing company that provides motivational tools and solutions for that enable companies to create concept-to-market solutions including e-commerce sites    ? Daily monitoring of incoming orders and cart functions. This included inventory monitoring, fraud checks, store credit, refund processing, and much more.  ? Provided daily customer service to our phone and online customers.  ? Processed large account orders and wholesale orders on a daily basis.  ? Assisted in implementation in automated email campaigns.  ? Monitored our daily and weekly email campaigns.  ? Assisted in website maintenance.  ? SKU corrections, description updates, wrote text for FAQ and contact us pages and assisted design team with the update in the look and feel. Education Bachelor of Arts in Website Design University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX 2001 to 2006 undeclared Oklahoma State University 2000 Skills Front End, Javascript, UI