Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Edison, NJ With over 8 Years' experience in designing, developing and deploying n-tier web applications and client/server applications using JAVA, J2EE technologies and Web Technologies for enterprise applications.    • Experience in SDLC models like Waterfall Model, and Agile methodologies.  • Good exposure to Object Oriented Design, Analysis and Modeling.  • Hands on experience with Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, EJB's, Spring, and Hibernate.  • Thorough understanding of standard enterprise application issues, including scalability, performance, reliability and availability.  • Experience in MVC Frameworks using Struts and spring.  • , Apache Tomcat and IBM WebSphere.  • Experience on Core java technology including multithreading, JDBC, RMI, and network programming.  • Extensive experience in using IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans for java application development.  • Expertise in Java/J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Command, Business Delegate, DAO, Session Facade, MVC.  • Hands-on experience using Spring Framework in business layer for Dependency Injection, AOP, Spring MVC, transaction management and using Hibernate as a persistence layer.  • Extensive knowledge on the spring modules like Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring Web flow, Spring Security, Spring MVC and Spring AOP.  • Strong knowledge of SQL Queries using Hibernate as ORM framework.  • Developed RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Experienced in coding Web Services with JAX-WS (SOAP) and JAX-RS (Restful).  • Experience in designing and developing Middleware services using EJB and spring.  • Experience in Database in MySQL and RDBMS concepts and proficiency in using relational databases such as Oracle 10g.  • Strong experience in writing SQLs, stored procedures, joins and Triggers.  • Developed and designed Ajax based Prototype, AngularJS, JQuery and AJAX based UI frame work.  • Solid Experience in Developing Script with Angular JS.  • Hands on experience in Hibernate 3.0 including integrating legacy systems, stored procedures, functions and writing custom CRUD statements.  • Strong experience with Version Control like GitHub, SVN and CVS.  • Experience in JUnit to develop unit testing and debugging of application.  • Strong working knowledge in using XML (SAX and DOM), XSL, XSTL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript.  • Ability to work on critical projects individual under tight deadlines. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Full Stack Developer IBM Technologies - Edison, NJ January 2015 to Present • Application was based on the Model View Controller Architecture Using Struts framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance.  • Involved in direct client interaction and daily status and delivery calls.  • Involved in multiple phase of the Software development life cycle viz., requirement gathering, design, development, unit testing and delivery with agile methodology.  • Involved in designing and creating service using Java.  • Developed Front- end UI using JSP, HTML5, and Java Scripts.  • Used AJAX to partial fresh for frames, tabs and combo box along with Java Scripts.  • Used spring to perform Dependency injection among all bean class involved in business logic operation.  • Worked to develop fully responsive front- end features using Angular JS 2 directives, controllers, factories, and services.  • Created Angular 2 components to render them self to apply the dependency injection to our application.  • Used Angular 2 to connect the web application to back- end APIs, used RESTFUL methods to interact with several API's, and wrote custom directives for a responsive, CSS-animated user interface.  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Designed architecture and implemented two SOAP web services used to send employee information to life insurance carriers used. (Java, SOAP, Axis2).  • Developed Web Services using SOAPUI and developed DTDs, XSD schemas for XML (parsing, processing, and design) to communicate with Active Directory application using SOAP API.  • Involved in implementing REST API to get JSON/XML response from database.  • Worked on Spring DAO, Spring MVC and Spring AOP Interceptors in Logging and Auditing.  • Developed Data Access Objects (DAO), Session Facade, Service Locator, Business Delegate and Value Object patterns.  • Involved in writing Unit Test Cases using Junit, jasmine for the respective stories.  • Run unit testing for angular js code and done many types of checks in jasmine.  • Worked with jasmine functions, expectations, matchers'.  • Experience in Shell Programming for UNIX and Linux environment.  • Used Hibernate for object-relational mapping and for database operations in Oracle database.  • Used JUnit for testing the application, ANT and Maven for building Projects  • Involved in configuring JMS and JNDI in Web Sphere Application Server.  • Testing of JSPs, Junit, Servlets and Business Objects was done on Eclipse test environment using WebSphere server and build scripts were written using ant  Environment: Java (JDK 1.6), J2EE, spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, Restful, AWS, My Eclipse 10.1, JUnit, Jasmin, Unix, MySQL, XML, JavaScript, AngularJS, Groovy, Tomcat 6.0, Maven, Log4j. Front End Developer Benecard - Orlando, FL January 2014 to January 2015 MTM is health care project currently being implemented from Benecard. This project will provide access to different users from Smart D and EGWP programs. It essentially sources transactions information from different pharmacies and enrolled users. Includes weekly and monthly batch programs for updating claim and enrollment data to the database. This project provides online maintenance of different cases belonging to pharmacy and also rerouting patient cases.    Responsibilities:  • Interacting with the business users, analysts and understanding the requirements.  • Used JSF Framework to wire the business components.  • Defining the managing beans in faces context and business layer component beans.  • Developed UI screens from available wireframes using primefaces3.2.  • Defined Managed beans using annotations and implemented navigation on UI pages in JSF 2.  • Generated PDF reports using IText and core Renderer jars API.  • Used Maven to build project by defining all dependencies in POM.xml file.  • Defined service layer using EJB3.0.Defined remote and local services using JNDI names.  • Accessed remote and local EJB services from controller using JNDI names.  • Developed UI pages using HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, RequireJS, BackboneJS, NodeJS and AJAX.  • Worked with resource in Angular.JS, Node.JS, and React.JS for communicating with simple service end points.  • Used AJAX calls through Angular.JS to populate the data tables on the front- end.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, angular.JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Created Different Model objects layer for Database and presentation.  • Developed data access objects layer components to interact with DB2 and used my batis to access database.  • Researched and prototyped solution for moving our web services from Axis2 to Spring (Java, Spring Web Services, Axis2  • Worked on data access layer for insertions, updating and retrieval operations of data from DB2 database.  • Performed deployment of project EAR on WebSphere.  • Data Access Layer accessed Database using JNDI Names of Data source which are created on WebSphere.  • Used SPRING Dependency Injection to access mapper objects created using MyBatis from data Access Layer.  • Developed GWT code to create presentation layer using GWT widgets and event handlers.  • Developed the code using the Spring MVC, Spring JDBC templates for different modules Payment processor, payment by text.  • Portal exposed a different API performance from consumers using the Dashboard developed using JQuery DOJO framework.  • Coded the JSF a component using the ice faces upon JSF framework and involved in validation.  • Designed and developed various Screens using JSP, DOJO, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML and CSS.  • Developed GWT UI and DOJO Ajax calls to populate of the form data Developed GWT UI and DOJO Ajax calls to populate of the form data for backend interaction using hibernate with DB2.  • Designed and developed client application using GWT.  • Designed and Implemented different modules with GWT, JSF and Ajax4JSF, spring and Hibernate frame works to work on Tomcat 6.0 server to fit into the MVC II Architecture.  • Developed the server side components using Ice Faces.  • Involved in fixing defects and troubleshooting issues on UNIX environment and wrote Shell scripts to automate jobs.  • Developed the Restful web services using the Restlet framework and Spring MVC and JAXB for marshaling.  • Written different unit test cases with different scenario and ran them in Junit to test it. Full Stack Developer Bank of America, NC October 2013 to January 2014 Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, JBoss, Eclipse, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML, XML, JUnit, UNIX, Ant and Oracle.  Bank of America, NC Oct 2013-Jan 14  Role: Full Stack Developer    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  • Implemented web based system using JSF 2.1 Ice faces Framework and Java script used for client side validations.  • Developed the Presentation layer using JSF, HTML and used AJAX/ JQuery based rich client for improved customer experience.  • Designed and developed web pages using Angular JS framework and familiar with various Angular JS directives, filters and services.  • Developed the Business layer using spring (IOC, AOP), MVC and JTA modules.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool and defined the mapping and relationship of each table in database.  • Developed the application using industry standard design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate Factory Pattern for better maintenance of code and re-usability.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, triggers, cursors and views.  • Worked with Web services components JAX-RS services and worked with Restful Web services interact with external systems.  • Worked with executed unit test cases by using JUNIT for accuracy of code and logging with log4j.  • Worked with defect tracking system JIRA.  • Worked with IDE as Eclipse Juno and deployed into IBM Web Sphere Application Server & used Maven build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Use to participate in the daily stand-up, Preplanning and Retro meetings as a part of Agile.  • Jenkins used for continuous integration.    Environment: Ajax, Servlets, JSP, spring, Hibernate 3.2, Web Services (AXIS1.2, SOAP, WSDL, JAXP, XML), Java/Java EE 5 Design Patterns, JQuery, JDBC, ANT, JUnit, Log4j, Eclipse5.x, MyEclipse4.x, WebLogic 9.2, 8.1, Oracle 10g, UML. Front End Developer GE Transportations - Erie, PA December 2012 to October 2013 EScale Ticket Info application has the feature of storing the information about materials, companies and the users of the warehouse. This application generates an automated ticket for each truck with the details of materials that are carried on the truck and sends mails to the gatekeeper and financial department. This application also generates invoices every fortnight and sends the latest invoice to the finance department and also has the feature to see the previous invoices.    • Involved in all phases of the SDLC.  • Developed the User Interface with JSPs using Struts Tag library and Action Forms.  • Involved in Transactions, login and Reporting modules, and customized report generation using Controllers, Testing and debugging the whole project for proper functionality and documenting modules developed.  • Developed java scripts for all client side validation and developed User Interface (GUI) using JSP, CSS.  • Used various Design Patterns like Factory, Abstract Factory and Singleton Patterns.  • Developed the business logic using spring and persistence logic using Hibernate.  • Developed and Deployed EJB components in Web Logic application server.  • Monitored error log using Log4j and solved the problems.  • Implemented JDBC to interact with Oracle 10x database.  • Integrated the spring framework with Hibernate ORM tool to access the Oracle database.  • Involved in developing of test procedures for unit testing and testing of the module.  • Used JUnit for testing and integration of modules.  Environments: Java EE 5, JDK 1.5, JSP, Servlets, Struts, XML, Spring 2.5.6, Hibernate, Log4j, JDBC, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Tomcat6.0, JBoss AS 4.2, Oracle11g, WebSphere 7, Windows XP, MS Office, Toad IDE, Unix, Eclipse Galileo, Visual Source Safe, SQL Navigator, Log4j, JUnit 4.3. Front End Developer CNS Insurance - Indianapolis, IN January 2012 to December 2012 Commercial Data Services aims for developing an automated means of gathering the data that Underwriter needs to renew a policy. It gathers information from internal legacy data sources and rules (analysis) are applied to each renewal account/policy. Commercial Data Services provides a capability to store renewal data in database and provides browser based application to Underwriters to view the renewal data and enter comments and other details related to renewals that will be stored back to the persistent storage.    • Involved in analysis and design of the application.  • Involved in planning process of iterations under the Agile Scrum methodology.  • XSL style sheets for XML to XML transformations to modify business services XML data as per the UI requirements.  • Performed client validation using the Struts Validation framework and Action form for storing the user data.  • Developing dynamic Webpages using JSP, Struts and Tiles.  • Used EJBs (Session Beans) for implementing the business tier  • Developed business services for the retrieval and saving of data to Database (Oracle10g).  • Prepared Unit Test Cases using JUnit and Debugging of System.  • Configured and deployed the application on Web sphere.  • Involved in documenting the programs and system.  Environments: Java, J2EE 1.4, JSP, JavaScript, Struts Framework, XML, JAXB, CSS, UML, JDBC, Spring , Hibernate , Web Sphere, ANT, Oracle 9i, Servlet, Apache Maven, Log4j, JUnit, Eclipse, Linux, UNIX.. Front End Developer SCI IT solution (pvt.) Ltd April 2010 to December 2011 E-Shopping is a web portal that concentrates on the arteries of a commercial transaction, which is properly established for the customers. The total application helps in imposing the standards and strategies that are put forward in the actual world with the use of Electronic media which helps the user to buy goods online. The project has 3modules. Customer, Orders, Items which makes user to interact easily while buying goods or checking order status and items status.    • Developed UI using JSPs and JDBC to interact with Business users.  • Developed the related UI and functionality in JSP and Servlet's using MVC.  • Designed screens using JSP/HTML.  • Designed the application on Struts framework.  • Developed various Java Beans interacted with different application for getters and setters.  • Used Extensive Java Collections Framework, Exception Handling Classes.  • (DOM) which maps the data into objects for presentation.  • Configured and deployed the application on Tomcat.  • Used Java Script and struts for Front side validation.  • Developed the test cases for unit and functional testing.    Environments: Java, JavaScript, Jsp, Jdbc, Hibernate, Ejb, Html, Ant, Struts, spring, Jdbc, Uml, Jboss Application Server, Xml, Linux, Junit, Eclipse, Oracle9i, Mysql, Log4j. Front End Developer Assurgent Technologies - IN February 2008 to April 2010 Assurgent Technologies is a global leading development corporation and building skilled manpower for ongoing demand in IT. This project is a solution for campus recruitments in Assurgent Technologies which is for maintaining the candidate details with their complete profile whoever candidate attends campus interviews.    • Gathering requirements and prepared use cases and sequence diagrams.  • Developed Servlet's to handle HTTP requests  • Developed JSP pages which will help the recruitment management in Assurgent Technologies to track the candidate report.  • Developed front end pages with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP tag libraries  • Implemented JDBC to interact with data base.  Environments: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, UML, HTML, JDBC, Apache Tomcat, Net Beans IDE, Oracle 9i, MySQL. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (7 years), Java. (9 years), JavaScript (9 years), JSP (9 years), Tomcat (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS OVERVIEW:    Languages C, C++, Java (1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8), SQL.  J2EE/Middleware J2EE (Servlets 2.4, JSP 2.0, JDBC, JMS)  Frameworks / UI Servlets, JSF, Struts 1.1/2.0, Spring 3.0/4.0, Hibernate 4.0/5.0  Web services/XML SOAP, WSDL, Axis, XMLs, DOM, SAX  Design Methodologies/Tools UML, Agile methodologies, SCRUM  Version control Tools SVN, CVS  Database MS SQL Server, SQLite, MySQL  Design Patterns Singleton, MVC, Factory, Value Object, Service Locator, Session Façade, Business Delegate.  Tools/Others JUnit, ANT, Maven 2.2.1, Log4J, Bugzilla, RESTful services, GIT, Groovy, Cassandra  GUI Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Ajax  Web/App Servers Tomcat 5.0/6.0/7.0, WebLogic 8.0/10.3, Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, JBoss.  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX.