Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Software Engineer - Akvelon New York, NY 12+ years of professional experience in web development. I'm a passionate and self-motivated front- end  developer and I pay a lot attention to latest Javascript and browsers trends as SPA, Virtual DOM.  Not only concentrating on the technical part of the job, but also on the process and reaching the project's goals.    Beloved conceptions: HTML5 and its gorgeous APIs, CSS3, LESS/Stylus, Vanilla JavaScript, Bootstrap,  jQuery, BackboneJS, React, Git, Grunt, NodeJS, W3C, progressive enhancement, mobile browser optimisation  and continuous integration technics. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Akvelon November 2015 to Present - Worked as vendor for Microsoft on Microsoft Power BI project.  - Automated and refactored review process of Custom Visuals for Microsoft Power Bi Custom Visuals gallery.  - Developed validation tool for Power BI Custom Visuals which validates packages and checks source code for potential insecure javascript and harmful css with NodeJS, Gulp, ESLint, StyleLint, PostCSS, TSLint.  - Developed publication software for Power BI Custom Visuals Gallery, developed on Azure Cloud Storage API using NodeJS.  - Developed Power BI CDN content checker tool using ReactJS and WebPack. Senior Front- end developer Lazada Group June 2015 to November 2015 Lazada is Southeast Asia's No. 1 Online Shopping and Selling Destination    Operationally launched in March 2012, Lazada is Southeast Asia's number one online shopping and selling  destination, with presence in Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. Lazada also has offices in Hong Kong, Korea, United Kingdom and Russia.    - Refactored mobile version 6 regional Lazada sites (http://lazada.vn, http://lazada.co.id etc.)  - Implemented CSS regression testing tool. It helped with automation testing of releases and increase stability of revamps.  - Implemented multi-sprite builder task inside project Grunt and then Gulp builder for raster and vector (svg)  icons.  - Implemented ESLint-controlled Javascript code style into the Lazada public site project Senior Front- end developer iMobilco May 2014 to June 2015 iMobilco is a distributer and a publisher of ebooks, magazines and music.    - Support a content service http://imobilco.ru using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap+LESS, Javascript,  BackboneJS, lodash.js, handlebars.js.  - Refactored front- end building system using NodeJS, Grunt, Yeoman.  - Developed client proxy for front- end developers with partial loading server side HTML and client side JS,  CSS and images.  - Integrated Google Analytics eCommerce API, that turned over service auditory valuation Senior Front- end developer WeHeartPics February 2013 to April 2014 We Heart Pics is the only fully-functional, photo-powered, social network. They enable people to communicate without relying on a mutual language or location.    - Developed Responsive Mobile-ready Single-page web applications with templating on client side.  - Developed responsive web application using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap+LESS, SVG, HTML5 APIs  (Canvas API, Geo API), Javascript, BackboneJS, lodash.js, handlebars.js  - Developed build system using NodeJS, Grunt, Imagemagick, UglifyJS, JSHint, CSSMin, HTMLMin,  ImageMin, NodeSprite.  - Developed  - Rewrote Open GL ES 2.0 shaders from mobile app to flash AGAL shaders.  - Rewrote the shaders to Javascript Canvas shader programs working on Webworkers.  - Developed proxy server using NodeJS, PhantomJS that made possible Search bot to crawl the dynamic ajax  sites.  - Used Microformats and SEO best practices for photos, products.  - Used oEmbed for videos.  - Fixed existing markup according W3C stardards. Front- end developer BigBuzzy.ru November 2011 to January 2013 BigBuzzy is a Groupon-like service.    - Got a massive expertise in HTML pixel perfect layout.  - Applied Mobile-first and Progress Enhancement principles.  - Developed progress-enhancement-based mobile version of http://bigbuzzy.ru - http://bigbuzzy.ru/m/ using  modernizer.js, jQuery, lodash.js, CSS3, MediaQueries.  - Researched and rewrote best parts of jQueryMobile on the mobile site.  - Tested the mobile site and made all usecases feasible on a wide row of mobile operation systems (Nokia  Symbian, Windows Phone, Android 1.6-3.0, IOS)  - Created Freemarker(FTL) templates kit of block macros, layout macros, functions and utilities.  - Rewrote templates from XSLT to Freemarker reaching best performance on new Java architecture  - Developed layout builder for email newsletters with that horrible HTML4  - Fixed existing markup according W3C standards. Senior Front- end Developer SM & Partners December 2008 to November 2011 SM & Partners is a development company. Creation and Accompaniment high-load web projects like business-oriented social networking services, dating and hr networking services.    - Developed RPG in-browser game for kids using Javascript, jQuery, CSS, Flash, PHP, MySQL.  - Created and debugged internet browser based on Firefox with a parental control extension on XUL.  - Architected a server software using Python and Blender3D for fast prerendering and rendering animations of game characters.  - Developed service for accounting game character outfits and animations with PSD parsing, management of artist's works, and XML configs generation using Javascript, jQuery, psd.js, NodeJS, PHP, MySQL,  imagemagick  - Used to be an instant scrum master in front- end team of 5 members.  - Developed the video coder software based on FFMPEG and PHP on serverside as part of blogs social  network http://f5.ru Web Developer Mediatoday March 2008 to December 2008 Mediatoday is a full-service digital agency    - Developed and supported a full imdb-like service with online reservation eticket with PHP, MySQL  - Developed front- end part of the service using HTML4, CSS, Javascript, jQuery and Flash plus  Papervision3d for the eticket reservation module.  - Developed PHP bot synchronizing schedules and reservations from each connected cinema. Web Developer BellIntegrator October 2005 to March 2008 Bell Integrator is a global consulting, technology services, and outsourcing company that offers business  critical solutions that resolve your most complex IT and business needs for top-tier telecom, finance,  transportation, and healthcare enterprises.  - Developed the graphic charts modules (plain tree chart with the backpack algorithm and other trees, pies,  bars etc.) for monitoring systems.  - Got a huge experience in Javascript, Actionscript and enterprise development.  - Utilized tricks for aggregating and displaying really big data on really slow client's computers. Education Master's in Computer Science Vyatka State Technical University 2000 to 2005 Skills Web Development (10+ years), Software Development (10+ years) Links http://prolll.com https://twitter.com/prolll Additional Information Skills & Expertise  JavaScript  Backbone.js  React  jQuery  jQuery Mobile  Node.js  HTML5  CSS  LESS  Stylus  SASS  SVG  Web Applications  MySQL  Web Standards  PHP  AGAL  Freemarker  Handlebars  AMD  LMD  Git  JSON  XML  Front- end  Typescript  D3.js