Internet Director Internet Director Internet Director - Showcase Publications, Inc Lakeland, FL • Experienced Internet Director and leader with 15+ years of management experience and 23+ years of workforce experience.  • Strong knowledge of search engine optimization: URL rewrites, keyword research, content development, site optimizations, brand management, competitive analyses, interlinking, and inbound link building.  • Thorough knowledge of front- end web design and development. Proficient in CSS/CSS3, HTML/HTML5, and Bootstrap 3+ framework. Working knowledge of dynamic back- end programming using Classic ASP.  • Experienced in project management with a strong knowledge of the web development process. Exceptional ability to work as a liaison between clients, business units, and development teams.  • Managed and administered Google PageSpeed and Webmaster Tools to improve site load performance.  • Experienced with generating detailed traffic reports via Google Analytics and Webtrends Infinity Analytics.  • Knowledge of system architecture, database modeling, and database management for web based properties.  • Knowledge of website security, encryption and SQL injection prevention. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Internet Director Showcase Publications, Inc - Lakeland, FL November 2002 to Present Accomplishments & Experience:    • Managed daily internet operations for a 50+ million dollar advertising company.  • Directed front- end and back- end web development teams on multiple current and on-going projects to deliver online services integrated with social media, SEO, content management, and publications. Utilized resources in an efficient manner, and maintained cooperative, motivated, and successful teams.  • Worked with internal teams to develop and validate project schedules. Established project plans with a clear understanding of time management and how long component activities should take. Managed quality assurance by testing creatives for cross browser compatibility on all modern browsers and devices.  • Conducted daily analysis of project plans, shifting priorities based on immediate business needs. Developed project phases in order to meet aggressive launch deadlines and prevent project creep.  • Participated in designing, planning, building, and testing an entirely new platform to allow our company to scale for future growth. Utilized latest technologies, including CSS3, HTML5, Bootstrap, C#, Razor, MSSQL, Distributed Shared Memory Cache Servers (Memcached), and SOLR.  • Provided exceptional client account and inventory management support with clear communication and timely status updates for thousands of automotive dealerships.  • Cultivated strong relationships with third party data vendors to increase website inventory from 33,000 units to 1.2 million units. Designed an inventory import system that automatically obtained (HTTP/FTP/Web Services), processed, and transformed large data feeds from third party data vendors.  • Restructured website search optimization resulting in increased searches and site conversions by 30%. Increased search engine speed by installing Distributed Apache SOLR Servers to implement full-text search with faceted results and to relieve load from critical database servers.  • Monitored and generated corporate website and social media analytics reports for senior management, sales and marketing teams. Senior Front End Developer Showcase Publications, Inc - Lakeland, FL July 2001 to November 2002 Accomplishments & Experience:    • Communicated directly with clients to establish project scope, interaction guidelines, marketing, and project timelines. Analyzed competitor web sites and provided feedback during project milestones.  • Established and maintained company design guides and documented naming convention standards. Created code libraries to assist and improve the efficiency of front- end development.  • Designed in-house web-based account tracking and inventory management services for a large network of automotive dealerships. Created custom template systems for rapid development of dealer based websites.  • Implemented company blogs and established social media strategies to assist marketing goals. Established a network of writers to build unique, quality content.  • Created email templates in text, ADF (Auto-lead Data Format), and HTML for company websites, email marketing campaigns, and newsletters.  • Migrated legacy Access databases, spreadsheets, and text files to Microsoft SQL Server. Designed relational databases for new projects and applications. Webmaster / Front End Developer MusicFans.com, Inc - Lakeland, FL July 1997 to November 2001 Accomplishments & Experience:    • Provided complete internet services including website design, front- end web development, domain name registration, search engine optimization, database development, content creation, and maintenance.  • Developed website mock-ups in Photoshop to facilitate the design process and direction. Converted mock-ups into hand-coded standards compliant HTML and CSS templates.  • Daily management and execution of all website content. Communicated with partner websites to develop and publish news and blog articles.  • Improved site load performance and reduced the bounce rate by optimizing images, reduced the reliance on plugins, and combined, minified, and deferred scripts.  • Participated in marketing meetings and implemented approved analytic and advertising banner code.  • Researched and developed URL structure, keywords, metatags, and page content for SEO purposes.  • Monitored website analytics including traffic flow, bounce rates, conversions, page/session duration, new users, and unique users. Provided detailed analysis reports to company management.  • Established marketing events for website users including pre and post concert parties and meet-ups. Created promotional merchandise, banners, and contest giveaways. Education Certification in Design, Management & Marketing Florida Career Institute - Lakeland, FL October 2001 Skills Internet Marketing (10+ years), Search Engine Optimization (10+ years), Bootstrap (4 years), HTML5 (2 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Internet Management (10+ years), Content Management (10+ years), Content Creation (10+ years), Internet Research (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/drewchristy Additional Information Technical Skills:    Analytics, Marketing, & SEO Tools:  Constant Contact, Google Adsense, Google Analytics, Google Tag Manager, Google Webmaster Tools, MailChimp, Webtrends Infinity Analytics    Management & Planning:  Basecamp, DaPulse Project Management, Microsoft Office Suite, Microsoft Visio, Mobile First Design Practices, Zendesk    Technologies:  Bootstrap, CSS/CSS3, HTML/HTML5, JavaScript & jQuery (modification), SASS, LESS, SVN, WordPress, XML    Development Tools:  Adobe Creative Suite, Beanstalk, Microsoft Visual Studio 2013/2010/2008, Scout-App, Sublime Text, Tortoise SVN, UltraEdit    Databases:  Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000/7, mySQL 5.6+    Server O/S:  Windows Server 2012/2008/2003/2000    Web Servers:  Microsoft IIS 10/8.5/8/7.5/7/6    Personal Qualities:  • Highly motivated manager with strong leadership skills  • Willing to quickly learn new and emerging technologies  • Open minded about new ideas and trends  • Able to work under pressure to meet deadlines  • Able to adapt quickly to changes and problems  • Able to work independently, but am an integral team player  • Not afraid to ask others for help and am always willing to help others  • Always thinking about optimization, performance, and scalability, whether or not there is a known future need