Freelance Interactive Designer Freelance Interactive Designer Front- end web developer Shaker Hts, OH ~Interactive designer/ developer with proven abilities and over 10 years experience designing and transforming concepts into interactive reality.  ~Combining creative, artistic talent with new technologies and programming skills to deliver revenue enhancing, market orientated projects that improve sales and generate profits.  ~Ability to work well under pressure, handle several projects simultaneously while producing error-free work on budget and on time. Experience in deadline driven, high volume production environments. Work Experience Freelance Interactive Designer Various - Cleveland, OH January 2010 to Present Front- end Designer/ Developer using - JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, Adobe Creative Suite.  Currently working as a freelance designer for a variety of clients. Specializing in responsive web  design for web and mobile environments. Application development using Javascript/JQuery and HTML5. Front- end Designer/ Developer Key Bank January 2005 to September 2009 HTML, CSS, Flash, Javascript. Provided creative direction  Worked full-time in creative department as interactive designer and motion designer specializing in Flash and After Effects. Worked closely with creative directors on a variety of brand and revenue enhancing promotions, from websites and interactive games to videos and ATM sequences. Created many interactive features on internal KeyNet website including developing the advertising department website. Worked with WebSphere system to develop templates and training tools. Worked closely with writing staff providing article templates and supporting graphics. Created dynamic XML based Key History time-line and glossary. Front- End Developer Various - Cleveland, OH January 2002 to May 2006 Worked primarily through creative agencies The Creative Group and Aquent on a wide variety of projects as follows:    -DieBold corporate security mini-site programming. Instructional flash website.  -Goodyear Garage website and programming as well as banners and advertising services.  -Stern website design and programming.  -Motorola mini-site programming. Education Visual Communications Program Grant MacEwan College - Edmonton, AB 1998 to 2000 Skills PC/Mac operating systems, Android API, Apple iOS Software - Adobe Creative Suite, Photoshop, Illustrator, Flash, After Effects, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Scala Designer, HTML5, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, XML, Websphere, working knowledge of PHP, ASP, MySQL, Apache, MSSQL Cross platform/browser compatibility, mobile development, web standards, responsive design, video editing, compression, audio and video streaming. ATM screens. Plasma screen presentations Links http://www.samlagrange.com