Sr, Web Developer Sr, Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr, Web Developer - AXON ARC Irvine, CA A Full Stack Developer with over 10 years' experience with industry-leading company. Position would fully utilize a wealth of experience, and offer a high level of productivity, responsibility, and the opportunity for career growth. Work Experience Sr, Web Developer AXON ARC - Irvine, CA 2014 to Present Design UI/UX websites with mobile responsiveness for clients, using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Tweeter Bootstrap, jQuery library, Ajax. Working closely with Back- end team to design, develop, implement and deploy websites to help showcase and grow client's business revenue.  * Contributed to improve company Time management and project completion by over 35%, by implementing Agile Scrum workflow. Front- End Developer USFC DESIGN - Mission Viejo, CA 2009 to 2014 Responsible for website development and maintenance. Implementing website design using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax & React.js, and other related web development programs required for the website design and implementation to showcase our company's product and services. Front- End Engineer TECHNOLOGY NETWORK - San Jose, CA 2004 to 2008 Responsible for coding projects using HTML- CSS, JavaScript, MySQL. timeline development, resource planning, managing networking team, establishing security protocols, managing server and system updates, and other project management-related functions.  * Managed various projects during tenure, and consistently met all project expectations.  * Trained, supervised, and mentored all levels of web-development personnel.  * Managed projects from inception to completion and ensured that projects aligned with parameters. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Tehran University License in Division of Continuing Education UC Skills FRONT END (10+ years), FRONT END DESIGN (10+ years), PROJECT MANAGEMENT (5 years), BUDGET (Less than 1 year), Javascript Additional Information HIGHLIGHTS OF QUALIFICATIONS    * More than 10 years of top experience.  * Strong background in Front- End web development, Back- End web development, Project management, Timeline development, Project resource planning, Team leading, Staff training and development, Quality assurance, and Client relations.  * Hard-working and driven, while highly-experienced in all aspects of web development, project management and is thoroughly familiar with industry practices, standards, and protocols.  * Has managed a wealth of successful projects and initiatives and is proven in seeing projects to their successful completion, on-time, and within budget.