Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End Developer Raleigh, NC A leader and team player with over 11 years of experience in web development, defining development requirements, UI/UX design, and managing other front end developers. I am currently a full-time Senior Front End developer for a SaaS platform and for fun I manage a network of 258 websites. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front End Developer RivalHealth, LLC - Raleigh, NC July 2014 to Present Responsibilities  SaaS: Work directly with management to establish, maintain and evolve standards, and best practices for the development process. Work directly with product manager to define development requirements. Responsible for requirement documents, wireframing, mockups, branding, artwork, and all front end programming utilizing HTML, CSS, C#, JavaScript, jQuery and Phonegap. Responsive programming includes cross browser support for all modern browsers. Work collectively with a team of .net developers to wire up the backend. Utilize Git for file version control and sharing. Manage all aspects of mobile development and versioning for release to iOS and Android platforms.     Accomplishments  I have redesigned the product for both mobile and desktop. Senior Front End Developer Tight Sound Muisc - Raleigh, NC January 2005 to Present Owner, Senior Front End Developer, UI/UX Designer, Branding, Marketing | July 2005 – Present    Things to Do in Your City January 2010 - Present  Personal Project: 258 websites populating things to do in the most populous cities across the US. Responsible for all requirements, architecture, branding, artwork, wireframing, mockups, and front end programming utilizing HTML, PHP, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Includes administrator CMS. Manage two part time back end programmers.    VipIt – February 2013 – June 2015  Personal Project: Mobile SaaS ecommerce solution targeting live concerts including CMS administration portal. Responsible for all requirements, architecture, branding, artwork, wireframing, mockups, and responsive front end programming utilizing HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP and jQuery. Managed two part time back end iOS and Android programmers.     Kenn Kopf for US Congress – June 2013 – June 2015  Freelance Project: Personal website for congress hopeful Kenneth Kopf. Responsible for all architecture, branding, artwork, wireframing, mockups, and responsive front end programming utilizing HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP and jQuery. Created custom Wordpress theme and managed after initial deployment.     Raleigh Body Maxx – September 2011 – June 2015  Freelance Project: Personal website for a personal trainer. Responsible for all architecture, branding, artwork, wireframing, mockups, and front end programming utilizing HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP and jQuery. Created a custom Wordpress theme and managed after initial deployment.     Conservative News and Record – February 2013 – June 2015  Freelance Project: Personal website for conservative views. Responsible for all architecture, branding, artwork, wireframing, mockups, and responsive front and back end programming utilizing HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP and jQuery. Created custom Wordpress theme and managed after initial deployment.     Beau Young Prince – June 2012 – July 2013  Freelance Project: Personal website for Washington D.C hip hop artist. Responsible for all architecture, branding, artwork, wireframing, mockups, and responsive front and back end programming utilizing HTML, PHP, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery. Created custom Wordpress theme and managed after initial deployment. Responsible for all marketing materials.     Travis Minnick Band – June 2012 – July 2013  Freelance Project: Personal website for Nashville recording artists. Responsible for all architecture, branding, artwork, wireframing, mockups, and responsive front and back end programming utilizing HTML, PHP, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery. Created custom Drupal theme and managed after initial deployment. Responsible for all marketing materials.     GalaMusic Productions – June 2012 – July 2013  Freelance Project: Personal website for voiceover artist. Responsible for all architecture, branding, artwork, wireframing, mockups, and responsive front and back end programming utilizing HTML, PHP, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery. Created custom Wordpress theme and managed after initial deployment. Responsible for all marketing materials.     VocalBooth.com – March 2007 – June 2012  Full Time 1099: Product manufacturer direct sales website. Work directly with management to establish, maintain and evolve standards, and best practices for the development process. Responsible for defining website requirements and requirement documents, wireframing, mockups, branding, artwork, and all front end and backend programming utilizing HTML, PHP, CSS, JavasScript, and jQuery. Created custom Wordpress and Drupal themes to manage site. Administrator for customized CRM system which allowed seamless collaboration between management, sales teams, product assemblers, and customers. In CRM, responsible for all data reporting through custom SQL statements. Responsible for all marketing materials, product schematics/blueprints, and product assembly manuals.     Girly Vocals – May 2011 – April 2012  Freelance Project: Personal website for voiceover artist. Responsible for all architecture, branding, artwork, wireframing, mockups, and responsive front and back end programming utilizing HTML, PHP, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery. Created custom Wordpress theme and managed after initial deployment.     Tight Sound Music Online Retail – July 2005 – August 2008  Personal Project: Personal online retail store for the sale of music instruments and professional recording equipment. Responsible for all branding, design, implementation, and management of ecommerce CMS. Programming included HTML, PHP, CSS, and Javascript. Education Business Wake Tech Community College Raleigh - Raleigh, NC 2011 Business Allegany College of Maryland Cumberland - Cumberland, MD 2003 to 2004 Music Conservatory of Recording Arts & Sciences Tempe - Tempe, AZ 1999 to 2000 Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (7 years), Illustrator (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Indesign (7 years), Fireworks (7 years), PHP (8 years), Visual Studio (2 years), Dreamweaver (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), Mobile Development (4 years), UI / UX Design (10+ years), Responsive Design (6 years), Phonegap (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), jQuery UI (7 years), Angular (1 year), jQuery Mobile (4 years), MS Server Management Studio (2 years) Links http://tightsoundmusic.com/portfolio/