Front- End Developer/Designer Consultant <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Consultant Philadelphia, PA Scott Moore is an interactive specialist who blends premium design, development, animation with innovative ideas to inspire and inform. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer/Designer Consultant Dudnyk - Philadelphia, PA April 2017 to Present • Translated and optimized images from design composition of pharmaceutical banners.  • Programmed and animated banners using HTML5, CSS3, and Javascript.  • Implemented multiple clickTags and tested Functional/Quality Assurance ensuring all banners meet DoubleClick and IAB standards. Front- End Developer/Designer Consultant eHealthCare Solutions - Ewing, NJ April 2017 to September 2017 • Conceptualized, Designed and resized banner compositions.  • Programmed and animated banners using Adobe CC Animate, along with HTML5, CSS3, and Javascript.  • Implemented multiple clickTags and tested Functional/Quality Assurance ensuring all banners meet DoubleClick and IAB standards. Front- End Developer/Designer Consultant Tierney Marketing - Philadelphia, PA March 2017 to April 2017 Programmed and managed responsive email campaigns for PA Fine Wine and Good Spirits using PHP and JSON that were then compiled into one HTML email. Front- End Developer/Designer Consultant Temple University - Philadelphia, PA December 2016 to February 2017 • Designing and Developing HTML5 banner advertisements for web and in app media.  • Animating large format LCD advertisements for airports, bus shelters and train stations. Front- End Developer/Designer Consultant Maestro Film Works - Philadelphia, PA November 2016 to December 2016 • Developing custom, responsive landing page templates for integration into Pardot and Salesforce. Programming of A/B versions of landing pages to successfully optimize future conversion rates. Front- End Developer/Designer Consultant Caspari McCormick - Wilmington, DE October 2016 to November 2016 Developed HTML5 banner ads for the Museum of the American Revolution using HTML, Javascript, SVGs and CSS. Quality tested the banners assuring they were properly tagged for tracking and within the IAB and DoubleClick specifications. Front- End Developer/Designer Consultant, ?iPhone? ?Mobile? ?App? ? Developer MOD Worldwide - Philadelphia, PA March 2016 to October 2016 • Under a very tight deadline programmed a working iPhone demo using Actionscript 3 for the Comcast X1 mobile app shown at a recent convention. Made last minute design changes and created new content using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Developed HTML5 banner ads using HTML, Javascript, SVGs and CSS. Quality tested the banners assuring they were properly tagged for tracking and within the IAB and DoubleClick specifications.  • Designed and programmed HTML emails for use with the email software Silverpop and Litmus. Front- End Developer/Designer Consultant Snyder - Philadelphia, PA January 2016 to March 2016 Designed and hand-coded HTML emails. Added specific conditional code for certain browsers, email clients and IOS/Android devices making the email look consistent in all situations. Front- End Developer/Designer Consultant Quattro Direct - King of Prussia, PA August 2015 to November 2015 • Provided expertise in digital design, marketing and advertisements to direct marketer.  • Hand coded animated HTML5 banner ads using HTML, Javascript, SVGs and CSS.  • Developed HTML5 banner ads using Google Web Designer for desktop, mobile, and in-app platforms.  • Worked closely with 3rd party advertising companies from start to finish. Gathered advertisement specs and managed the functional quality assurance process through DoubleClick. Assuring that all banners  met IAB standards and the clickTags fired properly, guaranteeing successful tracking of banners.  • Developed responsive website templates using WordPress and Hubspot. Front- End Developer/Designer Macquarie, Delaware Investments - Philadelphia, PA February 2014 to April 2015 • Worked closely with managers, writers, designers, developers, and analytics personnel to develop complete marketing campaigns including web pages, advertisements, videos and other interactive content.  • Programmed and animated responsive web features for access on all browsers and mobile devices.  • Built online advertising campaigns for third party websites and Google Display AdWords. Ensured all ads were tagged correctly for analytics.  • Reviewed analytic reports with the marketing team to gauge the success of the campaign and to develop future marketing strategies.  • Created PDFs with high quality graphics and detailed charts for print.  • Built responsive charts from various data sources using Highcharts.js.  • Filmed and edited weekly web videos. Refined audio for videos using Adobe Audition. Corrected and enhanced video color using Magic Bullet Colorista 3.  • Built a soundproof film studio to create higher quality interviews with our financial advisers.  • Storyboarded, illustrated and animated infographic videos.  • Worked closely with managers, writers, designers, developers, and analytics personnel to develop complete marketing campaigns including web pages, advertisements, videos and other interactive content.  • Programmed and animated responsive web features for access on all browsers and mobile devices.  • Built online advertising campaigns for third party websites and Google Display AdWords. Ensured all ads were tagged correctly for analytics.  • Reviewed analytic reports with the marketing team to gauge the success of the campaign and to develop future marketing strategies.  • Created PDFs with high quality graphics and detailed charts for print.  • Built responsive charts from various data sources using Highcharts.js.  • Filmed and edited weekly web videos. Refined audio for videos using Adobe Audition. Corrected and enhanced video color using Magic Bullet Colorista 3.  • Built a soundproof film studio to create higher quality interviews with our financial advisors.  • Storyboarded, illustrated and animated infographic videos. Front- End Developer/Designer Consultant Cadient Group - Conshohocken, PA November 2010 to November 2013 • Programmed and animated a variety of rich interactive Flash and HTML5 projects, including website features, banners, touchscreen applications and videoplayers.  • Efficiently converted layered compositions into a pixel perfect interactive experiences utilizing fluency in Adobe Design Suite.  • Collaborated with team members, project and account managers through the development process, including conceptualizing, functional specifications, tagging documents, prototyping, design, UX, IA, content, proofreading and functional testing.  • Liaised with our India office and other foreign vendors, guiding development and providing feedback.  • Edited large format video for conventions and compressed video for multiple browsers and devices.  • Implemented and tested analytics for all projects using Omniture, Unica, and Google Analytics. Front- End Developer/Designer big Burrito Restaurant Group, Mad Mex - Pittsburgh, PA April 2006 to October 2010 • Programmed, designed and conceptualized online games for Mad Mex websites.  • Installed custom content management systems built with PHP on websites, enabling managers to update restaurant-specific specials and menus.  • Designed, managed, promoted and maintained websites for 15 restaurants.  • Created, animated and programmed banner ads for third party websites and social media.  • Wrote and created weekly humorous, elaborate Flash cartoons for Mad Mex restaurants.  • Wrote content for menus, cartoons and commercials with the marketing team.  • Managed social media presence on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. Teaching Experience ITT Technical Institute, Delaware County Community College, International Academy of Design and Technology September 2005 to December 2009 • ITT Technical Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa.  September 2009 - December 2009  • Delaware County Community College, Media, Pa.  September 2007 - November 2007  • International Academy of Design and Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.  September 2005 - November 2007 Education Bachelor's in Fine Art in Painting and Drawing Temple University, Tyler School of Art - Philadelphia, PA September 2001 to May 2003 Links http://www.scottmoore.us Certifications/Licenses • Google DoubleClick Studio (Flash, Rich Media and HTML5) DoubleClick Studio Quality Assurance Additional Information Currently Studying  Unity 2D & 3D, Three.js and WebGL.  Pardot Apex programming and Pardot Certification.  React.js, Angular 2  Google AdWords Certification, Adsense Certification, and becoming a Google Partner.  Blockchain technology + The Internet of Things.  Augmented Reality + Facial recognition software.