Front End UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End UI Developer - Humana, TX • Extensive development experience with HTML/ HTML5, DOM, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Node.JS, Rect.JS, Angular 6/7, Typescript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX and JSON.  • Worked in Agile Scrum projects and attended Daily Scrum meetings, User Story review meetings, Sprint Review and Retrospective meetings as part of Agile Methodology.  • Extensive experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Framework such as Angular.JS framework.  • Profound Knowledge in Document Object Model (DOM).  • Strong Experience in dealing with CSS Animations, Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding, CSS Box Model and Bootstrap frameworks like LESS and SASS.  • Worked on web debugging tools (Firebug, Fiddler debugging tool).  • Worked with REST API's to get JSON data and display using JavaScript Objects.  • JavaScript expertise in both client and server-side scripting languages like jQuery, Angular.JS, Angular 6/7, React.JS and Node.JS.  • Developed Graphical User Interface (GUI) to display report data using jQuery in Cross-browser compatibility and Web application scaling.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Chrome Developer Tools. Also, strong with using UI design skills.  • Experienced in various IDEs like Eclipse, Sublime text, Visual Studio Code and NetBeans.  • Very well understanding of the JSON notations and databases such as MongoDB.  • Developed enhancements to MongoDB architecture to improve performance and scalability.  • Experience in Implementing Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Angular.JS, Wire-framing and HTML5.  • Very good experience in Document Object Model (DOM) and in client-side applications using React JS and working knowledge on Grunt.  • Experience in using version control systems - Git, SVN, CVS.  • Highly motivated, ability to work independently, organized and results oriented with excellent interpersonal, communication and presentation skills, ability to work in team environment. Work Experience Front End UI Developer Humana, TX June 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on customizing the Angular-Material classes using CSS pre-processes like SASS and made use of NPM task runner to compile SASS files to CSS, Linting, minify files and compress images.  • Worked with Angular Flex Layout which provides a sophisticated layout API using Flexbox CSS and media Query. This module component layout features using a custom Layout API, media Query observables, and can be injected to DOM.  • Worked on Angular 6/7 by consuming Restful web services.  • Worked on Angular 6/7 concepts like building the components, Data binding, String Interpolation, Property Binding, Event Binding, Two-way Data binding (with the help of Forms Module) and Directives.  • Extensively worked on Angular 6/7 concepts like building components, data binding, event binding, hostlistners, styling elements dynamically using ngClass, show and hide particular element using ngshow/hide.  • Implemented dynamic features for page navigation using routing services and form validation using Angular 6/7 and NGRX.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts table less layout.  • Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application RIA to make it look more intuitive.  • Used Angular 6/7 and Confidential Covalent UI as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Developed Angular material responsive web application pages using Angular-Material services, controllers and directives for front end UI and consumed RESTful web service API.  • Used Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP requests with the help of Node JS.  • Used GitHub and Gitlab, private and public repo for version controls and JIRA for defect tracking. Front End UI developer PepsiCo, WA March 2018 to May 2019 Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in jQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed dynamic and multi - browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular.JS, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Extensively Used React.JS to make site pages rendering quicker, instead of using ng-repeat in Angular.JS used ng-React to accomplish the same.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React.JS and Angualr.JS and with use for JavaScript templating, function binding, creating quick indexes.  • Created React components with testability and reusability of components across the organization in different applications.  • Worked on DOM manipulation using JavaScript and jQuery. Used ES5 and JSX with react for component development.  • Worked with Angular.JS Forms, Validations, Modules, Factory Services, DOM, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters, Http Request.  • Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances. MongoDB Schema Design using DB Ref, Manual Ref, Embedded Data Model Design.    • Coded extensively using JavaScript, Angular.JS to make rich internet web application for a Single page app.  • Used Bootstrap JavaScript plug-ins to implement Tabs, Scroll Spy, Tooltips, Pop Overs, Buttons and Alerts.  • Finding out the bugs, broken links and missing images etc. and rectifying them.  • Written Grunt for optimization and magnification of source code.  • Used Subversion (SVN) for software version control. Front End UI Developer Lamda - IN January 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used AJAX frameworks like jQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  • Created XML files according XSD schema and used XSL, HTML5 and CSS3 for XML rendering. Developed Web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery. Owned the design, development and maintenance of ongoing metrics, reports, analyses, dashboards, etc., to drive key business decisions and communicate key concepts to readers.  • Created Responsive Design (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5 & CSS3.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular.JS framework.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Wrote extensive HTML, CSS and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using Eclipse.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Fairleigh Dickinson University Skills Visual studio, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Typescript, Json, Svn, Xml, Html5, Eclipse, jquery, Mongodb, Ui, Database, Sdlc, Cvs, Linux, Frameworks Additional Information Skills  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Typescript, XML, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON  Frameworks: Angular, Angular.JS, Rect.JS, Node.JS, Covalent UI  IDE Tools: Eclipse, Sublime Text, NetBeans, Visual Studio Code  Database: MongoDB  Tools: GitHub, SVN, CVS  Methodologies: SDLC, Agile, Scrum  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux