Front End Lead Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Lead Developer - Shipcom Wireless Houston, TX Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Front End Lead Developer Shipcom Wireless - Houston, TX September 2017 to Present Project: Catamaran Presentation Framework(CPF) - Lead Developer  Description: Catamaran Presentation Framework is designed as a low-code development platform capable of generating complex interactive web applications using screen drag and drop features and on-screen builders. This framework follows the MVVM architectural pattern, where Angular 5 is used for the presentation layer and .Net Core API 2.0/SQL Server is used for the business layer. Additionally, RabbitMQ is utilized to provide real-time notifications and messaging.  Responsibilities:    • Managed an offshore team of 7 developers following Agile-Scrum methodologies using TFS.  • Implemented AoT compilation to increase browser response time and upgrade to Webpack 4.5.0.  • Implemented lazy loading using import() statements to load components and scripts on demand.  • Implemented generating objects at runtime.  • Integrated Kendo UI for Angular components like Grid and Charts to implement rich user interface with extensive features.  • Implemented *ngFor with trackby to avoid triggering a cascade of DOM manipulations.  • Implemented Change Detection strategy to improve performance.  • Implemented the use of Input/Output parameters and Event Emitters for communication between the parent and child components as needed.  • Worked on developing extensive and robust features such as exporting data to Excel and displaying SSRS reports in IFRAME using configurable on-screen builders.  • Created services to handle HTTPClient requests to WebAPI using Observables.  • Supported the ability to upload videos providing a title, description, and search tags.  • Implemented Growl action support with configurable UI and audio.  • Incorporated support for 508 Compliance, ensuring accessibility for users with disabilities.  • Created e2e test suites with Protractor and Jasmine.    Environment: Angular 4.0/5.0, TypeScript, .Net Core Web API, Visual Studio Code, IIS 7, HTML 5, CSS3, Twitter Bootstrap 4.0, Webpack, Angular CLI, Protractor, Jasmine, TFS, DSQL serverB2, RabbitMQ, LESS, C#, Node.js, KendoUI, Karma  Project: Worker Safety Management Solution- Lead Developer  Description: Worked as a lead developer on a solution web application for the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company. The application tracks the movement of workers on Zirku Island and monitors the environment for hazardous gases through the use of radio-frequency identification (RFID), real time location systems (RTLS), and global positioning system (GPS) based sensors. The workers, their movements and alerts are visualized in real-time, on browser-based maps.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and lead a team of 6 offshore developers following SCRUM methodologies.  • Created components using leaflet map to support real-time mapping concepts.  • Configured workflows to support viewing and managing worker, site, and plant profiles.  • Developed screens to visualize historical worker movements.  • Developed real-time screens to perform muster drills and emergencies that visualize worker movements during the drills.    Environment: Angular 4.0/5.0, TypeScript, .Net Core Web API, Visual Studio Code, IIS 7, HTML 5, CSS3, Twitter Bootstrap 4.0, Webpack, Angular CLI, Protractor, Jasmine, TFS, DSQL serverB2, LESS, C#, RabbitMQ, Node.js, KendoUI, Karma Front End Developer Alameda County, CA October 2016 to August 2017 Description: Assessment application is a custom SPA implemented using AngularJS 2.0 framework and migrated to 4.0, works across mobile devices and desktop browsers. This application used across the Alameda County by the Auditors team for handling property taxes assessment.  Responsibilities:    • Designed UX/UI screens for Web Application compatible for all different browsers and devices.  • Implemented Component-Based architecture to reuse features, ad act independently.  • Implemented new component router to navigate to a client-generated view. It can pass optional parameters along to the supporting view component.  • Implemented *ngFor with trackby to avoid triggering a cascade of DOM manipulations.  • Implemented Input, Output parameters, Event Emitters to communicate between the parent and child components as needed.  • Implemented *ngIf with multiple conditions in Angular 4.0.  • Implemented route with params, CanActivate to authenticate route before redirecting.  • Implemented Progress bar, reusable table layout.  • Implemented lifecycle hooks like ngOnChanges, ngOnInit, ngOnDestroy.  • Created custom PIPE for OrderBy, Sorting to reuse in the application.  • Worked on developing extensive features like Export to Excel, displaying SSRS reports as PDFs.  • Created services to handle HTTP requests to WebAPI using Observables.  • Working on creating e2e test suites with Karma, Jasmine.    Environment: Angular 2.0/4.0,Typescript, .Net Core Web API, Visual Studio Code, IIS 7, HTML 5, CSS3, Twitter Bootstrap 4.0 alpha, Vault, Webpack, angular CLI, Karma, Jasmine, SVN,DB2. Front End Developer Wells Fargo, CA April 2015 to October 2016 Description: Credit Card Application is a custom SPA component based architecture with isolated scope that utilizes AngularJs 1.4 framework. Application works across mobile devices and desktop browsers. Mainly used by the bankers to find existing customers to apply different Credit Cards with or without Coapplicant. These applications can be saved, cancelled and submitted as needed by the applicant. Saved applications can be retrieved by application Id/SSN/Applicant Name and ZipCode.  Responsibilities:    • Worked as Individual Contributor for this application to create custom, self-contained, and testable modules.  • Used HTML5, Twitter Bootstrap and CSS3 for implementing the responsive user Interface.  • Implemented Component based routing, reusable directives, and DOM manipulation which extend the elements and modules of the application.  • Utilized jQuery, JavaScript and AngularJS1.4 framework for data handling.  • Created services for handling HTTP requests to invoke WebAPI through Ajax calls to GET and POST data.  • Project supported multiple languages through custom localization implementation (included server responses).API authentication error handling implemented as promise-based middleware.  • Used Grunt task runner for minifying and generated bundle with all application resources to optimize performance.  • Extensive use of $broadcast, $on to trigger events for implementing validations.  • Validated user actions on the client side and provided responsive feedback using AngularJS Toaster and ng-messages.  • Developed angular factories and used angular promise API for making async calls.  • Widely resolved digest cycle issues.  • Creating e2e test suites for all components using Jasmine framework.  • Used JIRA for creating and updating user stories.    Environment: AngularJS 1.4, .Net Framework 4.5, C#, Web API 2.0, Visual Studio 2013, Sql Server 2012/2014, IIS 7, JQuery, HTML 5, CSS3, Twitter Bootstrap 4.0 alpha, Resharper, Jasmine, Karma, Grunt, TFS, JIRA. Sr.Net Developer State of California, CA September 2014 to March 2015 Description: Users can access Add/Setup a new project, View/Edit Diaries of inspectors at Construction, Handle List of Labors, workers and Employees at each location and access the Material and Equipment supplied to the Construction. Inspectors can access their diaries, enter the weather information at the construction, and enter all different details about the construction.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the fluid layout of the application User interface using MVC5/Twitter Bootstrap3.0/Html5/CSS3.  • Implemented ADO.Net Entity Data Model to handle database using Entity framework database first pattern.  • Experience working with third party JQWidgets to implement grid functionality in MVC 5.  • Used Source Tree and Stash for the Rotation of the code (Development of the Services) and testing.  • Designed the Bootstrap Carousel to display construction photos uploaded by Inspectors.  • Worked on MVC 5 design pattern for cleaner separation of concerns between the view, the model, and the controller.    Environment: .Net Framework 4.5, C#, MVC 5, Visual Studio 2013, Object Oriented Design, JQWidgets plugin Controls, Sql Server 2012, IIS 7, JQuery, LINQ extension methods, Lambda expressions, Twitter Bootstrap, Resharper. Front End Developer Farmers Mutual Hail Insurance Company, IA August 2013 to August 2014 Description: Designed for managing insurance payments/modifies sales agents for Policy applications. Users can access FMH products like Crop Hail, MPCI, Production Plan Coverage depending on Reinsurance year for their policyholders (Farmers).    Responsibilities:  • Implemented MVP design pattern for cleaner separation of concerns between the view, the model, and the controller.  • Used Twitter Bootstrap framework for developing customizable and fully responsive UI for various screen sizes.  • Used ReSharper for better code writing and expand greatly on the IntelliSense features built in Visual Studio.  • Created and used MOCK framework to implement Nunit / Integration/Validation tests for the application.  • Used NserviceBus to handle asynchronus event processing.  • Used Perforce SCM for the Rotation of the code (Development of the Services) and testing.    Environment: .Net Framework 3.5/4.0, C#, ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2012, Telerik, Spring.net, iBatis.net, NUnit, Log4net, Perforce SCM, Oracle 11g, IIS 7, JQuery, Fluent Validation Framework, NServiceBus, Bootstrap, Resharper. Net Developer Infinity Contact, IA April 2013 to July 2013 Description: Application allows Customer Representatives to Contact Customers to take a survey about their recent purchase, recent call with representative. Representatives do sell different soft wares like "Dragon Natural Speaking", "Digital Dictionary" etc. using the current UI. This project deals with Migration of the existing application from .Net framework 2.0 to 4.0 with added features like Search Contacts, Shopping Cart, Free Shipping etc. and improved performance.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the WPF application.  • Designed and developed database in MS SQL Server 2012 (T-SQL).  • Implemented Error Messages, Message Box, PCI Logging to log errors using XAML.  • Used Ajax Tab Container to display Sale Verifications, Contact Information, Shopping cart details.  • Created Delegates and used Event handlers to update data from one tab to another.  • Used JavaScript to Auto populate State and City with Zip Code.  • Used TFS for the Rotation of the code (Development of the Services) and testing.  • Involved in testing and implementation of the application.    Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, Microsoft Visual Studio 2012, Microsoft SQL Server 2012, WPF, XAML, C#, ASP.Net 4.0, TFS. Technical Lead Wal-Mart, AR May 2012 to March 2013 Description: Windows forms application designed to allow the customers to download report results in different formats like Excel 2003, Text, Html, AS2 based upon the selection of Browser/Quick view. Designed to provide an additional option to all the international countries, which allows the customers to download report results in Excel 2007 in Browser delivery type. There are multiple applications, and different Macros developed for each reporting category as per the requirement to each application.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Business Analysis, System Specifications and involved in Full Life Cycle Development (SDLC) and documentation.  • Developed different windows application using VB.Net, XML.  • Used Open XML to write the data into the memory and then to Excel Spreadsheet.  • Modified existing Windows service to generate the Excel 2007.  • Modified existing web application to add Excel 2007 as an alternative option.  • Responsible for creating tables in SQL Server 2005  • Responsible for writing Insert statements to include the new format Excel 2007.  • Responsible for modifying table to increase the data type for Excel 2007 extension.  • Used TFS for the rotation of the code (Development of the Services) and testing.  • Involved in testing and implementation of the application.    Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2010, Microsoft SQL Server 2005, XML, VB.Net, Linux, TFS, Putty.    Project: Category Financial Reports  Role: Sr .Net Developer    Description: This project deals with segregating the current reports to 'S', 'A' and 'A+S' reports.  'A' status reports are active reports, Merchandise that will be available in the Clubs on an ongoing basis. 'S' status reports are Merchandise that is available in the Clubs for a determined length of time. This is associated with product intended to be in the Clubs less than 180 days. 'A+S' status consists reports are for all the items.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering Business Requirements, Design, and documentation.  • Modified existing web application using VB.Net.  • Responsible to creating tables, writing complex queries, Stored procedures, Joins for data retrieval and manipulation in SQL Server 2005.  • Responsible for creating custom reports for status 'A', 'S', and 'A+S'.  • Used TFS for the Rotation of the code (Development of the Services) and testing.  • Involved in testing and implementation of the application.    Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2010, Microsoft SQL Server 2005, VB.Net, TFS. Net Developer RR Donnelley Logistics, IL November 2011 to April 2012 Description: RR Donnelley Logistics provides freight management solutions designed to support overall logistics strategy by offering Third - Party Logistics services backed by experience, reliability, cost savings and leading technology.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed the User Interface based on the Window Forms application for the users to Update, Delete any Orders which needs to be modified in the production.  • Worked on N-tier architecture (Data, Business and UI layers) and extensively designed and developed SQL Stored Procedures in SQL Server 2008 R2.  • Use of Data Adapters and Datasets for data retrieval and manipulation in SQL Server.  • Worked on ADO.Net technology in C# for Editing and display data in the database using Telerik Radgrid controls.  • Used TFS for the Rotation of the code (Development of the Services) and testing.  • Involved in testing and implementation of the application.    Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2010, T-SQL, Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2/2008/2005, XML, C# .Net. NET Developer Indiana State University August 2009 to December 2011 Description: This application is internet site designed for Business users. Students can access the portal to schedule their online courses, examinations, results. Business users update the required information for students.    Responsibilities:  • Gather business requirements, designed and demonstrated a prototype of the application to the business users before moving onto the development phase.  • Created reusable ASP.NET user controls that provide new features and enhanced user experience.  • Experience at Transforming and validating data using SSIS Transformations like Conditional Split, Lookup, Merge Join and Sort and Derived Column for unstructured and redundant data.  • Used Session state, View State, Cookies and Query strings to persist and transfer data b/w pages.  • Use client-side (JavaScript) and server-side validation controls (.NET Validation controls) to validate data.  • Participated in code review, quality assurance.    Environment: VB.NET, ASP.NET, Visual Studio .NET 2005, JavaScript, IIS, SQL Server 2005, Team Foundation Server 2005, Oracle 10g. Net Developer ETS - Princeton, NJ May 2011 to October 2011 Description: Tracking Portal is an Internet site designed to work with ENSR workflow components to give a user the ability to get a real time status of a Program's (i.e. GRE) production run. Designed to track the reporting process of a 'Program' (e.g. HSTW, GRE, and Praxis) through a web portal. Users can report an Action's status manually.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application User Interface using AJAX/ ASP.Net / VB.net.  • Worked on Agile Methodology for modeling and documentation of software-based systems.  • Responsible for writing stored procedures and Functions.  • Used Grid view control to display to users and data can be edited and saved in to the database by administrators.  • Responsible for writing Java script functions to create popup windows in the web application.  • Used Form Authentications to manage page navigation and used View State, Cookies to persist and transfer data b/w pages.  • Involved in unit testing of the application.    Environment: .NET Framework 3.5, VB.NET, ASP.NET 3.5, AJAX, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Microsoft SQL SERVER 2008, Windows XP/7, Visual Studio 2008, IIS 6.0, LDAP Security Level. NET Developer Pace Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2007 to December 2008 Description: Physician Digital Messenger (PDM) is a desktop application for Physicians to Communicate with each other with less expenditure. Application includes Message Module, Patient Details module and Synchronization of data between server and clients. Physicians can register in PatientCarenet.org, download the (PDM), and communicate with the existing Physician.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the application as a three-tier application and developed user interface of Win Forms in ASP.Net/C#.  • Incorporated user authentications and authorizations in web configuration to make application more secure.  • Implemented ADO.Net objects for handling database activities in the data grid.  • Developed normalized database, created stored procedures and triggers in SQL Server 2000.  • Used intrinsic objects (Request, Response, and Server) to manage page navigation.  • Used Session state, View State, Cookies and Query strings to persist and transfer data b/w pages.  • Responsible to write code to handle errors at both page and application level.  • Experience in implementing client and server validations.  • Involved in unit testing of the application.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, JavaScript, XML, XSLT, CSS, SQL Server 2000, Visual Source Safe, Windows 2000 Pro, Oracle 9i Education Masters in Computer Science Indiana State University - Terre Haute, IN JNTU, India JNTU Skills .NET (10+ years), MS SQL Server (8 years), SQL (8 years), SQL Server (8 years), Visual Studio (9 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/soumya-chimakurthy-603550122 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows 7/10, Linux.  Microsoft .NET Technologies: C# .NET, VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, EF 6.1, MVC  UI Frameworks: AngularJs,Angular 2.0/4.0/5.0, Javascript, JQuery, Twitter Bootstrap 3.0/2.0  Databases: ORACLE 9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2008/2012/2014  Web Programming: HTM 5, CSS 3  Web Servers: IIS 6.0/7.0  IDEs: Visual Studio 2008/2013/2015, Visual Studio Code, WebStorm  Version Control: Team Foundation Server, Visual Source Safe, SVN, Perforce, JIRA, Stash, Vault, Git    LINKEDIN: https://www.linkedin.com/in/soumya-chimakurthy-603550122