Front Endweb Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> Endweb <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front Endweb Developer - Abaxis Inc Union City, CA To find a position in a company where I can maximize my technical skills and that will challenge my quality assurance, development, management and training experiences. Work Experience Front Endweb Developer Abaxis Inc - Union City, CA December 2014 to Present Develop web applications and company web site using Object Oriented JavaScript, CSS/CSS3, XHTML, HTML/HTML5, DHTML, and DOM on cross browser platforms following the W3C standard. Used AJAX, JSON, XML, jQuery, and Angularjs library to develop some of UI application. Volunteer Infosys, Inc - Newark, CA April 2011 to November 2014 Tutoring Computer classes to Seniors, tutoring how to make web application and designing with  XHTML, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, and JavaScript. Also tutoring how to use MSEXCEL and MSWORD. Front End Developer Infosys, Inc - San Jose, CA September 2012 to December 2013 Develop web applications for company's web sites using Object Oriented JavaScript, CSS/CSS3, XHTML, HTML/HTML5, DHTML, DOM and Photoshop on cross browser platforms(FireFox and Internet Explorer) following the W3C standard. Used AJAX, JSON, XML, jQuery, Emberjs and Angularjs library to develop some of UI application. In UI applications using all the below described technologies on cross browsers. Currently using YUI to develop cross browser event handler, Cookies, DOM, and Validation. Independent Consultant/ Front End Developer July 2009 to August 2012 Freelance)  Develop and design UI application and web applications for company web sites as well company's portal using Object Oriented JavaScript, CSS/CSS3 XHTML, HTML/HTML5, DHTML, DOM and Photoshop on cross browser platforms(FireFox and Internet Explorer) following the W3C standard. Used AJAX, JSON, XML, and YUI library to develop some of UI application. In UI applications using all the below described technologies on cross browsers. Currently using YUI to develop cross browser event handler, DOM, and Validation. Front End Developer Synactive Inc - Foster City, CA July 2007 to April 2009 Hand coding in CSS, Object Oriented JavaScript, and XHTML technologies to develop UI applications. Developed, designed and maintained company web site using AJAX on cross browser platform(FireFox and InternetExplorer). Used Apache Tomcat webserver to develop UI application (Angular) as cross browser event handler, DOM api, Cookies and Validation. Built software package with InstallShield. We used Bugzilla to file and track bugs.Developed Servlet, JSP, and JDBC on tomcat server. HTTP protocol was used to transfer the data from client to server computer. Also developed UI application using JSON, EXT-JS and XML, along with YUI library coding. Used Firebug as debugging tools. Worked on Wireframe for planning projects. Provided complete technical support to Customers. Used QA Load and Win Runner for stress and performance testing. Edited and maintained company web site. Front End Developer LifeScan Inc - Milpitas, CA April 2005 to June 2007 Developed, designed and maintained MatrixOne on Java platform using Apache Tomcat webserver. Developed J2SE, J2EE, Servlet, JSP, and JDBC on this server. Built software package using InstallShield. Provided complete technical support to Customers. Used Bugzilla to file and document bugs. Developed, designed and maintained company website using hand coding in JavaScript, CSS, XHTML, DHTML and Photoshop on cross browser platform. Worked on Wireframe for planning projects. I used Dreamweaver to develop web site. Supported test process and used debugging software such as Firebug. Front End Developer PointRed Technologies - Santa Clara, CA January 2003 to March 2005 Built software package using InstallShield to install the packages on to client systems. Used Bugzilla software to file and document bugs. Developed, designed and maintained company web site using hand coding for HTML, DHTML, and Photoshop. Evaluated and developed programs to test systems. Created and maintained the test processes. Provided complete technical support to international as well domestic customers. Supported the test process and debugging software, and improved efficiency. Also have some experience in the sales and marketing department. Test Engineer ADEC - San Jose, CA December 1998 to January 2003 Developed auto test programfor BTS 600 to test PCB. Performed functional test using Oscilloscope and  Vector scope. Developed program to test Burn-in System. Designed test fixture. Processed the SMD  Printed Circuit Board Assembly.Evaluated test process. Developed company web site using JavaScript,  CSS and XHTML. Education B.S. Magadh University - Gaya, Bihar Certificate in computers San Jose City College - San Jose, CA Additional Information I have over 10 years developing UI technologies as well Web site developing experience.  Strong programming experience over ten years in HTML/HTML5, XHTML, JavaScript, DHTML, DOM and CSS/CSS3 on Cross Browsers Platform like Firefox, Internet Explorer.  Extensive experience in developing web application.  Using SVN application to update the version of the project.  Extensive experience in Test tools like QA Load and Win Runner.  Proficiency in using YUI in web application as well in UI application.  Over 4 years of experience in Java/J2EE Technologies.  Over 4 years of experience working on MVC pattern with JSP, Servlets and Java.  Over 8 years of experience in developing UI technologies following W3C standard.  Proficiency in developing Web applications following the W3C Standard.  Used Bugzilla software for filing bugs found during and after the software development cycle.  Used Firebug as a debugging tool.  Excellent communication & inter-personnel skills with strong analytical and problem solving  abilities.  Experience as Supervisor of Test and Manufacturing Departments for over 5 years.  Proficient in building Software package using InstallShield to load the software on client computer.  Proven ability in Staff Management, Manufacturing Process, Test Process and analyzing process from time to time to improve efficiency.  Develop Software Tools to test Burn-in-system.  Extensive experience in providing complete technical support to customers.    Technical skills:  OS: 9X/2K/NT/XP/Vista/win7.  Languages: HTML/HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, DOM, Angular, JavaScript, CSS/CSS3, AJAX, Java, J2SE, J2EE, PL/SQL, MySQL, JDBC.  JavaScript Library: YUI, jQuery, nodejs, bootstrap and Angularjs.  Tools: DreamWeaver, Photoshop, QA Load, WinRunner, apache Tomcat.  Database: pc/MRP, MatrixOne, Oracle 9i, NovaManager.