Web Engineer Web Engineer Web Engineer Brea, CA Work Experience Web Engineer TEN October 2014 to January 2018 Worked on TEN's line of automotive websites. Built sites from the ground up and added features that  utilized 3rd party services. Tied into Facebook, Twitter and Instagram APIs to return data for a specific car  dealer.  • Built a car comparison tool that allowed users to select multiple vehicles and see a side-by-side comparison.  This was developed in JQuery where I returned JSON data then passed it in a data object and used that data to return the cars selected by our users in a modal view.  • Worked on sites developed on the WordPress platform. Added features by tying into existing Hooks and  returning data. Worked an extensive amount of JS, JQuery and PHP debugging and fixing bugs. Web Developer and Designer 8BIT SOLUTIONS August 2012 to September 2014 Worked closely with clients translating business requirements into web applications. Used wireframe tools  like Moqups and Visio as part of the creative process and PhotoShop for the final designs.  • Developed in frameworks like Bootstrap, WordPress and other 3rd party platforms. Worked extensively  within the WordPress environment customizing themes and working with ecommerce solutions. Senior Front End Integrator SPEAKTECH/PERFICIENT August 2006 to August 2012 • Developed a Windows 7 phone app in Visual Studios using XMAL, C# and ATOM. Lead all phases of the project from design, layout, development, and to publication in the Microsoft Marketplace.  • Worked extensively with Microsoft SharePoint integrating complex website designs by creating custom  master pages, custom page layouts, CSS and images.  • Used JQuery to access and manipulate DOM objects so as to animate and control large amounts of data. Also  JQuery to build custom collapsible SharePoint navigation menus as well as a custom drop down menus and a collapsible content section which worked seamlessly for any SharePoint Web Part.  • As a Senior Design Integrator I trained other Integrators and set in to place best practices and stream lined  the integration process by providing foundational templates for the team to build off of. Front End Developer CYPRIN August 2005 to August 2006 Designed several different layouts for various web projects and software applications using Axure for rapid  prototype development and PhotoShop for the final designs.  • Developed client websites using ASPX in a .Net environment with Visual Studios and Team Foundation  Server.  • Web Admin for the corporate ASP .Net web portals which included code updates, bug fixes, web browser  best practices and cross browser compatibility. Front End Developer VRLV, INC July 2004 to July 2005 Administrator over several websites which included quarterly new designs implementations with custom  themes and graphical enhancements.  • Did ongoing Search Engine Optimization (SEO) work and updates including staying up to date on best SEO  practices. Drafted new original content, refined keywords, titles, image titles and alt tags and modified the websites Meta Data.  • Redesigned and rebuilt the corporate backend website admin interface using Classic ASP, HTML and CSS.  This included creating various web forms that queried multiple SQL databases and returned the cleaned  results in a timely fashion to allow managers to run reports. Front End Developer QLOGIC February 2001 to July 2004 • Total over haul to the corporate website which consisted of over 100's of web pages. Redesigned the website and quickly developed the site from scratch using Classic ASP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Redesigned QLogic's Intranet and Extranet. Developed the entire layout using ASP. Served dynamically  content by calling data from a SQL DB by creating stored procedures.  • Created web tools for the Marketing, Human Resources and Sales teams that simplified their application  processes. Some of these tools include product tracking, user polls and an Open Enrollment web form and more. Education AA Fullerton College Certification Fullerton College Skills CSS (10+ years), HTML (4 years), JQuery (9 years), Microsoft SharePoint (6 years), SharePoint (6 years) Additional Information Core Competencies  • Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, Flexbox, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, web standards, cross-browser  compatibility, responsive web design, mobile web design.  • Adobe Suite: PhotoShop, Illustrator.  • Frameworks: Microsoft SharePoint, WordPress, BootStrap, Zurb Foundation.  • Source Control: Microsoft Team Foundation Server, GIT.  • Helping: When I am not coding I can usually be found giving back to the community.