Owner/Designer/ Front- end Developer Owner/Designer/<span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Owner/Designer/ Developer Flagstaff, AZ An accomplished freelance web designer based in Flagstaff Arizona, serving a global community. My services include Web Design, Graphic Design, Mobile Apps, Game Design, Animation, Motion Graphics, Video & Audio Editing, UI/UX Design, Interaction Design, Front- end Development, Ecommerce, Content Management Systems, SEO, SEM, Email Marketing, and Website Management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Owner/Designer/ Front- end Developer Web Magi - Flagstaff, AZ August 2003 to Present With 18 years' experience designing and building websites remotely (5 years for mobile apps), I have personally taken hundreds of paid projects from concept, to design, to production, to launch. I have impeccable management, communications, and problem solving skills, routinely managing numerous web and mobile projects, and I've never missed a deadline.    For me, being a designer/ developer is not just about taking a multidisciplinary approach to solving complex problems, it's about what I've learned lately coupled with broad experiential diversity, know-how, and a knack for finding the right balance between all of these for each client. It's not a stagnate process that can be labeled and laid claim to. It's a movement; a flow that you either become integrated with or eventually slip out of. Eighteen years and hundreds of paid projects later, I am still in the flow.    With a talent for learning, adapting, and refining methods and procedures, I enter into every project with a clear goal and a fresh perspective. I put myself 100% into everything that I do. Meaning that whatever I choose to focus my time and energy on, it then becomes a personal statement of who I am.    My Availability: Immediate and ongoing    My Pay Rate: Entirely negotiable. I trust that you will review my talent/skills/experience, asses my worth to your company, and determine a pay rate that works for the both of us.    My Website: http://www.webmagi.com    Experience  -Web Design, Development, and Production utilizing HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript (including PHP when required)  -Responsive Web Design (RWD)  -Graphic Design, Logo Design, Illustration, Print, and Branding  -Game Design & Development  -Animation  -Motion Graphics  -Video and Audio Editing and Composition  -Mobile Web Apps - Design, development, and production utilizing HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (jQuery), and Knockout JS for data binding.  -Multi-Platform Apps - Design, development, and production of apps intended for Apple, Android, and Windows mobile devices and App Stores.  -SEO Research and Site Implementation  -Site Search Integration and Maintenance, including backend software installation, setup, and updates  -Sitemaps  -Email Newsletter Marketing - Design and Campaign Management, including backend software installation, setup, and updates.  -Google AdWords Ad Marketing - Keyword Research, Landing Page Creation/Restructure, Campaign setup and Management.  -Social Marketing  -Custom Google Maps  -Ecommerce  -Form Creation and Management  -Content Management Systems (WordPress, Business Catalyst, InContext CMS, etc.) - Taking site designs from approval, to development, to production, to launch, to client training on how to manage site updates through the CMS.  -Slideshows, including backend software installation, setup, and updates  Website Maintenance    Skillset  -Graphic Designer  -Web and Print Designer  -Game Designer & Developer  -Animation  -Motion Graphics  -Video Editing and Composition  -Audio Editing and Composition  -Web & Mobile Front- end Developer (RWD, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, etc.)  -Multi-Platform App Designer & Front- end Developer (iOS, Android, Web App)  -Android Frameworks (PhoneGap, jQueryMobile, etc.)  -Design-Centric Development - Utilizing tools & methods to augment or replace old, tired hand coding workflows.  -Ecommerce (Setup, integration, production, and maintenance)  -Content Management Systems (Setup, integration, production, and maintenance)  -Backend Software Integration and Management  -Search Engine Optimization  -Social Media and Online Marketing  -Wireframing - Prototyping - Mind Mapping  -Usability - User Experience - Accessibility - Quality Assurance  -Website Management  -IT Guy, including:  ---Computer Build and Repair  ---Operating System Specialist and Troubleshooting Expert for Windows and Mac  ---Computer Networking    Master of Tools  Adobe: (Complete Creative Cloud subscription)    -Photoshop CC 2017  -Illustrator CC 2017  -After Effects CC 2017 – Plugins include: Trapcode Particular, 3D Invigorator Pro , Element 3D, Optical Flares, etc.  -Premiere Pro CC 2017  -Audition CC 2017  -InDesign CC 2017  -And more...    Others:  -Toon Boom Animate  -Ableton Live  -Sketchup  -Adobe XD (Beta testing)  -Indigo Studio  -XMind  -Kony Visualizer  -OutSystems  -Android Studio  -jQuery Mobile  -Knockout JS  -Xcode  -Unity 3D  -Construct 2  -Microsoft Office  -Arclab Web Form Builder  -Fontlab TypeTool  -Fontlab ScanFont  -And many others... Education 18 Years' Real-World Experience in Web Design & Front- end Develoipment Hundreds of Paid Client Projects - US and Abroad 1998 to 2016 Skills Web Design (10+ years), UI/UX Design (10+ years), Responsive Web Design (6 years), Graphic Design (10+ years), Game Design (2 years), Motion Graphics (8 years), Branding (10+ years) Links http://www.webmagi.com/ Additional Information There's a gaping void between education and experience that doesn't exist the other way around. You can be highly educated and still have little or no experience in a given field. But if you're highly experienced in your chosen field, not only will you have acquired extensive explicit knowledge, but an even higher degree of tacit knowledge, which as you may know, cannot be attained in a university classroom.    I have 18 years’ real-world experience in the web design and development industry, during which time I was responsible for taking hundreds of paid client projects from concept to design, production, and launch… and everything else in-between. You can’t buy an education that will teach you what I know. A company who gets that; who recognizes the value of immense across-the-board experience, that’s a company I aspire to work with.