Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Huntersville, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer www.contentlaunch.com - Remote March 2016 to Present A custom application that was built using laravel to provide a platform to have agency’s or individuals be able to manage content and deploy it to many social media platforms. I joined the team to help develop new features including being able to post content to twitter, tumblr, facebook. I designed the database architecture to support this scaling data to store all the oAuth keys and codes while allowing for flexibility to add more platforms. I also designed a system to connection to 3rd party platforms like google drive to import content into the platform. I used google drives api to display all the files that are able to be imported, display them in a list and allow a user to check them one by one or with a select all button which then triggers an import process that will import this data into the system. I also built an upload content feature that allows you to upload content with either a drag and drop or button that would trigger an upload to import your content into the system that would allow you to deploy this content to any of the social media platforms you have connected to the system. I also develop a client content review system that allows agencies to create / write content, then invite their clients to review the document via email. This setup an invite key that validates the link when their client clicks it and also either auto creates them an account or logs them back in toa previous created account for a seamless transition. This allows the client not to get bogged down with signup or registration forms. This link also stays active until the document is published.  Technical Lead Tiaa October 2013 to Present Remote  I work with a development team to delivery prototype sales demos which are tailored to potential customers. I  collaborate with the sales leads to come up with a strategic plan to develop a customized sales demo solution. I also  collaborate with IT partners to come up with solutions to support their infrastructure needs with our internal applications.  We started using Kohana, a PHP framework to create new tools to support our custom application that is used to support our business leaders projects which now has evolved into a laravel solution. I meet with project managers and  business to understand the details of these projects to develop a solution that fulfills their needs. I help manage risk of these projects by uncovering potential shortfalls of our component system and working with partners to develop these  needs to keep our projects on track. We use GIT as a subversion system to manage all of our code base of the framework. I use laravel to develop internal admin application tools to help the team deploy, share and manage the  internal projects they build for the business partners. I've also been working on a one off Laravel admin solution to allow  team members to showcase our internal prototype demos, projects and tools we have built to the business leaders. This  system integrations with our company's single sign on ( SSO ) system to allow for a seamless transitions into our  application. I also built an internal Laravel and Vue.js admin to provide solutions to allow other team members to manage our internal data and create prototypes for there projects they are working on for business partners. I also  collaborate with offshore teams to hand of our prototypes for development.    www.commissionsez.com - Developer - freelance  Remote  An automated solution for insurance brokers to import a CSV files and have our backend system using laravel to parse the file and update the MySql database on the fly. I built a fully responsive frontend using bootstrap to allow brokers to login from anywhere on any device and be able to manage there commissions on a policy by policy breakdown. The  clients have an admin panel to manage and update anything they can from the CSV import if there happens to be a tweak  that is needed. We built several reporting features like missing payment audits which will take a customer and look at the past 12 months and see what payments they haven't received payments for yet. A huge feature was the ability to  have agents be able to login and run reports, manage there subscribers and also check for missing payments all from there own personalized portal. This whole system is also white label enabled so we can brand the system with their logos and a couple primary and secondary colors to skin the portal. This application makes use of many laravel features  including the batch cron jobs to process the massive CSV imports from the customers. This application was designed from the ground up based on wireframe I developed from balsamiq that was taken from the customers business's current  process they had in place using excel to do all of this manually. I designed the database structure, relationships and optimized the queries as much as possible to help improve many of the mysql queries while taking advantage of laravels  eager loading..  www.1095ez.com - Developer - freelance  Remote  A custom laravel application build for a local customer who wanted the ability to his have clients upload  PDF documents to a authenticated portal that would notify the company by email when this was done so they could download the PDF. After downloading the pdf the customer uploaded from the admin portal or the authenticated link inside the email and processing it, the company will upload the new document via  their admin portal and attach it to their account which would trigger another set of emails to all parties that the document is ready for review and accepting from the customer. This application help provides a secure and centralized location for all these document to live and be transferred vs having to manage a ton of emails from their customers. This application was built from the ground up from a concept of a business idea this  customer had including all mysql database flow and wireframes.    www.contentlaunch.com - Developer - freelance  Remote  A custom application that was built using laravel to provide a platform to have agency's or individuals be  able to manage content and deploy it to many social media platforms. I joined the team to help develop new  features including being able to post content to twitter, tumblr, facebook. I designed the database  architecture to support this scaling data to store all the oAuth keys and codes while allowing for flexibility to add more platforms. I also designed a system to connection to 3rd party platforms like google drive to import content into the platform. I used google drives api to display all the files that are able to be imported,  display them in a list and allow a user to check them one by one or with a select all button which then  triggers an import process that will import this data into the system. I also built an upload content feature  that allows you to upload content with either a drag and drop or button that would trigger an upload to import your content into the system that would allow you to deploy this content to any of the social media  platforms you have connected to the system. I also develop a client content review system that allows  agencies to create / write content, then invite their clients to review the document via email. This setup an invite key that validates the link when their client clicks it and also either auto creates them an account or  logs them back in toa previous created account for a seamless transition. This allows the client not to get  bogged down with signup or registration forms. This link also stays active until the document is published. Developer Designbyklein - Charlotte, NC September 2006 to Present US  Help clients set-up, configure and maintain CS-Cart based websites. CS-Cart uses smarty template language which allowed for custom themes and frontend development without modifying the core PHP code. Built out custom PHP  addons for CS-Cart using their hooks and API. Hand code websites from Photoshop files into semantic responsive  layouts. Created custom HTML and CSS documents based on design requirements. Consult with new clients and potential customers to discuss their needs, create scopes of work, timelines and expectations. Create and manage clients  hosting accounts. Manage my Linux server using cPanel and WHM Create custom CMS using PHP and CodeIgniter  Help clients set up Linux gaming servers that integrated in with online applications to buy items from the web which sent to the gaming server. Wrote custom jQuery and some NodeJS functionality to meet clients needs or requirements.  Created an integration script from a custom php CMS to phpBB and phpauctionpro software for a single sign on process. Created a custom Laravel project management software from the ground up. Meet with the client numerous  times to review their needs. Create wireframes from balsamiq to give the client a general idea of the functionality of the software and to review the flow of the website. Developer www.1095ez.com - Remote Present A custom ?laravel? ? application build for a local customer who wanted the ability to his have clients upload PDF documents to a authenticated portal that would notify the company by email when this was done so they could download the PDF. After downloading the pdf the customer uploaded from the admin portal or the authenticated link inside the email and processing it, the company will upload the new document via their admin portal and attach it to their account which would trigger another set of emails to all parties that the document is ready for review and accepting from the customer. This application help provides a secure and centralized location for all these document to live and be transferred vs having to manage a ton of emails from their customers. This application was built from the ground up from a concept of a business idea this customer had including all ?mysql? database flow and wireframes.     Front End Developer Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC April 2013 to October 2013 US  Write custom jQuery plugins, create hand coded HTML layouts, Create Mobile Friendly html markup with responsive  interfaces. Use Github as our repository system. Refactor anonymous functions into more universal plugins. Spend time  looking at old code and analyze if it needs refactoring into a streamlined solution. Developer The Idea People - Charlotte, NC February 2013 to April 2013 US  I joined the team to help finish development and bug squash on a custom PHP Laravel Web Application for the healthcare industry. I focused primarily on backend development while utilizing bootstrap on the frontend to create form  layouts. I also used jQuery to develop AJAX calls to dynamically update records on the frontend. This included  dynamically adding things like adding comments, updating comment counts, checking for spam IP addresses, user  validation and more. We used Github as our repository system. Front End Developer Lowes Home Improvement - Mooresville, NC January 2012 to January 2013 US  Write custom jQuery code along with jQuery test using QUnit. Work with an Agile team to manage workload on feature based projects and task. Create custom prototypes using semantic jQuery , HTML and CSS , but not limited to or  including AJAX, and JSON within a JAVA environment. Use Charles Proxy to proxy functionality onto different  servers without having to commit the code to CVS and wait on builds. Use TeamSite to deploy changes to the corresponding server. Write jQuery to integrate with adobe test and target ( T&T ) to run campaigns and targeted test.  We used Github as our repository system. Developer E-dreamz, Inc - Charlotte, NC March 2010 to December 2011 US  Use Photoshop and Visual Studio to prototype .NET projects. This also includes but not limited to ColdFusion and PH P  prototypes. This includes basic jQuery setup and organization of jQuery Plugins.  Built websites using jQuery that had full page scrolling. Used jQuery to log user locations to have the ability to link  directly to pages that used the full page scrolling. Implemented AJAX based page loading as requested by user. Created  cookies for tab systems to allow a global logging system on location of the tabs.  Create HTML 5 and CSS 3 frontend websites using boilerplate and bootstrap as a foundation. Focus extensively on cross-browser rendering, including tablet (Android/iPad) and mobile devices. Used YSlow to optimizing and streamline  websites, ensuing fast load times. This includes maintenance on older websites which includes JavaScript Developer Bitflip Technology - Charlotte, NC June 2009 to March 2010 US  Created a custom AJAX based PHP Content Management System ( CMS) from the ground up using CodeIgniter MVC  framework. This CMS ran from a centralized server that supports multiple clients websites virtually using dynamic  database connections based on the URL requested then using the corresponding database connection information to pull the rest of the settings for the environment. This allowed for one centralized file system and code-base which helped  reduce the time spent updating each file system. Using a photoshop file provided we customize the template and hand  coded the front- end code including all jQuery , HTML 5 and CSS layouts to match the photoshop file while maintaining  cross browser compatibility. Developer Knowmad Technology - Charlotte, NC August 2008 to May 2009 US  Used WebGUI as a PERL-based development platform to create websites for customers. Wrote PERL  addons and extensions that used the WebGUI API to hook into the core system to expand functionality all while doing test driven development. Created XHTML / CSS prototypes within WebGUI CMS. Helped  manage and setup linux based servers to run hosting environments for clients. Create and maintain jQuery    plugins for webgui and other clients phpBB and vbulletin software. Developer Tathwell Printing - Charlotte, NC March 2005 to September 2006 US  Created a PHP calendar based website that customers could sign up and create and organize their production  calendar. They have the ability to upload photos, add dates and comments. Used AJAX based user    interfaces with JavaScript. Created XHTML / CSS markups. Interfaced with XmPie to do web to indigo  dynamic printing. Developer www.commissionsez.com An automated solution for insurance brokers to import a CSV files and have our backend system using ?laravel? to ?parse the file and update the ?MySql? ?database on the fly. I built a fully responsive frontend using ?bootstrap? ?to allow brokers to login from anywhere on any device and be able to manage there commissions on a policy by policy breakdown. The clients have an admin panel to manage and update anything they can from the CSV import if there happens to be a tweak that is needed. We built several reporting features like missing payment audits which will take a customer and look at the past 12 months and see what payments they haven’t received payments for yet. A huge feature was the ability to have agents be able to login and run reports, manage there subscribers and also check for missing payments all from there own personalized portal. This whole system is also white label enabled so we can brand the system with their logos and a couple primary and secondary colors to skin the portal. This application makes use of many laravel features including the batch cron jobs to process the massive CSV imports from the customers. This application was designed from the ground up based on wireframe I developed from balsamiq that was taken from the customers business’s current process they had in place using excel to do all of this manually. I designed the database structure, relationships and optimized the queries as much as possible to help improve many of the mysql queries while taking advantage of laravels eager loading. Education Associate of Applied Science in Multimedia and Web Design Art Institute of Charlotte March 2005 Skills Laravel (6 years), Php (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Bootstrap (5 years), HTML (10+ years)