Front End Developer & Designer / SENIOR <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Designer / SENIOR Front End Developer & Designer Scottsdale, AZ Creative front end developer and graphic designer looking to provide company with same superior creative design and management skills that have facilitated success in previous positions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer & Designer / SENIOR ADVISORY - Scottsdale, AZ March 2011 to Present Oversee all web design, branding, and marketing campaigns for advisors of proprietary financial products.  • Design, develop, manage, and optimize websites using Drupal and WordPress.  • Designed, developed and maintain current company website and client portal.  • Integrate effective SEO practices to websites.  • Create effective online campaigns such as email broadcasts and website landing pages.  • Design logos, branding packages, and marketing collateral. Front End Developer & Designer Larson Creatives - Nampa, ID August 2000 to September 2014 Carry out contract web and print design projects for successful design firm.  • Developed websites, digital illustrations, and magazine layout designs.  • Designed logos, business cards, and billboards.  • Provide computer hardware and software technical support. Front End Developer & Designer Grand Destiny Group - Scottsdale, AZ 2009 to 2011 Oversaw all web design, graphic design, and marketing campaigns for product development company.  • Designed and managed e-commerce, Joomla websites, blogs, design logos, catalogs, packaging, and marketing collateral.  • Integrated social media applications on web sites and blogs.  • Created interface designs for integration into web applications.  • Created highly effective marketing campaigns, product presentations, and trade show materials.  • Contribute to productivity through effective supervision of printing functions. Front End Developer & Designer Scarpe - Scottsdale, AZ 2005 to 2009 Carried out all graphic design, Web design, and marketing campaign development and management for successful product operation. Prepared and deployed e-mail blasts.  • Designed logo, business cards, stationery, direct mailings, packaging, and marketing collateral.  • Created highly effective marketing and advertising campaigns.  • Designed Web site to maximize in-store and Web-based sales.  • Earned award and recognition for store space layout. Designer Support - Caldwell, ID 2000 to 2003 Oversaw design projects and ensured orders were press ready for automotive marketing materials print shop.  • Designed logos and business cards. Created brand images and packaging. Education BS in Graphic Design Pacific Union College - Scottsdale, AZ 1995 to 2000 Skills HTML, XHTML, CSS, RWD, Bootstrap, FTP, PHP, jQuery, phpMyAdmin, SEO, Google Analytics, AdWords, CMS, Drupal, WordPress, SalesForce, E-Commerce, Social Media, Flash, Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator, MS Office, Mac, and PC. Links http://www.cavelenda.com Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS  • More than 14 years of successful professional design experience.  • Adept at front end development, e-commerce, CMS, WordPress, Drupal, print and logo design, and more.  • Able to conceptualize and implement effective websites.  • Expertise in creating strategic marketing materials for clients.  • Highly experienced in managing clientele through every stage of the design process