Production Lead Front/Back End Developer Production Lead <span class="hl">Front</span>/Back <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Front/Back End Developer - LG, USPS, Villanova, Chevrolet Farmington Hills, MI Work Experience Production Lead Front/Back End Developer 24G - Troy, MI May 2014 to Present ? Oversee and motivate team of 25 developers  ? Providing products for customers like Google, LG, USPS, Villanova, Chevrolet, Volkswagen, Chrysler, Heineken, FOX, Buick, College Game Day, YouTube, Dell, IBM, Twitter, Papa Johns, etc.  ? Traveling onsite/providing support for events like Google NEXT, Google POM (America and Australia), CES, Super Bowl, Final Four, IBM WOW, Barrett Jackson, SEMA, Auto Shows, etc.  ? Custom designing, creating and providing support for small event based applications/products to permanent installs  ? Working 1-on-1 with clients, customers and co-workers to provide the best product for their needs  ? Demonstrate knowledge of usability principals including cross-browser compatibility and accessibility best practices  ? Automated repetitive tasks and created extensible software to maximize team efficiency and decrease project production time  ? Leading a team of 25 people and growing  ? Traveled world-wide to provide training for clients and developed training materials  ? Using my electrical engineering/mechanical skills to help with onsite and in office products  ? Designing/programming robots to do small tasks for clients and for office fun  ? Keeping up to date and using future products, software and technology Lead Front/Back End Developer IBM August 2012 to May 2014 ? Demonstrate knowledge of usability principals including cross-browser compatibility and accessibility best practices  ? Designed from start to finish a fully functioning reporting, sales, maintenance, and company wide site for a Fortune 500 Company to help with their company development  ? Traveled world-wide to provide training for clients and developed training materials  ? Provided customer support for companies like Cardinal Health, State Street and Coca-Cola on software that I was involved in creating  ? Introduced and coached the programming team in test driven development techniques  ? Interface with colleagues to determine roadmap requirements and propose designs  ? Automated repetitive tasks and created extensible software to maximize team efficiency and decrease project production time   ? Keeping up to date and using future products, software and technology Front End Developer FIRST Robotics September 2003 to May 2014 Create a web based application to show case my teams accomplishments, history, gatherings  and sponsors  • Manage content from teachers, companies, and students  • Won awards in 06' and 07' for design, functionality and versatility Workforce Software September 2011 to August 2012 • Application configuration of a Time and Attendance System  • Testing/Quality Assurance activities  • Configure/develop data conversion and interfaces with other business application  • Develop or maintain configuration tools  • Train clients in application use  • Assist clients with application testing and roll out  • Establish configuration best practices Apple July 2008 to September 2011 Providing frontline customer support at the Genius Bar, including hardware and software  troubleshooting and diagnosis  • Working with my co-workers to show them the ropes on Windows machines  • Troubleshooting and repairing Apple hardware and software  • Juggling customer and product issues with a genuine sense of urgency  • Being one of the go-to people for creative tools knowledge in the store  • Patiently showing customers such basic computing skills as double-clicking, using the Internet, organizing photos, and creating simple websites  • Teaching our customers how to make a movie, record a song, draw digitally or edit photos.  Or perhaps teach a new user how to use a mouse for the first time. Skills .NET, AMAZON WEB SERVICES, C#, C++, HTML Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, PHP, VB .Net, XHTML, Java, C++, C#, CSS, CSS3, PHP, Python   Environments: Google Cloud Platform, Amazon Web Services   Architectures: Pub/Sub, NodeJS, App Engine, Kubernetes, Cloud Functions, Firestore, IAM, Serverless, EC2, Lambda, S3  Databases: MySQL, DynamoDB, Mongo, Postgres, SQL Server  Frameworks: Phonegap, Node.JS, jQuery, Backbone.js, Angular JS, React JS, Agile/Scrum, TDD  Software: Adobe Development Applications, Eclipse, InfoSphere, VMWare, Rapid Application Development (RAD), Apple iPhone SDK, Microsoft Visio, JIRA, Confluence  Platforms: Windows Vista, XP, 2003, 2000, 98, Mac OS X, Unix, iOS iPhone and iPad, Android  Standards/Protocols: HTTP, HTML5/CSS, JSON, XML/SOAP, OAuth