Web Marketing Administrator Web Marketing Administrator Web & Graphic Designer Northport, NY Samples of my web and graphic design work can be viewed on my portfolio:  http://ScottVariano.com    I’m Scott Variano, an all-purpose multimedia producer who works primarily in web and graphic design. I have a passion for creating clean, bold design and intuitive user interfaces. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Marketing Administrator Long Island Board of REALTORS, Inc - West Babylon, NY April 2013 to Present • Implemented custom front- end stylesheet provided by a third-party agency in our redesign of LIRealtor.com.  • Designed landing pages and forms to integrate with our CRM platform, Infusionsoft.  • Created custom WordPress themes for use in several company projects. Wrote  custom WordPress functions and plugins to allow for easy management of site  content by stakeholders.  • Shot, edited and designed motion graphics for marketing videos.  • Produced digital banner ads, email templates, printed pamphlets, newspaper and magazine spots to promote marketing efforts. Front End Developer BIGNAME Commerce - Amity, OR June 2017 to September 2017 Worked with other developers to help design, test and implement features for high-volume eCommerce websites. Front End / PHP Developer eMagine - Fall River, MA July 2016 to April 2017 Worked with design and development team to create custom WordPress themes and functionality for clients. Designer & Front End Developer Palm Kids - Norwalk, CT March 2012 to April 2013 • Worked extensively with editors and designers to produce printed books, catalogs, e-Books, web advertisements, and social media branding initiatives.  • Provided art direction, mockups, product images and other assets for the PalmKids.com online store.  • Edited stylesheets, maintained CMS files, and provided overall creative direction for the PalmKids.com online store.  • Prepared book maps and art direction for third party illustrators. Sales Associate S. Scherer & Sons, Inc - Northport, NY March 2001 to August 2011 • Educated customers, from beginners to industry specialists, on water garden construction and maintenance, submersible pumps, water treatment options, biological filtration systems, and proper care of fish and plant life.  • Trained new employees in proper equipment use, nursery maintenance and selling techniques.  • Designed and constructed water gardens and other projects for the nursery courtyard. Education MA in Communication Arts New York Institute of Technology - Old Westbury, NY 2010 to 2011 BS in Accounting SUNY Geneseo - Geneseo, NY 2004 to 2008 Skills PHP, HTML, CSS, Wordpress, JQuery, Javascript, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe InDesign, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Premiere, Final Cut Pro, Web Design, Art Direction Links http://ScottVariano.com