Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Pennsauken, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Jefferson University Hospitals - Philadelphia, PA May 2017 to March 2018 - Contract position  • Qualtrics: Worked off UX designs to code out landing page for desktop and mobile in AEM 5.6 in order to promote the use of Qualtrics survey tool using HTML, CSS, Javascript and jQuery.  • Jeff Prize Challenge: Contest to encourage students to develop research projects with the winning team  having their project funded. Worked in a team environment with UX designer and AEM developer to code out the landing page for desktop and mobile experiences from PSDs into AEM 6.2 using Bootstrap, CSS, HTML and jQuery.  • Lecture Kiosks: Two free standing kiosks used to promote educational lectures through out the education area of Jefferson University Hospitals. Worked closely with UX designer and AEM developer as part of a collaborative team. Worked from PSD mock ups into AEM 5.6 using CSS, HTML and Javascript.  • MyJeffHub: Landing page for various Human Resource intranet sites. Worked with another Front End Developer/AEM Developer and UX Designer under a tight deadline of 3 weeks. Landing page developed with Bootstrap, CSS, HTML and jQuery into AEM 6.2. Project Management Institute Newtown Square, PA February 2016 to April 2017 Newtown Square, PA  Front End Developer  • Worked as a member of the content migration team revising pmi.org to be responsive using CSS, HTML and Sitecore 8.1.  • Maintained the previous production site during migration using CSS, HTML and Sitecore 6.2.  • Worked with UX and marketing to develop PMI events microsites and event speakers toolkit internal website.  • Updated Business Analysts micro site hosted on Silverpop using HTML and CSS.  • Created documentation and testing of the Sitecore 8.1 front end development technical manual.  • Worked with UX team members to develop content for the Membership area of pmi.org.  • Coordinated with Marketing Department on campaign deliverables. Front End Developer Lincoln Financial Group - Philadelphia, PA March 2011 to October 2015 - Contract position  • Worked collaboratively in a 50-person team to migrate 600+ pages of content for the Advisor, Internal, and Third Party Advisor (TPA) sites from hub1 to hub2 over the duration of three years.  • Coded ADA compliant micro-site for University of Texas using CSS and XHTML.  • Coded micro-sites and maintained fifteen different clients using XML and XHTML.  • Maintained ongoing multiple transition sites for numerous clients, including Meridian and Macquarie Group.  • Coordinated routine maintenance of participant accounts between Lincoln and DST Systems.  • Maintained various websites by uploading 40+ monthly performance reports on a monthly basis.  • Assisted with creating analytics for vanity and friendly urls using Google analytics.  • Coordinated with marketing department to upload time sensitive releases.  • Trained newer team members on CMS, Lincoln XML coding, and overall workflow process.  • Prepared digital assets for web use by content management team. Front End Developer Trellist, Inc - Wilmington, DE August 2010 to March 2011 - Contract position  • Coded eNewsletters for Bank of America, Foxfire, and Corporation Service Company.  • Front end coding for Bank of America Merrill Lynch Credit Cards and Rewards site redesign.  • Coded and updated graphics for Newton One site and SQA Pharmacy site redesign using CMS Made Simple, CSS and HTML. Front End Developer/Designer EMD Chemicals - Gibbstown, NJ May 2009 to May 2010 - Contract position  • Worked as part of a global team to migrate content from previous site to current site.  • Worked with Marketing Supervisor to develop specialized InhibitorSelect product spotlight page using Photoshop, Dreamweaver and HTML.  • Maintained and updated EMD CHEMICALS INC. Intranet using Photoshop, Acrobat, Dreamweaver, CSS, HTML, and JavaScript code updating. Front End Developer/Designer Kidshealth.Org - Wilmington, DE September 2008 to April 2009 - Contract position  • Designed and coded original monthly eNewsletters for Children's Healthcare of Atlanta and Seattle Children's Hospital. Two different versions were produced: one for parents of newborns and another for parents with toddler-aged and above children.  • Developed new and maintained existing client Kidshealth websites with HTML, CSS and revised JavaScript into preexisting XML document.  • Resolved multiple browser and platform issues regarding client's Kidshealth websites. Web Developer/Designer Visual Solutions, Inc - Merion, PA, US November 1999 to September 2008 • Created and developed an administrative intranet portal for healthcare professionals at The Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania using HTML, CSS, and Photoshop.  • Trained five staff members in HTML editing and computer usage on both Mac and PC platforms.  • Developed layout and design for web and custom software applications, focusing on ease of navigation and usability. Education Certificate Berkley Computer Institute - Cynwyd, PA, US 1998 Associates in Illustration and Design Art Institute of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA 1987 to 1990 Skills CONTENT MANAGEMENT (4 years), MICROSOFT OFFICE (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/charleswyatt http://cnwyatt.com/ Additional Information SOFTWARE PROFICIENCY  • Adobe Creative Suite  • Sitecore 8.1, 6.2  • Captivate  • Microsoft Office Suite  • AEM (Adobe Experience Manager) 5.6 and 6.2  • QuarkXpress  • QuickTime VR  • Lotus Notes  • Constant Contact  • Enfinity 6 content management software