Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer - Innuative Digital Agency Claremont, CA I have over 11 years of professional experience working as a front end web developer in a  team environment for various development teams, working closely with designers and marketing  teams producing high fidelity and responsive designs, and back end programmers producing  dynamic front end templates that work with various back end applications.    I work with git for version control, Jira and Asana for task management, and Agile methodologies  for project management. I have over a decade working professionally with content management  systems such as Wordpress, Magento, and Shopify.    I am accustomed to using Scrum / TeamViewer / Slack to keep in touch with teammates, and I  am an effective communicator / problem solver who believe strongly in actions that produce  measurable results. I am always striving to learn more and expand my skill set as a web  developer.    I have many professional references available upon request. Work Experience Front End Web Developer Innuative Digital Agency May 2015 to Present Produced high fidelity templates and themes from Photoshop design files by working with the design and marketing teams  ? Built Wordpress themes, managed and edited plugins, maintained and troubleshot  miscellaneous issues  ? Frequent Wordpress website and database migration  ? Worked extensively with Advanced Custom Fields and custom post types for Wordpress  ? Worked with many popular Wordpress frameworks such as Divi  ? Worked with Bootstrap and Sass  ? Developed custom ExpressionEngine themes and modified its admin section for better  ease-of-use for client  ? Worked with 3rd party CRMs such as HubSpot and FranConnect  ? Always delivered projects on-time and always responsive to team lead and other developers  ? Able to work with many developers and effectively communicate technical ideas and issues  ? Used the following development stack and tools: HTML, CSS3, Sass, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, Wordpress, ExpressionEngine, Photoshop, Illustrator  ? Worked with GitLab, git version control, Jira work management, Slack communication, Twig  templating, and Symfony framework Owner and Web Developer + Designer Pinkerton Web Solutions August 2007 to Present Designed and developed over hundreds of informational websites, blogs and e-commerce  websites  ? Development stack includes HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Sass, Javascript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Liquid and PHP  ? Worked extensively with platforms such as Wordpress, Shopify, Magento, and many more  ? Utilized softwares such as Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Dreamweaver  ? Email / newsletter campaign template design & development with Mailchimp  ? Built websites in the following industries: automotive, B2B, beauty, education, fashion / apparel, healthcare, law, non-profit, real estate, retail, technology, and entertainment  ? All work done in-house  ? 99% client retention rate  ? Technical support by bridging web speak to clients with varying technical backgrounds Front End Web Developer Alpaca Design Co June 2013 to May 2016 Focused on front end development with significant back end development work  ? Worked with Wordpress and Shopify, as well as static HTML websites  ? Back- end development for both Wordpress and Shopify to dramatically improve ease of website maintenance / content modifications from clients with no programming knowledge  ? Worked extensively with Photoshop and Illustrator to splice and manipulate design files for implementations of design elements  ? Consulted with designer on multiple user-interface designs, and optimum website layout and features  ? Consulted several clients on Search Engine Optimization tasks and campaigns  ? Conducted website maintenance work for several clients  ? Worked with HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, jQuery, Liquid and PHP Front End Web Developer Wemolab October 2013 to January 2014 Contractor)    ? Worked with languages such as HTML, HTML5, CSS, Javascript and jQuery  ? Worked with designers who provided Photoshop / Illustrator files - Spliced / manipulated the design files for implementation into website templates  ? Worked with back- end developers to connect the site to a proprietary content management  system and database  ? Assigned proper selectors and developed specific layout and formatting to comply with back- end developers' requirements, using interactive jQuery Front End Developer Car Gear February 2011 to December 2013 Contractor)    ? Designed and developed a Magento-based ecommerce website from the ground up  ? The designs for the website were completed with Adobe Photoshop  ? Developed custom Wordpress blog using the same design theme  ? Uploaded and managed over 10 thousand products in the website catalog as well as associated product feeds  ? Worked with Photoshop for website design, and HTML, CSS, jQuery and PHP for website  development Front End Developer Pilot Automotive January 2012 to August 2013 Contractor)    ? Worked on several PHP-based websites including Wordpress-powered sites on .NET servers  ? Worked closely with the art department to develop the front- end of several Wordpress  websites  ? Worked extensively with Photoshop and Illustrator design files  ? Pixel-perfect implementation of website design work from the art department  ? Cross-browser compatibility check for all websites developed  ? Managed several MySQL databases via phpMyAdmin  ? Worked with HTML, CSS, CSS3, jQuery and PHP Education B.A. in Psychology University of California - Los Angeles, CA June 2009 Links http://www.ChristianSChu.com https://linkedin.com/in/christianscwebdev/