Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Seattle, WA I am passionate about developing high-quality user experiences with rich, responsive UI driven by semantic markup, the latest in CSS and modern JavaScript. I have deep expertise developing highly-designed, mobile-optimized, CMS-driven sites for Fortune 500 companies.    Technical Skills:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Inky, ASP.Net MVC, C#, Node, Gulp, Grunt, JSON, LESS, SASS, Sublime Text, Slack, JIRA, Confluence, Crucible, Bitbucket, GitHub, Subversion, ES6, Babel, Modernizr, Browserify, Bootstrap, Waterfall and Agile/Scrum methodologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Amazon.com - Seattle, WA August 2018 to February 2019 Wrote view code, styles and JavaScript application code.   Achievements:  • Built a data-driven, customer-facing, internationalized web portal.   • Assessed the needs for and implemented accessibility solutions.   • Routinely collaborated with a multi-disciplinary team to meet project goals.  Web Developer Microsoft - Redmond, WA February 2017 to July 2018 Maintained and updated MVC code for a highly-trafficked, data-driven website on a daily deployment cycle. Prototyped UI enhancements for web and marketing emails. Implemented designs and contributing to UX improvements.   Achievements:  • Wrote onboarding documentation for new  developers.   • Updated the Azure website to meet WCAG 2.0 AA accessibility standards.   • Built flexible Razor view templates and partials used in creating data-driven emails.   • Helped to establish and document the development workflow for scalable email marketing.  Senior Front End Developer www.wearepop.com - Seattle, WA December 2011 to November 2016 Built microsites and corporate websites for many companies including Nintendo, Microsoft, Target and Xbox. Implement UI design for responsive websites and mobile web applications.   Achievements:  • Contributed to project codebase, writing custom utility classes and extending base classes while observing existing design patterns.    • Presented to my team on the common uses of jQuery and their native JS equivalents.   • Collaborated with senior level design directors to establish optimal user experiences.   • Built responsive websites for modern and legacy browsers.   • Established unparalleled rapport with our peer development team in Costa Rica, leading to an increase in interoffice communication, productivity and morale.   • Integrated styles, markup and JS into .Net templates for use with Kentico, an enterprise-level CMS.  Developer Peak Systems - Seattle, WA April 2011 to December 2011 Mobile and web UI development.  Achievements:  • Built microsites and web apps for global clients using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Implemented Qwest/CenturyLink web app rebranding. Web Developer GreenRubino - Seattle, WA August 2010 to December 2010 Front- end, middle-tier and back- end development, SQL database design, unit testing, and QA.  Achievements:  • Wrote SQL database stored procedures and functions.  • Rewrote middle-tier and back- end C# code to facilitate new web application functionality. Web Designer/ Developer Rankin Design - Bellevue, WA January 2000 to September 2005 Construct websites for clients.  Achievements:  • Led the company in making websites a strong counterpart to print-based marketing. Education Bachelor's in Communications, New Media Studies University of Washington-Seattle Campus - Seattle, WA September 1991 to June 1998 Skills C# (3 years), PHP (1 year), Javascript (8 years), Front End (10+ years), UI (10+ years), Front-End (10+ years), User Interface (10+ years), Jquery (8 years), HTML5 (8 years), CSS / SASS / LESS (10+ years) Links https://github.com/halerankin/ https://github.com/halerankin/project-history