FRONT- END DEVELOPER <span class="hl">FRONT</span>-<span class="hl">END</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> FRONT- END DEVELOPER Montville, NJ Lead Front- End developer with 10-year experience, over 3-year experience with Node driven platforms and libraries, and 5-year experience in front- end development frameworks. Ability to adapt to changing technologies while collaborating within an Agile Environment. Ability to identify and implement requirements that adhere to development life cycles. Goal driven to strategically align and expand my expertise in front and back- end technologies. Work Experience FRONT- END DEVELOPER Executive 5 Star Limo - Montville, NJ April 2016 to March 2019 Developed company website that incorporated a client portal to create a unique online presence and a better user experience. Built projects on a strict 3 – 4 month deadlines exercising Bootstrap and Sass.  Every build utilized GIT, Sass, BEM Methodology as standards in addition to all projects being managed in an Agile environment. FRONT- END DEVELOPER Robert Half Technology - Parsippany, NJ March 2013 to April 2016 Developed a MVC application for major financial institution as a federal requirement to ensure legal verification  of stock trade requests. Each project build focused on 3 – week sprint cycles using HTML5, CSS3, LESS, SVN, Grunt and AngularJS as standards. Developed iOS sales aids utilizing both Veeva and Agnitio frameworks. Primary code utilization included HTML5, Sass, JavaScript, and Git for version control. Worked closely with the Creative Director and Marketing Manager to coordinate timelines and develop timelines including project strategies. FRONT- END DEVELOPER Level 9 - Merritt Island, FL June 2009 to March 2013 Was assigned to client projects where design was the primary focus. Worked on projects ranging from small 2-man Wordpress builds to 7-man sites with HTML5 and CSS3 were utilized as standards. Enhanced my ability to work with PHP and WordPress through employment at Level 9. WEB DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM DIRECTOR Anthem Institute - Parsippany, NJ January 2005 to June 2009 Managed and assisted in curriculum development for 52 campuses nationally. Organized all web development instructional operations for faculty as well as instruct to class sizes of 30+ students in all aspects of development standards. Opened a PearsonVUE certification center for instructors and students that allowed for professional certification in web development and practices using various software suites. Education ASSOCIATE OF DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY in DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY The Chubb Institute - Parsippany, NJ January 2002 to June 2004 Skills Front End, UI, Angular, Javascript, Bootstrap, HTML5, Jquery, User Interface Links http://Schibelli.net https://github.com/jschibelli https://www.linkedin.com/in/johnschibelli/