Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Chantilly, VA 20+ years’ experience as a Developer and Designer. Well versed in the most popular CRM platforms Wordpress, Magento, Joomla, OpenCart and Drupal. Experienced at conceiving plans and putting projects into motion.    Building state-of-the-art, easy to use, user-friendly websites and applications is truly a passion of mine. I actively seek out new technologies and stay up-to-date on industry trends and advancements.    I will focus on taking your web presence to the next level. From Google AdWords to website optimization, I’ll work with you to put together a web marketing strategy that makes sense for your business. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer CET Web Design August 2015 to September 2018 Design and develop websites using content management systems such as Wordpress, Joomla, Magento and  Drupal. Building email templates and managing email marketing services (MailChimp, Constant Contact,  etc. Digital Marketing Manager/ Front End Developer Diamond Auto Group - Auburn, MA August 2009 to August 2015 Responsibilities would include developing and maintaining the business website, developing an internet presence and strategy, working with print advertising, generating leads and making sales.    Presently responsible for the user experience and user interface design and art direction of:    Search Engine Optimization (SEO) | Search Engine Marketing (SEM)  Pay-Per-Click (PPC, CPC)  Manage over $70k in monthly Paid Search advertising budget.  Online Brand Monitoring  Keyword Discovery  Affiliate Marketing Front and Back End Developer Post Road Funding Inc. March 2002 to February 2009 Responsible for the development of Post Road Funding Inc. Internet sites. Duties include Web site design and programming and optimization for search engine placement.    HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, Perl, PHP  Email, web and print marketing materials  MYSQL Server  Joomla CMS Education Information Technology Quinsigamond Community College 2013 to 2017 Web Design and Development Camden County College 1999 to 2001 College Prep in Activities and Societies South High School 1994 to 1999 Skills Wordpress (8 years), Front End