React Developer React <span class="hl">Developer</span> React Developer - Legacy.com • 5.10 years of extensive experience in Web Applications Design and Development using main stream web technologies such as HTML4/5, CSS2/3, Bootstrap, ReactJS, JavaScript, AngulaJS, Angular 2, ExtJS, Vanilla JS, VueJS, NodeJS, TypeScript, XML, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Strong knowledge in MEAN stack (Mongo, Express, Angular.JS, and Node.JS) JavaScript based technologies used to create web applications.  • Experience in using Angular factory, service, custom directives, custom filters, controllers, single page applications (SPAs) and implemented MVC and data binding.  • Knowledge in building single-page applications (SPAs) using different JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, VueJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, BackBoneJS and Bootstrap.  • Experience with features of Angular 2 such as directives, dependency injection, modules and routing.  • Experience in applying the recent development approaches like MVC framework and AJAX, JSON and XML for event-driven applications.  • Responsive Web Design (RWD) for different types of Devices like tablets and mobiles using media queries and libraries like bootstrap.  • In-depth knowledge on CSS principles, which are used to managing scalable, maintainable, and cross-browser compatible code.  • Experience in package manager of NPM and bower for projects and set grunt tasks under Node.js environment.  • Participated in understanding of ExtJS technologies and development tasks.  • Good knowledge on Software Development Life Cycle process, which includes designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintenance.  • Familiar with knowledge of database MySQL and MS SQL SERVER including creating objects, writing correlated sub queries, triggers, cursors, functions and transactions.  • Good working with ECMA Script 6 features. Worked with Babel, ReactJSX presets, web pack with ES2015.  • Creating dynamic and reusable components using React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experience in React working with redux architecture.  • Used SASS scripting language for CSS interpretation and compiling.  • Used Grunt and Gulp automation tool for configuring tasks.  • Good Knowledge in unit test cases like Jasmine, Karma and E2E test cases using Protractor.  • Experience with Safari or Chrome web inspectors.  • Strong Knowledge in AGILE Development, scrum and waterfall Methodologies  • Experience in multiple IDEs and Text Editors like Sublime and Eclipse.  • Used GitHub, SVN and CVS version control system as a source repository to organize the code base.  • Well versed in using JSON and AJAX to link with back- end applications.  • Extensively used new software tools and adapted to the changing environment for designing the user interfaces. Work Experience React Developer Legacy.com - Chicago, IL August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed the web application using React JS, Redux, GraphQL, and JavaScript.  • Developed the application using HTML5, CSS3, ReactJs and Ajax, JSON and template frameworks for JavaScript including Bootstrap.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Developed ReactJs custom components, ReactJS pages, Web services calls, and AJAX calls for the application.  • Involved in complete Agile SDLC on Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration testing.  • Used ReactJs components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept to create robust dynamic web pages.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application, created HTML navigation menu.  • Rewrote one of the key pages, which allows users to manage their content. The task involved investigation of the UI-Grid as well as refactoring of several backend methods.  • Built ReactJs modules, controllers, pop up modals, and file up loader.  • Worked with the development team, involved in creating MVC to implement ReactJs framework for client side rendering to optimize the front- end.  • Created ReactJs directives, factories and services for developing single page web applications.  • Implemented ReactJs client-side form validation to validate the user inputs before passing to back- end.  • Developed ReactJs pages, Web services calls and AJAX calls for the applications used in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Used ReactJs in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual.  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  • CSS styles were developed in order to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Responsible for design and development of web pages. Worked on Front end by using JavaScript.  • Developed user interface by using the ReactJs, Redux for SPA development and implemented client side Interface using ReactJs.  • Worked in using ReactJs components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Redux concept.  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Responsible for developing a front- end application using ReactJs and Redux architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using ReactJs. React Developer CGI - Lafayette, LA April 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed the web application using React JS, VueJS, Express.js, Node JS, MongoDB, JavaScript.  • Construct a powerful and modern frontend architecture involving React, Redux and ES6.  • Developed React JS forms to manipulate text within HTML5 views.  • Used Node JS and Express.js to setup the web servers and to integrate services.  • Created forms and sessions using Node JS and Express.js to store the user data and provide dynamic views based on the users.  • Designed and implemented server side Restful web services using Node JS and Express.js and handled communications to the client side (ReactJS) using JSON.  • Used React-Native for the mobile web development.  • Optimized ExtJS themes and prepared performant applications.  • Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with ExtJS.  • Administered and supported ExtJS applications within scope.  • Worked with VueJS framework to make-work easier with JavaScript libraries in integration.  • Used VueJS for transition effects that manipulate the DOM directly using JavaScript.  • Worked on server-side using NodeJS along with Express.js and connect to the database using Mongoose from MongoDB.  • Extensively used tools like Web pack to minify JavaScript files, compile Sass files to CSS, reduce the React JS file size and used Grunt for build automation and management.  • Create HTML e-mail campaigns utilizing JavaScript to promote product announcements and implement cookies for dynamic content purposes.  • To improve site speed used Vanilla JavaScript.  • Built Custom Angular 4 Directives and services for single page applications.  • Created Angular Directives, Controllers, Modules, Pipes in TypeScript.  • Used Angular 5 for the new router life events and compiler improvements.  • Involved in developing Component level design and defined the usage of AJAX to reuse the network bandwidth efficiently.  • Utilized NPM to create the project structure and update and install packages.  • Worked with GIT to maintain current and historical versions of source code.  • Performed Unit testing on ReactJS applications using Jasmine. Front End Developer Deloitte US - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible to design and developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and Angular 2.0.  • Designed and implemented full stack throughout entire website along with Angular MVC and used it for storing huge payloads of data in a JSON format.  • Developed login system and implemented input validation with AngularJs, CSS classes and JavaScript Regular Expressions.  • Pages are implemented with Angularjs routing and custom directives for the associate profile.  • Used Angular Http Services which are responsible to return JSON object which are compatible with all mobile, web, mobile web and tablet platforms which also serves Built rich prototypes for designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery, Ajax, JSON, Angular 2.0 and Bootstrap.  • Developed search pages with pagination, sorting and search functionality with Angular Http Service.  • Used Angular built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  • Consumed the RESTful web services to address the needs of mobile applications where each service can construct JSON, XML and HTML response.  • Worked with D3 for generating reports for sales and marketing team.  • Maintain the code base by frequent updates to revision using GIT version control system.  • Performed cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and Integration using Protractor.  • Interacted with the back- end staff and scrum master at the daily meeting for new features in this web app using agile software development methodology.  • Duties include developing applications using web technologies like HTML/HTML5, and CSS/CSS3.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular Framework and React.js  • Handled various client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus, and Grid layout and tab navigation using Angular UI. Developed applications on different devices like Mobile and tablet using react and angular.js  • Hands-on experience creating controllers, views using MVC framework Angular JS.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using $http.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Extensive experience working with Cross-Browser Compatibility issues.  • Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals and help define strategy, content, and features.  • Experience using JIRA for defect tracking and Git for version control.  • Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  • Used Jasmine and Karma to create test suites for unit testing the UI.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Node.js, JSON, Protractor, Git, Agile.  Achievements:  • Received "Applause Award" for building the RPM tool to support the new performance management system Web Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to May 2013 YouTube Ad Operations has a Global presence and is a recognized leader in Ad Operations. The Product is responsible for Ad serving and Ad trafficking for various 3rd party clients and is the highest revenue generator for YouTube.  Responsibilities:  • Created Mock-up designs and developed various functionalities with Java Script and JQUERY.  • Responsible for design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript including AJAX controls, JSON and XML.  • Worked on Bootstrap framework to make the overall site responsive and less complicated.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Involved in implementing the UI to support all the major browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Developed jQuery-based calendar to create future events.  • Used Ajax calls to send parameters and get data based on the user-triggered events.  • Used various jQuery plugins for menus, auto complete, dropdown boxes, pagination, date picker, forms and sorting functionalities to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience with the website.  • Used SVN as a repository tool and version control.  • Fixed bugs in the production and performed Unit Testing for each of the developed functionalities.  • Prepared effective Test Scripts for every developed functionality as a part of testing.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, Firebug, HTTP Server, MySQL, subversion, Waterfall. Front End Developer /UI Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra December 2004 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Built web pages that are more user-interactive using AngularJS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery and NodeJS  • Used Angular JS framework for building SPA (Single Page Application) for adding routing for the pages.  • Created Angular directives, services, and controllers for a complete ground up development and migration of existing JavaScript web application.  • Worked with Angular JS Forms, Validations, Modules, Factory Services, DOM, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters, Http Request.  • Migrated parts of the application to Angular2.  • Involved in developing Mobile version of the project using Angular 2.0 and Typescript.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap, custom media queries, with brand appropriate styles, colors, animations and font icons etc.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Used Ajax, JSON with JQuery for request data and response processing.  • Build Web Apps with React JS and Flux.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Functionalities include coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS and HTML libraries for complex UI controls.  • Responsible for JavaScript upgrades and improvements.  • Worked with the team of architects to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  • Experience working with build, code package & source code management such as GIT.  • Implemented Unit Test cases using Karma test Runner and Jasmine for AngularJS on client side.  • Participated in daily standup meetings to update the work status as part of Agile & Scrum methodologies.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Angular2, TypeScript, ReactJS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, SASS, AJAX, XML and Gulp.  Achievements:  • Team adjudged one of the best during the Transition phase  • Received appreciation from Credit Suisse - "Star of the Year" at annual Cognizant Centre Stage Education Master of Science in Computer Science Southern University at Baton Rouge Skills AJAX (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), HTML5 (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), JSON (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies  HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, TypeScript, Vanilla JS, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, DOM, SASS, AngularJS, Angular2/4/5, ReactJS, Redux, ExtJS, VueJS, NodeJS, Express JS, and Bootstrap    Web Servers HTTP Web Server  IDE & Tools Eclipse, Notepad++, Visual Studio, Edit plus and Sublime Text Editor  Version Control GitHub, SVN, CVS  Debugging Tools Chrome or Safari Developer Toolbar, Firebug, Firebug Lite and IE Developer Toolbar.  Database MongoDB, SQL, oracle and my Sql  Operating System Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X  Web Technologies  HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, TypeScript, Vanilla JS, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, DOM, SASS, AngularJS, Angular2/4/5, ReactJS, Redux, ExtJS, VueJS, NodeJS, Express JS, and Bootstrap