Application Development Analyst Application Development Analyst Property Manager Bay Shore, NY Work Experience Application Development Analyst Link Inspect Pro - Bay Shore, NY July 2018 to Present • Researched, collected data, and outlined features and benefits of competitor and similar software.  • Strategized new features and upgrades for multiple software applications.  • Quality assurance testing of multiple applications for working functionalities and bug documentation.  • Evaluated current processes to develop improvement plans.  • Reviewed internal systems and organized training plans to avoid perpetual problems.  • Designed/developed Link Inspect Pro website. Property Manager G.C. Enterprises, LLC. - Bay Shore, NY May 2018 to Present • Advertise units and negotiate lease terms  • Perform tenant screenings  • Act as liaison between tenants and property owners  • Collect rent on a monthly basis and handle late payments in a timely manner  • Maintain property by addressing tenant complaints, completing repairs, contracting landscaping and snow removal companies and enforcing rules of occupancy  • Coordinate maintenance schedule with Maintenance Coordinator  • Create, mentor and manage a cohesive property maintenance team  • Experience with multiple Property Management Softwares (Buildium, Yardi, Appfolio) Licensed Real Estate Salesperson Netter Real Estate - Babylon, NY August 2017 to Present • Compared properties with similar properties that have recently sold to determine its competitive market prices.  • Continually stayed up-to-date on mortgage rates and related real estate news.  • Developed and maintained list of available properties suited to different needs and budgets for both commercial and industrial use. Construction Laborer G.C. Environmental, Inc - Bay Shore, NY June 2015 to Present • Enhanced job site safety by vigilantly monitoring equipment and team members to prevent accidents.  • Used required tools to complete jobs, including hammers, saws, squares, levels and fastening devices.  • Worked independently in fast-paced environment while meeting productivity and quality expectations.  • Efficiently prepared job sites by removing debris and setting up materials and tools.  • Communicated with equipment operators to effectively assign equipment and manage smooth materials movements. Front End Web Developer G.C. Environmental, Inc - Bay Shore, NY May 2017 to August 2017 • Reviewed code to validate structures, assess security and verify browser, device and operating system compatibility.  • Completed full redesigns of existing websites to improve navigation, enhance visuals and strengthen search engine rankings.  • Created eye catching and functional digital design concepts across various platforms to strengthen company brand and identity.  • Implemented Google Campaigns and SEO.  • Tested websites and performed troubleshooting prior to deployment.  • Used various technologies, including NetBeans to make code repairs and optimize corporate website.  • Created site layout and user interface using HTML and CSS practices.  • Used programming capabilities in PHP, SQL and JavaScript and other libraries as needed. Education Bachelor's in Economics with Financial Applications Southern Methodist University - Dallas, TX August 2015 to June 2019 License in Real Estate New York University - New York, NY May 2016 to August 2016 High School Diploma Chaminade High School - Mineola, NY 2015 Skills Real Estate, In-Depth knowledge of social media platforms: Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Google+, Twitter (7 years), Proficient in multiple programming languages: Java, HTML, PHP, CSS, MySQL (8 years), Proficient in Microsoft Office (8 years), Property Management, Marketing, accounting, Yardi, Accounts Payable, Management, Customer Service, Word, Microsoft Word, Accounts Payable, Excel, Customer Service, Management, Office Management Certifications/Licenses New York State Real Estate License Driver's License