Web Developer Internship Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Internship Web Developer Intern - Squires Branding Company Irving, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Internship Squires Branding Company - Dallas, TX June 2018 to Present Building responsive websites through kentico and wordpress CMS's  ? Working with Bootstrap 3,4 technologies  ? Content Entry with HTML5 and CSS3 stylings  ? Working with less/sass and GULP for faster reusable stylings  ? Using javascript for dynamic pages  ? Working with Confluence, Git and SmartGit in a teamwork environment Front End Developer Fidelity Investments - Westlake, TX April 2017 to June 2018 In this role I my primary responsibility was Designing front- end forms and layouts for internal programs.  ? Using the Angular 2,4,5 and React framework  ? Using node servers to test out forms.  ? Learning Agile methodology and working in teams through GIT branches.  ? Building out custom APIs and working with json formatting  ? Working with react hooks and lifestyle components  ? Real world experience in RESTful and Microservices architectures, JavaScript frameworks and tools specifically React and Angular  ? Experience implementing complex/ dynamic web user interfaces with HTML, CSS, Javascript/Typescript  ? Good understanding of asynchronous request handling, partial page updates, and AJAX  ? Experience using code versioning tools, such as Git, Bitbucket  ? Experience with interface design Independent problem solver with superior technical, analytical and troubleshooting skills  ? Strong interpersonal and communication (written and oral) skills Help Desk Team South West Airlines/MAKE corporation - Dallas, TX February 2014 to May 2015 In this role I my primary responsibility was end user customer support  ? Using HTML5, CSS Jquery  ? Making and correcting help desk tickets  ? Resolving issues and finding issues on southwest.com  ? Call Center environment  ? Detailing issues in notes and working in a ladder system for resolutions  ? Providing excellent customer service Front End Developer California Check Cashing, Oakland - Los Angeles, CA October 2012 to February 2014 In this role I my primary responsibility was Designing front- end websites through wordpress cms  ? Using HTML5, CSS PHP  ? Vanilla Javascript and jquery  ? Testing out on different browsers  ? Learning Agile methodology and working in teams through GIT branches.  ? Java exposure  ? Using SOAP/REST Education Certificate North Lake College - Irving, TX June 2017 to Present Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Ajax (1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), Front end (4 years), Git (3 years), Html5 (3 years), Java (1 year), javascript (3 years), Jquery (2 years), json (1 year), Sass (Less than 1 year), Scala (Less than 1 year), Visual studio (Less than 1 year), UI, Angular, Angularjs, React, Front-End Links http://Github.com/Jmetters