Scholarship Candidate Interviewer Scholarship Candidate Interviewer IT Business Analyst Chicago, IL Work Experience Scholarship Candidate Interviewer Big Shoulders Scholarship Fund - Chicago, IL September 2016 to Present • Connected & contacted Chicagoland high schools to organize scholarship events.  • Presented & kept in touch with candidates concerning scholarship opportunities and DePaul's application  process. Increased candidate pool from 40 candidates to 150+ per year.  • Reviewed & interviewed 100+ candidate's applications, aided with nomination of candidates. IT Business Analyst Intern Abbott Laboratories - Chicago, IL June 2018 to September 2018 •Built online learning mgmt. system prototype aimed to aid customers with product's common service issues and help reduce technical support cost. Presented pitch deck to IT Director and Project Managers.  • Designed sitemap, wire-frames and SharePoint workflows for event planning and mgmt website to streamline sales team's events with prospective clients and ensure compliance with FDA regulations.  • Communicated and updated any discrepancies within construction team's critical path schedule across 4 teams to efficiently install sales team's Power BI Dashboards in local and international offices. Technical Deployment Associate DePaul Univeristy - Chicago, IL May 2018 to September 2018 • Performed data transfers, imaging, and deployments for over 50 new devices per week to comply with DePaul University's regulations.  • Worked with team members to develop methodical deployment process. Efficiently served 1000+ staff  members during 6 month period. Generated daily reports on devices delivered and returned.  • Configured staff's routers, printers, scanners and other peripherals to faculty's new devices for smooth transition. Front- end Web Developer Beatnik Marketing Group - Chicago, IL July 2017 to August 2018 • Coded HTML, CSS and edited JavaScript files to transition client's sites from website building providers to company's personal web server. Saved $1500 per year in monthly subscriptions costs.  • Developed and improved creativity, branding, and design skills working alongside Art Director. Diversified pool of clients, ranging from professional athletes, social media influencers and women's boutique shops.  • Tested websites and created technical documents to assure easy maintenance and free from errors such as compatibility across browsers, bugs, and grammatical errors. Education Bachelor's in Management Information Systems DePaul University - Chicago, IL August 2015 to August 2019 Skills Javascript, Python, Visio, Sharepoint, Web design, Ms sharepoint, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql, Html5, Active directory, jquery, Ms visio Additional Information SKILLS  PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES   • Javascript & JQuery  • SQL  • Python    WEB DESIGN   • HTML5  • CSS3  • Adobe Creative Suite     SOFTWARE  • MS Active Directory  • MS SharePoint  • MS Visio  • MS SQL Server   • MS Flow