Product Architect Product Architect Seattle, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Product Architect Pegasystems October 2017 to September 2018 ? Designed and developed product onboarding and trial experiences for prospective Pega customers, contributing to a 59% increase in trial logins.  ? Collaborated with design and marketing teams on usability testing and data analysis to drive product decisions.  ? Implemented new look and feel for Pegasystems' App Studio product, leveraging modern CSS to enable easy reuse of stylesheets.  ? Designed and built integration with Amazon Connect using Pega API to prototype product capabilities. Product Operations Engineer Twine Health June 2016 to January 2017 ? Built entire front- end website with custom HTML/CSS/JS in HubSpot CMS and Zendesk.  ? Conducted experiments including A/B and split URL tests to optimize conversions.  ? Created site map and refactored site architecture based on Google Analytics analysis. Front- End Web Developer HubSpot June 2014 to June 2016 ? Constructed responsive, mobile-optimized pages and tools for HubSpot's websites (including  hubspot.com and inbound.com) which received >7 million visitors/month.  ? Worked closely with design to develop HubSpot's first ever style guide used across the company's sites and easily implemented via a suite of customizable, reusable modules.  ? Collaborated with conversion rate optimization team to develop A/B tests, maximize SEO,  review analytics data, and update website to comply with best practices. Senior Support Engineer HubSpot June 2014 to October 2014 ? Assisted customers with CRM integrations, user interface walkthroughs, marketing automation setup, Salesforce logic, and DNS updates.  ? Troubleshoot and perform website design and functionality edits in HTML/CSS/JS.  ? Advise clients on inbound marketing strategy, SEO best practices, and website design/development. Education BA in Cognitive Science in Computer Science Vassar College May 2012 Skills Git, HTML5, SASS, jQuery, IBM, TM1, Microstrategy Links http://annabethcarroll.com Additional Information SKILLS    Modern web development technologies and practices (including HTML5, SASS/SCSS/CSS3, JS, jQuery, Git, and Agile).