Software Developer - Full Stack & Front- End Development Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Full Stack &amp; <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Development Software Developer - Full Stack & Front- End Development Plano, TX Work Experience Software Developer - Full Stack & Front- End Development CASTAWAY LABS LLC - Lutz, FL March 2017 to June 2019 Performed architecture and full stack development of client mobile and web-based applications across variety of platforms and technologies with startup contract development studio and consulting firm. Collaborated on design and production of full solutions and interfaces for Android and iOS mobile applications, modules, and web user  interfaces. Project managed analysis, development, optimization, and quality control. Developed mockups,  screenshots, and proofs-of-concept.  ? Executed architecture and full-stack development of hybrid mobile applications. Partnered with leadership team to identify requirements and build solutions realizing client technology vision.  ? Performed large scope of ground-up development on Skipiit, a point-of-sale (POS) mobile app for ordering  drinks at bars, with robust administrator, staff, and consumer portals and secure API connections.  ? Architected PCI-compliant Skipiit payment and checkout system. Researched and built credit card APIs, developed source code, and seamlessly integrated with landing sites and back- end functionality.  ? Designed Skipiit back- end in Visual Studio. Created API endpoints using npm/Node.js, Ionic Framework  and AngularJS. Enabled database functionality using MongoDb and MySQL platforms.  ? Managed full-stack development of customer loyalty certification program for inCruises web cruising  portal. Architected and designed UI, UX, and back- end functionality using HTML5 and CSS.  ? Partnered internally to create and implement QA practices, improving product quality and performance.  Developed test cases, produced documentation, and managed full testing cycle.  ? Researched emerging technologies for integration in applications. Benchmarked responsive credit card  functionality and formatting for mobile and web applications, improving UX and product quality.  ? Rapidly learned new technologies for client applications. Took self-directed courses in Typescript, MySQL, HTML, and other languages, and learned best practices in synchronous and asynchronous development. Education Associate of Science degree in Computer Science MIAMI DADE COLLEGE - Miami, FL April 2015 to March 2017 Bachelor of Music degree in Music Education BERKLEE COLLEGE OF MUSIC - Boston, MA August 2012 to March 2015 Skills Angular (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Nodejs (3 years), Ionic Framework (3 years), Jquery (3 years), TypeScript (3 years), AngularJS (3 years), HTML (3 years), CSS (3 years), MySQL (3 years), AWS (3 years), MongoDB (3 years), Front End (3 years), Back End (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/william-betalleluz-4a4b65186