Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Atlanta, GA Versatile front end developer, with experience designing, developing and  managing complex e-commerce sites. Proven track record of creating  well-executed, clean code and providing consistent customer satisfaction. Work Experience Front End Developer Supply.com - Atlanta, GA May 2018 to April 2019 GA  ? Migrated large-scale e-commerce website from JS/HTML to React to create a faster site with a more maintainable codebase.  ? Responsible for pixel-perfect parity between the legacy site and the new  React site, in order to seamlessly transition the site for customers.  ? Collaborated remotely with data, web, and proprietary-services teams at sister-company Build.com in Chico, CA to ensure the new site would  feature the latest technologies using best practices.  ? Implemented Build.com's proprietary CMS on Supply.com to allow marketers  and merchandisers to control site content through a user portal. Taproom and Events Manager Jekyll Brewing - Alpharetta, GA December 2016 to August 2017 Lead a team of 10 employees in providing excellent customer service to patrons of the brewery's taproom.  ? Audited taproom procedures and restructured inventory, staffing, and merchandising systems to prepare for passage of Georgia Beer Bill.  ? Scheduled, planned, and promoted brewery events-- including the 4th  Anniversary festival, the most successful festival ever held at the brewery, both in attendance and revenue. Customer Service Representative Scoutmob - Atlanta, GA November 2015 to November 2016 Fostered a culture of customer priority on a small team at a burgeoning  e-commerce start-up to provide the best customer support possible.  ? Personally merchandised and managed over 25,000 products for featured end  caps at Target, displayed in major cities across the US.  ? Lead the effort to expand the company's shipping capabilities to an international market, greatly expanding the consumer base. Education Bachelor's in Applied Linguistics Georgia State University - Atlanta, GA September 2017 to May 2018 None in Full Stack Web Development Thinkful - Atlanta, GA September 2017 to May 2018 Skills Git, Javascript (3 years), Bootstrap (1 year), TypeScript (1 year), React (2 years), CSS3, HTML5, UI, Jquery, Node Links http://www.dyannaturner.com https://github.com/dttheme Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  React, TypeScript, JavaScript (ES5/ES6), JQuery, Semantic HTML, CSS, SCSS,  Bootstrap 3, GraphQL, Jest, Enzyme, Mocha, Storybook, CMS implementation  (Shopify/Wordpress), responsive design, JS  unit testing, Git workflow