Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Entry- Level New Orleans, LA My objective is to work as an Entry-Level IT Specialist/Apprentice within a business environment evolving front end as well as back end of technical enhancement, thorough database security performance analysis, data entrapment, and systems and technology quality control, development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer Southern University at New Orleans June 2019 to June 2019 Wrote test case and plans for platforms developed design for flash application builder work within Scrum Master team as developer.  Embraced agile methodologies and demonstrated an aptitude to adopt.  Worked as a servant leader by researching mentoring coaching and facilitating the agile mindset.  Facilitated ceremonies including daily stand-ups, back log refinement, sprint planning, team demos and retrospecting.    Counselor  Tallahassee, FL parents and camp staff Rotary Youth Camp Phone Num June 2018 to July 2018 850) 328-0302  • Worked with other camp staff members to plan and coordinate camp events.  • Leading and supporting campers as they participate in age-appropriate activities.  • Monitoring campers to ensure compliance with camp rules and prevent accidents.  • Reporting and recording details of incidents, such as accidents or rule violations, to parents and camp staff.  • Memorizing all emergency procedures and enforcing camp rules.  • Participating in staff meetings. Package Handler FedEx - Dallas, TX February 2018 to May 2018 75241.  • Assembles, lines and pads cartons, crates and containers manually to prepare them for shipment.  • Examines and inspects containers to make sure they are ready to be transported to the customer.  • Pulls out packages that are improperly labeled, sealed or backed for reprocessing.  • Uses a variety of tools to prepare packages for shipping including box sealing tape, heat sealers, staple guns and stretch wrap.  • Works on a team to process all packages by the end of the shift.    Texas Longhorn Way  Fort Worth, TX, AL Front End Stocker Belk Mall Phone Num - Bel Air, 3201, BE October 2014 to January 2015 10/2014 - 01/2015  • Assembles, lines and pads cartons, crates and containers manually to prepare them for shipment.  • Seals containers using glue, nails and other fasteners.  • Examines and inspects containers to make sure they are ready to be transported to the customer.  • Uses a variety of tools to prepare packages for shipping including box sealing tape, heat sealers, staple guns and stretch wrap.  • Handles fragile items and hazardous materials in a safe manner according to company and government rules and regulations.  • Front End Stocker Belk 3201 Bel Air Mall Phone Num.  • (251)-470-5400, Assist customers with purchases.  • Inventory management and merchandising.  • Cash handling Work Study ITT Technical Institute Phone Num.  • (251) 472-4760.    Alabama  08/2014 - 10/2014  • Ensuring that printers and computers were always operational or notified the supervisor.  • Was always present in room(s) so to maintain order and security.  • Assisted with software and application questions and referred users to specified technical support personnel help.  • Maintained a regular schedule when the room(s) where open and available for use by students and employees. Operator/Mail Handler ORC - Grand Prairie, TX June 2007 to July 2008 1year 1 month).  • Ensured that the mail was reviewed for proper date, postage, and good quality barcodes.  • Prior to being placed in the appropriate mail trays by verifying the zip codes on the mail match the mail trays properly.  • Checked for presort endorsement on mail Handled heavy packaging and equipment.  • Handled ORC operating machine Loaded mail order trucks.    LA-1 - Event Planner  Natchitoches, LA Event Planner Motel 6 - Natchitoches, LA March 2007 to June 2007 318) 352-9907, .  • Answered and handled incoming calls.  • Established and leveraged strong, lasting relationships with internal and external guests.  • Attended sales meetings.  • Booked Corporate, Group, Birthday, Team Buildings, Lock-ins, and other special events.  • Paid attention to detail, strong organizational ability; ability to work under pressure amid distractions and interruptions.    dewaynedewayne13@gmail.com  81784089266343 Dorothea Street, New Orleans, LA 70126 Education Associate in Business Management ITT Technical Institute - Mobile, AL January 2015 to June 2016 Associate in Computer Science ITT Technical Institute - Mobile, AL February 2013 to December 2014 Skills Packaging, Shipping, Mentor, Printers, Technical support, Database, Networking, Security, Business management, Merchandising, Inventory, Cash handling, Javascript, HTML, Linux Additional Information Skills  • Attention to detail  • Business Management  • Cash handling  • Special events  • Government  • Inspects  • Inventory management  • Materials  • Meetings  • Mentor  • Merchandising  • Mail  • Works  • Organizational  • Packaging  • Personnel  • Printers  • Quality  • Recording  • Reporting  • Sales  • Shipping  • Supervisor  • Technical support  • Cloud Formation  • Cloud Automation  • App Development  • Block Storage  • Computing  • Network  • Database  • Cloud Security  • AWS networking  • Cloud security  • Public cloud