Full-Stack Developer Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Developer - Cisco's Digital Network Architecture San Jose, CA • Hands on and quick learning software engineer with 5 years working experience.  • Experience in designing and developing responsive feature rich web applications as a Full-stack developer with HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, React, Redux, MongoDB (Mongoose), Node.js, Express.js, Git and RESTful API.  • Deep understanding of the React component lifecycle, State, and props, use React.js for building reusable and reactive user interfaces.  • Experience in building SPA (single page application) using React Router with Link, Redirect, Switch, etc.  • Experience in using React and Redux to separate data and presentation layer  • Worked on Redux with the well-designed store, actions and reducers to handle the states and update the UI, experience with Redux Thunk to write action creators to handle async problems  • Hands-on with Enzyme and Jest for testing React.js  • Experience in handling, configuration and administration of databases like MySQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB, FireBase  • Experience with JQuery components for the front- end client-side validations.  • Experience in implementing the Node.js with Express framework server-side code to interact with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose drivers.  • Work with common front- end development tools such as Babel, Webpack, NPM, Nodemon, etc.  • Knowledge and experience in working with Sass/LESS and modern techniques such as Flexbox  • Experience in utilizing Bootstrap, Material UI with reusable components  • Experience in UI designing with CSS3, font-awesome icons, SVG Sprites, Infinite-Scroll, Lazy Loading, etc.  • Extensive experience with JavaScript (ES5/ES6) - closures, scope, promises, function expressions, hoisting, prototypes, block scoping, arrow functions, rest and spread, classes, modules, async and await.  • Proficient in HTML5 features - Form Validation, Media (Audio, Video), Canvas, SVG, Web Worker, Local Storage, Session Storage  • Experience working with AJAX to create interactive client/server communication and for increasing website performance.  • Proficient in JavaScript and Java, competent in Python, C++, C.  • Extensive experience of developing with Android Studio using SQLite, familiar with RecyclerView and CardView.  • Knowledge and experience in cloud computing and AWS, and GCP  • Experience with JIRA for bug tracking, work closely with designers and clients to achieve goals.  • Scrum/ Agile areas of expertise include Agile Principles, Tasking Meetings/Retrospectives, Communication Relative Estimation, Story-Based Development, Iteration/Sprint Planning Meetings and Conflict Resolution.  • Experience in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques  • Worked on multiple operating systems such as Window, macOS, and Linux  • Worked on multiple develop tools such as Visual Studio Code, IntelliJ, Sublime Text, Code Runner, Postman, MySQLWorkbench, and Android Studio  • Extensive knowledge with Game Theory and Machine Learning  • Highly adaptable, flexible professional who embraces teamwork, but also enjoys working independently. Work Experience Full-Stack Developer Cisco's Digital Network Architecture - San Jose, CA August 2018 to Present platform automates network management and provides customers with state-of-the-art analytics and insights. The customer management system project provides a full stack technical solution for the DNA platform team.    Tech Stack: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React, Material UI, MongoDB, ExpressJS, Redux, NodeJS, React Router, RESTful API, JIRA, Agile, Git    • Built a user management system with the ability to add, edit, delete users with full MERN (MongoDB, Express, React / Redux and Node.js) stack  • Built the Responsive UI screens and converting designed mock-ups using HTML5, CSS3, React and Material UI.    • Improved user experience effectively by developing an interactive web page via HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript/React to ease the process of inviting and searching customers  • Implemented the Node.js server-side code with Express framework  • Implemented search, sort, filter users and infinite scrolling functions for better use  • Used Redux to manage the whole state, developed the well-designed store, actions and reducers  • Implemented React router with Link, Redirect, Switch, etc. for building the single page application  • Interacted server-side with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose drivers. Manipulated data using CRUD operations of MongoDB database management system and handled database access using Node.js.  • Developed and Deployed RESTful Web Services implementing HTTP methods, e.g. put, get, post, and delete.  • Used Postman for testing and monitoring API  • Reviewed code for quality, found weaknesses and ensured adherence to standards  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, work closely with designers and clients to achieve goals.  • Utilized Agile Methodologies (Scrum) to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Used Git as the version control tool to perform programs Checkout and Check-in from and to the repository. Front- End Developer SiriusXM radio - New York, NY January 2018 to July 2018 SiriusXM has an online radio platform that provides streaming service to subscribers. The platform gives subscribers access to music, sports, news, talk channels and more, users can also retrieve recent playlist.    Tech Stack: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, RESTful API, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, Webpack, Agile, GitHub    • Designed and implemented different modules using HTML / CSS / JavaScript, and encapsulated common tools using Webpack  • Modularized application with user module, categories module, playlist module, etc.    • Using Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Worked with CSS Icons, CSS Pseudo-class, CSS Pseudo-element, CSS Image Sprites, CSS background and CSS3 Shadows to give some additional effects.  • Did extensive JavaScript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website to create interactive web applications.  • Extracted data in UI for different clients using JSON format.  • Involved in consuming, producing RESTful based web services.  • Utilized Agile Methodologies (Scrum) to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Used GitHub code repository for code check-in/check-out. Software Engineer Dragon Resource - Beijing, CN August 2013 to January 2016 Beijing Dragon Resources manufactures monitoring and control equipment for oil and gas industry, has hundreds of employees in different locations. The Android application provides a social media platform for employees to post, forward and comment events right away  Tech Stack: Java, Android Studio, Android SDK, SQLiteDatabase, JUnit, ListView, RecyclerView, CardView, Agile, GitHub  • Designed and implemented UI for users to register, login, post and view events with list-detail interface via Java with Android Studio    • Utilized advanced functions of the Android software development kit (SDK) in order to optimize the flexibility of apps to different mobile devices.  • Implemented elements and features, e.g. hiding Toolbar when the post list is scrolling down and showing it again when it's scrolling up, float action button, and loading posts by parts (Progress bar in the bottom of the screen for loading the next portion of posts)  • Connected users with several interactive user actions, e.g. like, comment and forward  • Used SQLiteDatabase to create, delete, execute SQL commands, and perform other common database management tasks.  • Displayed user's post with ListView, and changed it to RecyclerView and CardView  • Created increased mobile adaptability for current apps in order to extend marketability.  • Tested the entire development of the application with JUnit and integrated with web services, recorded exact details of errors during testing for further remediation.  • Utilized Agile development methodology  • Worked with product managers to clarify functional flows and provided technical insights on optimization  • Used GitHub code repository for code check-in/check-out. Education M.S. in Computer Engineering New York University - New York, NY B.S. in Electrical Engineering Tianjin University - Tianjin, CN Skills UI (4 years), USER INTERFACE (4 years), DATABASE (3 years), ANDROID (2 years), JAVA (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS & TOOLS  Languages Java, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Python, C++, C  Full Stack Development  CSS3 Media Queries, CSS bootstrap, Material UI, React, Redux, Redux-thunk, Redux-saga, Node.js, Express.js, JQuery, Ajax, Sass, LESS, Webpack, RESTful API, Enzyme, Jest, Nodemon    Operating System macOS, Linux, Microsoft Windows  Database MySQL, MongoDB, FireBase, SQLite  Develop Tools Visual Studio Code, IntelliJ, Sublime Text, Code Runner, Postman, MySQLWorkbench, and Android Studio  Miscellaneous Git, JIRA, Agile, AWS, GCP, FireBase Realtime Database, FireBase Cloud Storage