Freelance Front End Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Front End Web Developer - K Chamelle Designs Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Freelance Front End Web Developer K Chamelle Designs - Los Angeles, CA August 2017 to Present Hands on experience with markup languages  ? Experience with JavaScript, CSS and jQuery  ? Familiarity with browser testing and debugging  ? In-depth understanding of the entire web development process (design, development and deployment)  ? Understanding of layout aesthetics  ? Knowledge of SEO principles Peer Leader (Volunteer) Downtown Women's Center - Los Angeles, CA July 2016 to October 2017 Utilized technology skills by providing technical assistance to computer user's, guide users through computer  processes like sending an email using  ? Answer questions or resolve computer problems for users  ? Exhibit strong leadership skills by organizing the lesson plan, keeping the environment safe and productive, following all open and closing procedures  ? Co-Supervised a Computer Basics workshop e.g. Gmail, attaching files to Gmail, using Google Maps and Google  Search, using Microsoft Word Brand Ambassador Premium Retail Services - Los Angeles, CA August 2014 to March 2016 Demonstrate or explain products, methods, or services to persuade customers to purchase products or use  services  ? Record and report demonstration-related information, such as the number of questions asked by the audience  or the number of coupons distributed  ? Sell products being promoted and keep records of sales Education Physical Westwood College - Venice, CA May 2017 to August 2017 Skills Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Css, UI, Front End, React, Angular, Front-End, HTML5, CSS3, Node, Jquery, User Interface, Angularjs, Swift Links http://linkedin.com/kiwichamelle-jones Additional Information Skills  Technology Professional Personal  HTML, CSS, CSS Preprocessors, Leadership, Influential, Project Manager, Singer, Producer, Dancer,  Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, UX/UI Team Builder, Strong People Skills, Actress  Design, Pixelmator, Sketch; Problem Solving, Customer Service  Wordpress, PHP, MAMP & LAMP  Stack, Sublime Text, Cyberduck