Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer San Francisco Bay Area, CA Work Experience Software Developer Accentian March 2019 to July 2019 Implement React 16.8 with React Hooks design pattern  ? Build out database and API's to connect third party systems "Distru" and "Leaflink" with internal track and trace record keeping.  ? Setup CI/CD via GitLab's CI Pipelines  ? Build web scraper to generate custom filtered reporting and analytics from third party system which does not provide export functionality.  ? Configure Webpack and Jest for automated testing on Pull Request along with other modern SPA features.  ? Utilize Webpack SASS loader for styling  ? Manage projects and organize ticket system to divide and delegate tasks by priority  ? Translates project requirements to task specifications for development  ? Setup Dockerfile used in AWS EC2 instance for separation between Production server and Staging server.  ? Configure Nginx to route microservices based on subdomain  ? Coordinate with COO for long term plans for company development.  ? Analyze business reports to design procedures and tactical strategies for tackling quarterly business needs - identifying areas where automation would have the largest fiscal impact. Co-Founder & Software Developer LeafWeaver Consulting LLC August 2018 to June 2019 Oversee architecting SaaS to ensure reaching code-complete status by product deadlines.  ? Develop new initiatives to customize software solutions for specific business partners needs.  ? Formulate business strategies for multiple deployments and manage the liability of their compliance requirements.  ? Software Development:  ? Design and architect inventory management system, database, and front end user interface.  ? Develop authentication and authorization levels for managing system.  ? Build web scrapers capable of bypassing modern bot detection heuristics. Software Engineer CashBet February 2018 to December 2018 Architect and develop payment gateway using crypto-currency.  ? Integrate existing payment gateway infrastructure by utilizing custodial wallet system.  ? Develop web3 communication micro-service over websockets.  ? Build new front- end features in custom Wordpress theme (JavaScript).  ? Design Ansible playbooks and prepare product for deployment with single location configuration management.  ? Provisioned Staging, QA, and Production environments.  ? Integrate eWallet with front- end React app, ensuring authentication and authorization is handled extensibly.  ? Run manual tests and build automation with Robot framework.  ? Build Chrome extension to support use of CRM for team of CSRs in rapidly accrediting investors. This demonstrably doubled the number of tickets CSRs are able to process.  ? Build web scraper for internal CRM system to recompile data and present in alternative format.  ? Participated in company Appathon building Solidity smart contract dApp to connect Medium-like articles through the blockchain to IPFS (InterPlanetary File System). Front End Developer Bear Basin November 2017 to January 2018 Modify front- end code to work around limitations of Volusion CMS.  ? Developed an application to interface Volusion with QuickBooks securely. Lead Coach Learners Guild September 2016 to November 2017 Coach learners through project sprints to help them get unblocked  ? Provide AMA's (Ask Me Anything) to groups of learners to teach full-stack development  ? Develop and coordinate new projects to allocate groups of learners to  ? Contribute to refactoring the LOS (Learners Operating System) for managing weighted randomization of pairing of leaners for pair-programming, synchronized with review and ratings of learners to emphasize new groups and preferences. Education Certificate of achievement Diablo Valley College August 2019 Skills Back end, Back end developer, Docker, Front end developer, Git, Javascript, Node.js, Redux, Webpack, Python, Flask, Deployment, Mongodb, Nosql, Css, nginx, Postgresql, Sql, Html5, Sass Links https://github.com/lumodon