Front End Web Developer Intern <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern UX Designer Seattle, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Developer Intern Kin of the Moon Ensemble - Seattle, WA August 2018 to Present • Web development intern for music ensemble Kin of the Moon.  • Created a wireframe prototype for a new website layout.  • Implemented website layout changes.  • Managed social media, MailChimp, and other outreach. Director Taiko Kai at the University of Washington - Seattle, WA July 2017 to July 2018 • Director of a collegiate Japanese drumming group with 30+ members.  • Collaborated with a team of officers to achieve club goals, such as equipment procurement and performance arrangements.  • Organized the Taiko Kai Spring Concert 2018.  • Member of the Organizing Committee for the Regional Taiko Gathering of Seattle in 2018, a weekend long Japanese drumming conference with over 100 participants. Undergraduate Teaching Assistant University Of Washington - Seattle, WA August 2017 to June 2018 • Teaching assistant for the Animation Capstone program in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science.  • Taught students how to use software such as Maya, Adobe After Effects, and Adobe Premiere Pro.  • Graded student work and held office hours to troubleshoot assignments.  • Created wireframes for a redesign of the Animation Capstone website. Director Taiko Kai at the University Of Washington - Seattle, WA June 2017 to June 2018 • Director of a collegiate Japanese drumming group with 30+ members.  • Collaborated with a team of officers to achieve club goals, such as equipment procurement and performance arrangements.  • Organized the Taiko Kai Spring Concert 2018.  • Member of the organizing committee for the Regional Taiko Gathering of Seattle in 2018, a weekend long Japanese drumming conference with over 100 participants. Concept Art Lead & Animator Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science Animation Capstone - Seattle, WA September 2016 to March 2017 • Student lead for the art development team for an animated short.  • Arranged weekly meetings and goals for a long term collaborative.  • Delegated work to different team members.  • Met and collaborated with animation industry consultants. Education Bachelor's in Informatics University of Washington - Seattle, WA September 2015 to June 2019 Skills Adobe XD, Figma, InvisionApp, Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML 5, CSS, Javascript, UX, Sketch, Wireframe, User Experience, User Interface, Microsoft Office Links http://linkedin.com/in/alaina-kwan http://alainakwan.com Awards Best UX/UI Design 2017-05 Won best UX/UI design for a mobile app prototype in Intellectual Foundations of Informatics. Best in Class 2019-06 Won Best in Class award for team senior capstone project, an interactive story game called But You Seem Fine.