Full Stack Developer - Front End and Back End developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> - <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> and Back <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Front End and Back End developer - VERIZON Inc Experienced Software Engineer/Full Stack Software Developer, Energetic, Goal Oriented, Enthusiastic Individual with Strong  Analytical skills. Capable of effectively working with team or as an Individual. Motto to enhance my knowledge, Learn Continuously,  execute quickly and produce a quality impact. Challenges keeps me active and I aspire to learn new things. Work Experience Full Stack Developer - Front End and Back End developer VERIZON Inc August 2018 to Present Developing Front end applications with Angular JS, ReactJS. Creating Web application, Microsites and Single page  application for products and services of Verizon. Writing Jasmine and Junit test scripts using TDD approach.  • Developing Backend Spring Boot microservice applications with JAVA, JPA, hibernate, MongoDB, MySQL and NodeJS.  • Migrating web applications and microservice application to Docker with Kubernetes within Verizon by Building Docker  Image, using Helm and working with kubernetes container-orchestration system for automating deployment, scaling and management of containerized applications. Following Agile methodology best practices in software development.  • Creating Jenkins jobs to automate the CI/CD process for the applications. CI/CD process automation with Gitlab.  • Developing REST API calls for communication between client and server / microservice application. Using Restful services to interact with different services and third-party API.  • Writing SQL queries, stored procedures and developing backend programs with Node.JS, JAVA Spring multithreaded  programming. Working with AWS services such as EC2, S3, EBS, EFS and load balancers.  • Using RabbitMQ, Redis for message broker system. Redshift, DynamoDB and AWS RDS for database service. Software Developer -ITM Project ITS Client Services, University at Albany, SUNY January 2018 to May 2018 Developed ITM Java web application. Developed Front End with JavaScript, d3.JS, angular JS, JSP, HTML5 and CSS.  Backend with JAVA, Spring Boot, PHP, MySQL, Node.js, MongoDB. Idea Thread Mapper (ITM) is a research-based  collaborative platform for students to conduct deep inquiry and sustained knowledge building. GA- Software Developer ITS Client Services, University at Albany, SUNY March 2017 to May 2018 Developed Database application for ITS University at Albany to manage equipment inventory. Designed complete database  with Access 2016. Created Application using MySQL, Spring Boot for backend service. Writing scripts in SPSS, SAS and R  programming to compute statistical analysis of Data. Assisting Professor and Student in SPSS, SAS and R programing. Software Developer - Front End and Back End developer Computer Sciences Corporation Pvt., Ltd October 2014 to September 2016 Project: VISA (VISA Commercial Cards Project)  • Developed Front End Applications with AngularJS, ReactJS, JavaScript, JAVA, Springs, HTML5, CSS3.  • Added new feature request to existing applications for Front End application and backend Microservices. Creating REST API  to communicate between Front end client and backend database and server application.  • Developed Back End Spring Boot applications with Java, Springs, Hibernate, JPA, MySQL, NodeJS, Mongoose, MongoDB.  • Developed Automation testing Framework with selenium JAVA to test complete VISA Application.  • Deployed application on AWS cloud. Worked with AWS services such as EC2, S3, EBS, EFS.  • Writing test scripts using Junit. Building jobs with Jenkins. Maven build tool and Gitlab repository.  Project: Emirates  • Developed Front End Applications with AngularJS, ReactJS, JavaScript, JAVA, Springs, HTML5, CSS3.  • Developed Back End SpringBoot applications with Java, Springs, Hibernate, JPA, MySQL, NodeJS, Mongoose, MongoDB.  • Applications was hosted on Cloud with CSC Agility Platform using AWS EC2, S3, EBS, EFS, AZURE etc.  • Adding new feature request and modifying existing front end and back end microservices.  • Worked with webservices SOAP UI, REST API to communicate between microservice, client and server. Developed REST  API calls and services. Used Junit And Jasmine Testing with TDD approach. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science State University of New York - New York, NY January 2017 to May 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Science and Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University June 2014 Skills Java (4 years), Javascript (2 years), Junit (2 years), Mongodb (3 years), Mysql (4 years) Links https://thrinethra99.github.io https://github.com/thrinethra99