Front- end Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Web Developer Dallas, TX • 2+ years of experience as a front- end UI/UX developer in developing and designing web applications.  • Currently working as a Developer for Tata Consultancy Services at the Frost bank client location developing  their digital banking web Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS, HTML, CSS/SASS and Bootstrap.  • Experienced in HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and latest ES6 features and practices.  • Adept in using libraries like React, Angular and jQuery.  • Experienced in interacting and extracting and managing data from REST API's.  • Proficient in MVC design pattern and using component-based libraries and frameworks.  • Experienced in Standardized UX templates, archetypes, and pattern libraries.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as well as Agile/Scrum and Kanban  methodologies and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Experienced in designing Responsive, Accessible-rich, secure web applications.  • Adept in using front- end styling and grid frameworks like MaterialUI, Angular Material and Bootstrap and  different media queries for developing customizable and Responsive Web Design for compatibility on different  platforms and screen sizes.  • Experienced in using Angular 4, TypeScript, React JS components, Animations and Flux, Redux concepts. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- end Web Developer Tata Consultancy Services October 2018 to July 2019 Client: Frost Bank, Texas  • Responsible for development of web pages and services at the client's location.  • Collaborated with the client's Digital Services Team to develop a re-architecture to their existing production site  using latest frameworks like Angular and Bootstrap.  • Designed and developed CSS behaviors, CSS styles, CSS fonts, CSS buttons, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo elements in CSS/SASS.  • Responsible for the accessibility across the entire web site allowing users to tab through all the input fields, links  and ARIA elements for the client.  • Developed and handled various forms across the Single-Page Applications (SPA's) and the error scenarios and exceptions by using angular model factory for inputs and helped develop counter measures as part of the DevOps  team against Cross-Site request forgery (CSRF) attacks to make the Web Application more Secure.  • Involved in software development life cycle starting from Analysis to Unit testing and Development support.  • Interacted with APIs, Web Services by writing application level code using Angular JS, Postgres, JavaScript, JSON, HTML, CSS/SASS. Web Developer Alron IT Solutions - IN June 2015 to December 2015 • Implemented interactive e-commerce websites with shopping carts and configurable store management.  • Developed a website for a local organization ExpressJS, ReactJS, NodeJS and MongoDB as the database along with PayPal Payment gateway.  • Provided resources to the team by integrating Zen shopping cart management system and search engine  optimization for the websites.  • Collaborated with the clients and UX team and designed applications based on their business needs.  • Gained hands-on experience on projects using technologies like ExpressJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, REST API's, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, CSS. Software Developer BSNL June 2014 to June 2015 • Programmed backend modules to retrieve information about profiles.  • Developed the backend modules using PHP and MySQL.  • Collaborated with development team to extract and manage data from endpoints with REST API's.  • Worked on a login portal for users using OAuth Standard.  • Conceptual planning of future UX directions.  • Used Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator for designing the background and logo for the website. Web Application Developer DerailedDawn, Vellore July 2013 to May 2014 • Implemented the website and the UI for a social news and entertainment website.  • Responsible for HTML theme integration in WordPress.  • Made a login portal for users using Facebook by OAuth Standard. Education Master of Science in Information Systems George Mason University - Fairfax, VA Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering VIT University Skills VISUAL STUDIO, API, C++, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, Angular, Front End, UI, Front-End, React (3 years), Angularjs, HTML5, Jquery, User Interface, Node, Java, CSS3 Links https://github.com/satwikmvv Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Web Technologies and Programming Languages: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP, Ajax, jQuery, React, Redux,  AngularJS, Angular2, Vue.js, NodeJS, ExpressJS, Bootstrap, MaterialUI, Angular Material, WordPress, Drupal, C,  C++, Python, Java.  • IDE's and Tools: MySQL Workbench, Node Package Manager (npm), Brackets, Eclipse, Atom, Apache Tomcat,  Oracle, Sublime, GitHub, Visual Studio Code, NetBeans, Jira, IntelliJ IDEA.  • Databases: MySQL, MS SQL, Oracle, DB2, Access  • Debugging Tools: Firefox, Chrome, Firebug, Opera, Safari, Internet Explorer.  • Web Services: AWS, REST API, SOAP.  • Multimedia and Graphic Design Tools: InVision, Figma, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe InDesign,  Adobe Premiere Pro, Flash, ActionScript.  • Operating Systems: UNIX, Windows, Ubuntu, Macintosh.