Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - MetLife Advance, NC * Front end developer with 3 years of experience in creating pixel perfect, cross-browser and mobile optimized websites/applications using HTML 4/5 CSS2/3, Less CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Twitter's Bootstrap3 and Foundation. Currently working as Senior Software Engineer at IGATE Global Solutions Ltd.    * Possess excellent debugging skills, thorough understanding of cross browser issues and able to work in a fast-paced environment on multiple projects simultaneously.    * Specialized in writing clean, semantic, accessible front end code including HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.    * Have used the approach of Mobile First responsive design for projects. Have also worked with HTML5 frameworks like jQuery Mobile and Twitter's Bootstrap, Updated with the latest Front End Development technologies like AngularJS.    * Profound experience in developing different web applications using the agile and scrum methodology.    * Experience in working with complete software development life cycle (SDLC), collecting business specifications, user requirements, reviewing the code and documenting the entire life cycle.    * Good exposure in software development with responsibilities as Onsite Coordinator and Team Member.    * Experienced in environments having direct Client interaction during project conception, initiation, planning, execution and launch phases. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer MetLife January 2014 to Present Environment HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, DOJO, Bootstrap, jQuery, SLIM, SCSS, Ruby, Fireapp, photoshop.  Role Front End Developer    Brief description of the project:    Phoenix is a rebirth of the customer's online interaction and how MetLife approaches eBusiness. Phoenix will provide a dynamic experience with enhanced capabilities that enables a consistent MetLife experience regardless of product type.  The first phase of Project Phoenix is visioning and roadmap delivery of an engaging and empowering experience for Retail account holders, Auto & Home policy holders and Group participants.  Later phases will target additional audiences, such as Benefits Administrators, Distribution Associates, and Dental Providers.  We will continually challenge ourselves to attain meaningful and measurable business results.  We are going to focus on:  • Customer-Centricity / Visitor Experience  Impact of presenting MetLife as world-class company that is easy and simple to do business with.  • Growth & Persistency  Increasing first-sale success, improving up sales / cross sales, retaining business and increasing Voluntary Benefits enrolment  • Cost Savings  Generating operational savings from self-servicing and the simplification of systems  • Faster & More Nimble  Improving speed to market  Responsible for:    • Requirement gathering and analysis.  • Working as an Onsite Co-ordinator and also Senior Developer.  • Converting the design style guide into the HTML's using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on MetLife Application to develop LOBs (mentioned above) UI (Web and Responsive) Mock-ups.  • Doing the fragmentation of the html page for reusability of html part for another product.  • Developing the html's and doing UI testing in all browsers and iPad, tablets and smart phones  • Solving the issues after integrating the code with developers and creating the checklist. Front End Developer MetLife May 2013 to January 2014 GEB eBenefits  Client MetLife  Environment HTML 5, CSS3, Twitter Bootstrap, DOJO, JavaScript, Responsive Web  Role Front End Developer    Brief description of the project:    MetLife offers insurance, retirement and savings products. Works directly with customers as well as offer our products through agents, third party distributors, and brokers.  Responsible for:    • Requirement gathering and analysis  • Converting the design style guide into the HTML's using HTML, CSS and JavaScript with Twitter Bootstrap.  • Worked on MetLife Employee Benefits Application to develop Member, Admin and ClientRep UI (Web and Responsive) Mock-ups.  • Doing the fragmentation of the html page for reusability of html part for another product.  • Developing the html's and doing UI testing in all browsers and iPad, tablets and smart phones  • Solving the issues after integrating the code with developers and creating the checklist. Front End Developer Manulife December 2012 to April 2013 ADM  Client Manulife  Environment JavaScript/HTML5, Node.js, AngularJS, Jasmine  Role Front End Developer    Brief description of the project:    Manulife Financial is a leading Canada-based financial services group with principal operations in Asia, Canada and the United States. Clients look to Manulife for strong, reliable, trustworthy and forward-thinking solutions for their most significant financial decisions. Their international network of employees, agents and distribution partners offers financial protection and wealth management products and services. These products and services include individual life insurance, group life and health insurance, long-term care services, pension products, annuities, mutual funds and banking products. They provide asset management services to institutional customers worldwide and offer reinsurance solutions, specializing in property and casualty retrocession.    Responsible for:  • User Interface developer  • User Interface Testing against guideline  • Maintenance of current application for user Interface requirement, Resolving Issues  • Converting the design style guide into the HTML's using HTML, CSS and JavaScript, Angular js.  • Converted the prototypes to Angular js templates, including all the dynamic features of the prototype with Angular' s in-built and customized features and also worked throughout control flow logic for wiring whole client side script together.  • Followed the best practices of AngularJS.  • Jasmine: - Test case wrote to test the JavaScript code. Front End Developer September 2012 to November 2012 Sep'12 - Nov'12  Project Metric reporting tool  Client GE  Environment HTML 4, CSS 2, JavaScript, Responsive Web Design.  Role Front End Developer    Brief description of the project:    Metric reporting tool is an Internal Application developed for internal use.This application helps Internal User to Review, Support and Audit for IConnect (IGATE's Helpdesk tool) status checkup. With the help of this tool user can easily check the status of their ticket in iConnect that weather it is resolved, delayed or rejected by graphical method.  Responsible for:    • Development of HTML 4/ CSS2 based Web Pages with mobile first approach and working perfectly in all the modern Browsers.  • Writing Client Side Scripting mainly in JavaScript, It had a Rich UI with lots of Widgets.  • Interacting and updating UI development to the onshore team on daily basis. Education Bachelor of Computer in science and Engineering Pondicherry University 2007 to 2011 H.S.C. Fatima Higher Secondary School - Puducherry, Puducherry 2006 S.S.C. Fatima Higher Secondary School - Puducherry, Puducherry 2004