Instructor Instructor Senior Software Engineer Denver, CO Work Experience Instructor Instructional 2016 to Present Pioneer new, advanced, after-school curriculum for Minecraft mod development using  JavaScript to be used by the rest of the organization. Git + Linux Command Line  ? Mentor and guide 50+ students weekly in multiple classes focusing on robotics, ??????????  animation, 3D game development, javascript, and python programming with a superior  teacher rating of 4.5+/5. Angular  ? Coordinate training for other teachers as a leading standard for curriculum and ??????????  classroom management.  Backbone.js  ? Spearhead rapidly growing, year-round program after-hours for computer science  ??????????  competence in public and private schools across the Denver metro area with a 100%    retention rate. Java Front- End and JavaScript Instructor General Assembly 2016 to Present Educate and mentor 300+ adult computer science novices in 19+ part-time evening and weekend courses covering JavaScript and front end development concepts with an PHP  average teacher appraisal of 4.7/5. ??????????  ? Lead instructors in supplementing technical presentations with computer science  history, soft-skill considerations, as well as CodePen as a collaborative teaching tool. Python  ??????????  Contractual (6+ years experience) Senior Engineer AIM Consulting - VRBO Home Away / Atrilogy Consulting 2014 to Present 2014 - Present ??????????  ? Leading as a remote front- end expert, a remote Austin, Texas based team to facilitate  customer engagement and conversion goals with website design. Adobe Creative Suite  ? Strengthen team competency with modern front- end methodologies and tools for a ??????????  optimally smooth merger with Expedia.  ? Introduced and implemented javascript solutions for new application-based field Amazon Web Services / handbook with search technologies that improved retrieval of technical support DevOps  ??????????  manuals.    ? Upgrade MapQuest site and products from Angular to Angular 2.0, particularly  RDBMS / NoSQL  Mapquest Route Planner. ?????????? Senior Engineer and Mobile Systems Developer Charter Communications 2016 to 2018 and Animation, DePaul  ? Led redesign of primary news and media website ????  ? Improved team skill set in CSS preprocessing using BEM and javascript optimization to M.S. '08 Electronic  greatly reduce loading times by 50%  Commerce Technology,  ? Spearheaded training in front- end techniques, BDD / TDD, and CI methodologies to DePaul  greatly increase velocity, quality, and team morale. ??? Web Engineer Janus Henderson 2015 to 2016 Oversaw teaching of advanced JavaScript topics in preparation for pending Javascript / NodeJS  re-architecture to NodeJS. ??????????  ? Collaborated with design and marketing teams to create new approach to structuring  and organizing CSS within cluster of websites, including support for internationalization CSS (LESS / SASS / SCSS)  that the team to use for years. ??????????