Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Arcweb Technologies Philadelphia, PA ? Over 8 years hands on experience in IT industry, worked in all phases of software development life cycle from requirements gathering to the production and successfully implemented several projects with responsibilities as developer at different locations. Developed an Angular.JS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.  ? Leveraged Angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  ? Developed a single page, UI-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing Angular.JS, JavaScript API.  ? Responsible for writing and implementation of JavaScript, AJAX and JQuery to interact with web Services and user controls.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, Javascript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  ? Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and Javascript.  ? Used React.JS for creating reusable UI components.  ? Created Node.JS middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework.  ? Developed internal application using Angular.JS and Node.JS connecting to Oracle on the backend.  ? Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  ? Designed and modified User Interfaces using Javascript, and CSS.  ? Created various UI components for different web pages using HTML, and Javascript.  ? Used Agile methodology for design and development of project.  ? Expertise in Objective-C, Cocoa Touch and Cocoa framework, UIKit and AppKit framework, Security framework, OCunit testing framework, iOS SDK and MAC SDK, C, C++, VC++, XML.  ? Developed interactive dashboards using Visual Basic.NET and Microsoft Excel.  ? Used the various Complex data structures in collections Framework in Java/J2EE for building the Business Logic.  ? Designed, developed and tested the Store management application using HTML, JavaScript, PHP and Postgre SQL.  ? Designed and developed the web applications and interfaces using Ruby on Rails and AJAX.  ? Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  ? Expertise in designing and developing applications using Java, J2EE Technologies like Servlets, JSP, EJB,MQ Series, JDBC, XML,JMS, AJAX, and web services.  ? Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows/XP/Vista and UNIX.    CERTIFICATE    ? SCJP Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Arcweb Technologies - Philadelphia, PA September 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing  ? Extensively used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval  ? Re-architected, and enhanced an existing Angular.JS application to follow strict MVVM/MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance, 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spin up, enhanced performance and offline with client caching.  ? Developed an Angular.JS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.  ? Leveraged Angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  ? Developed a single page, UI-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing Angular.JS, JavaScript API.  ? Responsible for writing and implementation of JavaScript, AJAX and JQuery to interact with web Services and user controls.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, Javascript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  ? Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and Javascript.  ? Used React.JS for creating reusable UI components.  ? Created Node.JS middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework.  ? Developed internal application using Angular.JS and Node.JS connecting to Oracle on the backend.  ? Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  ? Designed and modified User Interfaces using Javascript, and CSS.  ? Created various UI components for different web pages using HTML, and Javascript.  ? Used Agile methodology for design and development of project.  ? Expertise in Objective-C, Cocoa Touch and Cocoa framework, UIKit and AppKit framework, Security framework, OCunit testing framework, iOS SDK and MAC SDK, C, C++, VC++, XML.  ? Developed interactive dashboards using Visual Basic.NET and Microsoft Excel.  ? Used the various Complex data structures in collections Framework in Java/J2EE for building the Business Logic.  ? Designed, developed and tested the Store management application using HTML, JavaScript, PHP and Postgre SQL.  ? Designed and developed the web applications and interfaces using Ruby on Rails and AJAX.  ? Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  ? Worked on creating complex Sqlqueries to create DS files in elixir to generate reports.  ? Experience in working with various databases like Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL, Postgres/PostGIS.  ? Experience in developing Web-centric applications using XML, EcmaScript 6(ES6), JQuery, CSS, Photoshop, Dreamweaver and IIS.  ? Configured SQL Server Master Data Services (MDS) in Windows Azure IaaS.  ? Experience in leading the development of a native application for iOS and Android (React Native, JAVA, Redux, ES6, Socket.io, WebRTC, Node/Express/Mongo).  ? Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Suite (Flash, Dream weaver, and Adobe Photoshop).  ? Designed and implemented Responsive single page web applications with HTML 5, CSS3 and JavaScript MVC libraries.  ? Proficient in web front end technologies like HTML, CSS, DHTML, Javascript, Jquery, Dynatables and XML.  ? Created User Interactive web pages in a professional manner using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and Drupal based on the W3C and ADA standards.  ? Design and implement automation framework in Visual Studio using C# with Selenium Webdriver, as well as in TestComplete using active scripting language Jscript.  ? Designed page - layouts using Dreamweaver and banner using Adobe Flash. Implemented Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture.  ? Complete understanding of iPhone/iPad/iPod architecture and various versions of iPhone Software Development Kit (SDK) that includes Xcode, UIKit, MapKit, WebKit, Instruments, iPhone simulator and Third Party frameworks.  ? Initiated the development of automated acceptance testing (PHPUnit, Selenium Web Driver).  ? Created and maintained new websites, recreated old websites with Symfony, maintained and enhanced existing websites under a LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment, using Symfony Framework 2 as a framework and Doctrine ORM as the model interface.  ? Utilize the Bootstrap framework as well as multiple industry standard WordPress plugins, like ACF.  ? Used Front End Developing UI Interface using JSP/Tiles, JSTL, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap and maintained the code with CoffeeScript.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.    Environment:  JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, C++ , Java, PHP, Ruby, MySQL, SQL, Oracle, Apache, IIS, Linux, Windows, Adobe Suite, HTML 5, DHTML, XHTML, XML, Active Scripting, Ajax, Android, PhPUnit, , REST, Eclipse, Weblogic, GITHUB, Protractor, Jasmine, MAVEN, Flash, Visual Basic .NET, .NET Framework, iPod, iPad, iPhone, Doctrine, Zend Framework 2, Bootstrap, SQL Server, Cassandra. Sr. UI Developer Beneficial Bank - Philadelphia, PA July 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Developed UI automation framework for Angular.JS web application using Maven that will run test suites on multiple environments based on user specified external file.  ? Used JavaScript for validating the input given to the user interface.  ? Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  ? Integrated Bootstrap.JS into several applications for speeding up Javascript development.  ? Edited CSS and HTML/XML source code to customize product appearance to match customer web sites.  ? Used Javascript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  ? Implemented capturing the screenshot of the payment screen, Bitmap to pdf conversion features using Android NDK implementing C/C++ code.  ? Designed and developed dynamic web based solutions using ASP, ASP.Net, SQL Server, Visual Basic .NET and Active-X components.  ? Implemented Java and J2EE Design Pattern such as Command, State, Template, Composite, Strategy and Observer.  ? Backbone and PHP models have attributes that get passed to the Mustache logic less templates.  ? Developed and implemented products and services page using Ruby on Rails and MongoDB.  ? Backend Admin for Client & Customers- Programmed with PHP, and data stored in a MySQL Database on a LAMP Stack.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE for Development and SQL Developer for doing Database Activities.  ? Wrote and implemented load scripts for transition of the legacy data from a Siebel (Oracle CRM) database to a newly-designed PostgreSQL/Linux database server.  ? Managed Security and Performance optimizations for IBM WebSphere Application Server, IBM HTTP Server and Apache Web Server.  ? Design and code UI/UX elements for Site; using HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, MDL, Django/Python and Adobe Suite.  ? User Interface implemented using HTML, Java script/Jquery, backbone and minified scripts using GRUNT.  ? Experience in client side technologies such as HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and DOJO.  ? Development of web applications using the Apache web server and standards such as CSS, jQuery, XML and XHTML.  ? Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (jQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Suite (Flash, Dream weaver, and Adobe Photoshop).  ? Experience in providing customer service and technical support to customers with regards to the iPhone, iMac, iPad and iPod.  ? Focused on building business applications for mobile devices using Eclipse, Android Studio and Xcode.  ? Created PHP and JavaScript unit and integration tests using PHPUnit and jasmine.  ? Programming using PHP with Symfony Framework to adher to a MVC Architecture.  ? Developed Front end for the various module in B2B E-commerce projects using Html, JSP, Angular.js, Ext.js, CSS, Bootstrap and JSF.  ? Supporting the existing MCM e-commerce site developed using .Net framework (ASP.NET, C#) with MS Commerce server, SQL Server 2008, HTML, Java Script and CSS.  ? Designed and developed carrier selection and product selection web pages using HTML, Struts, Servlets and Javascript.  ? Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Responsible for modifying existing DB2 stored procedures and writing SQL queries as per requirement.    Environment:  JavaScript, C++ , Java, PHP, Ruby, MySQL, SQL, .NET Framework, iPod, iPad, iPhone, Android, PhPUnit, Doctrine, DHTML, XHTML, XML, Ajax, Flash, Visual Basic .NET, Zend Framework 2, Bootstrap, SQL Server, UML, XML, JIRA Oracle, Apache , Linux, Windows, Adobe Suite, HTML. Front End Developer Kimberly-Clark - Dallas, TX March 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and deployed the applications with huge customer base of more than a million users.  ? Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development life Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment using agile methodologies.  ? Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model etc which are required for the developer.  ? Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various WebPages using AJAX, HTML, CSS, JSF, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? MVC architecture is implemented by struts framework.  ? Configured the struts-config.xml.  ? Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database  ? Developed a controller Servlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes.  ? Developed, tested, and deployed Storify Business feature set in Node.js with and database backend.  ? Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Used Ext. JS for validating client-side validations.  ? Used MVC architecture of Ext. JS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  ? Defined Ext.JS (UI Layer) Architecture and Design screen mock-up using Ext.JS and Sencha.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  ? Applied automated testing of JavaScript applications using Selenium - custom Selenium extensions developed for testing components not normally available via to HTML inspection tools.  ? Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Used Netbeans IDE for development, configured and deployed the application on Tomcat Server.  ? Updated Jasper Report configurations to make the changes in the reports.  ? Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and ANT to build the application and deployed on Web Logic.  ? Used centralized configuration for multiple servers in JBOSS domain mode.  ? Extensively used TOAD for managing the database.  ? Designed and implemented Servlets module to capture the XML as request and parse XML.  ? Developed a web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging.  ? Utilized Clearcase for version control of the application. This involved creating development streams and defect streams.  ? Extensively used the DOJO Toolkit to control and provide the rich functionality to GUI.  ? Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  ? Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  ? Architect and design for new Application as J2EE Web application and Oracle ADF.  ? Generated PDF reports using iText.  ? Developed web-based customer management software using JSF.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML  ? Identified and resolved programming issues, Servlets and EJB s performance tuning opportunities  ? Setting the development environment on eclipse.  ? Exposed Survey API to other applications in DOE using Apache Axis2.  ? Used Apache to build projects, which assisted in testing, and produce reports on projects  ? Created the domains, application servers and load balancers using Weblogic 9.0.  ? Used Web 2.0 to scrape the event data from various web sites  ? Integrated with Apache Tomcat.  ? Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic and JSP.    Environment:  JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, Sencha Ext.JS, HTML, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans, JBoss, MERCURIAL, ClearCase, Selenium, Water fall model, UML, JSP, SERVLET, ANT, XML, ITEXT, EMC Documentum, GWT, JIRA, SWING, Cognos, Jasper report, Spring, IBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, JQuery, AJAX, DOJO, Rational Rose, Junit. Front End Developer Jacobs Engineering - Dallas, TX May 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed and designed the system.  ? Created Various UML Diagrams e.g. Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams.  ? Responsible for the design and development of the framework. The system is designed using J2EE technologies based on MVC architecture. The Views are programmed using struts, JSP pages, Model is a combination of EJB's and Java classes and Controllers are Servlets.  ? Developed user interface using JSP JQuery, and AJAX to speed the application.  ? Writing the java script and designing the JSP GUI frame work.  ? Involved in developing EJB's for the business logic and deploying them in Apache tomcat.  ? Responsible for creating of Action classes, JSPs, Model classes.  ? Used business delegate to call EJB from struts action class.  ? Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment  ? Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate  ? Used Java Messaging Services for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  ? Deployed Application to BEA weblogic server.  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Extensively worked on spring's framework.  ? Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  ? Implement the presentation layer (GUI), based on open source framework, involving Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Beans.  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  ? Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on Sql.  ? Worked with MySQL for MySQL, SQLYog and Workbench.  ? Implementation of Spring IOC container, Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? XML messages are used to communicate between web services that are written using SOAP and WSDL.  ? Created different database objects (Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers) for the backend MS SQL server.  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Used Ibatis to populate the data from the Database.  ? Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using Selenium.  ? Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool.  ? Performed Java web application development using J2EE and Netbeans.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  ? Maintenance of data in different Oracle Databases and environments using TOAD.  ? Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data  ? Used Clear Case for source Version Control.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Tested with the Junit Test Cases for both Professional and Institutional Claims.  ? Coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application.  Environment:  Java, Servlet, EJB, Struts. JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Java Script, AJAX, UML, Eclipse, Weblogic, SOAP, Selenium, JBoss, ANT, JQuery, NetBeans, JSP, EJB, WSDL, Toad, Water Fall Model, iBatis, EMC Documentum, web services, HTML, XML, MS SQL server2005, My SQL, CVS, JIRA, ClearQuest, Swing, Clearcase, Junit. Front End Developer Sears Holdings - Chicago, IL July 2007 to April 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance  ? Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  ? Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  ? Worked on bug fixing  ? Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  ? Developing HardwareStoreMarketer.com site using ASP.Net.  ? Worked on various client websites that used Struts 2 framework, Hibernate and OGNL  ? Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  ? Simulation was developed using C++.  ? Implemented real-time patient prescription history verification system using C, Oracle PL/SQL on VMS platform.  ? Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  ? Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  ? Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  ? Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  ? Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  ? Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  ? Responsible for migrating Websphere server from v6.1 to v8.0 and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  ? J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  ? Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  ? Use FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  ? Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  ? Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  ? Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  ? Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance    Environment:  Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, .Net, JIRA, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, Visual Source Safe, Weblogic, Oracle, OGNL, C, C++, Linux, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid, REXX, ISPF, Mainframe, CICS, IMS, VSAM, JCL Java Developer United Continental Holdings April 2005 to June 2007 Responsibilities:  ? The system was designed according to J2EE specifications. Servlets were used as a Front Controller gateway into the system. Helper classes were used to limit the business logic in the servlet. EJB was used to talk to the database and JSP along with HTML, XML were used to control the client view.  ? Designed and added new functionality extended existing application using J2EE, XML, Ajax, Servlets, JSP.  ? Studied the impact of the requirement and prepared the Requirement functional and technical documents.  ? Created different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database.  ? Worked on UNIX shell scripting to run the JAR file created for batch program.  ? Used Struts framework in UI designing and validations.  ? Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework.  ? Client side validations are done using JavaScript and server side validations are done using Struts validator framework.  ? AJAX forms are created for update operations.  ? Data was converted into JSON using JSP tags.  ? Enhanced the existing application to meet the business requirement.  ? Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool.  ? Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  ? Participated in the Production support and maintenance of the project.  ? Created new tables in DB2 database.  ? Used ClearCase version control system.  ? Performed usability testing for the application using JUnit Test.    Environment:  JAVA, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Struts, Design Patterns, Eclipse, Apache tomcat server, DB2, UNIX, ClearCase, Junit Education Masters City University of New York