Front- end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Raleigh, NC I'm a self-taught programmer with a fondness for Javascript and 6  years of professional experience. I believe creative design reveals  itself with understanding. Work Experience Front- end Developer VoiceThread December 2015 to March 2019 A VoiceThread is a collaborative, multimedia slideshow that holds images,  documents, and videos and allows people to navigate slides and leave comments in several ways - text, voice, audio file, or webcam.    Accomplishments  ? Rewrote frontend toolset adding support for SSL, API proxying, streamlined  builds and a design system for reusable components.  ? Created next-gen product. Worked with designers to implement new design  inspired by Material-UI.  ? Started a successful initiative to automate quality assurance using  WebdriverIO  ? Maintained and built on several large Backbone.Marionette based single page  applications.  ? Maintained and built on a large, mostly from-scratch PHP codebase.  ? Rewrote all public facing marketing pages implementing a new responsive  design. CTO VoiceThread May 2017 to August 2018 Sonder is a B2B enterprise software company that is improving the way universities  manage their study abroad programs through data-driven insights.    Accomplishments  ? Built a fully tested JSON API on Node, Express, PostgreSQL and Elasticsearch hosted on Heroku.  ? Integrated with Google Places API and Cloudinary.  ? Screened, interviewed and onboarded frontend candidates.    Full-stack Dev @ Fragment  { June 2013 through December 2015 }    Fragment is web development company that serves over a dozen active clients. I  created and maintained different projects simultaneously. Working at a small  company with a large client list allowed me learn a wide variety of technologies.    Accomplishments  ? Maintained the Beatport codebase for a period of 8 months.  ? Introduced PHPUnit into the development process.  ? Automated front- end asset pipelines by introducing Grunt.  ? Improved Javascript architecture by introducing Browserify.  ? Prepared development team for PHP7 by giving weekly presentations about individual RFCs. Education High school or equivalent Skills APPGYVER TOOLBELT (Less than 1 year), Javascript (1 year), JSON (1 year), lexical (Less than 1 year), MySQL. (Less than 1 year), PHP (3 years), SQL (Less than 1 year), toolbelt. (Less than 1 year), jQuery, Git, MySQL Links http://builditwithtj.com