Job Seeker New York, NY • Web applications development, UI and UX, Project analysis, client and resource management  • Client-side coding - Angular 4+, Marionette, Backbone, React, Handlebars, JavaScript/ECMAScript, CSS3 & HTML5  • Internet programming - Template integration; JSP, Ruby on Rails, ColdFusion, ASP/ASP.NET, XML, AJAX  • Technological acumen: Rapid acquisition of new skills; broad understanding of various information technologies (MS SQL, TCP/IP) programming languages (Ruby, Java) and the principles and aesthetics of visual design (graphics, page design, and typography) Work Experience NEWMUSE MEDIA - New York, NY September 1987 to Present Graphics / Illustration and Multimedia: Full, personalized service to individuals and the business community. Front- End Developer The Federal Reserve Bank of New York via Open Systems Tech - New York, NY October 2018 to March 2019 Engaged to work with the Internet and intranet sites of the Digital Strategy group; utilized React, Angular, PHP, and Python. Created prototype UI components for proposed intranet site redesign(s) using Angular and again using React. Front End Developer Morgan Stanley - New York, NY June 2017 to June 2018 Implemented UI Rich Text editor and PDF export functionality using JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, the CKEditor library, the PhantomJS headless browser, and the Apache FTL template language in the Apache FreeMarker template engine. Front- End & Java Developer The Federal Reserve Bank of New York via Open Systems Tech - New York, NY September 2015 to January 2017 Confidential development for the member bank of the Federal Reserve System. Personally recruited by manager worked with in a prior position. Front- End Developer Barclays Capital - New York, NY August 2014 to July 2015 Development for the iOS and Android platforms for the international banking firm. Was also immersed in AngularJS, UnderscoreJS, and SASS technologies, Responsive Design/Mobile First techniques, and the Adobe CQ5 CMS. Senior Front- End Developer eBay Enterprises - New York, NY February 2012 to January 2014 Worked on the eCommerce presence of eBay clients including the NFL, MLB, Levi's, Timberland and Kenneth Cole using technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, HTML5, Web fonts and advanced CSS3 to implement UI design interactivity via Oracle driven JSP templates. Consultant ROSETTA TECHNOLOGY GROUP - Hoboken, NJ March 1999 to 2012 Senior C# and .NET developer for an 85,000+ subscriber newsletter/content management system conversion from ColdFusion; ASP and DHTML developer on the original GiftCertificates.com e-commerce Website; site architect for Ocean World Lines Shipping Website; various projects as client-server technologies (J2EE, JSP, .Net, ASP, Cold Fusion, XML, XSL, XSLT) consultant. Senior Front- End Developer HNW Inc. via Winter Wyman - New York, NY November 2010 to November 2011 Worked on Responsive Design functionality for existing sites for clients such as Lord Abbett & Co. using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery with JSP. Implemented new UI design interactivity, features, and updates to various client sites. Senior Developer / Developer AMERICAN EXPRESS PUBLISHING - New York, NY November 2007 to February 2010 Supported and extended the online versions of Amex publications TravelandLiesure.com and FoodandWine.com in ColdFusion, and became part of the team transitioning the sites to Ruby on Rails technology. Worked with Editorial on reworking the Content Management System to meet evolving needs first in CF and then in Rails. Became the in-house authority on JavaScript and CSS manipulation. Was awarded the Online Division's quarterly accolade for innovation twice. Lead Developer / Senior Developer DIALOG GROUP - New York, NY March 2004 to August 2007 Used .NET, ASP, ColdFusion, SQL, XML, JavaScript, CSS and other technologies to extend, expand, and maintain existing internal e-commerce sites for company subsidiaries and portal sites for clients such as Novartis, a major pharmaceutical company. Was architect of and leader of the team building RestylaneUSA.com, the product information site for Medicis: the leading independent specialty pharmaceutical company in the United States. Was responsible for periodic and ad hoc SQL reports of portal site membership activity. Acted as liaison between help desk operators and systems administrators as well as client IT departments and our development team and systems administrators. Consultant STARPOINT SOLUTIONS - New York, NY March 2003 to January 2004 Part of a team of ColdFusion developers documenting and reverse engineering the multiple Internet and intranet sites and Web applications of the Bureau of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in order to allow revision and upgrade of the agency's multiple award winning, 12 year old and 100,000+ page deep Web presence; Revision of a JSP/J2EE and Oracle driven help system for a Deutsche Bank Intranet site; Oversight of PCPS.org, the AICPA (American Institute of Certified Public Accountants) ASP driven website for CPA firms. Consultant LABS TECHNOLOGIES - New York, NY June 2002 to November 2003 ASP, XML, Microsoft SQL Server 2000 Developer for the firm's primary product: a marketing campaign management system and sales reporting application designed to complement existing ticketing systems, allowing LABS clients to plan, track and analyze their media plans, promotional schedules and publicity activity. Project Manager/Senior Web Developer NETSERV LLC - New York, NY February 1999 to March 2001 As a consultant - after NetServ was dissolved and its remaining resources folded into its sister company Webmedia - created a new ASP, XML, and XSL search engine results interface for an existing site. Project manager for the last major undertakings of NetServ, all of which met their design and deadline goals. Originally began as a consultant and was hired full-time to build sites using ColdFusion and SQL Server - moving to ASP and Oracle as they became the in-house standards - and as a graphic artist capable in the use of Macromedia Flash, Adobe Photoshop, and other animation, illustration and image building tools. Led a team of developers that built an online magazine - using ASP, DHTML, CSS, server-side objects built in VB and C++, and streaming video, and driven by an Oracle backend - with a custom built Web based article/editorial publication and membership DB administrative application having multiple access permissions levels. Experienced with IIS 4 & 5, COM, LAN design/management and site deployment issues.