Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - AXON ARC Irvine, CA A Full Stack Developer with over 7 years' experience with industry-leading company. Position would fully utilize a wealth of experience, and offer a high level of productivity, responsibility, and the opportunity for career growth. Work Experience Web Developer AXON ARC - Irvine, CA 2014 to Present Design UI/UX websites with mobile responsive,  • Create web pages HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Tweeter Bootstrap, jQuery library, Ajax, Node.js, Express.js.  • Work cross-functionally with Back- end team to design, develop, implement and deploy websites to help showcase and grow client's business revenue.  • Contributed to improve company Time management and project completion by over 55%, by implementing Agile Scrum workflow. Front- End Developer USFC DESIGN - Mission Viejo, CA 2008 to 2014 Responsible for website development and maintenance.  • Implementing website design with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax & React.js, and other related technologies.  • Constantly update company website according to product and services offered.  • Revamp on company revenue, by redesigning company website and implementing structured coding. IT-Manager TECHNOLOGY NETWORK LLC - San Jose, CA 2004 to 2008 Responsible for Project management, project timeline development, resource planning, managing Networking team, establishing security protocols.  • Managing servers and system updates, and other project management-related functions,  • Managed various projects during tenure, and consistently met all project expectations.  • Trained, supervised, and mentored all levels of web-development personnel.  • 100% Project completion and Increased company project completion by 70%. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Division of Continuing Education UC Skills FRONT END (6 years), FRONT END DESIGN (6 years), FRONT-END (6 years), PROJECT MANAGEMENT (4 years), BUDGET (Less than 1 year) Additional Information HIGHLIGHTS OF QUALIFICATIONS  • More than 7 years of top experience.  • Strong background in Front- End web development, Back- End web development, Project management, Timeline development, project resource planning, Team leading, Staff training and development, Quality assurance, and Client relations.  • Hard-working and driven, while highly-experienced in all aspects of web development, project management and is thoroughly familiar with industry practices, standards, and protocols.  • Has managed a wealth of successful projects and initiatives and is proven in seeing projects to their successful completion, on-time, and within budget.