Front End Web developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">developer</span> Front End Web developer - LAAgencia Chicago, IL • 14 years of programming experience in Web development using HTML5, CCS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, React JS, Angular JS, JQuery, Backbone and Sencha, ExtJS.  • Front- end Developer with 10 years of professional experience in developing User Interface for web applications and for some desktop applications.  • Experience in designing web applications with the help of HTML5, XML, JavaScript (ECMA6), JSON, CSS3 and BootStrap3.  • Experience with Angular 1 Directives, Dependency Injection, Services, Routing, pipes, Forms etc.  • Experienced with working on High Traffic Websites.  • Proficiency in implementing the design to meet Web standards (W3C), on various browsers for cross-browser implementation.  • Experience dealing with CSS pre-processors SASS.  • Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT, JIRA, Jenkins and Perforce.  • Experience with JavaScript Design Patterns: Module, Module Revealed, Prototype (OOP), Prototype Revealed, Singleton.  • Experience with JavaScript Design Patterns: Module, Module Revealed, Prototype (OOP), Prototype Revealed, Singleton.  • Experience using JavaScript libraries such as JQuery, React, Jasmine, lodash, underscore, moment, some experience with D3, express.  • Hands on expertise in working with the JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Angular 6, Node JS, Aurelia JS and Backbone JS  • Experience in creating single page applications using Angular JS 1.x, HTML5, bootstrap3, Angular, Restful Web API.  • Experience in JavaScript and involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Experience in all phases of Software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Good experience in working with the SCRUM Methodology for Agile development (JIRA is our platform).  • Good practical knowledge in Object Oriented Programming, also knowledge in OOP in JavaScript (Prototyping, new classes in ecma6 and object creation with Object and literals).  • Experience in creating Web solutions using Responsive Web Design (RWD) and Bootstrap.  • Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM)  • Good experience in Responsive Web Design and making web pages cross browser compatible.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting the existing code using debugger tools like Chrome developer toolbar, also using Firefox Developer Edition, and to identify problems in the initial stages and execute quick resolutions  • Good understanding of HTTP Verbs and Learning, acquiring knowledge on MongoDB and Mongoose.  • Back- end experience with PHP (YII), MySQL, SQL Server and SQL Language  • Experience with C#, report tools  • Excellent communication skills, team player, quick learner and self-motivated Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web developer LAAgencia June 2017 to Present Project: Perfect Forms - Yoda  Description: This is a platform to create dynamic forms and reports.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, Json, and JavaScript including jQuery library in the project  • Develop new user-facing features with HTML, CSS and Backbone/JavaScript, according to design requirements.  • Test modules according to the specifications on the design documents.  • Debug and correct existing components.  • Created new controls and update libraries like JQGrid etc..,  • Design and develop views/templates on top of JavaScript.  • Used CSS and JQuery to create adjustable panels on properties and sections of the designer, and the toolbar  • Work with the Tech Lead to organise some activities and with code reviews as well.  Architecture: JavaScript, Backbone, CSS, HTML  Tools: Git, Visual Studio Code, Gulp, NPM, JIRA, and Node  Project: Console JavaScript  • Use CSS to style different modules and sections according to different specs.  • Added a couple of functionalities to an existing module.  Architecture: JavaScript, Vue, CSS, HTML  Tools: Git, Visual Studio Code, Gulp, NPM, JIRA and node  Project: Mobile Forms - Yoda  • Document the existing player to make it responsive.  • Create some samples on how each control should be displayed after rendering.  • Adapt some React components to create resizable panels.  • Use styled components for React JS  • Used NPM to install new dependencies for the project.  • Added new functionality on the properties to forms and to create the new mobile version of the forms.  Architecture: JavaScript, React, CSS, HTML  Tools: Git, visual Studio Code, Gulp, NPM, JIRA and node Front- End Web Developer Custom Business Solutions - Novi, MI April 2017 to June 2017 Project: Gemini  Description: Fix possible security issues detected with Checkmarx.  • Run Checkmarx to detect possible security issues.  • Solve these issues applying the best practices to satisfy the client  • Scrum meetings (two weeks sprints, 15 minutes stand ups).  Architecture: JavaScript, C#, JQuery, Ajax  Tools: Git, Visual Studio Code, Gulp, NPM, Microsoft Visual Studio 2015, JIRA and NPM node Front- End Web Developer Birmingham, MI July 2016 to March 2017 Project: Taxmate  Taxmate is the new web based version created to replace the desktop version.  Responsibilities:  • Tested modules according to the specifications on the design documents.  • Debug and corrected existing components.  • Created new components.  • Design and developed views/templates on top of JavaScript.  • HTML, CSS coding of front- end interfaces - including cross-browser support and testing made to ensure quality work  • Tested front- end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.  • Had scrum meetings (two weeks sprints, 15 minutes stand ups).  Architecture: JavaScript (ECMA6), Typescript, Aurelia JS, CSS, HTML, Ajax, Typescript  Tools: TFS, Visual Studio Code, Gulp, NPM, Node Senior Front- End Web Developer University of Michigan- Integrated Systems + Design - Ann Arbor, MI October 2015 to June 2016 Project: Responsive Website  Transform the website from static to responsive: Mobile, Tablet, and Desktop.  Responsibilities:  • Participated on the maintenance of some React JS modules. This was a module for some statistics for the ISD Department.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, JSON, and JavaScript including jQuery library in the project as per client requirement.  • Customize and implemented Revolution Slider Plugin(JQuery)  • Customize and implemented OWL Carousel plugin for the news.  • Tested the responsiveness of the new homepage (Chrome Tools, Browserstack).  • Documented work and communicate issues when they arise  • Assisted troubleshooting and production issues  • Created custom widgets(JQuery) and interfaces for: Sections, People List, Responsive Banner  • Debug and corrected existing features of the CMS.  Other tasks:  • Added new features to the statistics system using AngularJS 1.x, Bootstrap and underscore.  Architecture: JavaScript, Underscore, JQuery, Angular 1.x, Ajax, Require JS, HTML, CSS3, React JS, node  Tools: SVN, IntelliJ, Tortoise Senior Front- End Web Developer Next Cloud July 2014 to June 2015 Next Cloud is a company that specializes in the development of Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) services. This ERP includes: product planning, cost, manufacturing or service delivery, marketing and sales, inventory management, shipping and payment and labelling.  Project: ERP (enterprise resource planning)  Responsibilities:  • Developed new user-facing features with HTML, CSS and Backbone/JavaScript, according to design requirements.  • Ensured the technical feasibility of UI/UX designs  • Built reusable code and libraries for future use.  • Tested modules according to the specifications on the design documents  • Worked with the back end team to define the Json structures.  • Implemented an applet to print labels on Chrome and Firefox, using JavaScript to manipulate this java applet.  • Used Scrum  • Collaborated with QA, Designers and optimized application for maximum speed and scalability.  Architecture: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Backbone, Jasmine, JQuery, AJAX, SQL Server, Handlebars, NodeJS  Tools: Webstorm, Sublime Text, GIT, Bit bucket. Secretariat Public Education - Government, the State of Quintana Roo March 2010 to June 2014 Lead Web Developer  Project 1: Attendance monitoring system  Description: An online system to register and control employees' time and attendance and absence management using fingerprint readers. This is used in all the buildings, distributed in 7 municipalities. It allows knowing the history of every employee; this is connected to Human Resources main system and it's a part of an integrated platform. I worked closely to the Human Resources department, to test the changes and collect new requirements for the system.  As Front End Development  • I worked as a team leader; actually the team was a small team, two other colleagues. I organized meetings, following the changes on the systems, code reviews, and coordinating meeting with the director and presenting the progress of the project.  • Created the interface with Window Forms, C#/LINQ/MySQL to control (to turn on/off, and get the data, etc.) of the fingerprint readers.  • Designed the User Interface of the system with HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, and Java Script.  • Organized meetings with the HR personnel to gather requirements and show the progress of the project.  • Provided user support.  • Worked in team with Crystal Clear methodology (agile development).  • Created user Interfaces with HTML, CSS and JavaScript according to the end-user requirements.  As Back- end Development  • PHP/YII framework (ORM) to create the backend API.  • Create and designed reports and statistics using PDF tools for PHP.  • Design and built the MySQL database, including new tables, views, and stored procedures.  • Used MySQL Workbench to administrate and design the Database structure.  Architecture: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, PHP, YII framework, MySQL, PHP Storm, C#  Tools: Webstorm, Microsoft Visual Studio, MySQL Workbench and GIT.    Project 2: Accounting system  The Conta system was built to replace CONTPAQ. This internal development included the specifications of the new law for accountant process. This was connected to other systems like the Budget planning and the payroll systems. It includes: accounts catalog (each account classified in receivable and payable), general ledger, bookkeeping, and reports.  As frontend Development  • Designed the User Interface of the system with Winforms  • Connected the Conta system to Budget planning and payroll systems.  • Create and designed reports according to the end-user requirements.  • Configured users' computers with Crystal Reports drivers and Microsoft Net Framework 4.5.  • Organized meetings with the Account Department personnel to gather requirements and present the progress of the development.  As Backend Development  • Design and built the database with MySQL, including new tables, views and, stored procedures.  • Built stored procedures to process the info and present it as reports with Crystal Reports.  • Used LINQ to perform database operations.  • Used MySQL Workbench to administrate and design the Database structure.  Architecture: C#, MySQL, LINQ, Crystal Reports, MySQL  Tools: MySQL Workbench, GIT, Microsoft Visual Studio.  Project 3: Planning site and planning system  The Government every year needs to know about the finances spent, like on education(salaries, educational programs, scholar infrastructure, bourses, etc.). Every year there are new requirements of information, more details added and this site needs to be changed. It has two main parts, firstly the site where common users go and get all the information needed. Secondly, know about projects, activities, monetary distribution, calendars, projections, and the administrative module. Also, some users can access and control all the information captured. It's here where users can open/close projects; make observations that are shown on the site.  As Front- end Development  • Create and designed reports with PDF tools for PHP.  • Created Interfaces with PHP, HTML, CSS, JQuery, and JavaScript according to end-user requirements.  • Updated the existing interfaces with new fields, depending on requirements.  • Used Sencha, ExtJS to create the new forms.  • Organized meetings with the Planning and budgetary personnel department to verify new requirements and show the progress of the development.  • Tested cross browser compatibility.  As Back- end Development  • Adapted the database fields to adjust to new requirements.  • Design and built the database with MySQL including new tables and stored procedures.  Architecture: PHP, YII, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, and AJAX.  Tools: PHP Storm, FTP Secretariat Finances - Government, State of Quintana Roo July 2004 to February 2010 Web Developer  Project 1: Statistics and budget system  All the info received through the cash register system and the taxation site was organized (National and state, use, origin, etc.) and presented in different ways and formats.  Responsibilities:  • Create and designed the User Interface with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and, PHP according to new requirements.  • Created PHP/MySQL function to classify all the data collected from the offices.  • Create and designed reports and statistics with HTML and CSS styles.  • Created graphics to show the tax incomes' progress against the annual budget.  • Created PHP API to present the information and create statistics.  • Create and maintained the stored procedures that processed all that information.  Architecture: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, MySQL/SQL Server, IIS.  Tools: Dreamweaver, FTP Clients  Project 2: Taxation site  Online system to register every contributors tax declaration. This is used in Quintana Roo and beyond in Mexico. The contributors captured their on-line tax declarations; they could pay on-line or take the paper form with a number reference to pay directly in the office. This site was divided in Federal and State taxation  Responsibilities:  • Created user Interfaces with HTML, CSS and JavaScript and, PHP according to new requirements.  • Tested cross browser compatibility.  • Create and designed reports and statistics with HTML and CSS styles.  • Design and built the database with MySQL including new tables and stored procedures.  • Migrated SQL queries from MySQL to SQL server.  • Provided user support.  Architecture: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL/SQL Server and, IIS, Ajax, JQuery.  Tools: Dreamweaver, FTP Clients, SQL Server IDE    Project: Tax Registry  Online system to register contribution of taxpayer. This is used at the finance offices. The contributors captured their on-line tax declarations and pay on-line or go to the office.  Responsibilities:  • Created user interfaces with HTML, CSS and JavaScript and PHP according to new requirements.  • Tested cross browser compatibility.  • Create and designed reports and statistics with HTML and CSS styles.  • Adapt the previous interface to new requirements.  • Design and built the database with MySQL, including new tables and stored procedures.  • Used bank API to receive payments with debit/credit cards.  • Migrated SQL queries from MySQL to SQL server.  Architecture: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL/SQL Server, IIS.  Tools: Dreamweaver, FTP Clients. Education Bachelors of Computer Science in Computer Science Instituto Tecnologico de Chetumal Skills Ajax (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Front End, Angular, UI, React, Front-End Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Front- End: HTML5, Moustache, CSS3, LESS, SASS, JavaScript, Ajax, Json, JQuery, d3, Jasmine, Typescript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, and templates for React and Angular  • Back- End: PHP, Node JS, Express  • Tools: Gulp  • Databases: MYSQL, SQL Server  • Web browsers, Office, Google, JIRA, Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, GIT for version control.