Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - JP Morgan Chase New York, NY Work Experience Sr. UI Developer JP Morgan Chase - New York, NY November 2015 to Present Master's Degree in Computer Science from Florida State University.  Sun Certified Web Component Developer.  Sun Certified Java Developer.    Sr. UI Developer  JP Morgan Chase, New York, NY  November 2015 to Present    Responsibilities:  • Interacting with product owners, stakeholder to gather requirements, and prepare documentation on the same.  • Research, and Analyze on the collected requirements and come up with best User Experience solutions.  • Used CSS LESS/SASS preprocessors. and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Expertise in using preprocessors like SASS & LESS.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Pre-processors (SASS, LESS), CSS Animations.  • Used CSS3 features like creating multiple column, boarders and background, using LESS/SASS Preprocessors.  • Developing dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery & D3JS.  • Experience in LESS/SASS CSS Pre Processors and Utilized the latest front end Technologies such as HTML5 and CSS3 for layouts.  • Experience in using Grunt and CSS procedures LESS, SASS  • Worked on CSS pre-processors like LESS, SASS and switch CSS.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Developed UI library functions to increase the code reusability and support standard coding practices.  • Working closely with product managers to receive UI requirements.  • Designed hi level wires by using MS Visio and Axure.  • Prototyping web, Intranet and Mobile applications with the help of HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Developing front end web applications, and Intranet applications with the help of web tools and technologies such as HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Mootools, and Dojo.  • Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using Backbone.js, Require.js, and Responsive Design.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone.js, Require.js, and JQuery.  • Expertise in developing front- end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, MVC frameworks such as Angular JS, Backbone JS.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Architected JavaScript apps with the following; pure JS, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, MVVM, regular expressions, SVG, Ajax/CORS, JSHint and Sauselabs.  • Architected JavaScript app to create, read, update and delete (CRUD) website content.  • Design and implementation of code from front end (Javascript) and Server Side (java).  • Design unit testing in Qunit for Javascript code.  • Implementing many directives from AngularJs in order to create all the functionalities related to the user interface, creating models and controllers with the help of JavaScript.  • Used JQuery, JavaScript and AJAX to enhance user experience.  • Accomplished the task of web interface customization for SDM tool using JavaScript, CSS styling and HTML as per the end user requirements.  • Experience in designing and developing interactive User Interfaces, usability, web and client/server applications using HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, Node JS) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.    Environment: MS Visio, Axure, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Mootools, Adobe Dreamweaver, SVN, GIT, Jenkins, Rally, JIRA, Quality Center, SharePoint, CMS, and Putty. Sr. UI developer Miller Publishing Group, LLC - Los Angeles, CA July 2012 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on Java Script , JQuery, Twitter Bootstrap, RESTful web-services, HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, JSON, Media queries for responsiveness.  • Generated Responsive Pixel perfect web pages based on key comps of Adobe illustrator and Wireframes  • Worked on Bootstrap, LESS to develop User Interface with responsive design.  • Designed Responsive Web applications using media queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Worked with Designers, Developers, Program Managers and Testers.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Collaborated with different developers working on different timezones.  • Worked closely with creative teams for understanding Low and high fidelity wireframes.  • Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front- end development such as web pages, graphics and multimedia's.  • Experienced in using GitHub for project management and version management.  • Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement.  • Built the Responsive UI screen for create new customer process, Create bill to and ship to screens, customer search results page, and customer dashboard page using Bootstrap.  • Build responsive UI design using CSS Media Query, Bootstrap and flex box.  • Involved in various technical and architectural design discussions with back- end teams as well as front- end team to integrate front- end and back- end.  • Worked in a team, Involved in developing the UI, layout and front- end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements of Autodesk.  • Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout.  • Developing custom HTML elements using Angular JS directives.  • Development of client side validation techniques using a JQuery and Angular JavaScript.  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, and CSS2/3, Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JQuery inongoing projects.  Environment: HTML5, HTML, CSS2/3, JavaScript, Tomcat Apache, JQuery, JSP, AJAX, SVN, Angular Js, jUnit, JDBC, XML, ANT, MySQL, Tomcat 1.7, JBoss 4.2.3, SoapUI, Eclipse, Intell J Idea, Windows and Linux environments. Sr. UI Developer American Express - New York, NY February 2009 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Used JQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Developed creative intuitive user interfaces that address business and end-user needs, while considering the technical, physical and temporal constraints of the users.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using jQuery/AJAX.  • Developed front end UI using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX  • Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries.  • Used CSS pre-processors (LESS and SASS).  • Used Yeoman for application scaffolding, bower for installing libraries.  • Used Grunt for building the project.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax, AngularJS.  • We have followed with Agile and Scrum development methodologies  • Integrated the Java code (API) with UI Pages.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firebug, Chrome Developer Toolbar, and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Developing dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Coded extensively using JavaScript MVC Framework to make rich internet web application.    Environment: HTML5, SVN, CSS3, LESS, JQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS, Ajax, Bootstrap, Grunt, Yeoman and Bower. Front End Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX September 2008 to January 2009 RESPONSIBILTIES:  • Involved in the scope discussions with the Business Analysts and the Business users to identify the technical requirements.  • Developing web portals applications using client side scripting using JavaScript library Angular.js.  • Worked closely with customer's development team to identify APIs, define data schemas, and document workflows, business requirements, and domain knowledge.  • Code AngularJS controllers, views, and services for new portal features.  • Responsive design, mobile first, and adaptive design using Bootstrap.  • Designed and developed views/templates using the Angular template engine.  • Worked on Node.js.  • Ajax calls to REST web services  • Create custom Directive in Angular.js  • Worked on json with Rest APIs  • Used Grunt for build.  • Bootstrap for look and feel.    Environment: Eclipse IDE, linux, JavaScript, Grunt, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, Bootstrap Framework, HighCharts.js, Jenkins, GitHub, Node.js. Front End Developer CISCO - San Jose, CA April 2007 to August 2008 RESPONSIBILTIES:  • Involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support for three projects (Medication Therapy Management (MTM), (Internal and External Interface).  • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of project and Developed process flow, data flow and use case interaction diagrams in Microsoft Visio.  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), Mantis to manage the issues/project work flow, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  • Designed and developed the common page layout and created screens by assembling facelets and screen definitions in centralized configuration files.  • Designed the application by implementing JSF Framework with Primefaces based on MVC Architecture with EJB, Simple Java Beans as a Model, JSP and JSF UI Components as View and Faces Servlet as a Controller.  • Creating views with JSF Framework and Service Layer Classes using Session Beans.  • Developed and designed UI Search and results screens using JSF, XHTML and CSS.  • Used Prime faces as a JSF extension libraries for rich components such as Accordion, Calendar, Data Table, Panel.  • Generating complex reports in PDF as per CMS guidelines, using Jaspersoft Studio-5.1.0.  • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validations and JavaScript and XHTML pages.    ENVIRONMENT: HTML, XHTML, Prime faces 3.2, Java 1.6, J2EE, Spring 2.5, Servlets, JSP, jQuery, Ajax, XML, CSS, JavaScript, DB2, EJB 3.0, ILOG, Adobe Photoshop CS6, Eclipse, Visio, Wireframes and Mockups, .Net Skills HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), AJAX (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    JavaScript Frameworks: Angular.js, Jquery  IDE / Tools: Eclipse, Notepad++  Markup/Script Language: HTML, HTML 5, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, Mustache.js, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), CSS3.  Application Servers: Apache Tomcat.  Database Query Languages: SQL, PL/SQL  Graphics Editors: Adobe Photo Shop CS3, Adobe Illustrator CS3.  Operating System: Windows 2000/NT/XP, Mac ox and UNIX