UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Anthem Inc Irving, TX • 7+ years of experience in the Web Applications Development using HTML 4/5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS, BootStrap, JSON.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, and agile methodologies  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQUERY and also experience in making web page cross browser compatible.  • Experience in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images.  • Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, Angular JS, JSON, JSONP, and XML.  • Experience in working MVC Architecture and also in using version control(SVN)  • Experience in developing components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Experience in using various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc  • Extensively used the backbone.js, Angular.js frame works, JSON and JavaScript frameworks jQuery  • Good knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Familiar with Mobile Web Development using jQuery Mobile and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Create complex JIRA workflows including project workflows, screen schemes, permission scheme and notification schemes in JIRA.  • Developing practice with jQuery in various UI widgets.  • Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE developer Toolbar.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle i.e. Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  • Good experience in XML technologies such as XSD, DTD/Schemas, DOM/SAX Parsers.  • Remarkable knowledge of design, normalization and Database Management Concepts.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility, Responsive Web Design and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Firefox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.  • Good written and oral communication skills and Interpersonal skills with a strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Anthem Inc - Irving, TX October 2015 to Present unaffilated broker Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc - Overland Park, KS 1998 to Present is an American asset management and financial planning company founded in 1937. It has been a publicly traded company since 1998, and has its headquarters in Overland Park, Kansas..The company distributes products through three primary channels, the Advisors channel (a network of personal financial advisors around the country); the Wholesale channel (unaffilated broker/dealers, registered investment advisors and retirement platforms); and the Institutional channel (pension plans, defined benefit plans and endowments).  Responsibilities:  • Gathered business requirements, prepared Software Requirement Specification (SRS) document.  • Developed user interface using JavaScript, jQuery, Node JS, Backbone.JS, CSS3 and HTML5.  • Websites designed and developed using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS 3, Ajax and jQuery based on W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Extensively used JavaScript to provide functionality for the user interface.  • Worked on the application developed using HTML5, CSS3, JSON.  • Involved in configuring the Git repository and maintain the version control using Git.  • Worked with technologies like jQuery and Ajax to make more attractive and easy to use website.  • Created design mock-ups and wireframes using MS PowerPoint, Adobe Photoshop CS4 and Dreamweaver CS3.  • Used Java Script for binding form data with the Model Objects and server side and client side validation.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript  • Used JIRA for bug tracking.  • Designed flash plugins for including different functionalities and content.  • Used Team Studio and Build Manager tools to develop Notes applications and promote the new design to test environment.  • Designed web site mockups, navigation buttons, etc. using Adobe Photoshop.  • Involved in the search for errors, broken links and missing images etc. and rectify.  • Implemented and tested the business application with jQuery.  • Designed GUI using jQuery and Angular JS.  • Defined the site layout and developed Wireframes using Adobe Illustrator.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Collaboration with team members design, analysis, coding, testing and review website.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Agile, backbone.js, JIRA, Web 2.0, GIT, Adobe Photoshop, Bootstrap, Ajax, JQuery, Windows XP and SQL. UI Developer Waddell and Reed Inc February 2015 to October 2015 UI Developer Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc - Austin, TX August 2013 to January 2015 Worked on various client projects to design and develop their custom applications. Most of the clients I worked with are Oil and Gas companies and financial institutions.  Responsibilities:  • Web design and development, application development using HTML, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and JavaScript.  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, and Angular JS.  • Responsible for ensuring the pattern consistency across all pages.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Applied J-Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Designed XML files for maintaining contents like video, images and audio and display them in flash application.  • Streamlined the Responsive Web Design to enhance the User Experience and developed designs for the prototypes for the Mobile UI.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery  • Created web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript. Anthem Inc December 2004 to December 2014 is an American health insurance company founded in the 1940s, prior to 2014 known as WellPoint, Inc. It is the largest for-profit managed health care company in the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. It was formed when Anthem Insurance Company acquired WellPoint Health Networks, Inc., with the combined company adopting the name WellPoint, Inc.; trading on the NYSE for the combined company began under the WLP symbol on December 1, 2004. On December 3, 2014, WellPoint changed its corporate name to Anthem Inc, and its NYSE ticker changed from WLP to ANTM.  Responsibilities:  • Websites designed and developed using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS 3, Ajax and jQuery based on W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Plotted charts using high chart JS, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery and MySQL.  • Developed user interface using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, AngularJS, Bootstrap.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Extensively used JavaScript to provide functionality for the user interface.  • Worked on the application developed using HTML5, CSS3, JSON.  • Developed DAOs (Data Access Objects) and SQL queries to support system functionality.  • Used several jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Used JavaScript libraries to create slider and page-turning animations on calendar widgets.  • Used Team Studio and Build Manager tools to develop Notes applications and promote the new design to test environment.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Leveraged angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Worked with technologies like jQuery and Ajax to make more attractive and easy to use website  • Involved in the search for errors, broken links and missing images etc. and rectify.  • Mastered the GRUNT and GRUNT commands for building and deploying the project. Used Bower for successfully implementing the dependencies.  • Designed GUI using jQuery.  • AngularJS, JavaScript, or reusable web component.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of DHTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Collaboration with team members design, analysis, coding, testing and review website.  • Used firebug, IE developer toolbar and chrome canary tool for debugging java script and fixing issues.  • Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes.  • Implementation of TDD Using Jasmine Testing.  • Involved with the offshore team to get the required data format, plotting charts according to the business requirements.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Web 2.0, Agile, Firebug, Adobe Photoshop, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Ajax, JQuery, Windows XP and SQL. Front End Developer Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc - Tampa, FL September 2011 to July 2013 Well Care Health Plans, Inc. provides managed care services targeted to government-sponsored health care programs, focusing on Medicaid and Medicare. The company serves approximately 4 million members nationwide    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and Ajax.  • We have followed with Agile and Scrum development methodologies  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, TOMCAT APACHE. Front End Web Developer Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2008 to July 2011 Themis Medicare (TML) (also called Themis Chemical) incorporated in 1969, is a manufacturer of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and formulations. It is a joint venture with Gedeon Richter of Hungary. Headquartered in MUMBAI, the company has four manufacturing facilities located at Vapi (Gujarat), Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh), and Haridwar. The company also has presence in 40 countries.  TML's research and development facility focuses on development of new chemicals, new processes for production of API and intermediates, fermentation technology and new drug delivery systems.  Responsibilities:  • Converted wireframes into html.  • Involved in team discussions when implementing new features in the project.  • Developed front- end screens with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP's. Extensively did client side validations using JavaScript and developed the required Servlets.  • Implemented page designs in standard-complaint dynamic HTML and CSS.  • Developed the Front End User Interface using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Created navigation lists using list elements in HTML.  • Good knowledge of debugging JavaScript and html code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger.  • Developed stores procedures, triggers, functions and database tables in Oracle database.  • Created form validations with JavaScript.  • Provided insight on HTML and CSS standards.  Environment: HTML, CSS, XHTML, DHTML, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, Eclipse, Oracle, MS Office, Windows XP/07. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating System: Windows 7/XP/Vista/2000, Mac, Linux, UNIX.  Web Technologies: HTML, XHTML, HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, XML, JSON, AJAX, JQUERY and Angular JS, BootStrap, BackboneJS  IDE/HTML Editors: Notepad++, adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime Text 2, Eclipse.  Database: SQLServer, MS-Access.  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Firebug Lite, Google Chrome Web Debugger  SDLCs: Waterfall, Agile.  Graphics Editors: Adobe photo shop CS3, Adobe Illustrator CS3.  Animation: Adobe Flash CS3, Adobe Fireworks.