Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End Developer - Born Group Seattle, WA ? 10 years of professional experience in Requirements Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Js framework and client-server technologies.  ? Around 7 years of web experience with JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, ExtJS, jQuery/JS including 3.5 years with Modern JS framework like Node.js, Angular.js, Bootstrap.js, Backbone.js, knockout.js, Prototype.js, Require.JS and Handlebars.js.  ? Experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing user experiences of applications using AngularJS, JavaScript, ReactJS, BackboneJS, Bootstrap, HTML5, HTML, XHTML XML CSS, CSS3, JQuery.  ? Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in large scale enterprise software using Object Oriented Analysis and Design.  ? Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front- end designing such as web pages, graphics and multimedia's.  ? Good experience in Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall methodologies.  ? Extensive experience in developing applications using Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, JSTL, JSP Custom Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI, SQL, AJAX, JavaScript and XML.  ? Strong Working experience in Design, Development and implementation of several J2EE frameworks like (Model View Controller) Struts, spring, Hibernate and EJB.  ? Strong front- end development using Adobe Flex, MXML, Action Script, AJAX, Java Scripts, CSS, HTML and DHTML.  ? Implemented Design patterns such as MVC, View Dispatcher, Data Access Objects, Singleton, Observer, Factory, and Session Facade.  ? Experience in configuring and deploying Web Applications using Web Logic, WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat and Apache.  ? Developed ANT scripts for the build and deployment of J2EE applications.  ? Design, analysis and modeling of n-tired, Object-Oriented system architectures using Rational Rose.  ? Thorough knowledge in using UML, XML parsers (SAX, DOM), SOAP, HTML and DHTML.  ? Sound RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, PL/SQL, SQL Server & DB2.  ? Very good experience in developing Test Cases using JUnit.  ? Strong team playing skills coupled with the ability to build excellent customer relations.  ? Experience in XML, WebServices using SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI, XML-RPC, JAX-RPC, JAXB and Messaging standards like JMS. Work Experience Senior Front End Developer Born Group - Seattle, WA March 2016 to Present BORN Group is a creative design, content production and commerce solutions company. It started in 1987 as The Fresh Media Group. The company created a multi-channel marketing content platform called Ceros, a page-turning digital magazine/catalog that embeds dynamic content, social media and ecommerce. The company launched content marketing, social media offerings, brand activation/digital marketing solutions and mobile apps development.    Responsibilities:  ? Assisted/mentored team members in matters relating to Angular 5 to ensure products were released in a timely fashion and that the code remained organized.  ? Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  ? Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework, Worked on Spring /Hibernate Applications  ? Used Javascript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  ? Built Angular 5 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2/4.  ? Implemented Two-way data-binding in AngularJS which helps the application handle the automatic synchronization of data between the model and view components using typescript and angular 4.  ? Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.  ? Developed JavaScript based components using ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  ? Enhanced the functionality of screens using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery.  ? Implemented Hibernate for the ORM layer in transacting with Oracle database  ? Used ReactJS to build the UI components, developed filters to display different dimension of data and font size modifiers.  ? Developed Navigation bar, manu bar, drop down list with React widgets and bootstrap.  ? Implemented React router for building the single page application.  ? Integrated Redux data store allowing React components to have access to data resulting in highly maintainable code.  ? Utilized React to build reusable components with JSX including (landing, forms, and buttons), resulting in optimized rendering and performance.  ? Developed PL/SQL procedures for login module and written complex sql queries  ? Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  ? Involved in building front end using HTML, CSS and Express.JS.  ? Used Node for dependencies and express.js for writing api.  ? Deployed storify business feature set in NodeJS with Express.js backend, incorporating APIs from twitter, type kit, stripe and other for storify.  ? Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework to implement the REST APIs involved  ? Implemented SOAP and REST paradigms to access Amazon web services; created a request for textbook search based on request type, search index, author name, with publisher and ASIN as output.  ? Integrated the different pages to be a single page application using Angular 4 and Typescript.  ? Applied Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts (including UML use cases, class diagrams, and interaction diagrams).  ? Design and implementation of Object Oriented concepts (OOP) and J2EE design patterns.  ? Worked extensively in Core JAVA Concepts like OOP, Exception Handling , Collections , Multi Threading and java.lang Packages.  ? Used Eclipse for developing the application and CVS for version control.  ? Followed an Agile, Software Development methodology. Used NetBeans IDE  ? Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations.  ? Used Angular JS and Handlebars.js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  ? Developed the web pages using Handlebars JS, JSP, JQuery , HTML and CSS.  ? Developed the administrative UI using Handlebars.Js.  ? Provide direction and execution oversight for large Agile Development projects for the FBI as an integral member of the Program Management Office (PMO).  ? Optimized UML design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Service Locator and Business Delegate.  ? Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML, JavaScript, AJAX.  ? Developed the UI screens using SFX, Jsps, Java script, JSTL and CSS.  ? Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  ? Client side validation was done using JavaScript's, sever side validations are done using Struts Validator Plug-In.  ? Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  ? Developed whole presentation layer using JavaScript based frameworks such as JavascriptMVC(JMVC), JQuery, Ajax, JSON and Google Gears with REST full communication    Environment:  Spring, Hibernate, struts, JQuery, Ajax, Sencha Extjs, Javascript, Oracle, Crud, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, REST, Eclipse, Weblogic, Subversion(SVN), JUnit, Agile, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven Senior Front End Developer BestBuy - Seattle, WA March 2014 to February 2016 Best Buy Co., Inc. is a U.S transnational consumer Electronics Corporation headquartered in Richfield, Minnesota, a Minneapolis suburb. Internationally, it also operates in Canada and Mexico. The company also expanded its product offerings to include home appliances and VCRs.    Responsibilities:  ? Was responsible for designing and developing Manage Purchase Order Web Service and presentation layer with Spring MVC and Acegi security.  ? Designed and developed Enterprise Eligibility business objects and domain objects with Object Relational Mapping framework such as Hibernate.  ? Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  ? Developed web-based customer management software using Facelets, Icefaces and JSF  ? Wrote complex reporting applications with Ext JS and Sencha Touch for Windows Azure and Amazon Web Services, Linux and Windows servers.  ? Client side validation was done using JavaScript's, sever side validations are done using Struts Validator Plug-In.  ? Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.  ? Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  ? Creating SQL stored procedures in IBM DB2  ? Data was bound to the components with MVVM using Kendo and Vue.JS, and was retrieved, created, updated, & deleted using REST.  ? Wrote templates using Handlebars.JS.  ? Created templates, Sub views and partials using Handlebars JS.  ? Used Handlebars.js and Backbone.Js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  ? Built web application using Vue.js and Firebase.  ? Develop custom drag and drop tree view, web application to transfer and arrange HL7 data using Angular, html and Vue.js.  ? Worked on many custom modules and widgets using React JS/CSS/HTML and made those cross-browsers consistent.  ? Developed the various feature of the application using front end technologies likeBackbone JS and React.Js.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  ? Completed and presented one project with multi-threading event handlers with timer and objective oriented programming; displays the engine, driver, network data with the WPF window forms.  ? Implemented the concepts of OOP (Objective Oriented Programming) like Inheritance, polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation.  ? Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Involved in building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  ? Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keyword.  ? Developed basic music player features as well as adding artists, players, albums, tracks, other users, playlists, favorites to their account and CRUD functions.  ? Created PL/SQL procedures, functions and written complex SQL queries for C2C resume builder.  ? Technological Platform used was BlackBerry Widget on the client side, CGI and JDBC on the server side.  ? Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  ? Implemented Web Services using SOAP Technology.  ? Developed, Published, Consumed web services using VB.NET to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP.  ? Extensively used Java Collections API to store intermediate data objects using Eclipse editor.  ? JUnit testing of Java classes to populate JSP screens of online tax exemption forms which updated Oracle 10g database under Tomcat/WebLogic web services.  ? Designed SPAs (Single Page Applications) using Angular JS concepts of Directives, Services, Promises, Templating, Scope, Dependency Injection and two-way data binding.  ? Experienced in working with Angular JS for Client side scripting and synchronizing the applications.  ? Developed frontend of application using Bootstrap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework.  ? Created Angular JS controllers, services and used Angular JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Acted a Scrum Coach for adoption of Scrum for BI business projects  ? Mentored a team of 5 junior to mid-level developers in Java/J2EE Development using UML design documents.  ? Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  ? Developed JSPs using EL language and JSTL tags.  ? Used Action classes to service requests from ActionServlet and Business Data on server-side and invoke respective EJB (Entity Beans) to process Database transactions.  ? Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  ? Developed the Front end application using JSP and HTML.  ? Generated reports in PDF / HTML formats using Actuate BIRT reports, integrated with Struts.  ? Designed and developed new features for application using java, j2ee, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Java, EJB, JDBC, HTML, JSTL, JavaScript and XSL.  ? Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Developed presentation layer using XML, XSL, JavaScript, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Custom tags etc.  ? Provided application development, using OOA and OOD methodologies, primarily for Java, EJBs, JSP, (D)HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT  ? Enhanced the functionality of screens using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery.  ? Used JavaScript for Client Side validations.  ? Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML, JavaScript, AJAX  ? Utilize Dojo framework for performing front end validations.  ? Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries. Sr. UI Developer Aetna Inc - Hartford, CT August 2012 to February 2014 Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, DOJO, Sencha ExtJS, Javascript, CSS, Ajax, HTML5, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, JBDC, Apache CXF, Soap, Webservices, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, GIT, GITHUB, JUnit, Scrum, UML, JSP, Servlet, Maven  Aetna Inc. Hartford, CT  Sr. UI Developer  August 2012 - February 2014    Aetna Inc. is an American managed health care company, which sells traditional and consumer directed health care insurance plans and related services, such as medical, pharmaceutical, dental, behavioral health, long-term care, and disability plans. Aetna acknowledged that concrete evidence exists for Aetna issuing coverage for the lives of slaves and released a public apology.    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Spring AOP for admin services.  ? I worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  ? Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validators and JavaScript.  ? Developed Hibernate persistence layer modules using EJB Java Persistence API (JPA) annotations and Entity Manager.  ? Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Experienced in Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, MS Access and MYSQL databases.  ? Worked on Toad for Oracle for querying the database.  ? Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, Log4J, Oracle and MS SQL Server  ? Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  ? Developed web services using Apache Axis2 in Java and SOAP/WSDL on SOA architecture.  ? Created web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in hibernate, Used the spring container for data source and to load the Hibernate specific classes.  ? Responsible for generating build script using ANT that compiles the code, builds a war file and deploys the application on JBOSS server.  ? Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  ? Setup ClearCase server to support CCRC (ClearCase Remote Clients). Evaluated existing software development environment, drafted recommendations for improvements. Worked with GHX and IBM to resolve licensing issues involved with ClearCase software change management solution package. Environment was mixed Windows and Linux, projects written in C++ and Java.  ? Selenium-Sikuli Integration for Distributed Remote Execution  ? Carried out complete SDLC testing by following both agile and water fall model and generated cross test summary and generated customized reports suiting to the needs of the client  ? Designed React UI Components by using various frameworks, for the construction of web application.  ? Developed UI and pagination using React.js and Node.js.  ? Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  ? Involved to implement various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  ? Developed the React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  ? Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js and Node.js, Jasmine and React.js.  ? Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle.  ? Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  ? Integrating Rich Faces and My Faces in JSF, configuring Rich Faces Filter and Faces Servlet in the configuration file  ? Proficient in Perl Scripting, Visual Build Pro, SQL, Clearmake, build utilities like Openmake, ANT and Cruise Control. Experience as a Software Configuration Management (SCM) architect for ClearCase UCM.  ? Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, using eAgent frame work JSPs, HTML, AJAX, JQuery, iFrame and JavaScript.  ? Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  ? Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files. Software Developer Sprint Corporation - Overland Park, KS February 2010 to July 2012 Environment: Spring, IBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, JQuery, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, Apache Axis2, WSDL, Netbeans, JBoss, Mercurial, Cleracase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, JSP, UML, Servlet.  Sprint Corporation, Overland Park, KS  Software Developer  February 2010 - July 2012    Sprint Corporation, commonly referred to as Sprint, is an American telecommunications holding company that provides wireless services and is an internet service provider. The company also offers wireless voice, messaging, and broadband services through its various subsidiaries.    Responsibilities:  ? Agile methodology was adopted in the development, and used Scrum method of project management.  ? Implemented UI layer using Flex and business layer using Spring MVC and developed persistence layer using Hibernate.  ? Designing Flex UI components as well as development of Flex custom components.  ? Developed eye catching MXML view components using Flex Builder.  ? Used Cairngorm MVC Architecture to handle the events and to retrieve the data from the server.  ? Responsible for design and development of user interface using Flex Layout and Navigation, Data grid menus, and skinning components.  ? Used Cisco Cues charts for creating Bar charts, Line charts and Pie Charts to show the project specific performance metrics  ? Integrated Flex with BlazeDSto communicates Server side Objectswhich was build using Spring Framework and Hibernate.  ? Implemented a Single Page Web Applications (SPA) based front end for displaying user requests, user records history and security settings various users using JavaScript and Angular JS.  ? Worked on Angular JS features like Two Way Binding, Custom Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services and Project Architecture, React JS features like Components, Lifecycle methods, and unidirectional data flow using the Flux Architecture.  ? Created Angular Directives, Components, Pipes, Injectables across the whole system, such as build the custom filter and the main assortment dashboard.  ? Extensively used RemoteObjects to retrieve data from the remote server and perform required business functionalities from the front end.  ? Configured Spring Application-Context.xml used by spring container to inject dependencies to java classes to optimize memory resources.  ? Implemented Spring IoC (Dependency Injection) and Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) for the Business as well as Lookup Service Layer development.  ? Developed / modified the model components to incorporate new business level validations.  ? Responsible for the oracle schema design, generating various POJO objects and generating their corresponding Hibernate mappings (.hbm) files.  ? Consumed WebServicesfor getting the credit card information from third party application.  ? Used Singleton and DAO design pattern.  ? Test Driven development is done by maintaining theJunitand FlexUnittest cases throughout the application.  ? Log4j package is used for the debugging.  ? Used ClearCase for version control.  ? Ensuring adherence to delivery schedules and quality process on projects.    Environment: Java , J2ee, Spring, Hibernate , Flex , Action Script, MXM, XML, XSD, Java script, Blaze DS Cairngorm MVC Framework, IBM RAD, ClearCase, Oracle 10g, Log4j, Weblogic., Sql, DbVisualizer, Webservices, Agile, ClearQuest, Maven, UML (Rational Rose), HTML , CSS and Windows Prof Java/J2EE Developer American Express - New York, NY December 2007 to January 2010 The American Express Company, also known as Amex, is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in Three World Financial Center in New York City. The company was founded in 1850, and is one of the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average.The company is best known for its credit card, charge card, andtraveler's cheque businesses.    Responsibilities:  ? Followed the Agile methodology iterative process for each of the module in the project.  ? Developed the Login Module and Reimbursement Module.  ? All modules developed with the framework design patterns and DAOs, Hibernatefor persistence layer, Spring Framework for Application layer.  ? Prototyped Flex based RFC using Flex, consuming web services using BlazeDS.  ? Used Spring framework in enabling Controller Class access to Hibernate.  ? Designed and developed several Flex UI Screens and Custom Components using MXML and Action script.  ? Designed and developed user interface using Flex Components: ViewStack, Checkboxes, Repeater, Title Window, Text Area and others.  ? Created components that have multiple views using States and also used Effectsand Transitions when a State is entered or exited.  ? Extensively used to data models to store the form data.  ? Worked on a proof of concept on Internationalization in flex.  ? Developed Action Script functions for event handling response handling and error handling  ? Implemented Singleton Service Locator design patterns in Cairngorm MVC architecture to interact with backend.  ? Implemented JSON with Flex to feed Data grids into the web application.  ? Worked on development of Error Handling mechanism on the Flex side by catching the error  code and message streamed from server and wrapping it in a custom Exception Object.  ? Used Blaze DS to connect flex application with backend J2EE and Web Services layer to pull out the data to Flex UI components  ? Was responsible for deploying and testing webservices components.  ? Responsible to create Web Services to various web applications using Apache Axisesponsible to create WSDL, WSDL2Java and Java2WSDL Stubs  ? Extensively used SOAP in webservices to communicate with other applications.  ? Used SAX and DOM for parsing XML.  ? The Log4j package is used for the debugging.  ? Created JUnitand FlexUnittest case design logic and implemented throughout application.  ? Used ANT tool for building and deploying the application.  ? Used Toad tool to create Views and Stored procedures.  ? Created Datamodel (Schema) of the Database.  ? The project was implemented in Websphere Application Server for the development and deployment.  ? Participated in regular code reviews and design meetings.    Environment: Java, JSP, J2EE, Hibernate, Log4j, Struts, JSON , Apache Axis 2, Spring, WebServices, Adobe flex builder, Flex API, Web Server, ClearCase, JQuery, Agile , VSS, Sql Server, Pl/Sql , TOAD, XML, CruiseControl, Unix, HTML, XSLT and CSS. Education MASTER OF COMPUTER SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY Skills React, UI, Javascript, Angular, Front End