Freelance Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jacksonville, FL Senior Front- End Developer more than 10 years experience focusing on eCommerce, Marketing and Accessibility. A wide range of technical expertise and familiarity with multiple technology stacks with a strong focus on Object Oriented Javascript, HTML5 and CSS to create dynamic user experiences. Work Experience Freelance Developer March 2017 to Present Summary: Creation of websites using Wordpress for a small business owners focusing on Content Creation, SEO and PPC strategies to drive lead generation. Ensure all sites are correctly tagged for analytics across both Google and Facebook advertising platforms.    Technologies  ? Wordpress  ? WooCommerce  ? CSS/SASS  ? Javascipt, jQuery  ? Google Analytics  ? Facebook Analytics    2591 Myra St Jacksonville, FL 32204  843.864.5601 | pbrock@gmail.com | https://linkedin.com/in/pdbrock/ Front- End Developer Everbank/TIAA Bank - Jacksonville, FL December 2017 to August 2018 Summary: Creation of websites and mobile frameworks for regional bank. Assist designers in creating and documenting new brand standards during large rebranding effort    Technologies  ? Angular 2+  ? CSS/SASS  ? Javascipt  ? Webpack  ? Google Analytics  ? Facebook Analytics Senior Developer Moxie - Atlanta, GA February 2012 to March 2017 Summary: Develop responsive front- end for VerizonWireless.com, MyVerizon mobile application, and other verizon properties for delivery to client to integrate into Java based back- end. Create landing and splash pages for product launches and other special events. Work with QA team to ensure all deliverables work as expected across major browsers and devices. Ensure all deliverables are WCAG compliant. Maintain all code in Git repositories. Ensure proper analytics tagging of appropriate pages and creation of alertnate pages for Test & Target. Spend available time pursuing research of emergent technologies (Google Glass, Oculus Rift/Samsung Gear, Mobile AR).    Technologies:  ? Object Oriented Javascript  ? jQuery  ? Angular.js  ? Node.js  ? .NET MVC (C#, Razor Scripting)  ? Laravel PHP Framework  ? SASS/LESS/CSS3  ? Adobe Site Catalyst  ? Adobe Experience Manager  ? Adobe Test & Target  ? Git  ? Vuforia Front- End Developer ShopVisible - Atlanta, GA July 2010 to December 2011 Summary: Develop responsive front- end for client sites using proprietary ecommerce CMS. Work with back- end developers to identify and create new API features for use in developing sites. Continued maintenance of existing sites using client bug reports and feature requests. Ensure proper CDN configuration and perform post launch performance testing of new site launches.    Technologies:  ? Object Oriented Javascript  ? jQuery  ? SASS/CSS  ? Subversion  ? .NET ASP Classic Lead Developer Chattanooga, TN 2008 to 2010 Summary: Develop static sites for personal loan network with strong focus on multipage forms. Creation of SEO focused landing pages. Work with Project managers to implement Test & Target scenarios. Ensure proper analytics tagging of sites using Google Analytics and Adobe SiteCatalyst. Create admin interface for in-house ACH transfer tool.    Technologies:  ? SASS/CSS  ? jQuery  ? Drupal  ? PHP  ? .NET ASP Classic  ? Adobe SiteCatalyst  ? Adobe Test & Target  ? Google Analytics  ? Subversion Education Associate in Digital Media Full Sail University - Winter Park, FL 2003 Skills jQuery (10+ years), .NET (8 years), FRONT END (7 years), FRONT END DESIGN (7 years), FRONT-END (7 years) Links https://linkedin.com/in/pdbrock Additional Information Expertise    ? Semantic and Accessible HTML using W3C and WCAG Guidelines  ? Responsive CSS through Boilerplate Frameworks, CSS Preprocessors, and Raw CSS  ? Object Oriented Javascript  ? MVC Javascript Frameworks (Angular, Backbone)  ? Synchronous and Asynchronous Consumption of API services  ? DOM Manipulation and Animation (jQuery, CSS)  ? Front- End build and deployment using JSLint, Gulp/Grunt  ? Mobile First Development  ? Version Control with GIT/Subversion  ? C#, .NET, Razor Scripting, PHP  ? CMS templating with Wordpress, Drupal and Adobe experience manager  ? Multivariate and User Testing  ? Agile Scrum and Kanban