JavaScript UI Developer JavaScript UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> JavaScript UI Developer - Ameriprise Financial Stamford, CT Results-oriented Front End developer with more than six years' experience writing highly readable, clean, maintainable source code. Proficient with HTML, CSS, Javascript, JSON and AJAX as well as many Javascript frameworks such as angular, backbone, react and libraries like jquery. Skilled in designing, implementing, integrating, testing and supporting impactful applications developed in diverse, collaborative environments. am constantly striving to learn new technologies and look to ways to better myself in this rapidly changing industry Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JavaScript UI Developer Ameriprise Financial - Minneapolis, MN March 2015 to Present Current    Responsibilities:  • Interfaced with the Marketing and IT departments & developing requirements to implement.  • Pro-Tek provides UI as a service so I have worked with them for various clients and various project mostly as front end/senior JavaScript developer.  • Created and deployed new features in order to sustain and amend existing applications under MVC pattern using AngularJs.  • Used John Papa style guide to create components in Angular 2.0.  • Used typescript as a superset for JavaScript with babel to make it compatible to older browsers.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS 3, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Worked with angular standards such as John Papa style guide as well as Module reveal pattern by Tod Motto.  • Worked with Air bnb web starter kit for React js, which uses web pack, redux, and react to create reusable view components.  • Experience in working with Sass as a pre processors to create css using mixins, nesting of selectors, variables etc.  • Written several reusable custom directives to perform DOM manipulations within different views of Single Page Application.  • Written services and factories, which contain reusable business logic, which were injected into controllers so the logic can be extracted and used with a restful web API.  • Performed authentication and authorization on a restful web api service tier using json web token.  • Performed CRUD operation on restful web services using methods such as GET, PUT, POST and delete.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Responsible to create Responsive Web Design using Twitter Bootstrap and Media Queries.  • Strategy for Content Migration from Site Executive to Adobe CQ5.5 -> AEM 6.0.  • Design & Development of content migration scripts for migration.  • Design & Development of Templates, Components, different renditions, services etc. Setting Page Properties - Ext JS Configuration and Custom widgets creation.  • Worked on various complex workflows in AEM.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Extended CSS as needed to accommodate new data and display types.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.    Environment: HTML5, CSS 3, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, json, AngularJs, Jasmine, Usability Testing, Agile methodology,, react, redux, and flux. Front End Developer T-Mobile - Seattle, WA April 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implemented MVC architecture and developed the presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJs.  • Implemented Media Queries to create responsive web pages.  • Worked in Agile Environment  • Improved existing UI Experience by utilizing the latest features of AngularJS with with cross-browser compatibility.  • Created SASS files using mixins, imports, variables, nesting, Also used library of sass mixins such as bourbon.  • Utilized CSS based design techniques to eliminate table-based layouts and CSS Sprites to improve performance and decrease page load speed.  • Implemented custom validation controls for various forms through AngularJS custom directives validation controls.  • Worked with data visualization libraries such as D3.js, c3.js. Also worked with canavas and SVG.  • Worked with bootsrap to implement mobile first approach and created responsive web design.  • Implemented on-shore off-shore co-ordination with the remote team by being a team leaded for the offshore.  • Used Modernizr for HTML5 and CSS3 feature detection.  • Used JQuery plugins such as Auto Populating select-box, Search, Map, and Calendar.  • Designed, developed, and implemented ASP, HTML/CSS Templates for dynamic content generation.  • Extensive debugging with developer tools and Batarang.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, json, AngularJs, Jasmine, Usability Testing, Agile methodology. Front End Developer Guthy-Renker - Santa Monica, CA November 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed the front end using HTML and CSS & JavaScript for client side validation.  • Managed, maintained, developed and deployed applications and database in response to business needs.  • Extensively wrote HTML and CSS to build the pages from the Mock-ups and wireframes.  • Utilized various JQUERY plug-in to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Involved in team meetings with UI team and end user client for understanding needs in new implementation & Involved in daily team meetings & weekly scrum meetings.  • Migrated content from existing website to a new, database driven website, utilized in house Content management System.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS & JavaScript using Dreamweaver CS3.  • Identified the way to increase the search engine optimization (SEO) and social media friendly.  • Guided team into developing an effective organic SEO campaign and key phrase selection strategy.  • Worked on documentations and presentations using Microsoft office.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse. Web Developer/designer SCIF - Pleasanton, CA March 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  • Used JavaScript to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Drove multiple component design session parallel, creating design artifacts according to specifications.  • Utilized new software methodologies to be able to adapt to changes in requirements quickly.  Environment: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse. UI/UX Developer Sparx IT Solutions - Noida, Uttar Pradesh February 2009 to March 2010 • Involved in developing the UI, layout and front- end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements.  • Coordinated in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly. Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, and jQuery in ongoing projects.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Improved user experience by designing and creating new web components and features.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handled cross browser compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, Opera and Safari) on both Windows.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Coded Java Script for page functionality using jQuery.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Tomcat Apache, jQuery, JSP, Oracle, AJAX Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (8 years), JavaScript (6 years), jQuery. (8 years), UI (6 years), USER INTERFACE (6 years) Additional Information • Over 6 years of professional experience in UI Development, for web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and various core Front End Technologies.  • Experience in building web application using javascript-AJAX-Json combination to consume data from web services APIs.  • Experience in working MVC Architecture using AngularJs /Backbone.js.  • Hands on experience with Angular 2.0, Typescript, Babel and ecmascript 6.  • Hands on experience of Responsive Web Design using Media Queries, Twitter Bootstrap and jQuery Mobile.  • Strong understanding of CSS pre processors such as SASS and LESS.  • Knowledge of WCMs such as Drupal, cq5 (AEM) as a content management system.  • Stong understanding of shadow DOM, (virtual DOM) view libraries such as react js and polymer js.  • Knowledge of node js, express js as well as noSql databases such as mongo and couch.  • Expert knowledge of consuming restful web api to consume json data via ajax and promise.  • Knowledge of establishing cross browser Compatibility using Modernizr and Pollyfills.  • Proficiency in Debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Experience in complete Software Development Life Cycle.  • Capable of learning quickly alone and in a team based environment.  • Self-motivated Team player with excellent interpersonal and communicational skills.  • Proven experience developing web applications as a part of a product development team.    Skills:  Web Technologies  HTML 5, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Angular js, Backbone js, Handlebars, Require js, restful web api, json, JWT, react, redux, flux    Mobile Technologies Twitter Bootstrap, jQuery Mobile, Media Queries (CSS3), Phone gap, Cordova  IDE/Editor InteliJ, Web storm, sublime, eclipse and visual studio  Database MYSQL, SQL Server, Mongo DB  Version Control SVN, JIRA, Version One, GIT, stash, Source Tree  UI Tools Grunt, Gulp, bower, yeoman, web pack, NPM    Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, scrum