Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End Developer - TeamSoft Inc Atlanta, GA ? 8.5 years of professional experience in Requirements Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Java, J2EE and client-server technologies.  ? Around 5 years of web experience with JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, ExtJS, jQuery/JS including 3.5 years with Modern JS framework like Node.js, Angular.js, Bootstrap.js, Backbone.js, knockout.js, Prototype.js, Require.JS and Handlebars.js.  ? Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in large scale enterprise software using Object Oriented Analysis and Design.  ? Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front- end designing such as web pages, graphics and multimedia's.  ? Good experience in Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall methodologies.  ? Extensive experience in developing applications using Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, JSTL, JSP Custom Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI, SQL, AJAX, JavaScript and XML.  ? Strong Working experience in Design, Development and implementation of several J2EE frameworks like (Model View Controller) Struts, spring, Hibernate and EJB.  ? Strong front- end development using Adobe Flex, MXML, Action Script, AJAX, Java Scripts, CSS, HTML and DHTML.  ? Implemented Design patterns such as MVC, View Dispatcher, Data Access Objects, Singleton, Observer, Factory, and Session Facade.  ? Experience in configuring and deploying Web Applications using Web Logic, WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat and Apache.  ? Developed ANT scripts for the build and deployment of J2EE applications.  ? Design, analysis and modeling of n-tired, Object-Oriented system architectures using Rational Rose.  ? Thorough knowledge in using UML, XML parsers (SAX, DOM), SOAP, HTML and DHTML.  ? Sound RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, PL/SQL, SQL Server & DB2.  ? Very good experience in developing Test Cases using JUnit.  ? Experience in XML, WebServices using SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI, XML-RPC, JAX-RPC, JAXB and Messaging standards like JMS. Work Experience Senior Front End Developer TeamSoft Inc - Atlanta, GA March 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  ? As a Senior Programmer involved in design phase and assisting the team to develop admin UI services like manage users, roles, messages, etc., using Spring MVC and Acegi security.  ? Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  ? Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework, Worked on Spring /Hibernate Applications  ? Used Javascript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  ? Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.  ? Developed JavaScript based components using ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  ? Enhanced the functionality of screens using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery.  ? Implemented Hibernate for the ORM layer in transacting with Oracle database  ? Developed a bulletin board module for supplier and vendor information portal. Application included forms to upload notification documents to the Supplier bulletin and maintenance of documents, complete with CRUD capabilities and email notifications.  ? Developed PL/SQL procedures for login module and written complex sql queries  ? Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  ? Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework to implement the REST APIs involved  ? Implemented SOAP and REST paradigms to access Amazon web services; created a request for textbook search based on request type, search index, author name, with publisher and ASIN as output.  ? Used Eclipse for developing the application and CVS for version control.  ? Followed an Agile, Software Development methodology. Used NetBeans IDE  ? Deployed the application on Weblogic Application Server cluster on Solaris 10 environment  ? Played major role in migrating the all Rivervalley web applications source code from Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS) to Subversion (SVN) repositories.  ? Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations.  ? Provide direction and execution oversight for large Agile Development projects for the FBI as an integral member of the Program Management Office (PMO).  ? Optimized UML design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Service Locator and Business Delegate.  ? Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML, JavaScript, AJAX.  ? Developed the UI screens using SFX, Jsps, Java script, JSTL and CSS.  ? Implemented MVC design pattern for UI Layer using My Faces implementation of JSF and Tomahawk components, FacesServlet and Backing Beans.  ? Created webservices using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts.  ? Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  ? Client side validation was done using JavaScript's, sever side validations are done using Struts Validator Plug-In.  ? Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  ? Developed whole presentation layer using JavaScript based frameworks such as JavascriptMVC(JMVC), JQuery, Ajax, JSON and Google Gears with REST full communication    Environment:  Spring, Hibernate, struts, JQuery, Ajax, Sencha Extjs, Javascript, Oracle, Crud, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, REST, Eclipse, Weblogic, Subversion(SVN), JUnit, Agile, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven Senior Front End Developer FireEye - Reston, VA March 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Was responsible for designing and developing Manage Purchase Order Web Service and presentation layer with Spring MVC and Acegi security.  ? Designed and developed Enterprise Eligibility business objects and domain objects with Object Relational Mapping framework such as Hibernate.  ? Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  ? Developed web-based customer management software using Facelets, Icefaces and JSF  ? Wrote complex reporting applications with Ext JS and Sencha Touch for Windows Azure and Amazon Web Services, Linux and Windows servers.  ? Client side validation was done using JavaScript's, sever side validations are done using Struts Validator Plug-In.  ? Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.  ? Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  ? Creating SQL stored procedures in IBM DB2  ? Developed basic music player features as well as adding artists, players, albums, tracks, other users, playlists, favorites to their account and CRUD functions.  ? Created PL/SQL procedures, functions and written complex SQL queries for C2C resume builder.  ? Technological Platform used was BlackBerry Widget on the client side, CGI and JDBC on the server side.  ? Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  ? Implemented Web Services using SOAP Technology.  ? Developed, Published, Consumed web services using VB.NET to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP.  ? Extensively used Java Collections API to store intermediate data objects using Eclipse editor.  ? Installation, configuration and deployment on WAS , Websphere Portal Server , IBM directory server , WebSphere Commerce Server  ? JUnit testing of Java classes to populate JSP screens of online tax exemption forms which updated Oracle 10g database under Tomcat/WebLogic web services.  ? Acted a Scrum Coach for adoption of Scrum for BI business projects  ? Mentored a team of 5 junior to mid-level developers in Java/J2EE Development using UML design documents.  ? Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  ? Developed JSPs using EL language and JSTL tags.  ? Used Action classes to service requests from ActionServlet and Business Data on server-side and invoke respective EJB (Entity Beans) to process Database transactions.  ? Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  ? Developed the Front end application using JSP and HTML.  ? Generated reports in PDF / HTML formats using Actuate BIRT reports, integrated with Struts.  ? Designed and developed new features for application using java, j2ee, JSP , Servlets , Struts , Java, EJB , JDBC, HTML, JSTL, JavaScript and XSL.  ? Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Developed presentation layer using XML, XSL, JavaScript, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Custom tags etc.  ? Provided application development, using OOA and OOD methodologies, primarily for Java, EJBs, JSP, (D)HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT  ? Enhanced the functionality of screens using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery.  ? Used JavaScript for Client Side validations.  ? Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML, JavaScript, AJAX  ? Utilize Dojo framework for performing front end validations.  ? Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, DOJO, Sencha ExtJS, Javascript, CSS, Ajax, HTML5, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, JBDC, Apache CXF, Soap, Webservices, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, GIT, GITHUB, JUnit, Scrum, UML, JSP, Servlet, Maven Sr. UI Developer AppLabs - Irving, TX August 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Spring AOP for admin services.  ? I worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  ? Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validators and JavaScript.  ? Developed Hibernate persistence layer modules using EJB Java Persistence API (JPA) annotations and Entity Manager.  ? Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Experienced in Oracle , SQL, PL/SQL, MS Access and MYSQL databases.  ? Worked on Toad for Oracle for querying the database.  ? Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, Log4J, Oracle and MS SQL Server  ? Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  ? Developed web services using Apache Axis2 in Java and SOAP/WSDL on SOA architecture.  ? Created web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in hibernate, Used the spring container for data source and to load the Hibernate specific classes.  ? Responsible for generating build script using ANT that compiles the code, builds a war file and deploys the application on JBOSS server.  ? Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  ? Setup ClearCase server to support CCRC (ClearCase Remote Clients). Evaluated existing software development environment, drafted recommendations for improvements. Worked with GHX and IBM to resolve licensing issues involved with ClearCase software change management solution package. Environment was mixed Windows and Linux, projects written in C++ and Java.  ? Selenium-Sikuli Integration for Distributed Remote Execution  ? Carried out complete SDLC testing by following both agile and water fall model and generated cross test summary and generated customized reports suiting to the needs of the client  ? Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle.  ? Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  ? Integrating Rich Faces and My Faces in JSF, configuring Rich Faces Filter and Faces Servlet in the configuration file  ? Proficient in Perl Scripting, Visual Build Pro, SQL, Clearmake, build utilities like Openmake, ANT and Cruise Control. Experience as a Software Configuration Management (SCM) architect for ClearCase UCM.  ? Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, using eAgent frame work JSPs, HTML, AJAX, JQuery, iFrame and JavaScript.  ? Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  ? Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.   Environment: Spring, IBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, JQuery, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, Apache Axis2, WSDL, Netbeans, JBoss, Mercurial, Cleracase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, JSP, UML, Servlet. Software Developer Pyramid Technology Solutions Inc - Norwich, CT February 2008 to July 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Agile methodology was adopted in the development, and used Scrum method of project management.  ? Implemented UI layer using Flex and business layer using Spring MVC and developed persistence layer using Hibernate.  ? Designing Flex UI components as well as development of Flex custom components.  ? Developed eye catching MXML view components using Flex Builder.  ? Used Cairngorm MVC Architecture to handle the events and to retrieve the data from the server.  ? Responsible for design and development of user interface using Flex Layout and Navigation, Data grid menus, and skinning components.  ? Used Cisco Cues charts for creating Bar charts, Line charts and Pie Charts to show the project specific performance metrics  ? Integrated Flex with BlazeDSto communicate Server side Objectswhich was build using Spring Framework and Hibernate.  ? Extensively used RemoteObjects to retrieve data from the remote server and perform required business functionalities from the front end.  ? Configured Spring Application-Context.xml used by spring container to inject dependencies to java classes to optimize memory resources.  ? Implemented Spring IoC (Dependency Injection) and Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) for the Business as well as Lookup Service Layer development.  ? Developed / modified the model components to incorporate new business level validations.  ? Responsible for the oracle schema design, generating various POJO objects and generating their corresponding Hibernate mappings (.hbm) files.  ? Consumed WebServicesfor getting the credit card information from third party application.  ? Used Singleton and DAO design pattern.  ? Test Driven development is done by maintaining theJunitand FlexUnittest cases throughout the application.  ? Log4j package is used for the debugging.  ? Used ClearCase for version control.  ? Ensuring adherence to delivery schedules and quality process on projects.    Environment: Java , J2ee, Spring, Hibernate , Flex , Action Script, MXM, XML, XSD, Java script, Blaze DS Cairngorm MVC Framework, IBM RAD, ClearCase, Oracle 10g, Log4j, Weblogic., Sql, DbVisualizer, Webservices, Agile, ClearQuest, Maven, UML (Rational Rose), HTML , CSS and Windows Prof Java/J2EE Developer Nigel Frank International Limited December 2005 to 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Followed the Agile methodology iterative process for each of the module in the project.  ? Developed the Login Module and Reimbursement Module.  ? All modules developed with the framework design patterns and DAOs, Hibernatefor persistence layer, Spring Framework for Application layer.  ? Prototyped Flex based RFC using Flex, consuming web services using BlazeDS.  ? Used Spring framework in enabling Controller Class access to Hibernate.  ? Designed and developed several Flex UI Screens and Custom Components using MXML and Action script.  ? Designed and developed user interface using Flex Components: ViewStack, Checkboxes, Repeater, Title Window, Text Area and others.  ? Created components that have multiple views using States and also used Effectsand Transitions when a State is entered or exited.  ? Extensively used to data models to store the form data.  ? Worked on a proof of concept on Internationalization in flex.  ? Developed Action Script functions for event handling response handling and error handling  ? Implemented Singleton Service Locator design patterns in Cairngorm MVC architecture to interact with backend.  ? Implemented JSON with Flex to feed Data grids into the web application.  ? Worked on development of Error Handling mechanism on the Flex side by catching the error  code and message streamed from server and wrapping it in a custom Exception Object.  ? Used Blaze DS to connect flex application with backend J2EE and Web Services layer to pull out the data to Flex UI components  ? Was responsible for deploying and testing webservices components.  ? Responsible to create Web Services to various web applications using Apache Axisesponsible to create WSDL, WSDL2Java and Java2WSDL Stubs  ? Extensively used SOAP in webservices to communicate with other applications.  ? Used SAX and DOM for parsing XML.  ? The Log4j package is used for the debugging.  ? Created JUnitand FlexUnittest case design logic and implemented throughout application.  ? Used ANT tool for building and deploying the application.  ? Used Toad tool to create Views and Stored procedures.  ? Created Datamodel (Schema) of the Database.  ? The project was implemented in Websphere Application Server for the development and deployment.  ? Participated in regular code reviews and design meetings.    Environment: Java, JSP, J2EE, Hibernate, Log4j, Struts, JSON , Apache Axis 2, Spring, WebServices, Adobe flex builder, Flex API , Blaze DS, Flex, MXML, Action script, Tomcat Web Server, Websphere, IBM RAD, ClearCase, JQuery, Agile , VSS, Sql Server, Pl/Sql , TOAD, XML, CruiseControl, Unix, HTML, XSLT and CSS. Career Path Group - New York, NY November 2004 to November 2005 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in modifying, updating and testing of the component.  ? Involved in group meeting with teammates and made substantial changes to the architecture to improve performance of the Application.  ? Modified JSPs, used struts tag libraries and Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  ? Maintained Struts architecture throughout the application.  ? Developed the bean classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers  ? Deployed the application on WebLogic, Application Server.  ? Created connection pools and data sources.  ? Modified JavaScript to read client side activities (events) and data and event validations.  ? Used WinCVS as version Control system.  ? Suggested ER models and changes in the table structures  ? Modified SQL, PL/SQL procedures and triggers to obtain optimize output.  ? Involved in separation of components and deploying in different servers and balancing the load among each Server.  ? Solved performance issues and brought optimal output from the available resources.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Sybase, BEA WebLogic Server, JSTL, SQL Server, Struts Frame work, Servlets, JSP, EJB, WinCVS, JavaBeans, Eclipse, UML, Windows XP/Linux. Education MASTER OF COMPUTER SCIENCE STATE UNIVERSITY