Senior Front End Developer (Full Remote) Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Full Remote) Senior Front End Developer (Full Remote) - Wells Fargo Sturbridge, MA Work Experience Senior Front End Developer (Full Remote) Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA February 2013 to Present San Francisco  ? Lead front end developer on HTML5 project for the iPad and Android tablet application using jQuery/jQuery Mobile and CSS3. In addition acted as the lead front end developer on several smaller subsequent projects.  ? Served as the go-to JavaScript resource for the mobile division and mentored some less experienced developers.  ? Introduced some best practices and design patterns for managing client side code to the division. Front End Architect Byron Realty Corporation January 2013 to Present Developed ByronRealty.com, a phone first but responsive design web site to gradually replace current site. The main focus was on utility and speed by maximizing caching and minimizing http requests. The technology stack includes Python, Django, Redis, Memcahe, Postgre, HTML5, CSS3, Fontello, Bootstrap and Zepto. Supporting technologies include GIT and various Grunt tasks.  ? Creating a single page web based CRM application for the company. The technology stack involved is Backbone.js/RequireJS/jQuery/BootStrap/Handlebars consuming a REST API written on top of Django. The code-base is in a private Git repository. In addition, Grunt is being used for build/watch tasks such as linting and pre-compiling templates. Senior Front End Developer Putnam Investments - Boston, MA September 2012 to December 2012 Helped to finish up a retirement planner application written in Backbone | Underscore | Jquery | HighCharts and provide an expert JavaScript resource to a less experienced team. Senior Front End Developer Travelers - Hartford, CT June 2010 to August 2012 Provide Lead JavaScript/jQuery/CSS expertise for a team of 20 .Net developers in an Agile environment. Helped to re-write major portions of the application and establish better client side practices and greatly improve performance.  ? Joined a second project to help finish the development of a single page application JavaScript application. Senior Front End Developer Avenue 100 Media - Woburn, MA November 2009 to June 2010 Developed custom UI for internal reporting which included consuming SSRS web services to render reports outside of the standard MS Viewer or PageManager using VB.net and JavaScript/JQuery/JQueryUI on the client. Senior Front End Developer Monster.com July 2008 to November 2009 Worked in Employer web site division using CSS, JavaScript, MS AJAX Framework and C#.  ? Help complete the development of Monster's next generation Seeker web site. Primary responsibility was JavaScript development using the jQuery library. Senior Front End Developer Intralinks Corp - Boston, MA October 2007 to July 2008 Developed Single Page JavaScript Application leveraging the Isomorphic Smart Client framework on top of a REST APIs. Used JIRA and Confluence for requirements and collaboration. Consultant Oracle Corp - Burlington, MA November 2006 to September 2007 Part of small team to migrate existing client/server application to a web based zero footprint application for managing clinical drug trials. One of two main JavaScript and CSS developers. Consultant LustreColor Inc September 2005 to September 2006 Designed, and developed consumer web site which is an e-commerce portal for professional photographers.  ? Highlight of the project was an online wedding album designer allowing a design to go from what was designed on the web to printing by translating album object model to a format digestible by the Kodak DP2 printing system. Senior UI Developer OneBeacon Insurance - Foxborough, MA June 2004 to June 2005 Ensured department conformed to UI standards (W3C Accessibility).  ? Created Java tag library for common UI components used in applications in order to alleviate the need for the Java programmers to write JavaScript widgets. Partner ERP Mining Inc - Mendon, MA January 2002 to June 2004 Developed web based financial business intelligence application to leverage existing data warehouse.  ? Created powerful web based report designer allowing complex financial reports to be created, saved and assigned.  ? Created visual query builder with drag and drop, table joins and SQL validation utilizing DHTML, JavaScript and VML.  ? Developed report engine to interpret and execute report specifications.  ? Developed report viewing interface allowing users to execute assigned reports as well as gather metrics by pivoting reports across multiple dimension points. Owner Webtek Solutions, Inc November 1999 to January 2002 Charles River Associates as Consultant (Jan 1999-Nov 1999); CVS Corporation as Consultant (Aug 1998-Dec 1998); Transition Systems, Inc. as Software Engineer (June 1997-Aug 1998); Norfolk County Internet as Programmer (June 1996-May 1997). Technical Instructor Clark University Computer Career Institute - Braintree, MA January 2000 to September 2000 Taught the Cold Fusion portion of the Web Master Program during the evenings and weekends.  ? Developed my own curriculum for this module and consistently received exceptional reviews from students. This module consisted of about 40 hours of lecture and hands on exercises. I taught this module six times over two years.  ? Taught SQL module of the Web Master Program which was approximately 20 hours of lecture and hands on exercises. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, jQuery Mobile, Backbone.js, Underscore, Prototype.js, SmartClientJS, AMD, Grunt, WebStorm, Mustache/Handlebars.js, Twitter Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS, LESS, FireBug, Chrome Dev Tools, MS Dev Toolbar, VB.Net, C#, ASP.NET, Classic ASP, VS2003-2010, Web Services, ColdFusion 3-6, IIS4-6, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, SEO, Adwords/Adsense, Google Analytics, Overture/Yahoo SEM, Microsoft Adcenter, SSRS, SSRS Web Services, SQL Server 7- 2008, SVN, CVS, ClearCase, Git/GITHub, Rally