Sr. Angular Web Developer Sr. Angular Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Angular Web Developer - Verizon Palo Alto, CA ? Around 10+ Years of progressive experience in all the phases of software development life cycle including Design, development and implementation of software applications, with over around 6 years of Web Developing Experience using Angular.JS, React, Node.js, Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery, AJAX, XML.  ? Expertise in front- end development in working with AJAX frameworks: Angular 2JS (typescript), Angular JS, JQuery, Sencha, YUI, DWR and Dojo.  ? Excellent experience in Restful Web services and Big Web service development and consumption using (JAX-RS and JAX-WS)  ? Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  ? Experience in working with Databases like Oracle, SQL Server, DB2 and Classic Federator and proficiency in writing complex SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Experience in Agile methodologies such as Extreme Programming, Waterfall Model and Test Driven Development.  ? Strong communication, collaboration & team building skills with proficiency in grasping new technical concepts quickly.  ? Self-starter always inclined to learn new technologies and Team Player with very good communication, organizational and interpersonal skills.  ? Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar  ? High level of expertise in responsive design based on devices/machines using Bootstrap  ? Proficient with creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash and Adobe Illustrator.  ? Good understanding of Java, JSP, GWT, AJAX, JQuery Library and plugins.  ? Experienced in WEB and GUI development using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, DOJO, POJO, AJAX, JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) technologies.  ? Experience with Design & implementation SOA web services and SOA BPM architecture.  ? Experience with ILOG JRules (Business Rules Management System)  ? Supporting and implementing of Business Integration for various customers using WBI ICS, WPS and WBI Message Broker technologies.  ? Utilizing J2EE components such as EJB, SOA Web Services, JSP and Servlets.  ? Designing, developing and testing of various business processes in the financial, public, telecom domains for various customers.  ? Having very good experience and knowledge on different integration patterns like Publish/Subscribe, Request/Reply, Point to Point, Hub/Spoke, Synchronous/Asynchronous etc. Work Experience Sr. Angular Web Developer Verizon - New York, NY April 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the user portal using angularJS 2 along with HTML, CSS and TypeScript.  ? Expert in UI development technologies such as JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, GWT  ? Good understanding in Angular.js, Ember.js, Jasmine, Karma, Backbone.js, React.js, MyBatis, require.js, node.js framework concepts and Responsive Design  ? Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using Agile Model.  ? Worked with Angular 2 and typescript as part of migration from Angular and vanilla javascript to Angular 2 and React.  ? Design and implementation of desktop, mobile and web applications in Java and HTML5/JavaScript using Eclipse, NetBeans, and Xcode IDE's; Swing, GWT, Vaadin, JPA, Hibernate, PhoneGap frameworks; and SVN, git, maven source code environments.  ? Developed GUI using JSP, HTML5, and CSS3.  ? Designing, Coding (development) and Debugging application using Eclipse Indigo as an IDE, Spring JDBC framework and DAO pattern, HTML5, CSS3, and JQuery  ? Development of front- end POC application using Angular 2 JS, Dependency injection, Rx and Http modules with Node.js server for future evolutions  ? Created MAVEN archetypes for generating fully functional REST web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation. Archetypes built on Spring 3.0 technology.  ? Developed Single Page applications using AngularJS 2 using components, directives using TypeScript and NodeJs.  ? Maintained high level of unit test coverage through test-driven development.  ? Provided connections using Spring JDBC to the database and developed SQL queries to manipulate the data.  ? Experience on implementation of version control software SVN, CVS, GIT repositories.  ? Hands on experience on JMS messaging system.  ? Design UI scripting using typescript in Angular 2.  ? Used Log back to print the logging, debugging, warning, info statements.  ? Involved in bug fixes, enhancements and code refactoring.  ? Experience working with offshore team and delivering the product on time.  ? API distributed in multiple domain modules with multithreading, currently supporting Couchbase as database and running on the latest next generation edge technologies like Docker, Angular 2, Spring.  ? Expertise in object oriented JavaScript Libraries including Various Plug-Ins like Angular.JS and Node JS.  ? Created prototype HTML5 based mobile site, fully replicating functionality of ipad app created in Node JS and YUI3, eliminating need for native app development.  ? Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.  ? Experience developing web Kit and search Engine.  ? Hands on experience with UNIX Shell Scripting.  ? Hands on Experience with Drools, Apache camel, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ, IBMMQ  ? Built Single Page Apps using Angular 2 and Typescript for Responsive Design.  ? Experience in developing scalable front- end user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS and Mongo DB.  ? Experience writing production-grade Node.js and Ext JS applications.  ? Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angularJS 2.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap  ? Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Bootstrap.js and jQuery.  ? Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade    Environment- Angular 2, JavaScript, Node.js, Bootstrap.js, Backbone.js, React.js, CSS, HTML, Oracle, PL/SQL, JDBC, Cassandra, JAVA, , UNIX, JMS, SOAP, REST, MQ Series, Web Sphere Application Server, Spring Framework, JSP, DOJO, , REST, Log back. Sr. Front End Developer PNC, NY October 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Was responsible for designing and developing Manage Purchase Order Web Service and presentation layer with Spring MVC and Acegi security.  ? Extensive use of Angular.js for developing the SPAs (Single Page Applications) for internal application/tool.  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture (Struts Framework), Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle 8i database. The Application is designed using J2EE technologies based on Spring MVC architecture.  ? Created Web Applications with real-time, two-way connection, where both Client and Server can initiate communication by using Angular.js.  ? Designed and developed UI Search and results screens for SDWCS operators and other agencies using JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  ? Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using NodeJs and JavaScript.  ? Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets, HTML  ? Used AngularJS built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  ? Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  ? Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  ? Worked with Responsive Web design using Bootstrap.js.  ? Experience with Responsive Web Design, JSON, AJAX, Angular.Js, Backbone.JS, NodeJs, Ionic and Bootstrap.  ? Designed SPAs (Single Page Applications) using Angular JS concepts of Directives, Services, Promises, Templating, Scope, Dependency Injection and two-way data binding.  ? On-demand processing of data from db2 and Mainframe data using stand-alone java programs  ? Tested all application controllers extensively with Angular JS's built-in testing facilities.  ? Developed a bulletin board module for supplier and vendor information portal. Application included forms to upload notification documents to the Supplier bulletin and maintenance of documents, complete with CRUD capabilities and email notifications.  ? Developed SQL queries with PHP Doctrine and Propel to create, retrieve and update data and programming SQL sentences based on CRUD  ? Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  ? Developed frontend of application using Bootstrap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework.  ? Developed Ruby on Rails web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis  ? Implemented the web services client to consume the third-party service API for validating credit cards. Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  ? Created Angular JS controllers, services and used Angular JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Involved in creation of web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in hibernate, Implemented Web Services in JAXP based on SOAP protocols using XML and XSLT.  ? Used IBM WSAD to develop different J2EE components like EJB's, Client jars, Web Modules and Application EAR modules.  ? Played major role in migrating the all River valley web applications source code from Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS) to Subversion (SVN) repositories  ? Wrote test cases using Junit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server.  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Designing and developing 'Online' client windows API's using JDK and Swing classes.    Environment- Angular.js, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Node.js, Bootstrap.js, Reacts Backbon.js, JQuery, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, MongoDB, soap, Web Service, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, Websphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD), SVN, Junit, Jasmine, Scrum, UML, MAVEN, Xml, JIRA. Front End Developer Best Buy, Texas - Front, Texas, US October 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Used Angular JS for creating Responsive Web Design (RWD) and did data manipulations to display data in company standard format in UI.  ? Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++.  ? Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium.  ? Worked with Angular JS for creating own HTML elements for building a companied website which is an open source project.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  ? Used C++, Java, Servlets, JDBC, JSP and DAO for Coding/Implementation  ? Developed Angular components in TypeScript for web-based electronic tax filing system.  ? Integrating Rich Faces and My Faces in JSF, configuring Rich Faces Filter and Faces Servlets in the configuration file  ? Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool.  ? Implemented a Single Page Web Applications (SPA) based front end for displaying user requests, user records history and security settings various users using JavaScript and Angular JS.  ? Design and develop GUI and back- end components for analysis and collaboration software in Google Web Toolkit, Java and XML in a UNIX environment.  ? As a Senior Programmer involved in design phase and assisting the team to develop admin UI services like manage users, roles, messages, etc., using Spring MVC and Acegi security.  ? Worked on Angular JS features like Two Way Binding, Custom Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services and Project Architecture, React JS features like Components, Lifecycle methods, and unidirectional data flow using the Flux Architecture.  ? Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework, Worked onSpring/Hibernate Applications  ? Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  ? Designed and developed new features for application using java, j2ee, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Java, EJB, JDBC, HTML, JSTL, JavaScript and XSL.  ? Applying Ruby on Rails and JQuery debugged, enhanced, extended business-to-business SAP application. Provided extensive integration and functional mocks testing.  ? Created Angular Directives, Components, Pipes, Injectables across the whole system, such as build the custom filter and the main assortment dashboard.  ? Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.  ? Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience  ? Developed JavaScript based components using ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  ? Used Angular.js framework where data from backend is stored in model using http and security configurations for authentication and authorization for populated model on to UI.  ? Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries  ? Used tools like Toad, PL SQL Developer and Squirrel for performing database operations.  ? Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQLs.  ? Worked on Java Multithreading, Collections & Coherence Framework.  ? Used Oracle coherence to find POJO beans from the deployed WAR file.  ? Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular.js  ? Written Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  ? Developed web service using SOAP, UDDI, WSDL and XML, and wrote scripts to deploy them on apache tomcat.  ? Followed an Agile, Software Development methodology. Used NetBeans IDE  ? Used Jboss MQ and JMS API and MDB's for developing integration layer.  ? Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using AngularJS directives.  ? Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  ? Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Developed a web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging  ? Worked on tickets from service-now and Jira on daily basis.  ? Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  ? Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowage iText and jasper report.    Environment- AngularJs, iBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, JQuery, AJAX, DOJO, ExtJS, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Coherence, Apache Axis2, WSDL, NetBeans, Jboss, Mercurial, ClearCase, selenium, Water Fall Model, JSP, Servlets, ANT, XML, iText, EMC Documentum, GWT, Jira, Cognos, jasper report J2EE Developer Sabre - Chicago, IL March 2009 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed the requirements and enhanced the application which improved maintainability, extensibility and performance.  ? Designed Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams for the application.  ? Involved in enhancing Presentation layer, Business layer and DAO layer components.  ? Implemented JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax to design front end.  ? Client and Server side validations were done using JavaScript and Ajax.  ? Extensive use of Ajax to update the part of webpage which improved the performance of the application.  ? Business logic layer was implemented using Servlets and EJBs.  ? Implemented XML parsers such as DOM.  ? Incorporated persistence tier using Hibernate framework.  ? Developed code for Java Multithreading.  ? Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  ? Used C++, Java, Servlets, JDBC, JSP and DAO for Coding/Implementation  ? Integrating Rich Faces and My Faces in JSF, configuring Rich Faces Filter and Faces Servlets in the configuration file  ? Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.  ? Created service component using EJB  ? Incorporated Mule for messaging.  ? Deployed the application on Jboss application server.  ? Used Oracle as relational databases.  ? Involved in Unit testing, bug fixing, QA and Production support.    Environment- Java, Jsp, Servlets, Ejb, Html, C++, JDBC, JSP, JSF, Jboss, Oracle, JavaScript, Ajax, Log4j, Xml, Dom, Edit plus, DAO, Mule, Jboss Java Developer Dell Computer Corporation - Ashburn, VA September 2008 to February 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Many experience in system analysis, design and application development, flowcharting, unit and system testing, performance testing, test plan preparation, testing validations, program debugging.  ? Result oriented team player with ability to learn and implement latest technologies with enthusiastic devotedness for the Organization/Institute/Company where belonged for.  ? Worked extensively as a front- end and back- end developer on Database and also have experience in many different environment with strong exposure in implementation stages Responsible for developing complex SQL queries for ICS Core  ? Cohesive team worker, having strong analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills.  ? Performance tuning of interfaces developed by other development teams  ? Solve many issues regarding development of programmer.  ? Outstanding Java Developer and talented Software Engineer with proven expertise in object-oriented analysis and design and exceptional record overseeing all facets of Software Development    Environment- Spring, iBatis, Struts, JSF, JSP, JNDI, EJB, JQuery, AJAX, DOJO, ExtJS, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Coherence, Apache Axis2, WSDL, NetBeans, Jboss, Mercurial, ClearCase, selenium, Water Fall Model. Education Master of Science in Computer Science New York University Skills JAVA (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY:    UI Technologies: Angular.js, Angular 2, Backbone.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Ajax, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript, JSP  Operating Systems: UNIX, AIX, Solaris, Win 95/NT/XP, LINUX  Technologies: J2EE, JDBC, JSF, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, RMI, EJB, JNDI, JMS, XML, XSL/XSLT, HTML, DHTML, and JavaScript, Hibernate.  Databases: Oracle, DB2 and SQL Server 2000/2005