UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Advance Auto Parts Mankato, KS • Over 9+ years of professional experience as a Web/UI Developer in Software Development Life Cycle SDLC including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Programming, Testing and Implementing, Production Support, Performance Tuning, Maintenance and Enhancement.  • Extensive experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Model View Controller (MVC) Framework such as Angular JS, React JS (JSX), Angular 2, Backbone JS framework.  • Designed, Developed and Deployed Web pages and Front- End components (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSP, JSON following W3C Web Standards that are responsive and browser compatible.  • Expertise in TypeScript, ExtJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, EmberJS, CSS3, Microservices and Photoshop with strong experience in developing UI applications.  • Extensive experience on implementing AJAX features using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, Layouts, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements, CSS behaviors in CSS and in using preprocessors like SASS & LESS.  • Involved in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs.  • Experience using Express, Node, Rest frameworks and developed backend services using NodeJS, Express JS & MongoDB to produce dynamic web content, perform event-driven functionalities.  • Experience in developing applications using Angular JS-Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Expertise in using system task/build runners like Gulp, Grunt & Gradle and Node Packaged Modules like (NPM) and Bower.  • Experience in Web Services Technologies like SOAP with Node.js and implemented SOA architecture with web services.  • Experience in Bootstrap, Underscore.js and Responsive Web design using media queries.  • Implemented tokenizer and validation framework to prevent cross-site-scripting (XSS) and CSRF attacks across the application.  • Extensive experience in developing Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using UML Rational Rose and Visio.  • Experience in writing unit tests using Jasmine, Karma, Mocha and Chai.  • Good database knowledge in Oracle, SQL Server, My SQL and expertise in designing and coding stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursor, packages using SQL and PL/SQL with tuning concepts.  • Worked on code cleanup using code quality tools like CSSLint, JSLint, and JSHint.  • Experience in Design, Development, Testing enterprise applications using JDBC, JSP, jQuery, DOJO, JMS, Web Service, AJAX, Java page flows, Apache, and Tomcat Application server.  • Developed custom frameworks within WordPress and Drupal Content Management Systems (CMS).  • Experience in installing, configuring, tuning IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS.  • Proficient in using various source code editors like Sublime Text 3, Brackets.io, Notepad++ & Jet Brains WebStorm.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, Oracle, JDeveloper for Java/J2EE application development and also proficient in IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD), STS Eclipse & Developer.  • Worked with cross browser compatibility issues and did testing on the browsers like Safari, IE-8, 9, 10, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Well versed and hands on experience in multiple version control tools like GIT, CVS, SVN & IBM RTC.  • Proficient in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, Pair Programming and Waterfall software development processes.  • Strong skills in API design, Enterprise Application Integration, Database design, and knowledge of various Architecture, Design, Integration patterns and Application frameworks development.  • Excellent analytical and critical thinking, creative problem solving, quick learning, leadership, interpersonal and client interfacing skills. Work Experience UI Developer Advance Auto Parts - Roanoke, VA June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working as a UI Developer for the single page application (SPA) developed using Angular 2/4 framework targeting all modern web browsers.    • Creating HTML Markups using responsive web design(RWD) approach with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and Angular 2/4, React JS.    • Created various Modules, controller and components for the entire application using Angular 2/4.    • Developed REST architecture-based web services to facilitate communication between client and server.    • Using object-oriented programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the web application.  • Proficient at using React JS to render some advanced components on the server side, along with Flux pattern and Redux(RXJS) library.  • Added new features using React/Redux(RXJS)/Lodash for functionality of few modules.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services  • Developed a single page, mobile first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real time using Angular 4, JavaScript API  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation using Angular 4.  • Used Python for scripting in order to develop the webpages.  • Involved in developing applications using Angular 4, Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Worked with Express.JS for development of RESTful web services and middleware configurations.  • Built single page application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make dynamic by using Angular 4 framework and Node Js.  • Developed customer login portal using WordPress.    • Worked with SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 and created databases, tables, views queries, sub queries, stored procedures and triggers on the database tables.  • Created Angular2 controllers, services and used Angular2 filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.    • Developed custom directives to be reused across different modules in the application.  • Custom Node.js proxy used to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete, and to proxy requests to finished client APIs, handling authentication, custom headers, virtual application root, etc.    • Using LESS CSS to simplify CSS development & maintenance.    • CSS Media queries are used to develop single responsive application with good user experience in all platforms like desktop, tablets and mobile phones.  • Converted the codebase to use modern Ecma Script (ES5, ES6) using babel, typescript to transpile and webpack as a module loader and used reactive extensions.  • Experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance and extensive experience with Agile.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Used Docker containers for deploying the application.  • Successfully integrating front end code with server side.  • Created Gulp scripts for various tasks and used Node-JS for managing application UI Dependencies.  • Good experience on version control systems GIT, CVS, SVN and package managers like Bower, NPM and Adobe DTM.  • Used Angular4 to develop few modules of the project.  • Involved in writing unit tests using Mocha and Chai.  • Analyzing cross browser, device specific issues and providing solutions within the timelines  • Ensured all the deliverables within the timelines with accuracy.    Environment: Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, React JS, AWS, Spring, AJAX, ES5, ES6, CSS LESS, Node.js, Gulp JS, Grunt JS, GIT, Express JS, Docker, microservices, Mocha, Chai and JIRA. UI Developer Freddie Mac, Mac Lean June 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.    • Developed User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON and AngularJS.    • Used jQuery for interaction between JavaScript and HTML.    • Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons.    • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.    • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.    • Extensively used Angular UI (Angular Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components.  • Implemented React.js to create a dynamically changing value.    • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.    • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Node using DOM Functioning.  • Created High charts using D3.js which simulated company user data, server performance, presentations.    • Extensively used Debugging JavaScript using Chrome developer Toolbar, Firebug.    • Coordinate with Interface Design Architects for meeting accessibility standards at code level.    • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design(RWD) and media queries.    • Created quality mockups and prototypes.  • Developed Front- end code using React JS to render DOM elements and Developed server-side code using Node JS and Express JS.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX.  • Successfully handled JSON/XML data and carried out JSON/XML parsing for form submissions and DOM manipulation.    • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.    • Updated the website from time to time for special requirements.    • Wrote the unit test for the Angular JS using karma, jasmine frameworks.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, React.js, Responsive design, NPM, Jasmine, Karma. Front End Developer BCBSA - Chicago, IL February 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • AGILE development process has been followed. Experienced with stand-up, Retrospective, Demo, Planning and Code review meetings.  • Used AJAX for request response processing without reloading the complete page.  • Developed UI screens using Angular JS (Custom Directives, Validation and Promises)  • Developed Angular Controllers, Services, Filters and HTML templates using Angular Directives  • Developed Test Cases using EasyMock and used POSTMAN to test REST Calls  • Developed UI Routers using Angular JS Route Library  • Used RabbitMQ for deploying the application.  • Developed HTML 5, CSS3 components to the UI Screen  • Developed custom templates, components, and widgets using AEM and integrated Components with AngularJS.  • Worked on UNIX shell scripting to run the JAR file created for batch program.  • Written jQuery Validations for the User Front-ends.  • Design and Implemented XML/WSDL/SOAP/RESTFUL Web Services to provide the interface to the various clients running on both Java and Non-Java applications.  • Web application development for backend system using Node.js, Rapid.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Used mule in designing and deploying applications using anytime studio platform and connected various applications at Anytime platform using RAML  • Developed and consumed SOAP based web services using WSDL, SOAP, CXF, and res-WS.  • Involved in writing SQL queries & PL/SQL - Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, Cursors, sequences, indexes etc.  • Experienced with AngularJS directives ng-app, ng-init, ng-model for initialization of AngularJS application data, implemented AngularJS Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters.  • Designed single page MVC using AngularJS libraries, UI routers, angular custom directives and filters by linking the database with AJAX.  • Tested JavaScript using Jasmine.js and Grunt during development.  • Used Angular JS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  • Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse IDE, Ant, Web Logic and Maven for development.    Environment: Angular JS, NodeJS, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, Web Services, JDBC, RequireJS, HTML5, JavaScript, ExtJS, JQUERY, Oracle11g, MongoDB, JSON, Eclipse IDE, CVS, WebLogic, Rational Rose, Maven. Front End Developer IQVIA - IN March 2011 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript and Angular.js.  • Coded extensively in jQuery to make rich internet web pages and created custom date picker on the website  • Prepared the project technical documentation in Wire frames.  • Developed mockups and prototypes using HTML and CSS3  • Expertise in using Twitter Bootstrap Framework responsive design  • Design website and maintain the website content up to date.  • Excellent problem-solving skills and the ability to work independently.  • Extensively written COREJAVA & Multi-Threading code in application.  • Optimized SAX and DOM parsers for XML production data.  • Developed responsive mobile sites with high performance and customizable designs using WordPress  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery.  • Experience creating using JavaScript and Flash animation using Adobe Flash 5.5.dynamic FLASH applications  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Experience using different jQuery and bootstrap plugins for the web pages.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  • Develop the online chat interface for the anonymous communication between mentors and clients.  • Re-designing/ developing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionality.  • Worked on the website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML5/CSS/JavaScript.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5/HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Used JIRA as a bug-reporting tool for updating the bug report.  • Used ANT Builder to build the code for production line.  • Used Eclipse IDE for all recoding in Java, Servlets and JSPs.  • Used IBM Clear Case for Versioning and Maintenance.  • Involved in extensive HTML5 coding.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements are lagging.  • Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Performing the different modules like login, search and download with tracking.  • Did extensive JavaScript and jQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  • Further tasks include management of all MySQL database and all the required tables to store different survey information related to the site.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JDK 1.5, Jenkins, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, MS Access, Adobe Flash, ANT, JIRA, XML, MS Office, IE 6, 7, 8 9 10, Firefox, Chrome, MySQL, Bootstrap. UI developer Tata Consultancy Services May 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Created Responsive Web page designs using HTML & CSS and validated web pages with W3C Validator.    • Used Dreamweaver as HTML Editor for designing new pages. Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style Sheets.    • Developed mockups and high quality SVG images using Photoshop and converted the templates into dynamic user interactive web pages.    • Gathered the data from the backend using AJAX and jQuery.    • Gathered data from API/web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updating the DOM within the result sets.    • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS3 based page layouts.    • Developed applications using MVC frameworks and installation of client-side dependencies using Bower.    • Developed components based on JavaScript using ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.    • Actively involved in using Bootstrap and HTML to enable client-side date to meet specific criteria by applying various validation variables.    • Analyze the response of JSON to update DOM.    • Built enterprise/commercial SAAS applications. Worked in various version control systems - GIT & TFS.    • Involved in writing code-using AJAX to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services.    • Developed the complete HTML, CSS and JavaScript of the pages with emphasis on performance, accessibility (AA) and SEO standards.    • Involved in coding pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.    • Used Front End Developing UI Interface using HTML CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, and jQuery.    • Developed Rich Internet Applications and various UI/UEX widgets using jQuery  • Expertise in Automation, Web Application Testing and end to end (e2e) testing using Junit testing framework.    • Fixed the HTML errors in Sitecore content editor. Fixed Front- End issues with the layouts.  Environment: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, SASS, LESS, UNIX, Linux, Oracle, Eclipse, SAAS, SDLC, JSON, REST, XSS, twitter Bootstrap, GIT, CRUD, JUnit, JIRA, JBOSS, WebLogic, SVN, Agile (Scrum). Education Master of Science in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI - Kansas City, MO May 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology R.V.R & JC College of Engineering June 2016 Skills AJAX (9 years), BOOTSTRAP (9 years), HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), jQuery (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    UI Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2, Node JS, Bootstrap, AJAX,  JSON, Jasmine, XML, XHTML, Express JS, JSP, EJS, RXJS.  IDE, HTML Editor: EclipseIDE3.6, Ant, Dreamweaver, Text Pad, Notepad++, Firebug, HTTP Watch, IntelliJ Idea,  NetBeans IDE 7.3.1, Web Storm, Visual Studio, Brackets, Sublime, WebMatrix 3  Programming Languages: Java Script, Python, C, C++, C#, Java  Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat 7.0.37 HTTP Web Server, IBM web sphere    Operating Systems: Windows XP (Prof), Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, Ubuntu, RedHat, Mac OS (Lion)  Browser: IE, Firefox, Opera, Chrome, Safari.  Databases: MySQL, Oracle10g/11g, MS-Access, SQL 2000/2005, PL/SQL, T-SQL, MongoDB, Mongoose,  PostgreSQL, Firebase  Version Control: GIT, SVN, TFS, CVS