Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Atlanta, GA • Around 8 years of extensive experience in the field of Web Applications development using HTML 5, CSS 3 JavaScript, jQuery, Angular js, D3 js, nvd3 js, XHTML, AJAX, JSON, Foundation, Bootstrap and Responsive Web Design, Browser Testing and Debugging, Grunt.  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using, HTML 5, CSS3 and also experience in making webpage cross browser compatible.  • Experience in designing various forms, tooltips, menus, tabs, widgets that support drag-and-drop, animated effects, data and time selector and many others using jQuery.  • Excellent knowledge in the development of User Experience web and mobile based applications.  • Experience in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images.  • Experience in Applications using WSDL, AJAX, Smart Client, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, CONNECTORS JSON, JSONP, ExtJs, Foundation and Bootstrap.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  • Worked with the JavaScript frameworks like and AngularJS.  • Detailed understanding of DOM and DOM functions  • Efficient with IA/UX and web usability best practices.  • Excellent working knowledge on App server like WebSphere 5.0/6.1/8.0, Tomcat 6, 7 in building and deploying applications.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming and agile methodologies.  • Good interpersonal skills, committed, result oriented, hard working with a quest and zeal to learn new technologies.  • Good interaction with developers, managers, and team members to coordinated job tasks and strong commitment to work.  • Self-motivated, quick learner, good communication skills, takes independent responsibility to contribute and teamwork skills. Work Experience Front End Developer Houghton Mifflin Harcourt - Atlanta, GA March 2015 to Present Responsibilities:    • Web design and development, application development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Foundation, SASS, D3js, RequireJs, Brightcove, unit testing, Grunt, Bower, Yeoman and Sublime.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages in the application using HTML5, CSS3, and Angular js.  • Worked on GOOGLE CUSTOM SEARCH, HTML5, CSS3, nvd3js, JAVASCRIPT and AngularJS.  • Integrated the front end using the JSON data from the backend mainly Sitecore and .NET api calls.  • Worked on Responsive design (RWD) using Foundation.  • Worked closely with the backend team on Proxy routing rules. and the understanding of Ngnix server  • Developed the user's application by editing updating using MVC pattern in AngularJS.  • Developed the various pages and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs.  • Applied J-Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and AngularJS  • Worked with different distributed teams as a part of the project and integrated the front end with the JSON data from the API calls.  • Worked on unit test cases using Karma.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Developed various directives in AngularJS as the part of the project.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Used Brightcove library for getting the video files on application.    Environment: HTML4/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Karma, Sitecore, Foundation, SASS, Source Tree, Bitbucket, GIT, Information Architecture, REST, SQL, Ngnix and Tomcat. UI Developer Akamai Technologies - Cambridge, MA February 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Web design and development, application development using Photoshop, HTML, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, Sencha Ext Js, Angular js and JavaScript.  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, GOOGLE CUSTOM SEARCH, WSDL, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT and ANGULAR JS  • Responsible for ensuring the pattern consistency across all pages.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Applied J-Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Used EXT-JS, Smart Client, AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JQuery, and AJAX  • Designed flash plugins for including different functionalities and content.  • Designed XML files for maintaining contents like video, images and audio and display them in flash application.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery  • Experienced the Browser testing and debugging the developed application.  • Created web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Creating and implementing Master Classes in Action script 3.0 (based on MVC) for the application.  • Developing XML classes for loading the data from XML files deployed at the server.  • Designed 10 Unique themes with rich and flexible to accommodate different scenarios in which the user might want to display the data.    Environment: HTML4/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Smart Client, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, GIT, flex, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, Information Architecture, soap, wsdl, SQL, and Tomcat. Front End Web (UI) developer GARMIN - Olathe, KS March 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities:    • Developed the various screens and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs.  • Wrote extensive HTML/ HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and ExtJs code to build dynamic pages using Eclipse.  • Developed a fully functional login page for the company's user facing website with complete UI and validations.  • Coded JS for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  • Designed and developed the layouts of Customer Relations Module.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  • Implemented single page apps by using backbone views and routes to take the user to various views by using Restful  • Developed the users application by editing updating using MVC pattern in Backbone and underscore template  • Used UI based features like geolocation in JS to create small web applications for the website  • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support for over 2+ projects.  • Designed new models with an Object Oriented approach using JS and jQuery components for CRM application for customer service.  • Implemented XML parsing and JSON parsing for data handling on different application.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.    Environment:HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, jsp, ExtJs AJAX, SVN, Eclipse, Windows, Angular js, Bootstrap, Backbone Js, Restful services, Agile. UI Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN August 2010 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the design team to come up with detailed UI layouts and specifications.  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner using web technologies like HTML4, CSS2, XHTML and jQuery, based on the W3C and ADA standards.  • Made the pages cross browser compatible across all the approved versions of browsers also worked on responsive web design.  • Developed various web based widgets like calendar and address book for the company's portal pages using jQuery.  • Created small web based widgets for their user facing websites using object oriented jQuery.  • Developed client side validation code using JS.  • Performed code validations for HTML in W3C Validator, JSON in JSON Lint.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, Angular js and JavaScript  • Created and deploy new features in order to sustain and amend existing applications.  • Worked on the existing code into Jsp by using core JSTL.  • Responsible for maintaining current websites that included updating the web pages, uploading new content/changes etc.  • Involved in fixing front- end issues with the layouts.  • Highly involved in making updates to the current website and simultaneously handling other projects.  • Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Adobe Photoshop, Java Script, jQuery, Smart client, AJAX, jsp, Usability Testing, Bootstrap, Agile methodology, Eclipse. Web Developer CVL Soft Pvt Ltd August 2007 to July 2010 Responsibilities:  • To analyze the requirements and develop enhancements that will mostly benefit users.  • Used HTML to develop websites.  • Modified the existing website by adding suitable naming conventions and coding standards.  • Worked with user interfaces and applied usability principle to portals.  • Primary role was to improve GUI, solve the navigational issues and provide support to the senior web developers.  • To control the usability, aesthetics, speed and communication of the websites.  • Used Wireframes to draw the user requirements.  • Developed clickable prototypes using HTML, DHTML, Photoshop, CSS and JavaScript.  • Tested web sites and fixed any existing bugs using Firebug.  • Provide maintenance to several websites.  • Responsible for code optimization and testing of the website across different browsers.    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Adobe Photoshop, DHTML, MS Office, Firefox, Windows XP. Education Bachelors in Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University