Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End Developer - Creatubbles, Inc Pittsburgh, PA I'm a front- end developer with a passion for all things web. I've been using Ember since the alpha days (no really), and it is my main toolset for creating client-side applications, along with Sass, Node.js (Express), and Ruby on Rails. I am also comfortable writing vanilla JavaScript without leaning on any frameworks. I am constantly continuing my education in JavaScript design patterns, the internals of JavaScript, and the things that make it weird (and awesome).    I also have a background in design and animation, which I believe come in handy when it comes to creating a modern, interactive UI. My goal is never just to make something functional, but to make it enjoyable, sensible, and easy to use and understand. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front End Developer Creatubbles, Inc November 2016 to Present I work remotely with a global team of designers and developers to create the UI for our  Creatubbles web application. Our stack is Ember CLI, Ruby on Rails, and PostgreSQL. Other  tools used for effective communication and pairing are Slack, Screenhero, Zoom, and Trello. Front End Application Developer Forever, Inc December 2014 to November 2016 My primary role was developing and improving the UI for our online photo organization and storage application. Tech used was Ember CLI with a Ruby on Rails back end. We used Git for  version control, and Google Hangouts and HipChat for remote communications. Senior Front End Developer Branding Brand July 2013 to December 2014 I created the front end for mobile and tablet sites using APIs built by our back end team. The  main tools and frameworks used in this process were NodeJS, ExpressJS, Handlebars,  EmberJS, Bower, Gulp, GraphicsMagik, HTML, Stylus, and Git for version control. My work has  been shipped in multiple products for both national and international retailers such as Levis,  Dockers, True Religion Jeans, Cross, Philosophy, Shoebuy, and Footsmart. Digital Designer + Developer, Brand Team DICK'S Sporting Goods Store Support Center August 2009 to July 2013 Responsibilities included the planning, wireframing, and execution of applications using HTML,  CSS, JavaScript, Ruby on Rails, and Flash for both consumer facing products as well as applications for internal use. Web Developer Psychology Software Tools, Inc January 2006 to August 2009 Responsibilities included the design and development of Psychology Software Tools' website  redesign. The site was rebuilt to include eCommerce functionality, featuring software, books, and serial code generation. Education Bachelor's in Media Arts & Animation The Art Institute of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA October 2003 to December 2006 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/netzband