Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - JPMorgan Chase Columbus, OH Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Working as a UI Developer, assisting my team by designing and developing the Web-based applications.Designed and developeda new screen for the Application with changes in the interface and functionality.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Bootstrap, LESS, SublimeText Editor, D3JS and JSON, Media queries for various breakpoints in the adaptive web-designing environment.  ? Developed and performed unit testing scripts with JUnit API in TDD environments.  ? Used various libraries of JavaScript like AngularJS, JQuery and node.js and Used AngularJS as the development framework to build an application, developed rule-based applications usingDrools and Java.  ? Developed front- end screens using HTML 5, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, CSS and Ajax.  ? Developed scripts using Advanced HTML 5, JavaScript and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  ? Worked on Kendo UI which is framework of the HTML5 with jQuery UI without conflicts.  ? Involved in the writing coding, Code Review, Unit Testing of JUNIT and defects.  ? Experience in Test-driven development (TDD) with JUnit, JMock & Fitnesse, Cucumber.  ? Integrated Angular directives with the Kendo UI widgets to simplify data binding, routing and form validations.  ? Created a chart/graph that shows the amount of errors per day and create two date-pickers to filter the chart. This was done using JQuery UI and the Kendo UI.  ? Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design&themes using front- end development frameworks including Bootstrap. Designed various routing mechanisms using AngularJS.  ? Implemented http functionality in AngularJS in order to retrieve data from web servers. Implemented Angular controllers to maintain each view data.  ? Automation in JUNIT/TestNG and manual testing for functional testing  ? Created JUnit test cases using JUnit framework for doing Unit Testing for all of my deliverables.  ? Customized data tables and high charts into AngularJS directives.Coded AngularJS controllers and directives for application functionality.  ? Used AngularJS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  ? Extensively used Selectors in jQuery for updating content on DOM nodes. Experienced in Object Oriented Analysis/Design (OOA and OOD).  ? Worked closely with back- end developers during code development and had intense sessions to provide the best possible user experience.Integrated the Java code(API) in JSP pages  ? Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using jQuery AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  ? Contributed code to the development of mobile and responsive design and customized many features of the application in iterative sprints environment using version control tools like Tortoise SVN and, JIRA for bug tracking.  ? Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  ? Experience in testing JavaScript Using the Jasmine and Grunt.  ? Experience in running Bower and Grunt components and wrote the scripting using Node.js.  ? Tested JavaScript using Jasmine.Js and Grunt during development.  ? Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  ? Experience in Developing MVC framework using Groovy on Grails, Spring 3.0 (IOC, MVC, AOP), ORM framework using Hibernate, GORM for online & batch enterprise applications.  ? Experience Developing application using Groovy, grails, GSP, GORM and Grails Plugins and Grails Rest Services.  ? Experience in migrating the application from Adobe Flex to ExtJS 5. Worked on different UI task that generate various reports and tapes using sencha grid.  ? HTML5 and CSS3 latest tags are used to design the webpages and HTML local storage web applications are used to store data.  ? Styling pages with CSS3and developed JavaScript for user interfaces. Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  ? Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  ? Implemented presentation tier using HTML, CSS by utilizing the mockups that were created by design team.  ? Extensive experience in using NPM, BOWER, Grunt and Gulp for build process.  ? Developed Unit and E2E test cases using Jasmine and Grunt, Node JS.  ? Used Maven and Grunt to build and deploy the application.  ? Experience in working with various databases like Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL, Postgres/PostGIS.  ? Design ETL strategies for data pipeline from source databases to (HDFS) Hadoop/PostgreSQL/GreenPlum.  ? Designed, developed and tested the Store management application using HTML, JavaScript, PHP and PostgreSQL.  ? Wrote and implemented load scripts for transition of the legacy data from a Siebel (Oracle CRM) database to a newly-designed PostgreSQL/Linux database server.  ? Experience in various databases like Oracle, SQL server, MySQL, PostgreSql.  ? Contributed code to the development of mobile and responsive design and customized many features of the application in iterative sprints environment using version control tools like Tortoise SVN and, JIRA for bug tracking.  ? Extensive use of IntelliJ which is a simpler and powerful tool for branching and merging in GIT.  ? Following Scrum methodology to track the project details and updating the development status every day in the SCRUM.  ? Refine and iterate user experience by designing and implementing new modules and interfaces in a complex, responsive site.  Environment: HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, Redux, Jira, Docker, CI/CD, Stripe API, AWS, PostgreSQL, AJAX, React Native, React.JS, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, Oracle, , PL/SQL, MS-Sql, TDD, Web Services, SOAP, REST, ES6, Eclipse, Shippo, Windows, Linux. Sr. Front End Developer OhioHealth - Columbus, OH April 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript and extensively used Table Less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? Developed HTMLprototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework using AngularJs.  ? Participated in making Responsive Web Designs using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap. Re-designing/ developing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionality by using Node.JS  ? Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front- end development such as web pages, graphics and multimedia's.  ? Worked onsite at the client place involved in the Build, Configuration, Deployment and Integration phases. Breakdown the DOM into reusable components by using ReactJS.  ? By using ReactJS other JavaScript MVC frameworks were plugging it into a AngularJS frameworks web component technology. Implemented web components logically and correctly with the ReactJS  ? Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using AngularJS.  ? Used Angular JS framework to perform unit testing of custom filters, custom directives and various parts of application.  ? Developed enhancements to MongoDB architecture to improve performance and scalability.  ? Familiar with MongoDB clusters, Java scripting to load unstructured data into sharding environment.  ? Strong front- end (User Interface) development using JavaScript, ExtJS, HTML5, CSS3, SASS. Worked on Sencha JS framework. Developed T/O editor (grid) using sencha. Worked on the class and editor level validation.  ? Created the mobile application by using the standard web APIs with the PhoneGap framework.  ? Contributing to the conversion of the app from Ionic 1 to Ionic 2 using knowledge in Angular 2, TypeScript, JS, & FireBase among other technology.  ? Working in a collaborative environment using git & GitHub, along with development tracking tools such as JIRA and Trello. Extensive knowledge in MongoDB concepts and good knowledge in Administration.  ? Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms.  ? Experience building structured MVC web applications using JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, jQuery, Express, MongoDB.  ? Utilized various Angular plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  ? Developed the user interface for back office support and worked collaboratively in agile scrum team on the design and development of application based MVC framework using React.js, HTML 5.0 and CSS3.  ? Fetched the data about user objects from the database using Node.Js and created the custom directives and the custom filters  ? Worked extensively on applications to work properly on Android devices and all the browsers like Mobile safari, Desktop safari on Windows, IE, Firefox, and Chrome.  ? Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as required. Perform coding, debugging and testing.  ? Used Rally to create user stories and test cases and as progress tracking tool of sprint within the Scrum methods for Agile methodology.  ? Worked on Angular Dependency Injection to provide service to the Controllers. Worked on deeply-nesting callbacks using the NodeJs  ? Experience in coding optimized SQL queries on databases. Used JDBC to query, update and maintain DatabaseServers using SQL queries.  ? Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  Environment: HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, PostgreSQL, Jira, Docker, TDD, CI/CD, Redux, AWS , Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Java, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, Apache CXF, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum. Sr. Front End Developer Alliance Data Systems - Columbus, OH June 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built. Identified the business requirements for the client.  ? Used XML Web services with SOAP protocol for transferring data between different applications. Used JDBC to query, update and maintain Database Servers using SQL queries. Used HTML, DHTML, JSON, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax to create the front- end applications.  ? Extensively used JavaScript to make the web page more interactive. Responsible for creating dynamic server side pages using JSP.  ? Updated UI as per changing needs and requirements. Deliver pixel-perfect, hand-coded Web pages from Photoshop files and wireframe documents.Bug fixes for existing software system and also software enhancement.  ? Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, IE Developer Toolbar, for debugging and browser compatibility.  ? Created the content upon the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application and Used jQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations.  ? Developing client side validation code using JavaScript and jQuery. Creating pages in Site Core and validating the HTML code with W3C Validator. Used best practices while creating the web pages.  ? Designed and Developed Database using MY SQL. Extensively used select, insert, update, delete, join and between queries while maintaining the database.  ? Written stored procedures and triggers for improving the security, speed and efficiency of thewebsite.  ? Good knowledge on MongoDB database concepts such as transaction, locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication.  ? Used MongoDB third party tools (MONGOVUE , ROBO MONGO, MONGOOWL) and mongo-built in binaries to monitor and analyze the performance of MongoDB.  ? Implemented and managed multiple environments (up to 10TB), automating backups and checks, restore, validation/integrity checks, growth modeling and predictions, and system expansion; assisted with upgrade efforts with MongoDB.  ? Understood their existing code and made changes to adapt the new environment.  ? Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer  ? information modules.  ? As a developer, coordinated with onsite team and client in understanding the business process and requirement understanding.  ? Participated in daily meeting for enhancing the features for the portal. Sr. UI Developer Maritime Pacific Brewing Company - Seattle, WA February 2010 to May 2012 Seattle, WA  Feb 2010 to May 2012  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Software Development Life Cycle. Involved in developing design specifications, website architecture and web application based on the provided functional and requirements and design layout.  ? Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of SDLC. Used Agile methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  ? Developed JavaScript functions for client side validations.Designed and developed several EJBs using Session facade pattern.  ? Worked with the JAXWS web services and worked on SOAP, WSDL to develop the web services.  ? Involved in making changes to the WSDL and generating the client jars. Design and develop Servlets, Session and Entity Beans to implement business logic and deploy them on the JBoss Application Server.  ? Wrote test cases using JUnit. Developed the web application using MS SQL SERVER, HTML and JavaScript.  ? Used JavaScript as the scripting language and is used for detecting the visitor's browser, validating the forms, providing event functions, animation etc.  ? Good knowledge on MongoDB database concepts such as transaction, locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication.  ? Used MongoDB third party tools (MONGOVUE , ROBO MONGO, MONGOOWL) and mongo-built in binaries to monitor and analyze the performance of MongoDB.  ? Developed the front end of the portal using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.  ? Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for styling and to achieve uniformity Used JavaScript to provide AJAX functionality to make website perform better for image loading and for dynamic loading of the web page without refreshing.  ? Designed and Developed Database using MY SQL. Extensively used select, insert, update, delete, join and between queries while maintaining the database.  ? Written stored procedures and triggers for improving the security, speed and efficiency of the website by using them in several situations like updating tables, adding new member, tracking of modifications database transactions etc.  ? DOM is used to parse the xml documents. Performed unit testing.  ? As a developer, coordinated with onsite team and client in understanding the business process and requirement understanding.  ? Developed the web application using MS SQL SERVER, HTML and JavaScript. Designed and Developed Database using MY SQL. Extensively used select, insert, update, delete, join and between queries while maintaining the database.  ? Participated in daily meeting for enhancing the features for the portal. Participated in Code review and Quality Assurance. Creation of various levels of users for system with preferences.  ? Involved in setting up the environment, installing the application and web servers.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, DOM, JavaScript, MS SQL, DHTML, Eclipse, SQL, Windows XP/07 and MS Office. UI Developer Mac Millan-Piper - Seattle, WA May 2008 to January 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support for three projects (Medication Therapy Management (MTM), (Internal and External Interface).  ? Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of project and Developed process flow, data flow and use case interaction diagrams in Microsoft Visio.  ? Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), Mantis to manage the issues/project work flow, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  ? Designed and developed the common page layout and created screens by assembling facelets and screen definitions in centralized configuration files.  ? Designed the application by implementing JSF Framework with Primefaces based on MVC Architecture with EJB, Simple Java Beans as a Model, JSP and JSF UI Components as View and Faces Servlet as a Controller.  ? Creating views with JSF Framework and Service Layer Classes using Session Beans.  ? Developed and designed UI Search and results screens using JSF, XHTML and CSS.  ? Used Prime faces as a JSF extension libraries for rich components such as Accordion, Calendar, Data Table, Panel.  ? Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validations and JavaScript and XHTML pages.    ENVIRONMENT: HTML, XHTML, Prime faces 3.2, Java 1.6, J2EE, Spring 2.5, Servlets, JSP, jQuery, Ajax, XML, CSS, JavaScript, DB2, EJB 3.0, ILOG, Adobe Photoshop CS6, Eclipse, Visio, Wireframes and Mockups, .Net Skills HTML (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), JQuery (10+ years), UI (10+ years), User Interface (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies  HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript,Sencha, AJAX, JSON, Twitter Bootstrap, Ionic, Groovy Grail, Apache, Java, GITHUB,J2EE (EJB, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS).    JavaScript Libraries jQuery, Node.js, AngularJS, Highcharts JS, Kendo UI, Ext JS 5, React JS.  IDE & Editors Notepad++, Microsoft Visual Studio, Eclipse, Sublime Text, IntelliJ.  Other Tools Firebug, W3c Validator, IE tester, GIT, Rally, JIRA.  Database Oracle 11g, SQL Server, MSQL, MSSQL, Teradata, PLSQL, SQL, MYSQL.  Operating System Windows [ ] Mac OS, Red Hat Linux,Unix.  Middle Ware WAS, JBoss 6.x, Apache Tomcat 6.x