SENIOR FRONTEND WEB DEVELOPER SENIOR FRONTEND WEB <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SENIOR FRONTEND WEB DEVELOPER - Gannett San Francisco, CA 11+ years experience specializing in frontend web development and performance optimization. As a Senior Frontend Developer, I've learned more  than I ever thought possible over the course of many crazy launches, refactors, fixes, products, and features in between. Most of all I've learned I  like what works. If something doesn't, I like to figure out not just how, and why, but what we can do to ensure it doesn't reoccur. Currently working  on React, Golang, and Polymer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SENIOR FRONTEND WEB DEVELOPER Gannett - San Francisco, CA February 2016 to August 2018 Implemented a total replacement of the current in-house image cropping and resizing application with fastly image optimization for all images  served from our cdn, along with an update to allow editorial staff to use arbitrary crop ratios in galleries and stories.  • Completely upgraded all api calls to use the newer internal apis including multiple iterations of changes and adding additional error handling and timeouts to all request calls in python.  • Fully developed structured data for all articles, videos, and galleries to Googles requirements for SEO as well as support for a temporary Pars.ly  implementation.  • Created a new longform story telling template with additional capabilities to allow embeding oembeds and interactives as chapter heads.  • Added additional error and exception handling to all python code based off top offenders found via New Relic monitoring. This internal one  person side project brought the average error rates per server for Usatoday.com alone down from somewhere around 40k errors on an average  day (mainly 500 errors) to less than 100  • Added preloading for webfonts and template fragment caching for some of our django templates that brought our average cold cache load  times down by 2-5 seconds via Lighthouse testing. FRONT END DEVELOPER RiskIQ - San Francisco, CA November 2015 to February 2016 • Worked with lead js developer on implementing fixes in React/Reflux and updates to RISKIQ's current stack and apps, while also learning and ramping up on their new internal JS stack  • Collaborated with the risk analysis team on planning of internal python apps and dashboards. SR. FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER USA TODAY NETWORK March 2012 to October 2015 Part of the Usatoday.com relaunch team for the updated website codebase, responsible for but not limited to optimizing, updating and re- viewing all the CSS for the site, implementing image cropping and resizing for every image in the site, and creating multiple modules and asset  views for the launch using jQuery, Require, HTML5, and Django Python.  • Lead a small team of 3 to completely implement a new top books list front and modules along with a new story type for book reviews with market integrations to multiple sellers.  • Lead developer/support on any new features or bugfixes across all the USA Today and other Gannett shared codebase sites.  • developer/support resource for the manual updates and configs for the local sites rollout on the relaunched USA Today codebase.  • Sole front end dev on the relaunch of the weather pages for local sites and subsequent fixes brought on by weather api breaking changes.  • Implementation of pre-relaunch Daily Celeb gallery on USA Today that had 0.5 million hits a day, and was a testing ground for some of the relaunch styles and tech stack  • Sole dev on a total rewrite of automated and curated topic pages stemming from multiple api changes from an upstream api team  • Dev lead on "new blogs" a completely new front for surfacing multiple related blogs and a completely new article type to display blogposts WEB DEVELOPER ExtJS April 2011 to March 2012 Sole Front End Web Developer on the remake of Symantec MSS web application using jQuery, ExtJS 4.01, HTML5 and CSS3 with fallbacks for  IE7 and IE8. Also implemented a custom chat survey with pre and post surveys, Implemented 2 entirely different visual designs into both the  Legacy live site and the New Portal version of the MSS Portal, and created over 20 interactive pages for these internal apps.  • Lead Developer on Responsive Web Design Internal R and D project, for planning and presenting the current state of web development and recommending new and current best practices for all future work, Including giving internal presentations to the development department on  how to transition from waterfall to agile development methodologies.  • Created CSS, HTML, and JS for the static versions of the Mandarin hotel website redesign, using CSS3, HTML5 and JS/CSS fallbacks for IE6, IE7 and IE8  • Used SASS, CSS3, and the HTML5 boilerplate to create updated Time Warner Cable residential and business sites, including custom CSS gradi- ents and breadcrumb nav modules.  • Front End Developer on RxAlly.com, pre-launch site, Launch site and RxEvolution.com blog, launched Feb 22 2012. Work done included: Utilized  layered CSS3 background gradients with filter backups for IE8 for visual effect and to increase performance, Creating an enrollment form using  HTML5 form attributes and custom jQuery JS on the front end, and interacting with a PHP server side script connected to the clients Constant  contact account to automatically sort and add Pharmacists to various mailing and info lists, A jQuery AJAX lookup of Pharmacist NCPDP num- bers interacting with a PHP service on a client provided DB to the Enrollment form, and a customized word press theme with custom graphics and interactions for the clients new blog also launching on Feb 22nd 2012 at RxEvoluton.com FRONT END DEVELOPER / VISUAL DESIGNER Sapient Corporation - Arlington, VA April 2007 to March 2011 Lead Front End Developer for EARM, EADM. ATD, a web application rewrite in JAVA, struts, and JSP of the former DACs mainframe system for  DRO under DHS and ICE  • Collaborated with a hybrid team involving EDS, SRA and Sapient, utilizing Agile Software development practices  • Developed using the most recent coding standards including HTML valid code, Full CSS layouts, and DOM Level JavaScript to fully separate  structure, style, and behaviors, target environment of IE6 and a resolution of 1024x768, written with a fully flexible layout and cross browser  support, tested in Firefox, IE6, IE7, Opera, and Safari.  • Produced custom icons, diagrams, and graphics for the application and client presentations using GIMP and Photoshop  • Designed 3 completely interactive AJAX driven HTML demos for client demonstrations of development work, utilizing reusable CSS that could also be used in the Templates and the actual application  • Increased each iterations frontend velocity by a factor of 4 by creating CSS based templates for the java developers to create their JSP's off of • Implemented and kept the entire application section 508 compliant through 3 total redesigns.  • Obtained DHS Position of Public Trust for this position Siteworx - Reston, VA August 2018 Education B.S. in INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY 2001 to 2007 Skills CSS (8 years), DJANGO (6 years), AJAX (4 years), HTML5 (4 years), jQuery (4 years), Front End, Javascript (10+ years), React, UI, Git (6 years), User Interface, Front-End Additional Information Skills  TOOLS AND TECHNOLOGIES  • Javascript  • jQuery  • HTML5  • CSS  • React  • RefluxJS  • AJAX  • SASS  • JIRA  • Git  • PHP  • CSS3  • Python  • Django  • NewRelic  INDUSTRY KNOWLEDGE  • Agile  • UX  • SEO  • Mobile First  • Responsive Design