Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Denver, CO Work Experience Front End Developer WSP USA - Denver, CO September 2018 to Present I believe that technology can be responsibly applied to help solve the world's biggest problems,including climate change. I bring UX and Product design as well as 15 years of front-enddevelopment to address these issues. As a member of the Project Visualization group I amleveraging Augmented and Virtual Reality so clients can better express their solutions tostakeholders, developing Smart City IoT platforms to deliver actionable metrics, and creating GISVisualizations to discover insights locked in data.     Skills: Product Design, Vue.js, React, Deck.gl, Web VR & AR, IoT, User Experience Product Designer & Front End Developer Kritek, LLC - Greenwood Village, CO January 2016 to August 2018 I've worked with our diverse team of developers, business analysts and subject matter experts to design web, mobile, and IoT applications and bring three products to market in the transportation industry. My responsibilities have included leading product design sessions to determine visual, business and technical requirements for new features. Performed ethnographic research to understand the people using our products and their environments thus driving our team to build empathetic products. Designed applications for Smart Cities and Smart Work Zones that bring technology into the physical world and presented those to internal teams, potential clients, and government agencies. Created branding and marketing materials for two products, one that has successfully been brought to the B2B market, another still in development. Sr. Front End Developer DATA, Inc - Denver, CO July 2010 to December 2015 Created web applications for high traffic sites with education, healthcare, nonprofit and government clients that work beautifully and maintain their brand. Played a key role in creating award winning educational and community sites for major national nonprofit organizations. I was also involved in designing and developing learning management systems and responsive web applications while ensuring 508 compliance, WCAG 2.0 conformance and adherence to ARIA best practices. Web Designer & Lead Developer BrandSavvy, Inc September 2006 to June 2010 As the leader of interface design and development I worked directly with clients to discover and implement their digital needs while accounting for their branding objectives. Projects included developing an intranet serving thousands of users, brand management websites for the nation's most successful hospitals, and custom web applications for pre-surgery assessment, job recruitment, and image management. Web Designer & Developer IMU Marketing and Design September 2004 to July 2006 I led a team that designed, developed, and maintained award winning web sites for the University of Iowa. Our small group developed an extensive internal online project management system for a team of thirty print designers, marketers, web developers, and professionals. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design in Graphic Design The University of Iowa August 2002 to July 2006 Skills Javascript (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), User Interface Design (10+ years), User Experience Design (4 years), Front End Frameworks (Polymer, Angular, Vue, React) (5 years), Git (4 years), SVN (8 years), Accessibility (8 years), Adobe Creative Suite (10+ years), Augmented & Virtual Reality (Less than 1 year), Security Clearance, GIS (3 years), NPM (3 years) Links http://gipper.co https://www.linkedin.com/in/jgipper/