Sr. Front End UI Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End UI Developer - CA Technologies Santa Clara, CA Over 10 years of experience in IT Industry with expertise in Front end development and Accessibility  • for Web based applications.  • Extensive experience in designing professional User Interactive (UI) Web applications with the help of  • HTML/ HTML5, CSS/CSS3, LESS, SASS, JQUERY, JSON, ANGULAR JS, REQUIRE JS, REACT  • JS, GRUNT JS, UNDERSCORE JS, WIJMO JS, HIGHCHARTS, KEYLINES and JavaScript.  • Extensively used React life cycle methods.  • Expertise in Client Side validations using HTML/HTML5, CSS/ CSS3 and Java Script.  • Used JavaScript Cookies, Local storage and Session Storage concepts to store user information in web  • pages.  • Worked on media quires for different layouts for screen, print, mobile phone, tablet, etc.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and  • semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  • Hands on the tools such as Eclipse, Text pad, Notepad++, Sublime text, Dreamweaver, Atom, Brackets  • etc.  • Expertise in CSS pixel-level layout consistency with browser, version and platform independence.  • Highly experienced with modern JS frameworks and libraries such as Angular JS and JQuery,  • Bootstrap, D3.js.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the single page web application by using the HTML5,  • CSS3, Bootstrap, Tyepescript and Angular 2/4.  • Experience in working with Angular 2/4 with extensive knowledge on the latest ES6 features and Best  • Practices.  • Implemented client side Interface using React JS.  • Implemented ES6 features, Used Babel, Web pack with ES2015, React, JSX presets.  • Worked deeply on various functionality's like Authentication token's and refresh token's scenarios.  • Strong working knowledge in Google Cloud Platform.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain  • consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or safari web inspectors and  • IE Developer Toolbar.  • Experience in Unit Testing (UIT), Integration Testing and in preparing test cases.  • Expert in documentation using MS tools (Word, Excel, PPT, and Project)  • Strong passion for detailed, innovative, and empathic design, combined with well-rounded design skills  • (interaction, UI, visual, and motion design)  • Involved in meetings to gather information and requirements from the clients.  • Strong analytical skills with ability to quickly understand client's business needs.  • Ability to quickly ramp up and start producing results on given any tool or technology.  • Excellent communication skills and understanding of business processes.  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components  • from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Currently still supporting the application for maintenance  • Was involved in doing code review for multiple teams.  • Self-starter, fast learner and a team player with strong personal and group communication skills. Work Experience Sr. Front End UI Developer CA Technologies - Santa Clara, CA February 2018 to Present Description:  The company had been a provider of anti-virus and Internet security commercial software programs for personal  computers. Today, it is primarily known for its business-to-consumer (B2B) software with a product portfolio focused on  Agile software development, DevOps and Computer Security Software spanning across a wide range of environments such as mainframe, distributed computing, cloud computing and mobile devices. CA Technologies states that its  computer software products are used by "a majority of the Fortune Global 500 companies, government organizations,  educational institutions, and thousands of other companies in diverse industries worldwide.My part in the company is to develop and support a monitoring app that Clients can install the app on their servers. Through this app client can able to monitor performance of there applications and enhance the user experience of DXI products.    Responsibilities:  • Developed HTML interfaces with an understanding of UI design principles and object-oriented  • program development.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the single page web application by using the HTML5,  • CSS3, Bootstrap, Tyepescript and Angular 2/4.  • Experience in GRUNT JS, GULP, WEBPACK The JavaScript Task Runners for repetitive tasks like minification,  compilation, unit testing etc.  • Refactored and enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved  • source code maintenance which resulted in huge code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer  spin up and enhanced performance.  • Frequent Syncup with the project manager for reviewing project goals and for creating proposals for future  developments and enriched fields in UI design.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was  • implemented.  • Experience working on CSS Preprocessors such as LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt and Gulp JS.  • Devoted to keeping myself and the team updated about established and emerging tools, technologies and frameworks.  • Test on new and existing programs for the purpose of correcting errors, isolating areas for improvement, and general debugging.  • Fair understanding of SDLC basics and Agile/Scrum development practices in particular.  • Work within an Agile team to develop custom online applications and web components.  • Ensure cross-browser, cross-platform, and cross-device compatibility.  • Ability to define requirements for backend and integration experience.  • Collaborate in requirements definition, prototyping, design, coding, testing and deployment.  ENVIRONMENT:  HTML5, CSS3, LESS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, lodash, ES6, vkthread, visjs, JQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2, Angular 4,  React JS, Redux, Gulp JS, webpack, Require JS, Highcharts. Sr. Front End UI Developer WELLS FARGO, SFO - CA May 2016 to February 2018 Description:  Wells Fargo & Company is an American international banking and financial services holding company  headquartered in San Francisco, California, with "hubquarters" throughout the country. It is the world's second largest  bank by market capitalization and the third largest bank in the U.S. by assets. I am part of developing a Finance  Application. Coming to brief view of the project we building a web application for the customers for applying small  business loans. So, customers can access this portal for applying small business loans. My role in the project is collecting  users information like business information, business location and other details throughhtml forms. Worked deeply in integrating third party services into the application and experiences with Angular JS MVC framework including some  popular JS library's like Highcharts and Underscore.    Responsibilities:  • Developed HTML interfaces with an understanding of UI design principles and object-oriented  • program development.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the single page web application by using the HTML5,  • CSS3, Bootstrap, Tyepescript and Angular 2/4.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, developed routing through web  • pages and achieved Single page application. Used Angular JS to achieve two way data binding.  • Worked on Redux and React along with the AngularJs in developing the Web Application.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based  • architecture provided by Angular 2/4.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms for sign in and inputting ticket rising information from • Angular 2/4 framework.  • Used Rectangular, Promise and Services in AngularJS for calling API's and build some custom  • directives.  • Included JSON for massive data transfer between Client/Server. According to different component  • coding structure, AJAX calls were consumed by XMLHttpRequest object (JavaScript) and $http service  • (AngularJS)  • Created a CSS framework for using a 12 column grid preferred by the designers as well as implementing parts of  Object Oriented CSS to cut down on repetitive code  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using Angular Js.  • Used MVC Framework Angular.js in the development for data binding and to consume REST ful web  • services.  • Experience in GRUNT JS The JavaScript Task Runner for repetitive tasks like minification,  • compilation, unit testing etc, the easier your job becomes.  • Used Session storage to store the values with in the browser and ensure the security with siteMInder.  • Used Jira to track the user stories and defects with Agile technology.  • Used Stash repository to check in the code with git.  • Worked on other 2 projects and Implemented client side Interface using React JS.  • Implemented ES6 features, Used Babel, Web pack with ES2015, React JSX presets, Backbone  • Marionette JS.  • Experience in working with Angular 2/4 with extensive knowledge on the latest ES6 features and Best  • Practices  • Exchanged data with the help of JSON files to exchange data between server and client.  • Managed time effectively meeting all the deadlines for the release of projects.  • Worked on multiple project timelines simultaneously within a deadline driven environment.  • Developed, modified, and implemented the Web site to ensure consistency of layout in accordance with client  goals.  ENVIRONMENT:  Angular2/4, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2, Angular 4, React JS, Redux,  Gulp JS, webpack, Require JS, Highcharts. Sr. Front End UI Developer Cisco - Milpitas, CA August 2015 to April 2016 Description:  Cisco was not the first company to develop and sell dedicated network nodes, it was one of the first to sell  commercially successful routers supporting multiple network protocols. Classical, CPU-based architecture of early Cisco  devices coupled with flexibility of operating system IOS allowed for keeping up with evolving technology needs by means of frequent software upgrades.I am part of developing a Security Application.Coming to brief view of the project is that  we collect the information from the Routers and switches through sensors and figuring out the persons who are trying to access our company servers protecting from the hacking kinds of practices. My role in the project is that Providing  GUI as well as UX designs for example showing users information like ip address, User location and other details in the form of grids, High Charts and some topology views so on. Worked deeply on various functionality's like Elastic Search  functionality and experiences with Angular JSMVC framework including some popular JS library's like Wijmo,  KeyLinesand Highcharts.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and • Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their  • perspective.  • Converted wireframes in templates including creation of brand identity, web site header, menu,  • information containers, grid styles, navigation, forms, buttons, icons, images, User components and application  widgets creation with suitable color schemes.  • Worked on unique features of "KeyLines" is to enable visualization of real time network assets by showing links between nodes in the IT system and the type of data flowing between those nodes.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts using High  • Charts."Highcharts" an easy way of adding interactive charts to your web site or web application to represent the data.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, and icons.  • Worked on Elastic search tool for querying that pertains to the actual algorithms for matching text and storing  optimized indexes of searchable terms.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • ANGULAR JS responsible for the configuration of web applications right from the conceptualization  • stage to its execution and support.  • Experience in working with Angular 2.0 with extensive knowledge on the latest ES6 features and Best  • Practices.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms for sign in and inputting ticket rising information from • Angular2.0 framework.  • Used Agile Methodology for Software development.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux, React Router for SPA development.  • Experience in GRUNT JS, GULP, WEBPACK The JavaScript Task Runners for repetitive tasks like minification,  compilation, unit testing etc, the easier your job becomes  • Developed the custom data grids.  • Worked on the topology views to indicate data flow using KeyLines.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM  (Node Package Manager) and Redux library for other parallel projects.  • Used Ajax effectively to create pagination and with client side events like quick search.  • Experience in taking performance optimization measures for web applications to reduce the response  • time and enhancing the end user experience.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was  • implemented.  • Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap, and used LESS pre-processor.Wrote  • application level code to perform client side validation using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  • Refactored and enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved  • source code maintenance which resulted in huge code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer  spin up and enhanced performance.  • Strong analytical, administration and problem solving skills dedicated to maintain the high quality  • standards.  • Frequent Syncup with the project manager for reviewing project goals and for creating proposals for future  developments and enriched fields in UI design.  ENVIRONMENT:  HTML5, CSS3, LESS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2, Grunt JS, React JS, Redux, RequireJS,  Wijmo, Highcharts, KeyLines, Elastic search, webpack, Google Cloud platform. Sr. Front End UI Developer MOTOROLA - Sunnyvale, CA March 2015 to July 2015 Description:  Motorola Mobility took on the company's consumer-oriented product lines, including its mobile phone business and its cable modems and set-top boxes for digital cable and satellite television services, while Motorola Solutions  retained the company's enterprise-oriented product line's. I am part of the Internal Application team working on GURU  project. Providing GUI as well as UX designs for the Ipython notebooks. Worked deeply on various functionality's like  Authentication token's scenarios, search functionality and experiences with Angular Js MVC framework including  authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters; working with animations, routing and states.    Responsibilities:  • Experienced in all phases of UI/UX implementation of a web application including Design,  • Prototyping, Development and Testing phases.  • Involved in composing application level code to cooperate with APIs, Web Services utilizing AJAX,  • JSON and XML.  • Working as a Senior UI Developer, assisting my team in developing two different Web-based  • applications.  • Used the functionalities for writing code in HTML5, CSS, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap  • Refactored and enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved  • source code maintenance which resulted in 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer  spin up and enhanced performance.  • Strong working knowledge in Google Cloud Platform.  • Worked deeply on various functionality's like Authentication token's and refresh token's scenarios.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQueryevent handlers and call back  functions.  • Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap, and used SASS pre-processor  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front end development  • frameworks including Bootstrap.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Extensively used Selectors in JQueryfor updating content on DOM nodes.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was  • implemented.  • HTML5 and CSS3 latest tags are used to design the webpages and HTML local storage web  • applications are used to store data.  • Met with the project manager frequently for reviewing project goals and for creating proposals for future  developments and researching their fields for UI design.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Created a CSS framework for using a 12 column grid preferred by the designers as well as implementing parts of  Object Oriented CSS to cut down on repetitive code.  ENVIRONMENT:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Grunt JS, RequireJS, Bootstrap, SASS, XML, J2EE, JSP, Eclipse, Google  Cloud platform. Front End UI Developer GOOGLE - Mountain View, CA September 2014 to February 2015 Description:  Google is an American multinational corporation specializing in Internet-related services and products. These  include online advertising technologies, search, cloud computing, and software. Most of its profits are derived from  AdWords an online advertising service that places advertising near the list of search results. My part in the company is to build up an internal application. To maintain data about onboarding contractors.    Responsibilities:  • Designed designs on the front- end utilizing HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and ANGULAR JS.  • ANGULAR JS responsible for the configuration of web applications right from the conceptualization  • stage to its execution and support.  • Extensive experience with Angular JSMVC framework including authoring complex directives,  • services, controllers and filters; working with animations, routing and states.  • Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular JS.  • Built CSS and JavaScript framework for controlling content showcase issues cross-stage and cross  • program.  • Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Media quires, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border,  • CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, CSS Sprites, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS  • Behaviors in CSS.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular  • JS.  • Implemented Angular JS to enhance the general ease of use of the site interface.  • Used JavaScript Cookies idea to recall data about the client.  • Used progressed JavaScript to make interfaces and help oversee cross program similarity.  • Used Firebug to troubleshoot JavaScript, to examine DOM objects of the page and to change the page  • format.  • Widely utilized Optimization strategy as a part of existing code.  • Implemented web measures, and determined availability of the pages which get more client movement.  ENVIRONMENT:  HTML5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, Grunt JS, Angular JS, AJAX, JSON and ECLIPSE. Front End UI Developer Marriott International - Bethesda, MD October 2013 to August 2014 Description:  Marriott International's an American diversified hospitality company that manages and franchises a broad  portfolio of hotels and related lodging facilities. I am responsible for developing Marriott.com front end  UI search interface. Worked in search and responsive teams, those involve heavy usage of technologies like html, CSS,  JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSP.    Responsibilities:  • As a Front End designer chipped away at production of screens identified with Search and Responsive for the  Retail area of Marriott.com utilizing innovations like HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Closely worked with business framework investigator to comprehend the necessities to guarantee that  • right set of UI modules been fabricated.  • Designed the Front End applications, client intelligent (UI) site pages utilizing web innovations like • HTML5, XHTML, and CSS.  • Used propelled level of JavaScript, ANGULAR JS, CSS and unadulterated CSS formats.  • Wrote application level code to perform customer side acceptance utilizing Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Wrote JQuerycapacity while actualizing different UI Screens over the entire web application (both  • customer confronting and inward application)  • Involved in composing application level code to cooperate with APIs, Web Services utilizing AJAX,  • JSON and XML.  • Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to compose/read information from back end  • frameworks)  • Maintain, upgrade, and suggest arrangements that best suit business and innovation needs from UI  • angle.  • Define specialized prerequisites based upon business necessities.  • Creating cross-program perfect and models consistent CSS-based page designs.  • Strong correspondence, scientific and interpersonal aptitudes working inside cross-utilitarian groups.  • Worked on cross program similarity issues and fix the bugs.  ENVIRONMENT:  HTML5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, ANGULAR JS, D3.JS, Grunt JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, Eclipse and Dreamweaver UI Developer Cube Software - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2010 to August 2013 Description:  Provided technical support to customers and customer service department. Served as technical  support specialist, responsible for customer interaction, code fixes, and liaising between development team and customer service department. Created web pages and applications for e-commerce website with over 1 million  hits per month.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects.  • Worked nearly with Photoshop originators to actualize fake ups and the formats of the application.  • Design and advancement of Web pages utilizing HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Involved in composing the Properties, routines in the Class Modules furthermore expended web  • administrations.  • Played an essential part in characterizing, actualizing and implementing quality practices in the group  • association to guarantee interior controls, quality and consistence strategies and guidelines.  • Used JavaScript for custom customer side approval.  • Involved in outlining and adding to the GUI for the client interface with different controls.  • Worked with View State to keep up information between the pages of the application.  ENVIRONMENT:  HTML, CSS, MYSQL, JavaScript, AJAX and Windows XP Full stack developer Persistent Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2008 to November 2010 Project: E-Commerce Pilot Web Application  Role: Full stack developer    Description:  A Web Application was built to for the online sales. User registration, shopping cart, checkout,  order processing, order tracking are the main modules of this application.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of the ecommerce application.  • Developed UML Diagrams.  • Designed Database design.  • Coding using JAVA, Java Servlets, and JSP.  • Developed Client side validations using JavaScript.  • Database management and Hibernate ORM mapping.  • Responsible for Unit Testing and Integration testing of the code. Firebug was used as a default  • JavaScript debugger.  • Technical Specification Preparation.  • Low Level Design (LLD) document was designed.  • Responsible for developing the modules of the site.  • Unit & Integration Testing of the Modules.  ENVIRONMENT:  Java, Database, JavaScript, Testing and JSP Web Developer Prithvi Information Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2007 to July 2008 Description:  This undertaking is the Logistics Solution for the e-business stage. E-Logistics contains three  modules Supplier, Buyer, Transport. Chipped away at the vehicle module that comprises of administration  request and transportation points of interest. All the clients of the Logistics arrangement will be the enlisted  clients of the entryway. Each of the enlisted clients in the E-Logistics stage will have an one of a kind ID and a  client name and fits in with a Company enrolled to the Enterprise Enabler.    Responsibilities:  • Front end coding with HTML and CSS.  • Created forms for user input. Extensive use of CSS.  • Web sites are developed, maintained and run within CMS.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Debugging and testing existing code, JavaScript performance optimization.  • Worked on Cross Browser Issues for different versions of IE, Mozilla and Chrome.  ENVIRONMENT:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XHML, Technical writing/documentation. Education Master's Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), UI (8 years), USER INTERFACE (8 years), AJAX (8 years), HTML5 (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Java, C, C++  Web2.0 (UI) Technologies HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3, LESS, SASS, JavaScript,  DOM, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS (1.x, 2.x, 4.x), TypeScript, ES6, React JS, Redux,  ES6, D3.js, Grunt JS, Required JS,  Wijmo, Highcharts, KeyLines, Underscore JS and Bootstrap.  Browsers Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox & Google Chrome  Development Tools Eclipse, Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visual Studio Web Express, Atom,  Brackets, Text Pad, Firebug, HTTP Watch.  Operating Systems Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP/Windows7/Windows8.