Engineer 3 Engineer 3 Engineer 3 - Oracle Los Angeles, CA Strong experience with Object Oriented Javascript Design Patterns, REST, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3 (Sass/  Less) and Javascript (lately w/ES6 Harmony via Babel).    Strong Experience with all facets of Responsive Web Design/Development.    Interested in Section 508 Accessibility: Section 508, WCAG, and WAI-ARIA    Beyond the foundational knowledge, I have experience working with Javascript libraries and frameworks:  NodeJS, jQuery, ReactJS/Flux, AngularJS, Handlebars/Mustache/Hogan, Bootstrap, Modernizr, jQuery Mobile,  Moovweb    Experience with build tools: Grunt, Gulp, Slush, Yeoman    Software testing: Jest, Jasmine & Karma (for React, Angular and vanilla JS)    Preferred Developer Tools: WebStorm IDE, Sublime Text 2/3    Experience working in Agile w/Scrum, Kanban, and Continuous Delivery SDLC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Engineer 3 Oracle February 2016 to Present enterprise saas solutions Software Developer Self Employed June 2004 to Present Software Engineer Nordstrom June 2014 to July 2015 Software Engineer on the Nordstrom Direct Core ECommerce team building new features and feature enhancements within the Nordstrom ECommerce platform, bug fixes, system testing,  regression testing, requirement gathering, specializing in full stack Javascript development.    Perform in highly rapid Agile w/Scrum, Kanban, and eventually Continuous Delivery SDLC models.    Technologies including but not limited to used daily: AngularJS, ReactJS/Flux, RequireJS, jQuery, Mustache,  NodeJS, Gulp, Grunt, SlushJS, Yeoman, AWS, Git, SASS, LESS, HTML5, CSS3.    Built and maintained ReactJS component and app scaffolding tool built with SlushJS.    Also maintain static Legacy and CMS generated website pages throughout Nordstrom.com. Sr. Front End Engineer Disney December 2013 to June 2014 Front End Engineer on the Site Editor CMS developed in house at Disney, utilized by many Disney  subsidiaries. (Javascript)    Working with both legacy and cutting-edge systems (Javascript).    Work responsibilities included building new features, feature enhancements on top of existing components in the framework, working along side QA engineers to perform bug tracking, regression testing. Front End Engineer Amazon March 2012 to November 2013 Front End Engineer for Kindle Fire HDX Ad Products, highly regarded for my improvements to, and ownership of the Kindle LCD Framework. (Javascript)    Work responsibilities included working along side Visual & UX Designers to launch new products at a  rapid pace. Working with platform engineers to bring data to the front end and display highly interactive  experiences.    Develop responsive templates for Amazon Kindle Ads, introduced flex box model and revolutionized  responsive layouts on Kindle devices.    Internal tools built on NodeJS. Front End Developer Bertino Designs June 2005 to January 2010 I have been employed by Bertino Designs for many years to handle outsourced development work when needed. This includes: receiving PSD file to convert, creating HTML, CSS, Javascript to suit needs of  project. Create Mobile stylesheets and mobile applications from these original PSD's as well. Education Upland High School 2000 to 2004 Skills Javascript (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Python (2 years), OOP (4 years), MVVM (4 years), SDLC (6 years), AWS (2 years) Additional Information Skills & Expertise  HTML5  JavaScript  CSS  User Experience  JSON  Linux  REST  Requirements Analysis  Agile Methodologies  Software Design Patterns  Single Page Applications  Software Development  Full SDLC  MVVM  Web Applications  OOP  Amazon Web Services (AWS)    Languages  English