Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Marsh&McLeann Orla, TX • Front End / UI Web Developer with 8 years' experience in UI Development, Web design, Web Development, and testing web pages with Usability standards.  • On the job accomplishments include successfully design and develop web 2.0 based application solutions with emphasis on use of CSS Layout, OO JavaScript frameworks, and design Patterns.  • Experience in using JS frameworks such as angular.js, angular 2.0, backbone.js, node.js, d3.js.  • Maintain code for existing web apps to support the latest devices and releases of Android, IOS and Blackberry.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using OO JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JSP, AJAX and MySQL  • Expertise on creating Responsive Web Pages using Twitter BootStrap.  • Worked on creating application in AngularJS.  • Created components and services using Angular 2.0  • Created custom components for application using AngularJS.  • Integrated wijmo enterprise edition with Angular 2.0  • Strong Development Knowledge and testing experience of JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, HTML4/5 and CSS2/3.  • Created components using YUI 2.0.  • Worked with Jasmine.  • Expertise in CSS layout designing, converting business requirement into Illustration and Color standards.  • Strong knowledge in cross browser compatibility issues and W3C standards.  • Significant knowledge of Object-Oriented Design and Programming.  • Strong Application Knowledge & experience with PHP 5.0.  • Developed web services with Apache and PHP. Experienced with SOAP/WSDL.  • Ability to work in complex data structures, dashboards and ad-hoc reporting through OBIEE.  • Expertise in designing database tables and developing queries.  • Knowledge of working in Windows and Linux platforms.  • Involved in code reviews and code review correction.  • Knowledge and experience in Software Development Cycle methodologies and Design patterns.  • Experienced in using Wireframes/Comps to create cross-browser UI's with less CSS, variables and mixins.  • Worked on JQuery extensively for various user interactions.  • Expertise in using XML/JSON and AJAX to link with back- end applications.  • Worked on creating uniform look and feel across various media like laptop, mobile, tablet & desktop.  • Extensively used/modified JQUERY to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Developer Tools.  • Certificate in developing applications in CORE JAVA.  • Certificate in developing J2EE applications using WEB AND BUSINESS COMPONENTS.  • Efficient at meeting deadlines, working under pressure, and managing multiple tasks simultaneously.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills for efficient client interaction. Work Experience Developer Marsh&McLeann May 2017 to Present MART is the rule generator application in marsh, this application takes rule files and process it to set rules for other applications within the organization.  The application already existed in Java and JSP, the project is to upgrade it to Web 2.0 and make it responsive.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for MART Upgrade project from JSP to Angular 2.0  • Build the development environment using NODEJS  • Created development environment for Angular to integrate with Spring MVC application, for single build multiple deploy environment.  • Integrated Wijmo enterprise edition to integrate the wijmo flexgrid, input date and other components.  • Converted existing pages in JSP to Responsive with Twitter Bootstrap  • Work closely with business/client for preparing mock ups and preparing prototyping  • Research, establish, document and maintain company coding best practices, development organization and workflow standards.  • Worked on builds using angular-cli for deployment using Jenkins.  • Worked on Bit Bucket for version control.    Technology: Angular 2.0, NodeJS, Bootstrap, HTML5.0, CSS 3.0, Bit Bucket, Jenkins UI Developer Travelers Insurance October 2016 to April 2017 Bond YUI Elimination: Bond is the business unit within travelers that takes care of underwriters.  The application existing in YUI and on frames.  The Project is to eliminate the frames and YUI, since YUI doesn't have support, to make the application web 2.0 and responsive.    Responsibilities:  • Use HTML5, CSS3, Sass, AngularJs, Git, Gulp, Grunt, and REST/SOAP APIs to develop complex responsive application.  • Build the development environment using NODEJS  • Delegate projects to four team members and provide mentoring for junior developers  • Interface with clients and vendors and manage expectations during development. Have been instrumental in the development and launch of several large projects, leading to overwhelming client satisfaction and the establishment/continuation of long-term business partnerships.  • Research, establish, document and maintain company coding best practices, development organization and workflow standards.  • Created a build script using Gulp.js task runner and a boilerplate theme for internal use.    Technology: Angular 1.5/2.0, NodeJS, Bootstrap, SASS, HTML5.0, CSS 3.0 Front End Web Developer VOYA FINANCE - Windsor, CT December 2015 to October 2016 401k application: 401k registration for the corporate users where previously handled by the respective HR team. Each individual user had to provide details to HR and wait for the approval.  The application is web based which enables user to enter his individual policy number and provide his details also view the stage of his process.    The user can add beneficiaries and also view the savings made on real time with graphical representations. Beneficiaries details and each information provides is validated as per the state and federal rules defined in the system.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared rich and responsive web applications in bootstrap.  • Components in BackBone Marionette  • Used github for source control.  • Responsive application for modern browsers.  • Created responsive pages in BootStrap.  • Development environment of Java/J2EE.  • Write code in format to support every media.  • Create re-usable components.  • Supported application with various components of bootstrap library.  • Worked on scrum methodology  Technology: Backbonejs, Marionette Js, Bootstrap, SASS, HTML5.0, CSS 3.0, Java/J2EE. Full Stack Developer THISMOMENT - San Francisco, CA July 2015 to December 2015 Social media marketing tool to identify the social presence of the event host and to identify the user presence for the campaigns hosted from various social media like Facebok, Twitter, Youtube    Responsibilities:  • Prepared rich and responsive web applications in bootstrap.  • Created modules in Zend2.0  • Components in AngularJS  • Worked on github.  • Write compatible code for modern browsers.  • Created responsive pages for mobile (Android, IOS), tablets and desktop using BootStrap.  • Write code in format to support every media.  • Designed and implemented the MongoDB schema  • Create components for the application.  • Pixel Perfect conversion of webpages.  • Created custom templates in bootstrap.  Technology: Zend 2.0, MongoDB, AngularJs, Bootstrap, Less CSS, HTML5.0, CSS 3.0, Linux. Sr Front End Developer WELLS FARGO - Minneapolis, MN July 2014 to June 2015 Transaction search project is for the large customers, who can view the status transactions being made by them, view returned items and generate reports for different time-periods    Responsibilities:  • Prepared the prototype of pages.  • Experience with Scrum methodology.  • Development environment of Java/J2EE.  • Prepared rich and responsive web applications in bootstrap.  • Created responsive pages for mobile (Android, IOS), tablets and desktop using BootStrap.  • Convert the swing application functionalities into angular js.  • Responsible for creating high-performance web pages according to given mockup designs, business requirements and technical specifications using Box Model, HTML5, and CSS3 with LESS.  • Created less variables and mixins for the application.  • Worked on github.  • Setup Grunt-watch for the application.  • Created unit test cases with Jasmine  • Write compatible code for modern browsers.  • Write code in format to support every media.  • Create re-usable components.  • Created pages for iphone using media-queries  • Pixel Perfect conversion of webpages.  • Developed AngularJS directives for custom components for application.  • Created custom templates in bootstrap.  Technology: Angular Js, YUI 3.0, Bootstrap, Less CSS, HTML5.0, CSS 3.0, and Java/J2EE, Linux. Sr Front End Developer ENTERTAINMENT PARTNERS - IN February 2014 to June 2014 Entertainment Partners Project is a swing application converted to rich web.    Technology: NodeJS Angular Js, BootStrap, LessCSS, HTML5.0, CSS3.0 Front End Developer WM - IN July 2013 to January 2014 Waste Management Project was conversion/migration to rich-web components.    Technology: CSS, OO JavaScript, Ajax, Angular Js, BootStrap, LessCSS, JQuery, XML, XSLT, JSP, Servlet, Log4J, JUnit, ANT over Sun Solaris, Windows Platforms, Java 1.4, JDBC, Oracle , SQL, IDE- Eclipse. System Application Developer GALLUP INC March 2012 to June 2013 Developed user interface designs using JavaScript, Ajax, CSS2/3, HTML/HTML5 and XML for reports generated through OBIEE platform for various clients of Gallup Inc.    Technology: Java 1.6, Oracle 11g, CSS3, firebug, JavaScript, Angular Js, D3.JS YUI, AJAX, XML, jQuery, OO-JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, OBIEE 11.1.1.5, OBIEE 11.1.1.6, Linux. Front End Developer PYRAMID CONSULTING INC May 2011 to February 2012 Project 1: CBAY Scribe  CBayScribe is a state-of-the-art, web-enabled transcription service with sophisticated recording, routing and distribution capabilities. The service provides physicians and small to medium-sized clinics a user-friendly web platform to create and maintain their medical records.    Project 2: CBAY Flo  CBay Flo is a state-of-the-art transcription service with sophisticated recording, routing and distribution capabilities. The service provides hospitals/multi speciality clinics a user-friendly platform to create and maintain their medical records.    Flo has built in utility to check for the hospital to check their statistics represented in a graphical manner .Also the application has built in functionality to download different report concerning the hospital in various formats including csv, text etc.    Project 3: Philips Project - an e-commerce application    Technology: Java 1.5, JSP, Servlet, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, HTML5.0, CSS3.0 Web Developer ASTRO-VISION November 2009 to April 2011 Project 1: Third Party Web Integration Project is a web service working similar to Google AdSense. Objective of the proposed service is to develop a web service wherein any website admin can register in our domain to receive a code-snippet for the widget to be published on his webpage. For every transaction happening through the widget on his webpage, the website admin receives a fixed share percentage of the transaction.    Project 2: Matrimonial Project - This was a matrimonial web solution, updation of malayogamonline.  Link: http://www.malayogamonline.com    Technology: PHP 5.0, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery. JSON, SOAP, XML, MySQL, Code Igniter, MooTools, Dream weaver, CC-Avenue, SMS Facility, Image features, Advanced Search, 1to1 Chat, Auto-login, Bulk Mailing etc. Web Developer KEY SOLUTIONS - IN July 2008 to October 2009 Project 1: Event Fast Project  The objective of proposed solution is to develop a chic and modish website to outline a nurtured environment in which User would record and manage their event's information like location, time, date, etc on the web solution. The system would also foster a unique environment where Users would be able to avail the endorsed features of site like search for the event, purchase event tickets, etc as per the client's specification.  The current feature set includes profile pages, Events information.  Link: http://www.eventfast.com    Project 2: ReMax Project  The system was developed as an entirely new and self-contained web solution. It will access data from Central Repository database. It will provide a complete platform to search residential, commercial, recreational properties and farm and ranches for buying. Realtors would get a place to upload their properties for sale. It has four modes of operation: Admin Mode, Sub-office Mode, Realtor Mode, and User Mode.  Link: http://www.remax-actionfsjbc.com    Project 3: Black Berry Survey Project  This is an application developed for both mobile and windows compatibility. The users would be able to operate only on authorized functionalities of the system. They would be able to log on to the system using the username and passwords provided to them by Admin/Supervisor. Admin/Supervisor is a windows application whose main functionality is to observe the tasks done by field staff. Field staff would use the mobile application to view the tasks assigned to them by supervisor in their blackberry devices.    Technology: PHP 5.0, Ajax, JavaScript, MySQL, In-house MVC, CakePHP, Jquery, YahooUI, Mootools, SQLYog, Dreamweaver, CuteFTP, PayPal, Google Map, Google Analytics, Contact Importer, Banners. Web Developer CUTESYS - IN January 2008 to June 2008 Cute Kerala Project was a tourism web solution. It will provide a complete platform to search home stays, hotels, tour operators for travelers. Operators would get a place to upload their details for the site visitors. It had got four logins Admin, Tour Operator, Hotels, and User's.  Link: http://www.cutekerala.com    Technology: PHP 5.0, Ajax, JavaScript, MySQL, CodeIgniter, Dreamweaver. Education Bachelor of Electronics & Communication Engineering in Electronics & Communication Engineering Mahatma Gandhi University 2006 Skills AJAX (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), jQuery (5 years), JAVA (5 years), BOOTSTRAP (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: PHP, Java, and J2EE  Reporting Tools: OBIEE  Web Technology: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML4/5, CSS2/3, XML, JSON, PHP (5.0)  Frameworks: AngularJS, Angular 2.0, less, CSS, Twitter BootStrap, JQuery, MooTools, YUI, CakePHP, Code Igniter  Database: MYSql, Oracle, SQL  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux  Other Tools and Packages: ClearCase, FireBug, Mingle, Cute FTP, SqlYog, Dreamweaver, Zend Developer Engine, Notepad++ SVN, MS-Office, Adobe Photoshop