Angular Developer Angular <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angular Developer - Jones Lang LaSalle New York, NY ? 9+ years experience in creating interactive software products using front end development technologies like HTML4.01,/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, JQUERY, and JavaScript.  ? Experience with JavaScript MVC Frameworks such as AngularJS.  ? Deep knowledge of AngularJS practices and commonly used modules based on extensive work experience.  ? Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  ? Hands on experience in using JavaScript libraries like JQUERY, JQUERY UI, HandlebarsJS.  ? Experience in using Twitter bootstrap and media queries to make Responsive web pages.  ? Experience on CSS preprocessors such as SASS.  ? Understanding in test frameworks like Jasmine and Build tools like Grunt  ? Extensive Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, JSONP.  ? Able to communicate effectively with a wide range of people, by showing interest and carefully listening to their needs.  ? Designed visually appealing designs focused on UX and Cross Browser Compatibility  ? Familiar with Mobile Web Development using jQuery Mobile and Twitter Bootstrap.  ? Experience using angular external libraries like Angular UI, Angular Material and Angular Google Map  ? Professional, precise communication skills.  ? Strong problem-solving and analytical skills.  ? Confident, articulate, and professional speaking abilities. Work Experience Angular Developer Jones Lang LaSalle - New York, NY March 2018 to Present Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated or JLL is a professional services and investment management company specializing in real estate. Since March 2014 it has officially marketed itself under the acronym, JLL.Global headquarters are located in Chicago, with an operational remit covering the Americas regional market. Sub-headquarters operate in London (covering the Europe, the Middle East and Africa regional market) and Singapore (covering the Asia Pacific regional market).  ? Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  ? Developed Front- End Code using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  ? Used AngularJS to develop MVC app [Models, Views and Controllers] that integrated with the back- end REST-FUL Services using AJAX ($http) to perform GET and POST data to backend servers.  ? Used Sitefinity CMS for all the content of application and integrated the Angular Templates with Sitefinty HTML templates.  ? Used Lodash.js in Angular application to work with collections in application.  ? Implemented Angular Google Maps with Angular-UI in application.  ? Developed custom directives in Angular JS that could be re-used like a template across the application and can be re-used to manipulate DOM across the application.  ? Tested/De-bugged web browser using Firebug.  ? Followed the Test Driven Development with writing unit test cases in JASMINE for Angular Controllers, directives, Factories and filters.  ? Managing and implementing all code changes via TFS. Deploying builds across development, staging and production instances and maintaining code integrity.  ? Used Gulp to concatenation and minification of JS and CSS files in Application.  ? Used KnockoutJS and BackBoneJS for POC to compare different MVC Frameworks.  ? Strong presentation and demonstrating skills; Confident, articulate and professional speaking abilities.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, C#, Angular JS, LodashJS, RWD, Twitter Bootstrap, SASS, Gulp. Front End Developer Walmart January 2016 to February 2018 Arkansas  Walmart Stores, Inc.is an American multinational retail corporation that operates a chain of hypermarkets, discount department stores and grocery stores.  ? Developed non-functional HTML5, CSS3 pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  ? Worked on creating reusable components using heavy duty JQUERY and Object Oriented JS. Developed components like Accordions and Tabs.  ? Used BackboneJS to create reusable View templates using HandlebarJS that tied to multiple Models for all data interactions/updates.  ? As a part of the application, various features and helper methods of BackboneJS were used - such as Sync, Routers, Collections, History, etc.  ? Also, on a separate POC project, usedAngular.js to develop MVC app [Models, Views and Controllers] that integrated with the back- end REST-FUL Services using AJAX ($http) to perform GET and POST data to backend servers.  ? Developed custom directives in Angular JS that could be re-used like a template across the application.  ? Designed cross-browser compatible page layouts using Modernizer and Polyfills(html5shiv and CSS3Pie)  ? Worked on Responsive Web Design to create web applications that cater to Tablet and Mobile devices - IOS and Android.  ? Worked on solving the cross browser/platform compatibility issues between IE, Firefox, and Safari  ? Worked on designing and development of CSS pre-processors (SASS and Compass)  ? Experience with creating dynamic Mobile Apps using JQuery Mobile and twitter bootstrap  ? Understanding of full Software Development Life Cycle starting from requirement analysis, development, and Integration testing  ? Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries.  ? Able to communicate effectively with a wide range of people, by showing interest and carefully listening to their needs.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSP, Backbone JS, Angular JS, RWD, JQUERY MOBILE, Twitter Bootstrap, SASS, Grunt.  Developer Tools: Microsoft Visual Studio, Firebug, Postman, Punker, Fiddle  Operating Systems: MAC OSX, Windows 8 UI Developer Marriott International - Bethesda, MD November 2013 to December 2015 Marriott International, Inc. is an American diversified hospitality company that manages and franchises a broad portfolio of hotels and related lodging facilities.  ? Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  ? Involved in extensive HTML, CSS, and JavaScript coding to build web pages according to the end user needs  ? Worked with back end developers to implement AJAX and dynamic HTML functionality in JQuery  ? Coded Java Script for page functionality and Lightbox plugins using JQUERY.  ? Experimented on developing some rich features in HTML5 and CSS3 (which was getting popular then).  ? Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript  ? Used Bugzilla and firebug in order to find the bugs so as to improve the efficiency.  ? Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSP, Twitter Bootstrap, Firebug, Fiddler, Bugzilla.  Developer Tools: Microsoft Visual Studio, Firebug, Postman, Punker, Fiddle UI Developer Marriott International - Bethesda, MD March 2009 to October 2013 Involved in developing websites using HTML and CSS as per provided style guidelines  ? Developed JavaScript to manipulate DOM and CSS dynamically.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript  ? Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  ? Used AJAX and JSON with JQuery to fetch and post the data to the backend.  ? Developed fast loading images using Adobe Photoshop CS3  ? Developing navigation, animated buttons, layouts, and icons.  ? Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues on both Windows.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSP, SVN, Adobe Photoshop    Bachelor of Computer Science Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), AJAX (9 years), jQuery (9 years), UI (9 years), sql server, database, java, sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    UI Web Technologies HTML4.01/HTML 5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, JQUERY UI, SASS  Mobile Web Technologies JQuery Mobile, Twitter Bootstrap, CSS3 Media Queries, Foundation, Materialize  JS MVC Frameworks Angular JS, Knockout JS  Developer Tools Gulp, Grunt, Jasmine  Operating Systems Windows XP, Windows 2007, Windows 2008, MAC OSX, Linux  Others Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Power Point