Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Interactive Health Palatine, IL Versatile Front- end Developer with 11+ years of experience creating, developing and maintaining applications that range from basic marketing websites to e-commerce stores to member portals. Seeking a position that will allow success with current skill set, that includes multiple front- end languages and libraries as well as PHP and .NET based back-ends, and allows expanding knowledge of Angular and mobile apps. Work Experience Web Developer Interactive Health - Schaumburg, IL September 2012 to Present Design and develop views/templates on top of C#, using the Razor templating engine.  ? Responsible for the full life cycle of a site configuration tool used by Account Management to control the look and feel of the site and it's content.  ? Refactor member website JavaScript resulting in improved site performance and reliability and implementing best coding practices with the new code.  ? Work with a 3rd party company to implement a complete overhaul of the member website front- end with a new responsive layout built on Foundation.  ? Work with marketing users to create HTML email templates for upcoming marketing campaigns.  ? Work in Agile environment with scrums, retros and story pointing. Technical Content Developer U.S. Cellular - Chicago, IL January 2012 to August 2012 Maintain and develop various jQuery site features.  ? Troubleshoot and fix browser specific bugs using CSS and jQuery.  ? Collaborate with designers on new website features. Web Developer XL Marketing Solutions - Rolling Meadows, IL May 2011 to December 2011 Develop client websites, landing pages and e-commerce stores.  ? Turn Photoshop files into functional websites using HTML, CSS, jQuery, PHP and MySQL. Front End Developer OpticsPlanet Inc - Northbrook, IL March 2007 to April 2011 Maintain and enhance existing websites and online stores using RTML, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Rewrite JavaScript for main store site to improve efficiency of site by improving load times and responsiveness and implementing best coding practices.  ? Ensure cross-browser compatibility on all websites. Education High school or equivalent Niles North High School - Skokie, IL September 1996 to May 2000 Skills HTML (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), C# (2 years), CSS (10+ years), jQuery (8 years), PHP (2 years), Angular (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  ? Expert in HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Knowledge of PHP, .NET, C#, Razor, MySQL and Photoshop.  ? Familiarity/Interest in advancing in Angular and mobile apps.