UI developer UI <span class="hl">developer</span> UI developer - Cisco Systems Total eleven years of experience with six plus years of software industry experience in Object Oriented web-based application design, development and testing as a front- end web developer XHTML, HTML 5, CSS 3.0, JavaScript, XML, DOM Scripting. Three years of experience in Testing and providing Technical support on different applications running on different mobile devices.  • Expert level of knowledge and experience HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Experience with XML and JSON.  • Experience with cross browser implementation.  • Experience with JavaScript debugging (Firebug, IE Developer Tools).  • Experience building web applications using PHP & MySQL.  • Experience in JavaScript libraries like JQuery, AngularJS & Dojo.  • Experience in JavaScript framework like AJAX.  • Experience in developing table-less layouts.  • Experience in working in Agile Methodology.  • Experience in working with version control systems like SVN & CVS.  • Strong knowledge in Document Object Model and DOM functions.  • Sound Understanding and good experience with Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and implementation.  • Ability to apply W3C web standards with great skill and craftsmanship in achieving the best cross-browser user experience for sake of long-term user retention and engagement.  • Participated in several hack-a-thons (some examples are UX Design analysis & feedback tool, Text to Voice application and Cloud-based policy-oriented network diagnostic tool).  • Excellent team player and Individual contributor. Work Experience UI developer Cisco Systems January 2015 to Present Cloud Consumption is a service which helps in discovering what cloud services are being used and protect your organization by reducing cloud risks and costs.    Responsibilities:  • Working on two projects in Cloud Consumption - (Software & Research)  • Creating new UI mockup designs using a bootstrap template.  • Dynamic UI using JQuery  • Creating new charts using third party applications like D3 charts, highcharts etc.  • File upload portal for large files using dropzone application  • Multiple forms using AngularJS  • Writing web services using Java  • Browser support for all four major browsers like Firefox, Chrome, Safari and IE.  • Fixing of bugs and writing the documentation.  • Used Firebug for debugging.    Environment: JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Java, Dropzone, D3, highcharts, HTML5, AJAX, DOM, Firebug Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA April 2012 to Present UI developer Cisco Systems March 2014 to January 2015 This project was for government where they have confidential data and requires everything on their premise. Project was supporting an already existing cloud-based product into on premise with additional feature like software management, database management, dashboard support etc.    Responsibilities:  • Developing UI screens as per UX designs using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript & Dojo.  • Working closely with UX to understand the design documents and approving screens after development.  • Customizing already existing product to fulfill the need of On-premise.  • Designing API signatures for new RESTful API requirements  • Creating database schema in Oracle.  • Browser support for three major browsers like Firefox, Chrome and IE.  • Fixing of bugs and writing the documentation.  • Used Firebug for debugging.    Environment: Dojo, JavaScript, CSS 2 & 3, HTML5, AJAX, DOM, Firebug UI developer Cisco Systems October 2013 to February 2014 Solution Support (SSPT) is a service for support needs of Cisco users. Portal is used for documentary repository, root-cause analysis reports etc.    Responsibilities:  • Designing UI screens as per the PRDs.  • Creating forms and grid using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript & Dojo.  • Creating database schema in Oracle.  • Browser support for four major browsers like Firefox, Chrome, Opera & Safari.  • Fixing of bugs and writing the documentation.  • Used Firebug for debugging.    Environment: Dojo, JavaScript, CSS 2 & 3, HTML5, AJAX, DOM, Firebug UI developer Cisco Systems August 2013 to October 2013 Created an automated build process site for Cisco product teams which creates a collector build profile, shows the summary of the builds and allows editing or cloning a build profile.    Responsibilities:  • Designing UI screens & API signatures.  • Creating forms and grid using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript & Dojo.  • Creating database schema in MySQL.  • Creating REST API's to return JSONs to communicate between database & UI using Java web services.  • Auto refresh summary page.  • Browser support for four major browsers like Firefox, Chrome, Opera & Safari.  • Fixing of bugs and writing the documentation.  • Used Firebug for debugging and browser compatibility.    Environment: Dojo, JavaScript, CSS 2 & 3, HTML5, Java, AJAX, DOM, Firebug UI developer Cisco Systems September 2012 to August 2013 Worked on a project for Life Cycle Management (LCM) system of a collector. Created web pages for software update, auto update policy & scheduled update.    Responsibilities:  • Creating web pages as JSP files using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript & Dojo.  • Localization of web pages to support both English & Spanish languages.  • Developing and integrating LCM functionalities in an already existing product.  • Testing & fixing cross browser issues in all five major browsers like Firefox, IE, Chrome, Opera & Safari.  • Creating dynamic User Interface through DOM & Dojo.  • Fixing of bugs in the system and write the documentation.  • Used Firebug, IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.    Environment: Dojo, JavaScript, CSS 2 & 3, HTML5, Java, AJAX, DOM, Firebug UI developer Re-usable Components April 2012 to August 2012 Worked on a project for creating some re-usable components. Components can be re-used without touching HTML file. User only needs to configure a JSON file.    Responsibilities:  • Developed a Data grid with functionality like pagination, filters, print, refresh & predefined filters etc.  • Developed a Scheduler wizard which can schedule a task with task description, notification and time on which it needs to be done.  • Developed Object Selector which can be triggered after selecting some rows from a data grid and perform some actions.  • Helped other UI developers in research of some Dojo components & their functionality.    Environment: Dojo, JavaScript, CSS 2 & 3, HTML5, AJAX, DOM, Firebug Front- end developer Walt Disney - Palo Alto, CA November 2010 to March 2012 Project Description: Ticket management System    Worked on a project for enhancement and refactoring of the website for the online ticketing system for Disneyland and promotions available online.    Responsibilities:  • Created web pages with HTML using CSS, JavaScript.  • Worked with Marketing and Brand Management teams to develop new functionalities using PHP, MySQL, CSS, HTML, JavaScript technologies for development and the maintenance of the system.  • Installation and setup of the website fixing of bugs in the system and write the documentation.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, IE Developer Toolbar, for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Prepared the Unit test plans and the integrated test plans.  • Designed, developed Web pages for the application using HTML, and Java Script for validation.    Environment: JavaScript, CSS 2 & 3, HTML, XHTML, PHP, MySQL, JQuery, AJAX, DOM, Firebug Front- end web developer R Systems International Ltd May 2010 to November 2010 Client is a leading Self Service Solution provider. Their Knowledge Portal (KP) is integrated with their customers through the website of the customer, through a popup window. One of the approaches requested by client was to have a popup window, which is triggered from the customers website & when an end-user interacts/clicks a link or button in the KP window the host page is refreshed/updated with the respective content, & at the same time retaining the KP popup window. The list of activities performed:    • Cross domain interaction  • Fixing WCAG issues  • jQuery scripting for displaying the content in the Auto Classify page  • Smooth Scrolling    Environment: JavaScript, CSS, DHTML, JQuery, AJAX, DOM    Project: Cross browser compatibility R Systems International Ltd October 2009 to November 2010 Worked on various client projects with RSIL India as a part of front- end development team. Front- end developer R Systems International Ltd January 2010 to April 2010 Developer R Systems International Ltd October 2009 to January 2010 The client is a leading developer of application development software and needed a website that would showcase the new user interface for one of their On Demand software product.    Goals: Redesign the client product home page to act as a storefront for product features and optimize the site for stronger search engine rankings.    • Reorganized the product home page template to include a billboard showcasing the software's user interface to better market the client's products. Three additional columns were added to promote product features and help generate leads.  • An auto provisioning form was also build which allows companies free use of the software for their first five users, creating JavaScript and CSS workarounds to modernize the default marketing automation form.  • Implemented a web service that automatically communicates to the software product to allow access for provisioning users.  • Worked with the product marketing manager, to create eight additional promotional pages highlighting the software's important features and linking to modal dialogue boxes containing video demonstrations of those features.    Environment: XHTML, JavaScript, CSS, DOM Support & Testing Nokia India Pvt. Ltd October 2003 to September 2006 Worked with Nokia India and was involved in providing L1/L2 support to Nokia customers for their different product lines:  • VeriChat running on different devices like Palm OS / Pocket PCs / Symbian / Smartphone and Blackberry.  • SMS & AlertMgr applications for Palm devices.    Responsibilities:  • Handling L1/L2 support and responding to customers, solving their queries related to Installation / Downloading / Purchasing / Troubleshooting and Licensing.  • Testing new products and versions on different mobile devices.  • Generation of new License & registration keys for new purchase on a daily basis through our Partners site like: PalmGear, HandMark, MobiHand, AddIT and Handango etc. System Analyst Methodex Computer Technology Limited - New Delhi, Delhi July 1999 to October 2003 MCTL is into customized software development / training services to schools all over Northern India. They are specialized in providing training and have 5 different software products for meeting out the MIS requirements of Schools / colleges.  Responsible for the defining, developing, configuring and supporting computer applications. B2B Pricing Solution 2000 to 2000 2000 and was tightly coupled with IE6. With the adoption of Chrome, IE8, IE9 and Firefox browsers, the user base of the solutions were increasingly inconvenienced by the limitations due to browser issues. The client was looking to get the code issues fixed up for 3 main browsers i.e. IE8 & IE9, Chrome V13 and Mozilla Firefox v3.6.18. The list of activities performed was:    • Understanding the behavior and functionality of the applications with respect to multiple browsers.  • Understanding the components (MS ActiveX, JavaScript, Flash, Flex and others) that are used in implementing the behavior including the control event flow.  • Based on the understanding of the above prepare the list of changes required in the code base  • Testing the modified code base.    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, DOM, JSON   Project: UI Development Analyst Shriram Pistons & Rings Limited September 1997 to August 1998 Payroll System: The project was carried out in FoxPro and was a complete and true Payroll package as per company's specifications and requirements. It also covered a module called cost-to-company, which is used to calculate various costs associated with various departments. Education Computing on the Internet Foothill College - Los Altos Hills, CA Masters in Computer Science Maharshi Dayanand University Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Development Tools HTML 5, XHTML, XML, CSS (2 & 3), DOM, JavaScript, JQuery, Dojo, AngularJS, PHP, AJAX, Firebug, JSON, Dropzone, D3, highcharts  Instructional & eLearning Tools XML, XSLT  Scripting Tools JavaScript, DOM  Databases MySQL, Oracle  Operating Systems Windows Family, UNIX, LINUX  Object oriented development software Java