Sr. Front end Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front end developer - Sysfore Technologies Inc Waltham, MA • Front end Developer with around 8 years of experience in software development with diverse background in analysis, design, development, testing, deployment and maintenance of software applications.  • Excellent skills with design and development using ColdFusion 9, 8, MX 7, 6, 5.0 environments.  • Hands on entire Software Development lifecycle (SDLC), including Requirement Collection, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Documentation, and Implementation.  • Created multiple Cold Fusion based client-managed data driven web environments and business applications  • Well versed with different IDEs such as Macromedia Dreamweaver, CF Builder 2, CFEclipse, Aptana studio 3  • Experience and Good Knowledge in Scripting and UI languages like CS Script, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery, HTML/HTML5, DHTML, XML and CSS/CSS3.  • Experienced in designing and developing Multi-tier scalable applications using different MVC frameworks like ColdBox, Fusebox  • Strong logical and analytical reasoning skills, excellent communication with good listening and presentation and intrapersonal skills.  • Excellent work experience in writing SQL queries, packages, Store Procedures using different versions of Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server 7.0/2000/2005/2008 and MySQL.  • Experienced in writing T-SQL, stored procedures, function, views and triggers.  • Hands on with content management tools SVN, PVCS, CVS, VSS, and ClearCase.  • Experience in Designing and analyzing UML.  • Worked in design and development of Cold Fusion components, Custom Tags and Web Services.  • Experience and Knowledge in OOAD, Web Services, WDDX, and Fuse box Web Application Standards, CFCs and CFobjects.  • Hands on defect management tools JIRA and Mercury Quality Center.  • Expert in developing reports using ColdFusion Report Builder, Crystal reports and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Hands-on experience with Application servers and Web servers.  • Effective in working independently and collaboratively in teams.  • Hands on Shado - Content Management System. Work Experience Sr. Front end Developer Sysfore Technologies Inc - Wellesley, MA May 2012 to Present Sun Life Financial Inc. is an international financial services company known primarily as a life insurance company, but also has a strong presence in investment management with over $494 billion in assets under management. Based in Toronto, Canada, Sun Life and its partners provide insurance, retirement and investment solutions for individuals and businesses around the world including Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, the Philippines, Japan, Indonesia, India, China and Bermuda. Sun Life ranks number 236 on the Forbes Global 2000 list for 2010 as well as on the Fortune 500 list.    Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, debug, implement, and maintenance of application.  • Development of application using HTML/HTML5, ColdFusion 8/9/10/11, Shado8/9 CMS, JQuery, AJAX, PL/SQL, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript etc., and other latest technologies.  • Extensively used JQuery for Application Development. JQuery features such as Data table, thick box, Autosuggest, Date picker, UI tabs, implemented JQuery Ajax Post back.  • Used JQuery form validations and JavaScript to perform client side validation.  • Used JQuery mask Plug-in to mask the input field.  • Used cffile and cfcontent features for Excel Upload and Downloading.  • Used cfmail features for sending mails to the clients.  • Used createobject feature to bind Java backend with Coldfusion.  • Developing the server side scripts using CFML, CFCs and customized application with errors, exception handling.  • SVN has been used for all the source code maintenance among the whole team members.  • Design and develop the workflow modules  • Prepared various Test cases to fix the bugs reported in Bug Zero and ensure the application error-free.  • Created a detail Requirements, Test plan and procedures for application testing.  • Handled Cross Browser Issues    Environment: ColdFusion 8, AJAX, JQuery, My SQL, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Shado CMS, CF Builder 2, Bug Zero, SVN. In-house Project - Developer Sri Siva Sakthi Logistics December 2008 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed Business layer and Data Access layer using ColdFusion 8, Shado CMS, JQuery, AJAX, PL/SQL, CSS, JavaScript etc.  • Individually Responsible for the entire in - house project  • Involved in collecting Business requirement, design, develop, test and maintenance.    Environment: ColdFusion 8, AJAX, JQuery, My SQL, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CSS Developer Arien Info Tech 2007 to December 2007 Responsibilities:  • Developed Business layer and Data Access layer using C#, Visual Studio.Net 2005 and .NET Framework 2.0  • Utilized ADO.NET technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation.  • Utilized ASP.NET Input Validation controls and JavaScript to perform client side validation.  • Implementing Dynamic partial-page update technique using AJAX.  • Involved in writing Cascading style sheets (CSS) for styles on web page, and calling them in ASP.Net pages.  • SVN has been used for all the source code maintenance among the whole team members.  • User interface screens developed using Web forms and Win forms.  • Developed User Controls and Custom Controls.  • Business logic implementation for technical validations for the data was done using server control Form Validations.  • Implementing Stored Procedures for Data Retrieval and Updating.    Environment: Visual Studio2005, C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Web Services, API, SOAP, HTML, JavaScript, SQL Server, SVN. Developer Infronic Solutions pvt ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2006 to December 2007 Responsibilities:  • Developed Dynamic web pages using ASP.NET, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Used ASP.NET server controls like Calendar control, Grid View, Data List extensively.  • Involved in writing Complex SQL statements and stored procedures.  • Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS) has been used for all the source code maintenance among the whole team members.  • Responsible for implementing Stored Procedures and SQL for CRUD operations.  • User interface screens developed using Web forms.  • Executed various change requests for enhancements after deployment.  • Provided user assistance and support.  • Developed scripts for front end validations using Java script  • Developed the CSS, HTML, and DHTML for generating interactive screens  • Used ADO to interact with the database  • Used mail components to send mails to the customers from the site  • Used all stored procedures instead of ordinary SQL Queries to improve the speed and to decrease server side Scripts to implement the business logic    Environment: ASP.NET, VB.NET, HTML, JavaScript, XML, SQL Server 2005, .NET Compact Framework, AJAX, Visual Source Safe. Education Bachelors of Technology RMK Enginerring College - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Diploma in Computer Technology Sri Durga Devi Polytechnic College - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C#, VB.NET, C, C++, PL/SQL, T-SQL, CFML  Web Technologies Cold Fusion 5.0/ 7 MX/8 / 9/10/11, ASP.NET, XML Web Services, HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, ASP, AJAX, XML  Server Applications IIS, WSS 2.0, InfoPath, Cold Fusion 8  Database MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, Ms Access, MySQL  Frame Work FuseBox 3 / 5.0, ColdBox, Coldspring  Web Servers Internet Information Services (IIS) 6.0  Designing Tools Visual Studio.Net 2003 &2005, Adobe, Dream Weaver, Eclipse, Aptana Studio  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports 9.0, SQL Reporting Services 2003 & 2005  Scripting Languages Java Script, AJAX, CS Script, JQuery  Content Management MS Visual Source Safe, SVN Tortoise  Office Tools Ms Word, Ms Excel, Ms Project, Ms Visio.