Software Engineer/ Developer Software Engineer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer/ Developer La Crescenta, CA Work Experience Software Engineer/ Developer CM National - Los Angeles, CA August 2018 to December 2018 • Build ecommerce website that interacts with game-based mobile application.  • Customize and enhance open-source shopping cart solution with additional functionality, including "Add a Child" (allowing parent user to add and manage children accounts enabling them to play the mobile application), and product "Add to Wishlist" feature, using PHP, JavaScript, and MySQL.  • Create multiple new static and dynamic pages for website using the existing PHP shopping cart framework and content management system. Software Engineer/ Developer Age of Learning - Glendale, CA July 2015 to January 2018 • Build interactive games for educational website/app using JavaScript and in-house JS/PHP framework.  • Build interactive, educational games for massively multiplayer online product in Unity using C#.  • Educational curriculum includes 2nd grade math, science, language arts principles; user answers questions using drag and drop or click-to-select; employ JavaScript events, listeners and callbacks to trigger playing, pausing, and changing of animations and audio inactivity prompts.  • Work closely with producers, animators and game designers to ensure the best experience for users.  • Manage code using multiple Git repositories.  • Use JIRA to manage project progress and communication.  • Manage and complete multiple projects with minimal supervision within established deadlines. Front End Web Developer KCETLink - Burbank, CA August 2010 to July 2015 • Maintain dynamic website logic and front- end code for high-traffic, public television website; update content and troubleshoot technical problems using the Movable Type content management system, including social media and mobile.  • In agile/scrum environment, work with designer, programming lead, and producers to develop and maintain site areas from design to delivery.  • Implement and ensure cross-browser and cross-platform HTML and CSS compatibility.  • Implement current trends in SEO strategies site-wide.  • Utilize jQuery libraries for various dynamic functionalities across website.  • Manage, update and create HTML email and various web forms using Convio (fundraising management software). Front End Web Developer [Contract] Ayzenberg - Pasadena, CA February 2010 to May 2010 • Convert PhotoShop designs into fully functional, interactive HTML pages and sites in fast-paced entertainment-based environment.  • Build corporate video game company website in Cascade Server content management system, using HTML, CSS, XSLT, XML, jQuery, JavaScript.  • Create html email newsletters from PhotoShop graphics files. Front End Web Developer Transamerica Life Insurance Company - Los Angeles, CA April 2008 to December 2009 Continual upgrading of existing websites to current web standards by implementing tableless design, proper use of CSS and HTML, and graphics optimization.  ? Support development of ASP.NET web pages.  ? Train development team on current CSS practices, uses and standards in order to maintain standards and ensure proper CSS usage across current and future web pages and websites.  ? Translate wireframes and designs into flexible and reusable interfaces using Flash, HTML, CSS, XML and JavaScript.  ? Work with members of the development team to integrate the UI with other tiers in the multi-tier web-based applications.  ? Implement/ensure cross-browser/cross-platform UI compatibility. Front End Web Developer/Designer California Institute of Technology - Pasadena, CA October 2002 to April 2008 • Manage several websites in three different departments over the course of 5.5 years.  • Improve visibility and usability of multi-campus research project website through UI redesign and content reorganization.  • Promote visibility and accessibility of scientific research through various website features, including scrolling RSS research-related news feeds, monthly email newsletters featuring information on and links to current research and papers/articles, and creating mini-sites (with conference registration features) for various conferences, meetings and events. Education Master of Business Administration in Finance University of Redlands - Redlands, CA Bachelor of Arts in Art History Indiana University - Bloomington, IN Skills Web Development (10+ years), Javascript (4 years), HTML 5 (2 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), JQuery (3 years), Ecommerce (3 years), PHP (2 years), React (Less than 1 year), C# (1 year), Unity (1 year)