Freelance Freelance Charles Town, WV To secure a position as a Front End UX/UI Web Developer that will  utilize diverse, well honed technical skills and provide  opportunities for personal and professional growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance WV Pan.com - Charles Town, WV February 2017 to Present Created a freelance marketing channel enabling various types of local businesses to connect with new customers. Users are able to find local products and produce by browsing events, stores, and markets. I run social media advertisements and broadcast live video from events to bring attention to local products. In the first week, I received almost 10k impressions and got my face on people’s screens for over 600 minutes. Front End Developer Translator List - Remote October 2016 to February 2017 Originally hired to install and setup a Wordpress plugin and theme. The end result was a handful of free plugins working together to add many additional features. Various levels of membership allows users to post jobs, apply for jobs, or both. Users are able to opt in for email alerts when matching jobs are posted. Front End Developer StudyStandard.com - Remote February 2016 to October 2016 Worked with 1 developer in a custom php framework to build an academic library housing 250k documents. Partial mock-ups and graphics existed but were not designed with mobile in mind. I was able to find various workarounds and solutions to enable responsive capabilities without adding any time to development. We created and tested several methods of member sign up, profile creation and checkout processes, ending up with a user friendly, high performance interface. FRONT END DEVELOPER SHEEP GURU October 2015 to February 2016 Streamlining user's experiences for some of the most complex Health Information  interfaces known to man. Reducing extraneous obstacles and increasing  performance, allowing user's to complete tasks they had once relied on telephone  support for. Successful implementations completed on various levels, from entire  systems from scratch to working in clients current frameworks. SEO SPECIALIST LRKIMBALL COMMUNICATIONS DIVISION September 2014 to November 2014 Responsible for internal and public website redesign. Built keyword, title and click-path audits from existing site using past analytic data to take advantage of  current SEO methods and tools. Held weekly classes with various members of key  groups to provide SEO training and get everyone working towards a common  goal. APPLICATIONS DEVELOPER LOUDOUN COUNTY PUBLIC SAFETY September 2013 to September 2014 (Under Contract)  Designed, tested, and implemented scripts and protocols to keep hundreds of county emergency mobile PCs up to date with various life saving programs and  content. Worked with several technical county divisions to ensure all emergency  network data traffic would be included and transmitted properly. Worked directly with System Administrator team to identify and isolate network anomalies,  developing solutions for technical issues. Formed a group of team leaders to test  different phases of development, inviting their participation then using that  collaboration to evolve the final product. Designated groups of developers for different phases of testing and executed a very thorough testing plan to ensure  end user would receive all data without fail.  Also developed several highly interactive web applications using AngularJS to provide  mobile county employees with server statuses, emergency alerts and communications. Developed documentation and protocols for maintenance and  troubleshooting. TECH CENTER EXPERT STAPLES December 2011 to September 2013 Although hired as a Sales Associate, the position rapidly evolved to Lead Technical  Support, with direct customer relations responsibilities. Focused attention on developing trust relationships through sound business practices, broad technical  experience and a genuine concern for customer satisfaction, resulted in increased  market penetration and sales, raising divisional ranking status for the Technical  Support department.    Duties as Technical Lead include mentoring several teams of technicians in problem diagnosis and resolution, to include networking, hardware, software,  configuration and performance related issues, as well as malware identification and mitigation. PROPERTY MANAGER CAMERON'S MARINA AT MARKER February 2009 to September 2011 57 02/09 - 09/11  Managed a family owned Florida resort marina valued in excess of 1 million  dollars. Responsibilities include: managing rental boat slips, apartments,  promoting tourism, marketing, property maintenance, organizing charter events, and financial management. FRONT END DEVELOPER CLICK HERE MARKETING 2005 to September 2009 Developed affiliate marketing routines that enable link tracking millions of online  products that earned commissions for numerous vendors and cash back  incentives for consumers. This position also included designing branding and layouts for an extensive UI, newsletters and email campaigns which enabled  substantial savings for clients, partners, and consumers which required an in- depth usage of a custom PHP framework, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and  MySQL. COMPUTER MAID thecomputermaid.com 2004 to 2005 As a follow on endeavor, this new company offered a local area network command and control system utilizing SSH tunneling and a 256 bit encryption virtual  networking capability to provide a secure technical support channel. The  connection was then used to provide malware detection and removal and system  administration services which included: peripheral installation and customization, file backup and restoration and online technical training. Also  offered custom website and database development services. Technologies  supported included: PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Linux servers. TECHNOCIAN SHEA COMMUNICATIONS 2003 to 2004 2003 - 2004  Installed electronic and home automation equipment, enabling the company to transform its business model into one of technical IT support. Installed telephone  systems (including VOIP), alarm systems, X-ray machines, home writing systems and developed software routines that enabled satellite communications and support between multiple ground based locations. WEB DEVELOPER S.M.A.R.T. INC 1999 to 2001 1999-2001  Responsible for design and management of a website for an internet executive  research firm. Created a multi-page web site consisting of a RESTful database  driven interface, Flash animation and extensive text; designed an easy to navigate  site allowing both employees and customers to enter and manage data. Analyzed  company's existing web site to identify deficiencies and develop corrective action  plans. Served as the site administrator, maintained content and security;  implemented continuous improvements to the site, keeping pace with the client's  rapid growth and constantly changing needs. Achieved a significant increase in productivity and efficiency through effective IT administration. Contributed to the  profitable growth of the company by enhancing and improving the company's  internet presence. Education RUMSON-FAIR HAVEN HIGH SCHOOL - Rumson, NJ Additional Information Proficient in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, PHP. CGI, Perl, MySql,  Photoshop and Microsoft Office products. Also skilled in multiple  versions and releases of Microsoft Windows, Linux, and Mac OS.