Lead Front end Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> Engineer Open To Opportunities Austin, TX I have a wide breadth of experience spanning almost two decades, including everything from Vanilla Javascript and Angular, to currently the React+ Webpack ecosystem. I get an endorphin rush over making things look dazzling. I thrive on helping those around me learn. I adopt quickly and I don't need hand-holding. My philosophy in part is: 'There is no golden hammer... use the right tool for the job' Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Front end Engineer Senior Advisor - Austin, TX September 2016 to Present • Composite component architecture  • Lead the front end team in react and rails centric environment  • Advised the Architect on how to implement a hybrid SSR React/Rails replacement for the flagship offering  • Help provide a roadmap to elegantly replace rails monolith application with micro service architecture  • Execute plan to implement modern webpack, react, redux refractor consuming restful api's  • Interview candidates for our junior and mid level front end positions  • Provide guidance and mentorship to 4 junior developers  • Define and enforce style guides, code reviews, and best practices at stage 1.  • Practiced paired programing to help level up internal teams  • Identified new revenue streams  • Collaborated with external developers to develop a new approach to modularizing and deploying assets  • Advised other teams on React specific pros and cons  • Moved aggressively to meet business demands and delivery dates  • Help Business team prioritize goals based on technology strengths and weaknesses Senior Front End Developer Agrarian Labs: Leaf.ag - Austin, TX February 2016 to September 2016 • Implemented Testing around existing code base using Karma and Mocha  • Replaced legacy custom state management system with Redux & Redux Sagas  • Developed responsive web/mobile product features using React JS, SASS, on GoLang with REST  • Mentored junior engineers, guiding them towards industry best practices.   • Supported docker based deployments across environment with Webpack  • Provided guidance on UI/UX concerns  • Implemented self documentation practices for the team to follow  • Engaged in research and prototyping of performance improvements using new technologies ( Canvas, WebGL, Web Workers )  • Fostered open communication between product, backend, and front end domains to better define feature goals and requirements  • Contributed to company's technical blog  • Hosted the company's local GoLang Meetup (Although I do no consider myself a go programmer :-) Team Lead, Senior Front End Engineer Trim Agency - Fort Lauderdale, FL July 2014 to January 2016 • Provided direct technical guidance to company CEO on decisions regarding tech stack, hiring of technical team, and roadmap for rolling out product.  • Supported Ruby on Rails development efforts by providing architectural, design, and API consultation.  • Direct internal workflow process development.  • Mentored junior engineers, guiding them towards industry best practices.  • Established and enforced code versioning practices, administering company GIT repositories.  • Developed responsive web/mobile applications using Angular JS, SASS, Node.JS Team Leader, Senior Front End Engineer Commerce Data Science March 2014 to August 2014 • Developed responsive web/mobile application using Coffeescript, LESS, Backbone, Nginx, jQuery.  • Worked alongside product management and UX lead to define product requirements.  • Partnered with Quality Assurance engineers to lead development of integration tests.  • Extended software compatibility across browsers and platforms.  • Search Engine Optimization for a single page web application using Phantom.js.  • Led 10 engineers in adopting Continuous Integration, Agile through JIRA/Confluence, and GIT. Front End Engineer ACI: Appraiser Choice - Palm Coast, FL March 2009 to June 2012 • Development in Flex, C#, NHibernate, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, Ext.js, Bootstrap, ActionScript, Javascript, Photoshop, Illustrator.  • Replaced technology stack with web-based solution for end users and enterprise level consumers.  • Received Innovation Award for translating proprietary form layouts to Cloud rendering. Senior Front End Developer Yahoo Inc - Mountain View, CA 2006 to 2008 • Composite component architecture  • Development work in Adobe Flex SDK, PHP, AJAX, ActionScript 2/3, YUI, yPHP, MYSQL.  • Integrated new ad support service into existing Maps system.  • Managed automated rollouts of map client on bi-weekly cycle.  • Interfaced with design and backend teams to outline endpoint mappings.  • Refactored legacy ActionScript 2.0 to Object Oriented 3.0 implementations. Education Associates of Science in Computer Animation Full Sail University - Winter Park, FL 2003 Skills Javascript Patterns (4 years), Dependency Management (5 years), Continuous Integration (3 years), E2E Test Integration (3 years), Javascript Unit testing (2 years), Modular Javascript Development (3 years), Redux (1 year), ReactJS (2 years), AngularJS (2 years), Karma, Graphic Design (10+ years), 3D Animation (4 years), Docker (1 year), AWS (2 years), Webpack (2 years), React (2 years), Front End, Javascript, Front-End, UI, Angular Links http://wwwgithub.com/gregoryStarr http://www.starrit.io http://www.bassministry.com Awards Innovation Award 2011-06 Awarded by ACI (aciweb.com) for co-developing a solution that enabled legacy binary data to be viewed in the cloud Additional Information I practice vipassana meditation regularly, I am an athlete (running and aikido), a musician (produce and perform EDM), artist (When I can :-), Dreamer (All day I dream about tech), and passionate about my field and the pursuit of excellence within it.