Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Front- End Developer Vancouver, WA Proactive front- end developer with over 10 years of experience building compliant websites that serve to advance growth and continually enhance user experience Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer DexYP - Glendale, CA January 2018 to June 2018 ? Built front- end web modules within AngularJS/2 and .NET frameworks needed for new product set in very fast paced Agile environment  ? Used Angular UI with Bootstrap to code front end for profile manager web app and advertiser tools  ? Maintained current and legacy code during migration period  ? Regularly jumped in to help other teams as resources and requirements constantly shifted Lead Front- End Developer YP - Glendale, CA April 2013 to January 2018 ? Coded front- end templates for multiple projects and frameworks including Ruby on Rails, AngularJS/2 and .NET for small business advertising industry that utilized the Salesforce customer relation management platform  ? Notably led project to standardize department's front- end toolkit in turn minimized online branding disparity across several properties, significantly reduced style sheet maintenance overhead for current and legacy code bases and acted as a living style guide for all subsequent projects  ? Worked closely with user experience and product managers of high profile clients to deliver new features and maintain ongoing tasks within extremely tight deadlines utilizing Scrum work flow  ? Managed two senior front- end developers, held monthly meetings to discuss best practices and shared findings of new techniques with other departments  ? Used Grunt, Gulp, Bower, Node Package Manager as build tools during development process  ? Worked with Docker to deploy and run applications  ? Familiar using TeamCity and Jenkins to run builds on dev environments Web Developer WebMD - Atlanta, GA August 2012 to January 2013 ? Worked within Documentum content management system to maintain core site and develop new modules for health care industry  ? Coded front- end templates using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and enforced W3C compliant markup with strong ability to code for browser compatibility  ? Collaborated with product, publishing and user experience departments on different projects stemming from core site editing to high profile product promotions UI Developer CMGdigital - Atlanta, GA June 2010 to August 2012 ? Coded Django templates for content management system for digital newspaper industry  ? Enforced strict W3C compliant coding and browser compatibility  ? Collaborated closely with user experience, quality assurance and back- end teams to complete features that  were part of a proprietary content management system by way of Kanban methodology  ? Followed stringent development/qa process including minimum of 2 pull request approvals  ? Regularly ran builds on dev environments to integrate code  ? Working knowledge of SiteCatalyst and Chartbeat to analyze web metrics Lead Front- End Developer Apogee - Atlanta, GA December 2008 to June 2010 ? Built out front- end templates into .NET framework for utility and energy companies  ? Hand coded HTML, CSS, JavaScript and other user interface elements as well as integrated markup into Sitefinity content management system  ? Promoted to lead front- end developer with responsibility of enforcing W3C standards compliant coding and browser compatibility, as well as mentoring junior developers  ? Helped facilitate and execute new work flow within department making project life cycle more efficient for team, reduced actual budget hours and increased the customer satisfaction rating Front- End Developer COXnet, Inc - Atlanta, GA February 2008 to December 2008 ? Built JavaServer Page templates and edited XML documents from Photoshop files and integrated these assets into Escenic content management system  ? Practiced and enforced W3C standards and compliant coding  ? Worked within diverse team using SCRUM methodology and effectively collaborated with user experience designers and back- end developers  ? Managed tickets and bug tracking within Jira Front- End Developer / Project Manager Speartek, Inc - Atlanta, GA August 2005 to March 2007 ? Built web templates with HTML, CSS and JavaScript to configure retail and wholesale websites within company's content management system  ? Prepared necessary collateral to run product imports within content management system  ? Promoted to project manager after successfully and consistently meeting deadlines and specifications, staying within the budget and exceeding client expectations  ? Effectively communicated with clients to obtain proper digital assets to assist in the prompt start of project production and trained clients on use of content management system Software Engineer ShouldersCorp - Oak Ridge, TN October 2000 to November 2001 ? Converted classic Active Server Pages into JavaServer Pages for massive web based cataloging system  ? Worked with multimedia tools to create company software demos including Macromedia Director 7/8, Flash 5, Adobe Premiere 6, Sound Forge, DDClip, Swish, HyperCam, and Lotus ScreenCam 97 Education A.A.S. in Computer Science Technology Pellissippi State Technical Community College August 1997 to June 2000 Skills AngularJS (2 years), JavaScript (3 years), Ruby on Rails (2 years), HTML 5 (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Git (8 years), SASS (5 years), .NET (2 years), Django (2 years), Bootstrap (4 years), Node.js (2 years), Salesforce (1 year), Responsive Design (4 years), Grunt (2 years), Gulp (2 years), Bower (2 years), Jenkins (1 year), Docker (2 years), TeamCity (1 year) Links https://linkedin.com/in/kristinneabrenica Additional Information Skills    Extensive working knowledge of: HTML5, CSS3, LESS/Sass, Responsive Design, Bootstrap, Photoshop    Proficient in: JavaScript, AngularJS/2, Asp.NET, Ruby on Rails, Django, JSP, Scrum, Kanban    Skilled at: Git, SVN, Bitbucket, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, Node Package Manager, Jira, Sketch, Axure    Experience with: Docker, Jenkins, TeamCity, Salesforce, Sitefinity, Escenic, InVision