Senior Lead Engineer Senior Lead Engineer San Luis Obispo, CA I look for the most cost-effective solutions that improve site performance, protecting customer privacy and developer efficiency. I am a leader and mentor for development teams, write effective technical documentation, and passionate about my industry. I am a self-taught developer with over 10 years of experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Lead Engineer TransUnion Interactive - San Luis Obispo, CA September 2011 to Present Developing new web applications in a Java environment via SOAP and REST requests. Full-stack development using nodeJS and NPM, HTML5/Sass/ES6. Advise team members and stakeholders, architect solutions to business needs, creating technical design documentation. Planning and execution in an agile mindset, most recently SAFe.  Architected the front- end discipline from the ground up, supporting successful customer-facing credit sites on diverse platforms with varying configurations.  Advising decision-makers on feasibility of proposed business requirements.  Creating high-level and detailed designs best suited to the technology stack as well as making efficient use of company resources.  Mentoring team members to help them succeed and produce effectively.  Perform code reviews to ensure implementations are released with minimum issues.  Collaborating across departments to meet company revenue goals. Front- End Developer Crate and Barrel - Northbrook, IL August 2011 to August 2011 Contract for proof of concept. Front- End Developer IA Collaborative - Chicago, IL August 2011 to August 2011 Contract for project under NDA. Senior Interface Developer Fry's - Chicago, IL May 2011 to August 2011 Delivered effective eCommerce sites on a proprietary Java-based content management system for online retailers such as Lilly Pulitzer and Pendleton. Senior Front End Developer AlphaZeta Interactive - Chicago, IL May 2009 to May 2011 Front- end developer utilizing many different content management system solutions such as Sitefinity, Amazon Storefront, and others. Using .NET and JS together for B2B and B2C applications for Aon, Motorola, and other Chicago-based companies. Front- End Developer Designkitchen - Chicago, IL May 2010 to June 2010 Augmenting a high-energy agency to deliver effective marketing materials for demanding clients like Motorola, Sears and Allstate. Interactive Web Producer Mx Group - Chicago, IL December 2008 to May 2009 Meeting the goals of B2B partners in communicating core company values and products. Partners include Maverick, Vesta and NGC. Web Developer Performance Communications Group (PCG) - Chicago, IL August 2007 to December 2008 Develop full-stack applications using HTML/CSS, Flash, Actionscript2, Perl and SQL to provide custom video and data solutions. Signals Intelligence Analyst United States Air Force - Worldwide November 1997 to November 2003 Tours in Misawa, Japan and Fort Meade, MD. TS/SCI+ clearance. Education Other Skills HTML 5 (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Sass (4 years), JQuery (10+ years), Python (2 years), PHP (4 years), Docker (1 year), OWASP (10+ years), nodeJS (3 years), Agile (3 years), Perl (2 years), Oracle (1 year), MySQL (3 years), Technical Writing (4 years), XSLT (6 years), JSON (6 years), ES6 (2 years) Military Service Branch: USAF Service Country: United States Rank: E-3 November 1997 to November 2003