Web Designer / UI Developer Web Designer / UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Designer / UI Developer Jersey City, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer / UI Developer Bank of America - New York, NY January 2016 to February 2018 New York    - Redesigning and building a single page web app for internal teams. Simplifying a complex financial user interface, organizing large amounts of data, resulting in increased user efficiency.  - Coaching full-stack, back end engineers, and interns on CSS.  - Conducting UX research, interviews, mind maps, user journeys, wireframing,  prototyping, using Balsamiq, Sketch, and InVision. Front end development  using Sass, Angular, Gulp, Material Design, GSAP. Front End Developer JW Player - New York, NY May 2015 to December 2015 New York  - Built stylesheets for JW7, the embeddable JW Player. Converted  XML-generated skins to CSS for a faster loading player.  - Owned front end of JW Portal, the user account interface using Bootstrap,  Less, Angular, Grunt, and Git. Collaborated with designers and full-stack  developers to improve user flows, and make the interface more closely match the design.  - Created a pattern library for JW Portal. UX Developer InRhythm - New York, NY July 2014 to March 2015 New York  - Built a styleguide and Sass library for BaubleBar, a jewelry ecommerce site.  Organized their front end code into components for developers to use in building future features.  - Converted a static desktop site to responsive using Foundation, Sass, Gulp,  jQuery, so that BaubleBar could expand a better user experience to mobile  users, and improve performance on their desktop site. Front End Developer SportsRecruits - New York, NY October 2013 to July 2014 New York  - Built front end for site features and apps using Less, Sass, jQuery and  Bootstrap.    - Built SR custom Sass library on top of Bootstrap for faster prototyping and development. Front End Developer Nautica / Kipling - New York, NY August 2013 to October 2013 New York  - Migrated assets for site relaunch using Demandware..  - Refactored markup and stylesheets using HTML5 and Sass. Front End Developer Victoria's Secret - New York, NY January 2013 to August 2013 New York  - Migrated assets for a complete redesign of VictoriasSecret.com.  - Debugged and unit tested in multiple environments using Chrome DevTools and JavaScript. Built from frequently updated design comps, using  Sass/Compass, SVN.  - Resolved defects in an Agile environment. Marketing Major League Baseball Advanced Media (MLB.com) - New York, NY May 2011 to October 2012 New York  - Developed Washington Nationals promotions, subscription products,  Nationals.com Shop & Ticketing initiatives, sweepstakes and other marketing  pages and emails using HTML5, CSS3, and jQuery. Web/Video Producer Environmental Defense Fund - Washington, DC December 2006 to April 2011 Built and maintained mini campaign websites for EDF members. Produced  interactive mini-sites to engage members using wireframes and UX/UI testing,  HTML, CSS and eCRM tool, Convio.  - Managed email production of regional offices: designed a consistent look and feel to all e-newsletters and invites from offices around the country.    ? Education Bachelor's Skills BOOTSTRAP (3 years), DESIGN/DEVELOPMENT (6 years), ILLUSTRATION (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills Photoshop, Illustrator, Sketch, InVision, Bootstrap, Foundation, Responsive  Design/Development, Mac OSX.    ?