Staff Software Engineer Staff Software Engineer Staff Software Engineer - LogicHub Austin, TX Work Experience Staff Software Engineer LogicHub - Mountain View, CA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • UI/UX Design and Development team lead  • Developing the front- end UI of the LogicHub SPA used by Security Experts to automate, and replicate, their expertise using graph-based tools; along with developing LogicHub's Integration Framework standard library, tools, and CI/CD pipeline utilizing Docker, Python, and Bash.  • Mentoring the team in best practices, application architecture, functional programming, React and Redux patterns.  • New hire interviews  • Working with the product team and customers to ensure a technically sound product road map.  • Performing user testing and research with our customers to ensure what we're building is actually solving their pain points.    Accomplishments  • Launched LogicHub's Integration Framework  • Migrated the Backbone SPA to React/Redux  • Launched a complete UX/UI redesign of the LogicHub application    Skills Used:  Javascript ES6, CSS, HTML, Backbone, ReactJS, Redux, Webpack, Node.js, Express.js, Bash, Python, Docker, AWS, CircleCI, Terraform, Ansible, Packer, Sketch Advisory Software Developer IBM - Austin, TX August 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities  In my sort time at IBM I was assigned to multiple squads(teams) within the IBM Digital Business Group. My last position was the Technical Lead for IBM's Learning/Innovation Lab, as the technical lead I oversaw the development and release of IBM Learning Lab. From a quick 60 day MVP within the IBM Marketplace Storefront to our own application infrastructure running on Bluemix.    Previous Teams  • IBM Universal Marketplace's Storefront squad - As part of the Storefront squad I helped deliver the "Frequently Asked Questions(FAQ)" and "Resources" tabs within the IBM's universal marketplace product detail page template. I also contributed in refactoring the application to use React as the server and client side templating engines.    • IBM Northstar squad - "Northstar is continuing it's visioning exercise for IBM Digital. It is not a production squad. Rather, Northstar explores areas that won't be on other's squads radar for 2, 3, 4, and more quarters out. Northstar will explore the value proposition, user experience, and software for each area it explores. The receiving team will have plenty of UX and development work to pursue; they'll have a leg up from Northstar."    As a member of the Northstar squad our main focus was to explore new concepts that go beyond the standardization of the modern web. Which included researching different technologies such as IBM's new Watson APIs and creating proof of concepts to demonstrate how we could integrate those technologies within the IBM Digital Marketplace to create new and exciting experiences that WOW the end user.     • IBM Universal Marketplace's My Products and Services squad - On the MPS squad we utilized AngularJS, and NodeJS to create a SPA application for users to manage IBM products or services they had purchased within the IBM Universal Marketplace.     Each member of the MPS squad was required to be well rounded in both front- end and server-side development, I spent a portion of my time on MPS mentoring developers on how to deliver high quality front- end code that was easily maintainable, and followed industry best practices while ensuring there was a consistency and orchestration in the design strategy as the squad applied the design to the product.    The other portion of my time was spent on creating proof of concepts for the new Northstar designs for My Products and Services and MyIBM.    Accomplishments  • IBM Marketplace My Products and Services v1 Launch - Nov. 15 2015  • IBM Marketplace My Products and Services v2 POC (React, Angular) - Nov. Dec. 2015  • IBM Marketplace MyIBM dashboard POC and Launch - Jan. 2016  • Watson Product Advisor POC - Feb. 2016  http://northstar-traveling.mybluemix.net/watson-analytics  • IBM Learning Lab MVP - Aug. 2016  • Managers Choice Award - Sept. 2016  • IBM Learning Lab Scaled audience experience ( Developer, Marketing, FinTech) released - Oct. 2016  • IBM Learning Lab stand alone infrastructure - Jan. 2017    Skills Used  AngularJS, ReactJS, Redux, Webpack, ES6, Node.js, Express.js, Hapi.js, Bluemix, Travis, Watson NLC API, Watson Retrieve and Rank API, Watson Dialog API, Agile/Scrum Senior Front- end Developer Pennwell Corp - Tulsa, OK February 2014 to August 2015 • Reviewed and researched potential platforms that would be used as the base foundation of a new product.  • Lead Front- End Developer - Lead developer of 3 other Front- End developers, in this role I  was apart of the new hire process, I took part in any System Architecture  meetings, mentor jr. FE developers and assist with any high level design decisions.  • Created custom CSS framework utilizing Sass(Bourbon, Bitters, Neat).  • Using AngularJS we created a mini SPAs that sit within a Sitecore CMS and consume internal and external RESTful APIs. Our Front- end team created new Sitecore templates, sub-  layouts, controllers and renderings utilizing C# Razor syntax and Angular directives.  • Created custom community using Zimbra REST API and a Zimbra stand-alone implementation.  • Integrated with 3rd party REST APIs such as Livefyre. Senior Front- end Developer Pennwell Corp December 2008 to February 2014 Responsive Design  • Lead Front- end Developer on a sub-team that was tasked to research and implement responsive design using HTML5/CSS3 for all of our publication websites, so that users would have a great mobile user experience while not taking anything away from our advertisers.    Andriod/iOS Application Design  • Created mobile design mock ups for brand specific iOS iPad news readers, and conference applications for Pennwell events.    Adobe CQ5 CMS  • Created a corporate design system and CSS framework that developers would use when creating new templates and widgets.  • Worked along side our Developers to plan and implement the transition from CQ to Adobe Experience Manger.    Day CQ4 CMS  • Migrated all brand sites from ColdFusion to CQ4 CMS  • Refactored the HTML/CSS structure of all components and templates within the CQ4 platform to be semantic HTML and work in all browsers that were supported at the time. Web Developer Builder Consulting May 2008 to December 2008 Designed and developed new websites for home builders, communities, and realtors using  valid W3C HTML/CSS, .ASP, and Flash.    https://github.com/dfrsol Education Leavenworth High School - Leavenworth, KS September 2004 to May 2008 Skills Javascript, AngularJS, React, Redux, NodeJS, ExpressJS, Hapi.JS, Bluemix, TravisCI, CircleCI, Gulp, Webpack, Docker, Git, Python, Bash, SiteCore, CSS, HTML, Agile, Scrum, Photoshop Links https://www.github.com/dfrsol Awards IBM - Managers Choice Award 2016-09