Contracted Front- End Developer Contracted <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Web Developer / UI Designer Turner, ME I have worked as a freelancer, independent contractor, and full-time full-stack web developer and UI designer for 13 years. My back- end experience is primarily in PHP/MySQL, with some ASP and DB2 work. In recent years, I have focuses on front- end development, specifically in the areas of responsive development, SASS/SCSS/Compass/LESS, JavaScript (both object-oriented and functional), JQuery, AJAX, page load optimization, and various dev ops task runners including Bower, Grunt, and Gulp. Work Experience Contracted Front- End Developer Rinck Advertising - Auburn, ME May 2014 to Present Responsibilities  Many of my responsibilities are laid out in detail below, but in short, I helped to streamline the company's development process to shorten the time from discovery to site launch. I helped research and document new procedures and current design and development standards and trends. I helped write new hire positions and review potential candidates. I was also responsible for completing development on an already three-weeks-overdue Bluewater.ca site, as well as a number of other still-in-development sites.    Accomplishments  Rinck Advertising had lost all of its digital team members but one when I began freelancing for the company, and as part of my employ, they requested that I help develop procedures and standards for its new digital team. They had never produced any sites using modern design trends or responsive development, their sites were built entirely on the Drupal platform, and standards were nearly nonexistent.     I created a JS/HTML/CSS code style guide to ensure that myself, the other developer and any new hires were writing consistent code. I explored each of our clients' Analytics reports to determine a new browser targeting scheme, as a significant amount of development time was being wasted supporting obsolete, low-traffic browsers. I created a 100-point checklist for the development process, including pre-development, pre-launch, accessibility standardization, performance optimization, and post-launch items. I began collecting examples of modern design trends for our design department, including everything from style tiles and moodboards to responsive UI design techniques, as well as initiating training of designers in basic HTML and CSS to remove the need for timely and expensive comps and allow for rapid prototyping. I helped write the open job positions for new hires, as well as analyzing potential employees' technical assessments and past work. I am currently in the process of researching smaller, more lightweight development platforms, as Drupal is a bit weighty for their current needs. I also helped introduce frameworks such as Skeleton and Bootstrap to the internal design and documentation process, including writing a small Gulp task runner to handle these rapid prototypes and documentation.    Skills Used  Expertise in HTML/CSS/JavaScript/PHP  Responsive design  Grunt/Gulp proficiency  Analytics assessments  Process and procedure development  Employee technical training  Extensive research and documentation of current standards and trends  Rapid education on the Drupal framework  Bootstrap/Skeleton frameworks Freelance Self-Employed - Orono, ME June 2003 to Present Development of responsive, cross-browser compliant web sites and applications using CSS/CSS3, XHTML/HTML5, semantic markup, etc.  Build management using Bower/Grunt/Gulp  Development of SASS/SCSS/Compass libraries using SMACSS methodologies  Source version control via Git/Bitbucket  Application development utilizing JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, and XML  Administrative back- end development using PHP/MySQL  Accessibility standardization (508, WCAG, WAI)  Logo Design, Print Design, Product Photography, and other branding work  Occasional bar pianist Front- End Web Developer L.L. Bean via TEKSystems - Freeport, NY July 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities  Work with L.L.Bean was primarily project-based, as their in-house developers handled the daily operational work. Initially, I worked as part of a two-person team in an effort to bring older markup and code up to modern standards. Moving on from that, I worked on a solo project to integrate a new customer-facing vendor chat, email, and telephony service. Finally, the final five months of my contract were as part of a four-person team developing a new responsive front- end that would be served specifically to customers browsing on tablet devices, with the goal of eventually replacing L.L.Bean's mobile platform.    Accomplishments  The majority of my time was spent 'gridding' and responsifying' the existing front- end markup of the L.L. Bean e-commerce platform. A good amount of time went into shoehorning the company's massive collection of CSS into streamlined SCSS, based on the SMACSS architecture. Some work also went into page load and JS optimization, helping to bring the responsive site's load times down significantly.    Skills Used  Knowledge of best practices and industry standards were absolutely necessary for this job. A strong understanding of jQuery and JavaScript was required on a daily basis. Source version control was required for all projects via IBM ClearCase. For our chat integration project, I demonstrated the ability to communicate effectively with vendors and their engineers and incorporate existing code libraries with our existing platform. Though not a Java developer, I was required to be able to read, modify - and in some instances, write - back- end JSP code when necessary. Primarily, much of my time was spent learning and refining SASS and the SMACSS architecture, incorporating it into our front- end in the form of grid frameworks and media queries. Senior Developer Interactive Marketing Group November 2005 to January 2007 Responsibilities  See below. Web Developer RainStorm Consulting August 2001 to June 2003 Responsibilities  Learning CSS and XHTML standards and training other employees in their use  Studying current Accessibility Standards (specifically 508) and training other employees on implementation  User Interface Design  MySQL Database Development  PHP Application Development  Flash/ActionScript Development  Search-Engine Optimization  Search-Engine Marketing  Accessibility Standards    28 Mill St. Apt. 1 Orono, ME 04473 chad@chadarsenault.com 207.659.2450 Education University of Maine September 2008 to March 2010 Skills Graphic Design, (X)HTML4/5, CSS1/2/3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, PHP, CodeIgniter, MySQL Links http://chadarsenault.com http://jsfiddle.net/user/khaustic/fiddles/ https://bitbucket.org/chadarsenault/ https://snipt.net/khaustic/