Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - Deutsche Bank New York, NY ? Over 12 years of professional IT experience in Front- end / UI development applications design.  ? Extensive hands-on experience in web development technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON.  ? Expert in web page layout creation using CSS media queries and Bootstrap for responsive design.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and worked on different web browsers such as Google Chrome, Safari, Mozilla Firefox and Internet Explorer.  ? Outstanding knowledge of JavaScript Libraries such as jQuery to create dynamic web pages.  ? Experience in applying the latest development approaches including Model-View-Control, event-driven applications using AngularJS, AJAX, Object-oriented JavaScript and JSON.  ? Proficient in Single Page Application development using AngularJS.  ? Experience in using AngularJS along with JSON to parse response data for user interface pages.  ? Extensive experience in implementing AJAX features by utilizing jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Good experience in implementing client side registration forms, login forms and logout forms validation using JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS and AJAX.  ? Some experience in isomorphic environment like Node.js in web application development to implement data interaction with back- end.  ? Familiar with unit test and end-to- end using front- end test tool Jasmine with the Karma test runner.  ? Worked in version control tools like GIT, SVN.  ? Some experience in SQL expression, stored procedure, and triggers with some database like MongoDB, Oracle.  ? Experience in using multiple IDEs such as WebStorm, Sublime Text, Brackets, Notepad++.  ? Extensive understanding in Agile methodology and Software Development Life Circle (SDLC).  ? Good communication skills and efficient troubleshooting skills as a good team member.  ? Eager to learn and apply new technologies and also quickly adjust to new environments.  ? Involved in a team to create structure of management system by using latest front end technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap.  ? Responsible for designing responsive web page mainly using Bootstrap and manually inserting CSS media queries code to support performance perfectly.  ? Utilized Bootstrap components like navs, button groups, dropdowns, wells, pagination to build responsive layout.  ? Created tables by using HTML5 and CSS3 to display consumer's order information and executed JSON data parsing using AngularJS to render information on tables.  ? Used AngularJS components such as modules, directives, controllers, filters, services and APIs to build up Single Page Application (SPA), consumer's information arrangement and order products classification, etc.  ? Implemented various UI screens across the whole web application by using jQuery function (for both internal application and consumer facing part).  ? Used AngularJS $http service to interact with RESTful web services and JSON to manage consumer's information such as updating, replacing or cancelling orders for consumers.  ? Utilized MongoDB as database to store consumer's order records, payment history, personal information, online shopping cart information and so on.  ? Handled browser compatibility issues working on different web browsers by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript for Google Chrome, Firefox, Safari and IE browsers.  ? Responsible for executing unit test cases and end-to- end using front- end test framework Jasmine with the Karma test runner.  ? Used Chrome canary tool, Firebug and IE developer to  ? debug and fix JavaScript issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Deutsche Bank - New York, NY November 2014 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Re-designing/ developing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionality with AngularJS including authoring complex directives, services, controllers, and filters; working with animations, routing, states, $resource, and $q.  ? Developed a single page, cross-device/cross-browser web application sharing utilizing AngularJS, bootstrap and JavaScript.  ? Worked on the website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML5/CSS/Javascript.  ? Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards  ? Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5/HTML, DHTML, CSS, BootStrap and JavaScript.  ? Created an internal browser based text editor using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Require.js, Backbone.js.  ? Developed administrative UI interface for a data gathering, and reporting tool using jQuery UI, and Backbone.js.  ? Automated updates of mobile applications JSON metadata on with Java Spring and XML.  ? Converted obsolete Java web interface into a Rich Internet Application using ExtJS.  ? Developed and iiterate API with Animation Button, Navigation Bars using BootStrap.  ? Helped to create a mobile friendly website with BootStrap.  ? Developed fast loading images using Adobe Photoshop CS3.  ? Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  ? Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  ? Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements are lagging.  ? Implemented various Validation Controls for client-side validation and implemented custom validation controls with Angular validation controls.  ? Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  ? Performing the different modules like login, search and download with tracking.  ? Normalized and re-indexed the database tables by understanding its schema.  ? Did extensive Javascript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  ? Further tasks include management of all MySQL database and all the required tables to store different survey information related to the site.  ? Managing all versions of the website (Development, Beta and Production).  ? Actively involved in configuring the website in all these environments.  ? Managing all backups and recovery and version control for this environment.  ? Followed Agile Practices for developing the application.  ? Worked on MVC framework with Java Spring.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Spring, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, AJAX, Angular JS, BootStrap, JavaScript, MYSQL, 3.0, Eclipse, MS Excel, LAMP, MS Visio, Adobe Creative Suite, JQuery, Angular 2.0 Sr. UI Developer Golden State Bancorp Mortgage - New York, NY January 2011 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Provided technical and strategic guidance to leadership in the application of industry best practices, current trends, user experience principals, and corporate brand guidelines related to the creation and deployment of production assets to further the learning function  ? Consulted with Instructional Designers and Subject Matter Experts to develop efficient specifications for graphics, simulations, and user interfaces  ? Consulted on all projects in areas of instructional media, interactive media, and usability  ? Demonstrated expert skill level in multiple technical areas, e.g., instructional and interactive media, Flash, Captivate, graphics, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AS3, UI/UX, and usability  ? Managed multiple projects with meeting tight deadlines and managing high volumes of work with geographically dispersed teams  ? Performed all specialist roles at an expert skill level: graphics, Captivate, Flash, and coding  ? Provided technical support to colleagues in the use of Dreamweaver, HTML, Flash, Photoshop, Illustrator, Captivate, JavaScript, CSS, and XML  ? Collaborated with Instructional Designers and Subject Matter Experts to create engaging interactive learning experiences using Flash animations and Flash activities  ? Programmed with AS3 to create activities that meet the design requirements of the Instructional Design staff  ? Consulted with Instructional Design teams on the capability of creating multimedia items and innovate in the space by partnering with the Instructional Design team and their stakeholders  ? Responsible for uploading and maintaining content within LCMS that resulted in more efficient instructional design process and reduced design time  ? Offered options and solutions to improve the Instructional Design team processes, use of technology, and contribution through research and implementation of new instructional design methods and technologies  ? Provided technical support to colleagues in the use of Dreamweaver, HTML, Flash, Photoshop, Fireworks, Captivate, JavaScript, CSS, and XML  ? Responsible for creating WBT/CBT training from storyboards give by Instructional Design teams  ? Created Flash UI that interacted with a SCORM based LCMS which raised the bar with engaging assessments that can be tracked and quantified in alignment with American Express standards  ? Responsible for designing, developing, and integrating training through multiple media including Internet, Intranet, electronic workbook, CD-ROM, and print.    Environment: HTML5, SASS, DOM, JavaScript, Typescript, Ajax, JSON, Eclipse, JQuery, JS, GITLAB, Angular JS, React JS, MongoDB, Bootstrap, Docker, Gradle, JIRA. Software Developer Wells Fargo - Raleigh, NC February 2008 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the analysis specification, design, implementation and testing phases of Software  ? Creating and maintaining UI prototypes and specifications.  ? Developed web presentation layer using HTML5and CSS3 according to internal standards and guidelines  ? Designed and developed the front end in hand coded HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used iBATIS framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  ? Worked on the Struts framework and JSP and Struts tag libraries to page display technology  ? Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server.  ? Developed the front end using JSF and Portlet.  ? Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  ? Configuration and deployment of application on to Jboss application server  ? Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  ? Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  ? Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  ? Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries  ? Deployed, the application using Apache Tomcat Application server.  ? Designed and implemented UI using JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JSP, AJAX, jQuery, DOM  ? Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Spring at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance along with Validation Framework.  ? Worked with XML and JSON using JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Used Visual Source Safe for Version Control.  ? Involved in creation of automation framework using Selenium and testing.  ? Worked in SOA architecture for integration with ILog  ? Designing the flow of the project using Water Fall Model.  ? Created Class Diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML.  ? Used ANT for building the application and deployed on JBoss Application Server.  ? Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application  ? Resolved the compatibility issues among Portlets and EMC Documentum API classes  ? Executed the test steps defined in Test Cases manually and reporting the bugs in JIRA.  ? Developed Swing for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Install and configure a Linux server to publish applications and the DataBase  ? Developed code for C, C++ to secure the transaction.  ? Used web services (REST) to bridge the gap between our MS and Drupal technology.  ? Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss server.  ? Developed Java Script and Action Script, VB Script macros for Client Side validations.  ? Conversions of JCL codes to equivalent Unix Shell Scripts and testing.  ? Used Log4j for logging, debugging and used Junit extensively for testing.  ? Developed and displayed Brokerage Individuals using Widget, Controller, Web services.  ? Wrote complex SQL queries to communicate with Oracle.    Environment: J2ee, Swing, Cvs, Visual Source Safe, Cognos, Ilog, Water Fall Model, Oracle Adf, Oracle Bpm, Ibm Mq Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Flex, Ruby, Wordpress, Drupal , .Net, Asp, C, C++, Mainframe, Cobol, Pl/I, Jcl, Sas, Vbspring, Ibatis, Struts, Jsf, Java Ejb, Jboss, Apache Axis2, Wsdl, Jquery, Jsp & Servlet, Mysql , Toad , Sql Server, Db2, Uml, Netbeans, Clearcase, Selenium, Ant, Xml, Emc Documentum, Jira Software Engineer Wells Fargo - Raleigh, NC August 2006 to January 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and maintained front- end page layout using HTML5, CSS3  ? Used CSS Image sprites to create a collection of images to reduce images request  ? Used HTML5 Form Validation and Attributes Restrictions to validate inputs contents  ? Created Responsive Web Designs using Bootstrap  ? Created Navigation bar, Dropdown menu, Table using Bootstrap  ? Supported Single Page Applications when client changed his query condition using AngularJS which includes Routing, Directives, and Templates  ? Used Two-way Binding, Custom Filter to display and format data based on the requirements  ? Created AngularJS custom directives to build reusable components and perform different functions  ? Utilized AngularJS to achieve the client-side elements Hide, Show and AJAX Call on JSON response  ? Utilized AngularJS route for managing URL route  ? Utilized AngularJS dependency injection to inject different Services including inner Services and custom Services, and create some custom directives to do some reusable component  ? Created employee login page and used Angular Promise API and AJAX for asynchronous operation to retrieve data from server side  ? Utilized the Node.js and Express to do the relevant backend RESTful API  ? Utilized the Passport to do the authentication part for the system  ? Utilized the Mongoose for the Object Modeling and Database interacting with MongoDB  ? Handled Cross Browser Compatibility Issues and Unified CSS Layout across various browsers and platforms such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and Opera  ? Conducted unit test for web system functions with Jasmine  ? Participated daily status meeting, reported project process and communicated with teammates and project manager    Environment:  HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX, Node.js, Express, Passport, MongoDB, Mongoose    AT & T - California Front End Developer March 2005 to July 2006 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the Application as Single Page Application using Angular JS MVC framework.  ? Designed and implemented different layouts using HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Built Responsive Web Pages using Twitter Bootstrap.  ? Created Routing hierarchy for different views by using AngularJS UI Router and isolating scopes in custom directives.  ? Utilized AJAX to request JSON to get customer's information.  ? Handled browser compatibility problems for different browsers such IE, Firefox, and Chrome.  ? Conducted extensive functionality testing by writing behavioral driven tests in Jasmine integrated with unit test runner, Karma.  ? Worked with version control tool Git to manage the code.  ? Utilized Agile/Scrum to manage development lifecycle    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, Jasmine, Karma, Git Education MASTER OF COMPUTER SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE UNIVERSITY OF DALLAS - Dallas, TX Skills AJAX (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Core Java and front end Collection, Javascript, Jquery, HTML, CSS, Multithreading, Applets, Swing.  J2EE Technologies Servlets2.3/2.4/2.5, JSP1.2/2.0, EJB2.0/3.0, JMS1.1, JDBC2.0/3.0  Web Servers/application servers Apache tomcat Server5.0/6.0, IBM Web Sphere server 6.1/7.0 , pramati server, Bea Weblogic server8.1/10.0  Web tools and languages HTML, XML, CSS, DHTML, AJAX, ANT, Java Script  Framework Design Patterns, SOAP, Struts1.0/1.1/1.2/2.0, Hibernate2.0/3.0, Spring1.0/2.5.  Databases Oracle8i/9i/10g, MS SQL Server2000/2005/2008, DB2 8.2/9.0/9.5.  Languages C, C++ with OOPS, Java1.3/1.4/5.0/6.0, J2EE1.3/1.4/5.0.  Operating Systems Windows 2003/2008/XP/Vista, Unix.  Tools Eclipse3.3/3.4, Rational Rose, Dreamweaver, RAD6.0/7.5, Net Beans.  Methodologies Rational Unified Process (RUP), Agile (SCRUM), UML.  Version Control Visual SourceSafe (VSS), ClearCase, ClearQuest, CVS.  Testing Junit