Front- end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Developer Work Experience Front- end Developer Boyle Software, Inc May 2010 to April 2019 ? SpaceIt?: Served as QA Tester. Manually tested this start-up company’s website by clicking through the site in both desktop and mobile devices, testing functionality, making notes where issues were found or application was found to not work as expected - defects. Prepared Test Matrix and Test results documentation for handoff to client.  ? AvonUSA: Tasks at Avon included converting code of existing Representative website from tabular layout into responsive templates using HTML5 and AngularJS code; developed working prototypes used to pitch ability of new Magnolia CMS to various departments throughout the company; assist with Magnolia FrontEnd component creation, integration and support backend team as needed; conduct code reviews. Work closely with Business and Design team to enrich the experience of the end user.  ? iHeartRadio / Clear Channel: Assist with ongoing development and creation of various UI  components/features; code static HTML concept pages; converted site from using LESS to SASS;  maintenance tasks.  ? American Media Inc.: Assisted with the redesign of the Shape.com site; writing and maintaining CSS, HTML and minor PHP code in Drupal 7 CMS environments.  ? CollegeBound Network: General maintenance and development of several websites within the  CollegeBound and Employment Network.  ? ActionX: Create mobile ads using JSON and LESS, collaborate in the design process.  ? Jesta Digital - Jamster Mexico: CSS skinning of existing template to match look and feel of existing Jamster brands; creating additional JSP and HTML files; integration of 3rd party API's (Twitter, Google Plus, Facebook) and worked in tandem with third-party developers.  ? Jesta Digital - Bitbop.com: Build Web and Mobile Brands (HTML/CSS/JS in Rails Framework); prepare supporting documentation of Mobile Copysets for Marketing team as required; daily support and site maintenance.  ? Jesta Digital - Mobizzo.com: Develop and maintain the mobizzo.com Web and WAP sites in JSP environment; provide HTML mockups for different project concepts as required; redesign of WAP sites for different devices based on size classification; creation of various landing pages in the Acquisition Engine (ACE) environment using FTL and CSS; and perform other related tasks as needed. Deploying code to Stage/Production via Right Scale (a Cloud Computing Management tool).  ? Cerberus Capital Management: Creating surveys in Checkbox, a Web-based survey application; site maintenance as required in .NET environment; Flyer Creation.  ? Scholastic.com: PSD to HTML/CSS code for BookClubs Redesign project.  ? Rodale: Coding of mobile screens for the following brands: Runner's World, Men's Health and Women's Health.  ? Rodale - Aviva: Update and publish monthly newsletters in WordPress; additionally create HTML/text newsletter templates for email distribution.  ? Prevention.com: Translate visual designs to XHTML/CSS layout for Recipe Finder Redesign. Front- end Developer Interactive One July 2008 to May 2011 Web Developer Boyle Software, Inc October 2006 to December 2008 Phone: (917) 232-0081  Email: khreativ@gmail.com Web Developer TekSystems May 2008 to May 2008 on 22Clicks.com Housing Assistant/Web Liaison New York City Housing Authority - Department of Research July 2002 to October 2006 Permits.com January 2001 to January 2002 Quality Assurance    Permits.com Webmaster July 2000 to October 2000 Education MA in Computer and Information Science Brooklyn College - Brooklyn, NY February 2007 Baccalaureate in Computer and Information Science Brooklyn College - Brooklyn, NY June 2001 Skills ANGULARJS (3 years), CODING (7 years), CSS (7 years), HTML (7 years), SASS (7 years), CSS3, Front End (10+ years), HTML5, Jquery, Javascript, Front-End, UI, Bootstrap, Angular Additional Information SKILLS    ? Hand-coding Web standards compliant HTML/XHTML, CSS, LESS/SASS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JavaScript,  JQuery, Transforming PSD's and wireframes into interactive components.  ? Software/Other Tools: Eclipse/Komodo Edit/IntelliJ, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, JIRA, Subversion/SVN/Git,  Grunt, WordPress, Drupal, Magnolia.  ? Platforms: Mac, Windows