WordPress Developer (remote) WordPress <span class="hl">Developer</span> (remote) Front- End Web Developer Glenview, IL Front- end web developer HTML5, CSS3 and javascript MVC frameworks (Angular and React).   Web Content Manager role, implementation of internet marketing campaign via organic website building use of SEO digital marketing tools. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience WordPress Developer (remote) NES Health - Tampa Bay, FL May 2017 to December 2018 Conversion of static HTML e-commerce website into a responsive website using the Wordpress CMS / Woocommerce plugin for e-commerce functionality of health based products offered by NES Health.  Pixel perfect development of front- end appearance from wireframes from the design team at NES Health.   Creation of digital marketing assets use of Adobe Photoshop / Illustrator for products, company theme application to the website development.  Agile methodology with the CIO of NES Health using Basecamp for requirements, updates and project milestones. E-commerce Web Developer Gear Club Direct - Chicago, IL December 2016 to May 2017 Conversion of company's e-commerce website (BigCommerce) to drastically reducing company monthly web hosting fees.   Migration of 10,000+ products to Wordpress/Woocommerce back- end to track inventory, daily online sales and provide responsive UX/UI design for all devices.  Development of new company logo, editing product images and product descriptions using Adobe Photoshop/Illustrator. Front- End Developer/Designer 123 Remodeling - Chicago, IL September 2014 to November 2016 Creation of custom templates for project based website highlighting progression of home remodeling projects. Heavy use of Photoshop to render web and mobile ready images for optimal load speed. Front- end development of responsive pages for mobile devices. Web Content Manager creating digital marketing material for Social Media marketing campaigns. Organically built the 123remodeling.com website focusing on keywords specific to company's target market via Search Engine Optimization. Google Analytics, Heatmaps and customer reviews to gauge consumer behavior and buying habits. Front- End Developer Sears - shopyourway.com - Hoffman Estates, IL December 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities  Front- End development of HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and Bootstrap technologies and Java / MySql back- end architecture designed and implementation of the "Make" web application. Phonegap and APK development for mobile version of the "Make" application. Sear's www.Shopyourway.com social networking application and an integral part of 6 member development team to launch the "Make" application in mid April 2013.     Accomplishments  Created CSS sheets using SASS (compass) throughout the Make application. Was the lead developer for the front- end design and functionality to suit to design. Created the global variables for the CSS elements and implementation of the masonry.js (javascript library) for the placement of Make cards for the home page. Created the "comments" functionality using JSON for data retrieval and AJAX to display the data on "refresh" of the page. Created the links to social networking application to link the Make cards from it's detail page. Created the logic to the Make core functionality using HTML5 canvas and file I/O using javascript to save the objects to file and retrieval of the Make cards using AJAX/ JSON to get data from the mySQL DB.    Skills Used  use of js libraries (jQuery, masonry, Bootstrap, Fancybox). use of SASS (compass) for CSS development use of media queries and global variables for the application, nesting of CSS elements and organization of css files for each separate page of the application. Communication with the team to integrate changes to the code and the DB for each development stage of the project. Closely worked with designers for the look-n-feel of the front- end and work with project manager to develop the functionality of the application. Computer Consultant Chicago Systems Group - Chicago, IL 1999 to 2008 Consulting firm based in downtown Chicago, affiliation with government and financial based business entities  • www.lincap.com sole developer on website for financial assets company - development in ASP.net website. Created backend functionalities to add new updated catalogue to database by users with granted permission depending on user type. Digital brochures were stored in SQL Server database, which I created and developed to suit customer need, weekly meetings with IS managers and end users for the product cataloging system.  • www.IlliniosSkillsMatch.com as a member of a 30 person team - Java based programming on Unix platform, Universal DB2 as the database. Conversion from mainframe legacy application to web based program with front end validation on all input / outfields using java script and back end validations done using VBScript. Education CCP in Computer Programming, Mainframe, JCL, CICS College of Telecommunications - Chicago, IL July 1998 to March 1999 BS in Business - Marketing Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL September 1994 to May 1998 Skills HTML 5 (8 years), Javascript (8 years), CSS3 (6 years), PHP (4 years), Wordpress, Angular, HTML5, Word Press, Website, MYSQL, jQuery, CSS, Git, ASP Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/simon-jin-23878811/ Certifications/Licenses Java Certification - September 2002 to Present Oracle's Sun systems course for certification of Java based technologies. Course was administered and funded by Chicago Systems Group as part of the Illinois Skills Match conversion project from mainframe application to a web based Java back- end web application. Additional Information • HTML5, Javascript, CSS3, Responsive Design, Media Queries.  • Javascript framework Angular and jQuery library of functions.  • Wordpress CMS custom templates and themes.   • Woocommerce implementation for e-commerce functionalities.  • Server Side - Ajax scripting ,JSON file retrieval and rendering of Rest Api.  • PHP scripting and MySQL database administration.