Lead JavaScript Application Developer Lead JavaScript Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead JavaScript Application Developer - INRIX Woodinville, WA Alan is a talented JavaScript Application Developer with many years of technical expertise involving Linux, Macintosh, and Windows platforms. Alan uses a combination of technical and artistic skills to analyze and develop effective User Interface solutions for embedded, mobile, and traditional web applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead JavaScript Application Developer INRIX - Kirkland, WA April 2016 to Present Summary: Develops JavaScript applications for embedded automotive systems. Evolved custom JavaScript frameworks that supported user interface and application development. Worked with content providers to deliver internationalized applications based on specifications and public APIs.  * Developed embedded JavaScript applications using JavaScript, React JS, and JavaScript frameworks.  * Created presentation profiles for JavaScript applications using HTML5 and SCSS (CSS 3)  * Used TypeScript to mature custom JavaScript framework for data manipulation and transport.  * Implemented internationalization (i18n) strategies for language translation and unit conversion.  * Wrote unit tests and functional tests using Cucumber, Mocha, and Chai.  * Released software packages for web and Android clients with Grunt JS, Jenkins, and Android Studio. Lead Front- End Developer Seattle, WA August 2013 to March 2016 Summary: Developed single-page JavaScript application for company's Learning Management product. Created powerful mobile-friendly UI frameworks while considering layout, business, and presentation layers. Increased business value via user data capture and reporting system.  * Created custom UI framework consisting of discrete re-usable widgets. Utilized AngularJS to communicate with REST services, process JSON data and display data in web view.  * Translated design documents into responsive layouts using HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript.  * Developed system tiers with test-driven development and extreme-programming practices.  * Implemented REST services using Visual Studio 2012, C# and NodeJS.  * Used AWS EC2, S3, Redshift, and Kenesis to engineer reporting solutions.  * Defined UI standards for business and presentation layers with Section 508 Usability Compliance.  * Ensured platform consistency with Unit and Integration tests (Twist, QUnit, Visual Studio, Java) Front- End Developer Concur - Bellevue, WA March 2012 to August 2013 Summary: I expand sales of Concur's flagship product (Concur Travel and Expense) by producing innovative UI features. New UI solutions target multiple devices (PC, Tablet, and Mobile) and utilize javascript frameworks, AJAX and JSON technologies.  * Developed user interfaces and web pages using efficient markup with HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON  * Engineered server-side data endpoints using AJAX, JSON and SQL stored procedures.  * Design new UI concepts considering backward compatibility, 508 compliance and best practices.  * Designed wireframes and developed working prototypes of UI.  * Implemented technologies with Microsoft web technologies (ASP, ASP.net, Visual Studio, MS SQL 2012)  * Used debugging and source-control tools such as Firebug, SVN, and Jira to ensure product quality.  * Defined UI specifications, user test cases and technical documentation. User Interface Developer MessageGate - Bellevue, WA February 2005 to May 2011 Summary: I increased sales of MessageGate's flagship enterprise-level email management product by producing a strong marketing and web presence. Ensured product quality by designing usable User Interfaces and internal tools.  * Defined UI specifications through process flows, functional wireframes, mockups and interactive prototypes.  * Designed visual assets and marketing materials using Photoshop CS4, Illustrator.  * Developed custom Content Manaagement System and other tools using Microsoft Visual Studio.  * Increased marketing reach with custom logos, icons, brochures, press releases, newsletters and other assets.  * Enhanced usability within enterprise-level product using graphical idioms and usage paradigms  * Developed interface software using JavaScript and AJAX technologies.  * Implemented SQL database schema according to software requirements. Education Some college Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), HTML5 (6 years), SQL (7 years), ILLUSTRATOR (6 years), PHOTOSHOP (6 years), Node, Nodejs, React, Bootstrap, Angular Patents Methods and Systems for Displaying Schedule Information (#20140074958) http://www.patentsencyclopedia.com/app/20140074958 2014-03 A method and system comprising: receiving travel request data; retrieving schedule data associated with the travel request data from the database, the schedule data being further associated with a scheduled travel time; retrieving availability data associated with the travel request data from the cache, the availability data being further associated with an available travel time; and sending the schedule data and the availability data via a computer network.    Read more: http://www.patentsencyclopedia.com/app/20140074958#ixzz5M78xWfca Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages Software Platforms  HTML5, SCSS / SASS / CSS 3  JavaScript, NodeJS, TypeScript  ReactJS, Grunt  Cucumber, Mocha, Chai  PHP, Python    WebStorm 2018  Git, Jira, SVN  MS SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Jenkins  Photoshop, Illustrator, Gimp    Linux (Red Hat, Ubuntu)  Macintosh OSX  Amazon Web Services (AWS)  Android / Embedded systems  Windows Server