Front- end Developer - Jeff Cutler <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Jeff Cutler Front- end Developer - Jeff Cutler Santa Monica, CA Friendly, professional, motivated, experienced Front- end Developer with six years in the industry. Customer  service oriented and takes pleasure in making work fun. Bilingual (Japanese) and can work well in a fast  paced environment. Work Experience Front- end Developer - Jeff Cutler Snapsite, LLC - South Jordan, UT July 2009 to July 2013 snapsite.info] South Jordan, UT  Front- end Developer - Jeff Cutler (435) 216-2232  • HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery Mobile, AJAX, Node JS, Angular and LAMP.  • Transfer old-fashioned web sites to mobile web sites for various industries. For example (best if viewed from mobile  device or t) launched solariscollection.com from garbetthomes.com for a more specific collection of homes.  • Full use of recent elements in HTML5 for media based web sites. For Example launched ch801.com from brewvies.com for a more precise monthly showcase.  • Design dynamic data driven mobile web sites in a clean fashion for the growing market of mobile devices. Front- end Developer Xennsoft, Inc - South Jordan, UT October 2008 to July 2009 X-HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, ASP.NET, C#, OOP and SQL Server.  • Team member of a medium sized team of developers for WorldVu. WorldVu is a complete MLM corporate office  software system built to handle over a million distributors on one seamless genealogy structure.  • Team member of a small team of developers for PayHub. PayHub is a first-of-its-kind system that disburses  commissions, acts like a virtual wallet, creates and tracks promotional vouchers, and even allows international  distributors to fund product-purchase credits to their personal down-lines.  • Team member of a small team of developers for Tree Viewer. Tree Viewer is a graphical, interactive down line viewer  which navigates distributors to those key performance components that drive success. C# Developer Immune-Tree [immunetree.com - Orem, UT January 2005 to March 2008 HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Classic ASP, ASP.NET, C#, OOP and SQL Server.  • Team lead of a small team of developers for Caesar. Caesar was a complete MLM web site built to handle over a  million distributors on one dynamic system. Visual Basic Developer Bacon's Media - Chicago, IL June 1999 to October 2002 HTML, JavaScript, Classic ASP, Visual Basic and SQL Server.  • Worked on a large team of developers for Cision's Media Database. Cision's Media Database (or Bacon's Media  Database) is the world's largest database of journalists and media contacts with all of the information you need to uncover the influencers that really matter.    References  References are available on request. Skills Javascript