Sr. UI/ Front End Developer Sr. UI/<span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI/ Front End Developer - Novartis New York, NY ? Over 15 years of Extensive programming experience as Java Script Developer/ Front End Developer in developing web based applications using JavaScript, Angular-2.0, AngularJS, AJAX, HTML5, Bootstrap, XML, JSON and CSS-3 that follows W3C standards and are browser compatible.  ? Experience in developing web page effectively using Bootstrap (RWD).  ? Expertise in developing front- end layouts, navigations with JavaScript, Bootstrap, MV frameworks such as Angular-2, Angular JS, Backbone JS and Node JS as a platform for Web applications.  ? Experience applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  ? Skilled in leading frameworks as Node, Angular, to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front- end solution.  ? Implement modules into NODE.JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  ? Extensive Knowledge in developing single-page applications (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like backbone.js, Angular.js, Angular-2 and bootstrap.  ? Wrote and maintained the tests in Jasmine & Mocha testing framework. Experience in developing Ext-JS components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  ? Involvement in using various IDE's, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, eclipse, Adobe Photoshop, Sublime Text & Web storm.  ? Experience in applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event driven applications using JavaScript, JSON, SOA, SOAP, REST, RESTFUL Services and XML.  ? Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and its Functions.  ? Experience in using various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  ? Used the latest HTML5elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc.  ? Exposure to Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment techniques.  ? Experience in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs.  ? Exposure in Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment.  ? Experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise and consumer applications.  ? Hands on experience with Object Oriented Programming (OOP's) concepts.  ? Experience in creating Templates, Mockups, Prototypes and Layouts using tools like BALSAMIQ.  ? Experienced in transforming the wireframes and mockups to develop web pages.  ? Experience working with Foundation-5 framework for responsive and Mobile first design patterns.  ? Experience in creating UI templates for final look and feel using HTML5, Flash, Dreamweaver and Photoshop.  ? Experience in working different configuration management systems such as GIT-HUB, SVN, Bit Bucket and CVS.  ? Experience in working with AGILE and SDLC development environments by participating in SCRUM sessions regularly.  ? Exposure in Functional, Performance, user-Acceptance testing and creating unit test cases using Jasmine/Mocha, Cucumber.  ? Fair working knowledge on PHP, basic SQL skills.  ? Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  ? Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment.  ? Strong written and oral communication skills and Interpersonal skills with a strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members.  ? Self-starter always inclined to learn new technologies and Team Player with very good communication, organizational and interpersonal skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI/ Front End Developer Novartis - New York, NY January 2014 to Present Responsibilities:-    ? Responsible for developing all the UI pages using HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular 2.0, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON and RESTful API.  ? Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI layout and front- end programming for web application that matches requirements of Client.  ? Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  ? Developed and tested features in an AGILE environment using Angular-2 and JavaScript.  ? Utilized the features of Angular 2.0 to present effective web design.  ? Created single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make dynamic by using Angular JS 2.0 framework and Node JS.  ? Used a Bootstrap 3.0 from Angular2.0 platform and point it to the root component of the application instead of Angular ng-app.  ? Experience in working different changed procedures of Angular 1.x to Angular 2.0 such as, @Route, RouterOutlet, router-link etc.  ? Worked on Angular 2.0 by consuming RestFul web services & Used Angular 2.0 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  ? Utilized jQuery UI for dialogs, date picker, tabs, model pop ups and advanced components to implement UI model.  ? Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology for developing test cases and unit testing using Jasmine test framework with the Karma test runner.  ? Used Protractor provided by Angular for end to end (e2e) testing.  ? Used Angular 2.0 for delivering user experiences such as high performance, off-line accessibility and zero-step installation.  ? Wrote application level code to interact with backend and consume the JSON by using RxJS observables.  ? Created custom forms with the help of jQuery to build tricky input forms, checkboxes, jQuery slider, dropdowns and many more to style them easily with the help of Foundation framework.  ? Followed best practices of Foundation-5 in terms of Navigation, Typography, Buttons, Call-out prompts & media.  ? Leveraged Angular 2 resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces. Created custom directives for re-usable components (Multi-filed form elements, background file uploads etc.)  ? Created Widgets, Dashboards, Charts, login functionality implemented and session handling base functionalities added.  ? Created Angular 2 components, implemented Interpolation, Input variables, Bootstrapping, NgFor, NgIf, RouterOutlet, binding the click event, Component decorator, binding to the hidden property.  ? Worked on Typography, Notifications, TimeOut functions, cards, Dialogs, Forms, Tables, Switches, Icons, Dashboards, Widgets, Charts and buttons for developing Bootstrap 4 using Angular 2.  ? Worked on Angular Material 2 components for theming purposes & Performed client-side validations.  ? Created Routing in between various components consuming the RouterOutlet Directive.  ? Extensively used Angular-cli to generate components, routes, services, pipes and to run tests.  ? Co-operating with back- end developing proves of building the Restful API and communicating with the external web services.    Environment: JavaScript, Node.js, Angular.js, Angular-2, Angular Material, Redux, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, AGILE/SCRUM, Redux, SOAP/REST, twitter Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON/XML, Karma-Jasmine, NPM, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Mocha, Chai. Sr. UI/ Front End Developer Verizon - New York, NY July 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:-  ? Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner by using web technologies like HTML,  ? XHTML, and CSS as per company standards.  ? Experience with DOJO, developed complex, usable, attractive and cross-browser web interfaces that account for speed, file size, readability and accessibility based on W3C standards.  ? Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, DHTML, WebService call and JSON.  ? Experience in Test Driven Development.  ? Experience with Restful Web services (REST, SOAP) for client server communication.  ? Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server  ? Enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance and enhanced performance.  ? Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project UI's and used AngularJS framework to associate HTML elements to models.  ? Created dynamic web pages using jQuery and HTML5 features such as Canvas, Audio/Video, Local Storage, Article, and Navigation using with AngularJS Framework.  ? Used AngularJS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  ? Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular JS.  ? Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front- end development such as web pages, graphics and multimedia's.  ? Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  ? Use HTML Usability and GitHubfor access control and task management.  ? Developed the front- end featuring rich web interface implemented usingHTML5, CSS3, JavaScript toolkits like YAHOO USER INTERFACE (YUI). Used JQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behaviour.  ? Designed and development of Web pages using PHP, HTML, CSSpre-processor including Ajax controls and XML.  ? Write the complete code in JSP, HTML, HTML5, JQuery, CSSpre-processor, CSS3 and JavaScript for Master Pages.  ? Developed the Site using the Struts with Spring Integration using the tiles framework.  ? Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON and JQuery.  ? JSF uses component-based approach.  ? Experience working with XAML (data binding).  ? Involved in the development of information design.  ? Experience in User-Centered Design (UCD) principles.  ? Wrote application level code to interact with the backend (Java) code AJAX and JSON.  ? Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular Js, NODE.Jsand Grails.  ? Used call back functions and Http requests in Node.js.  ? Good experience in Test Driven Development, Iterative and Incremental development.  ? Have good experience in searching keywords on Express Modules.  ? Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  ? Good knowledge with Python, Scala and DJANGO.  ? Used CSS Blueprint and LESS, Saas to create grids and used SENCHA tool for rapid design, develop, and manage cross-platform web applications.  ? Used CRM software for highly scalable and customizable, and allowing businesses to gain actionable customer insights with a back- end analytical engine.  ? Created Graphic User Interface (GUI) and applied to web site.  ? Used JS for custom client-side validation and DOM manipulations and used GRUNT and BOWER to run the task  ? Build, configured and deployed Web components on Web Logic application server and LESS.  ? Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 databaseand have experience with .NET.  ? Used JavaScript testing tool Jasmine for unit testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, Spring, JSF, Websphere, SOAP, Web Services, DOJO, Angular.js, Node.js, React.js, Bootstrap, Github, AJAX, JSP, JSTL, MongoDB, PL/SQL, JDBC, Eclipse, Junit, XML. Sr. Software Developer Daimler-Chrysler - Charlotte, NC August 2007 to June 2011 Responsibilities:-  ? Gathered system requirements for the application and worked with the business team to review the requirements, and went through the Software Requirement Specification document and Architecture document.  ? Designed, Developed and analyzed the front- end and back- end using JSP and Spring 3.0.  ? Used Spring Framework for MVC and to code business APIs.  ? Applied various Java/J2EE design patterns.  ? Developed the presentation layer using HTML, JSP, XML, JSF MVC, JQuery, Java Script  ? Used AngularJS framework to accomplish the single page application and produce higher maintainability of the code.  ? Used Angular MVC and implemented concepts of MVVM.  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Backbone.js, Angular.js and Ext JS.  ? Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Developed AngularJS Reusable Custom Directives using scope isolation techniques.  ? Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON, and AngularJS.  ? Used Bootstrap and AngularJS in effective web design.  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  ? Used Grunt for Builds for lint(check syntax errors), minification of HTML, CSS and JavaScript, Live reload, watch, test runner, server configuration and sass compiler sub tasks.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular.JS, Jasmine, Karma, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, RESTful API Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Git, JSON.  ? Implemented User Interface and integrated with backend code, Node.JS as server side technology.  ? Used Node.js Bower npm module for UI Dependency management. Worked on bower.json and bower.rc files  ? Used MEAN Stack. Developed REST API for test server for Express Router middleware based API's with MongoDB integration.  ? Used CSS3 based design techniques to eliminate table-based layouts, and speed page loading.  ? Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  ? Streamlined the Responsive Web Design to enhance the User Experience and developed designs for the prototypes for the Mobile UI.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular.JS, Jasmine, Karma, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, RESTful API Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Git, JSON.  ? Used Karma and Jasmine for testing and structure our project.  ? Used SASS as the css preprocessor.  ? Implemented User Interface and integrated with backend code, Node.JS as server side technology.  ? Used Hibernate as a ORM tool to connect with Oracle Database.  ? Integrated Hibernate with Spring by coding a Spring Configuration file.  ? Used CVS for Version Control tool.    Environment: HTML, Angular, Node.js, Ember.js, Ext.Js, Grunt, Jasmine, Karma, Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, Webservices, Agile Methodology, PL/SQL, UNIX, WebLogic Application Server, Eclipse 3.5, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, JIRA, Design Patterns, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Maven, Log4j, CVS.    Software Developer  AT & T - Dallas, TX  Jan 2004 - July 2007    Responsibilities:-  ? Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Responsible for ensuring the pattern consistency across all pages.  ? Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  ? Created web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  ? Applied JQuery scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  ? Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases JQUERY, AJAX and JSON.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  ? Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies. Did unit testing and integration testing of modules that I coded.    Environment:  Java, UML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, Oracle 9i, Unix shell script. Software Developer Wells Fargo - Dallas, TX May 2001 to December 2003 Responsibilities:-    ? Involved in discussions with the System Analysts to identify the technical requirements.  ? Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  ? Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  ? Created a robust and user friendly CALL CENTER APPLICATION based on client requirements.  ? Development the whole application module using technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery and more.  ? Wrote a combination of jQuery plugins, as well as completely custom JavaScript to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Designed and developed intranet web applications using JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  ? Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  ? Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  ? Worked on Waterfall methodology.  ? Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.    Environment:HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, JSON, XML, Waterfall, TOMCAT APACHE and SVN. Skills AJAX (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), JSON (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, JSP, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, Restful, Angular JS  Programming Languages C, C++, Java 1.4 through 7, XML, PL/SQL, XSD, XML Data binding (JAXB)  Operating System Windows NT/2000/XP, Sun Solaris, Unix.  Frameworks MVC frameworks, AngularJS, JQuery, Sencha, Bootstrap, Angular UI Bootstrap, Spring boot, Node.js.  Databases Oracle, MS SQL Server [ ] MySQL, [PL/ SQL, SQL]  Application Servers Glassfish  Web Servers Tomcat and Apache Web Servers, HTTP Web Server  Source Code Control CVS, Tortoise-SVN  RDBMS & Tools:  Oracle, DB2, Informix, MS SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Developer, MySQL, Usability testing, regression testing, JUnit 4.0, Toad, Erwin and PL/SQL.    iTKO LISA  CA DevTest  SoapUI  SOA Test  API Test  Service Test  Middleware Test  Service Virtualization