Senior Front- End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Charleston, SC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front- End Developer Gorilla Group - Chicago, IL August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  Lead delivery projects for the front- end from inception of design to a finished implementation.  Leverage the Magento 2 framework and customize it as necessary.  Produce high quality deliverables for recurring and new clients.  Upgrade Magento 1 sites and deliver new work as needed.  Resolve critical issues in staging and production environments.  Mentor and guide entry junior level developers.    Skills Used: SASS/LESS, PHP, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, Require JS, Knockout JS Grunt, HTML5, Git, SQL, XML., Sketch. Senior Front- End Developer Blue Acorn - Charleston, SC June 2014 to August 2017 Responsibilities:   Develop high quality pixel perfect websites that meet and exceed the requirements of the client within the Magento framework. Estimation and development of features from start to finish. Scrum duties along with release planning duties. Pair programming with junior developers to troubleshoot issues and expand upon their own knowledge and skill base. Keeping repositories clean and managing pull requests throughout the development process.     Skills Used: SASS/LESS, PHP, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, Prototype.js, Grunt, HTML5, Git, SQL, XML.    Over the past year I have been the Lead Front End Developer for http://www.lecreuset.com/, which won best web design at Imagine 2016 as well as contributing heavily to teams and implementing new sites for clients such as http://www.getolympus.com/. Senior Web Developer Reliant Holdings Inc - Indiana, PA February 2011 to May 2014 Responsibilities:   Maintain databases, sites, and code  Troubleshoot site related issues  Create rich web applications for internal and external use  Refactor dated code bases  Redesign and tweak current layouts to keep an edge    Accomplishments  Redesigned site layouts  Developed fully functional applications from the ground up  Moved code from an inline state to an OOP state  Developed and maintained databases    Skills Used  PHP, CSS, HTML, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, MySQL, Subversion, Zend Framework 2 Web Developer Digital Pictures Inc - Pittsburgh, PA September 2007 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  Develop new applications  Maintain current sites  Change current sites based on client requirements and needs    Accomplishments  Redesign of old sites  Moved applications into a virtual environment    Skills Used  ASP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript Education Software Applications and Programming ITT - Pittsburgh, PA 2007 to 2008 BS in Communications Indiana University of Pennsylvania - Indiana, PA 2000 to 2004 Certifications/Licenses Magento 2 Certified Professional Front End Developer November 2018 to Present