Front- End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Web Developer - TekSystems Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Web Developer TekSystems - Nashville, TN May 2016 to Present Developed UI websites from Adobe Illustrator design files focusing on RWD for desktops, tablets and mobile devices.  • Created websites via Bootstrap, CSS3, Less, Sass, HTML5, JavaScript and jQuery libraries.  • Checked in files utilizing Git, build tools Grunt, Gulp and Node.  • Troubleshoot styling, performance and JavaScript errors via browser developer tool.  • Coded websites to be compliant with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Section 508 of the Americans with Disabilities Act and National Federation of the Blind targeting AA Standards utilizing SortSite/PowerMapper.  • Communicated with designers and implementation coordinators in assisting with deadlines and managing changes/updates to sites. Software Engineer/ Front- End Web Developer UNUM Corporation - Chattanooga, TN September 2012 to May 2016 Develop ASP.NET C# web applications utilizing Model-View-Controller and Entity Framework per business, technical and functional requirements for tablets, phones and desktop applications.  • Manage web applications via Microsoft Visual Studio utilizing Microsoft Team Foundation Server as a repository to check-in/check-out code for publishing.  • Design and develop non-templates websites via CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery and other JavaScript framework libraries along with Font Awesome icons.  • Integrated Twitter Bootstrap and non-Bootstrap CSS files to create responsive websites for tablets, phones and desktop views via media queries.  • Develop and code responsive websites in compliance with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Section 508 with the Americans with Disabilities Act and National Federation of the Blind targeting AA Standards.  • Utilize Browser Developer Tools to troubleshoot JavaScript errors, CSS3, accessibility, performance and responsive layouts of websites.  • Coded stored procedures and business layer logic to create, read, update and delete information to website and application.  • Provide customer/production support and triage issues regarding website and business applications with Application Management System, Ireland, India team and Release Management.  • Integrate API's into UI to display web applications and update personal information data.  • Estimate sizing of backlog items, communicate progress of tasks with Scrum Master, Product Owner and Tech Lead.  • Participate in daily stand-ups, sprint planning sessions, sprint demos/reviews, sprint retrospectives, and code review sessions.  • Debug and automate unit test code-behind/controllers logic  • Implemented numerous enhancements to user interface of web site and web forms.  • Increase business acumen by identifying and recommending potential process technology improvements to assist and support overall business goals.  • Implement best practices for web standards within team/area. Senior Front Web Developer/Webmaster First Horizon National Corporation, Inc - Memphis, TN July 2002 to September 2012 Developed, designed, unit test, support and troubleshoot Marketing websites for internet and mobile devices.  • Distribute work assignments, training and troubleshoot programming and coding issues within applications to Web Development team.  • Maintain positive relationship with Business units such as Marketing, Corporate Communications, Audit, and Application Management Services to understand business requirements.  • Establish efficient ways to deliver expected features, quality and usability of websites to Business units.  • Establish project priorities with the business units, balancing strategic objectives with business enablement activities.  • Created Business Requirement, Functional, and Technical Documents to achieve Business objectives.  • Inserted MapQuest locations for First Tennessee website utilizing API framework.  • Developed Salesforce pages for Home Equity site that passes data to vendor database for Marketing Managers.  • Developed Search Engine Optimization (SEO) URLs for www.firsttennessee.com.  • Created and manage web applications utilizing Model-View-Controller design pattern.  • Collaborate with Infrastructure and Data Security teams to ensure minimal risk within internet environment (i.e. penetration testing, load testing, cross site scripting and SQL injection).  • Utilize object-oriented language via JavaScript and Dynamic HTML object models and collections.  • Thorough understanding of web technologies and methodologies including ASP.NET MVC, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, W3C, and Web Content Accessibility Guidelines. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in CSM University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business - Memphis, TN 2008 to Present Certifications/Licenses Certified Scrum Master January 2014 to January 2018