Director of Front End Development Director of <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Development Director of Front End Development - Delphic Digital Secane, PA Work Experience Director of Front End Development Delphic Digital 2016 to Present * Front end code and person managment at Delphic Digital. Currently responsible for Front End Development work at the company. This includes planning front end projects from budget to deployment, development process management and implementation. Responsible for sites such as americanstandard.com, Comcast (NDA), Delaware North parks sites such as tenayalodge.com and yellowstonevacations.com. These projects range from technologies using Sitecore, Umbraco, and Wordpress/Drupal custom themes. More examples available upon request.  * I developed and maintain a Front End boilerplate called Skeletor that we use on all our projects: http://skele.to/r Lead Front End Developer Delphic Digital 2011 to 2016 Hired as part of the creative team and to relieve responsibilities from the current Creative Director. I took on, and lead Front End Development on websites such as sunriseseniorliving.com, theborgata.com, choosingwisely.org, more available upon request. I also support .NET and PHP back end development teams for my websites. My main development responsibilities included JavaScript, HTML5/CSS, Flash, Responsive and Mobile development. Senior Interactive Developer Singularity Design - Philadelphia, PA 2008 to 2011 Philadelphia, PA  * Brought into Singularity as first interactive developer. Singularity was striving for advancement and was able to push that forward. I programmed the new branded website; this included advanced JS with HTML5 canvas manipulation. I reached out for a new hire with goals of building an interactive team. Concurrent work was completed successful and won numerous awards. Gained experience with Magento for Ashers.com and storefront for famouscookies.com Interactive/ Front End Developer Whittmanhart Interactive - Philadelphia, PA 2006 to 2008 Lead Front End developer that worked with a junior to pull off some great work. Work immediately began on a new project to streamline the web development process through XML. Picked up XML, XSLT, XPATH really quickly. While this project was ongoing, I worked on html, JavaScript heavy websites. Also plenty of Flash pitches with ActionScript interactivity. Front end lead on CSS and AJAX driven sites for major companies such as Centocor and St. Jude. Worked very close with Java backend developers for site wide integration, including Content Managed sites. Interactive Developer Vision3 Inc - Philadelphia, PA 2004 to 2006 First employee at Vision3 Inc. Hired as full-time interactive developer to handle new workload. Direct hands in every project finished, responsible for helping get a one year old company off the ground. Projects ranged from simple HTML websites, to complex Flash presentations. Managed multimedia development interns. Taught good practices needed for their field of work. Development consultant for proposals and potential clients. Education Bachelor's in Multimedia and Web Design Art Institute of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA October 2001 to December 2004 Skills FRONT END (8 years) Links https://github.com/jefftherobot http://skele.to/r Additional Information Skills  * Front end web development: Over a decade of experience with front end technologies ranging from wordpress blogs to enterprise level sites.  * Project Direction and Management: Proven ability to lead and manage a wide variety of front end development projects in team and independent settings.