FRONT END DEVELOPER <span class="hl">FRONT</span> <span class="hl">END</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> FRONT END DEVELOPER Cameroon Quality-oriented professional with 2+ years of experience and a proven  knowledge of advanced technology, emerging technologies, and web design.  Aiming to leverage my skills to successfully fill the Front end Developer role at  your company. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience FRONT END DEVELOPER Ciniter, Buea, South April 2017 to May 2019 Design, build, or maintain web sites, using authoring or scripting languages, content  creation tools, management tools, and digital media.    ? Perform or direct web site updates.    ? Write, design, or edit web page content, or direct others producing content.    ? Back up files from web sites to local directories for instant recovery in case of problems.    ? Identify problems uncovered by testing or customer feedback, and correct problems or refer problems to appropriate personnel for correction.    ? Evaluate code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards  and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems.    ? Maintain understanding of current web technologies or programming practices  through continuing education, reading, or participation in professional conferences,  workshops, or groups.    ? Analyze user needs to determine technical requirements.    ? Develop or validate test routines and schedules to ensure that test cases mimic external  interfaces and address all browser and device types.    ? Select programming languages, design tools, or applications.    ? Incorporate technical considerations into web site design plans, such as budgets,  equipment, performance requirements, or legal issues including accessibility and privacy.  ? Develop and document style guidelines for web site content.    ? Develop web site maps, application models, image templates, or page templates that  meet project goals, user needs, or industry standards.    ? Create searchable indices for web page content.    ? Document test plans, testing procedures, or test results. Skills CSS3, Front-End, Javascript, React, UI, HTML5, Jquery, Front End, Angularjs, Bootstrap, Angular, User Interface, Node Additional Information ? ReactJS, AngularJS and Angular    ? Bootstrap 4    ? Responsive Design    ? Version control (Git)    ? Testing/Debugging (Jasmine)    ? CMS    ? RESTful Services/APIs    ? Bulma    ? Excellent problem solving skills