Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End Developer Yona, GU Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Front End Developer eXelate June 2015 to Present Working among 2 other FED developers and 3 Java developers in the core team of a big web development group building and maintaining the DMP SPA Application of the company. Writing in Backbone, Coffeescript and LESS from the beginning and lately moving to ES6 and React.js. Building Charts with D3 and writing tests with Jasmine (Unit) and Protractor (e2e). Also, I did some projects in our middleware written with Node.js. During this period I've worked with browserify, Grunt, Git, npm, underscore, Mbabel, webpack and more. Front End Developer Conduit/Perion April 2013 to June 2015 Responsible for the entire front end work in a team of 5 RoR developers. Building an Analytics SPA for the company while implementing variety of client side libraries and frameworks. Using AngularJS as the MV* framework, highcharts as the main ui data library, JS/Coffeescript for the core programming, SASS as a CSS preprocessor and more frameworks/libraries/extensions such as: backbone/marionette, moment.js, underscore, jQuery components, angular-route/ui-router and more. More technologies and services that my team is working with are: Git, ElasticSearch, Heroku, TFS/YouTrack. and more. Working in collaboration with other QA, Product, and design teams.    At the beginning of 2013 my division was merged with Perion Network and I was chosen to build from scratch the company new Marketing website: http://www.codefuel.com UI and Front End Developer Spark Networks (JDate) 2011 to 2013 Client side developer. Responsibility of all the creative and UI work in the company. Working within a Scrum team (Agile).  Languages and Technologies:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile, ajax, prototype.js, HTML5 and Photoshop.  MVC/ASP.NET Environment. Also few coding with PHP. Freelance iniTech 2008 to 2011 Working as a freelance for private costumers and companies.  Since 2010 focusing on client side development only.  Languages and Technologies:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, ajax, HTML5, Photoshop, MySQL, SQL Server, ASP, PHP And Flash. ASP Developer and team leader Mish LTD - ????, ???? ???? 2006 to 2008 Haifa)  In charge of a small development and creative team. Development mainly with classic ASP. Also working with: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, MySQL, and SQL Server. WEBMASTER Dot Traffic - ?? ???? -???, ???? ?? ???? 2005 to 2006 Tel Aviv)  Slicing PSD files into HTML and building small websites with HTML, CSS, XML, XSL and JavaScript.    Have an individual learning skill ability and quick understanding of new stuff. Love challenges and learning new technologies.