Sr. Web Developer Sr. Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Developer - Palmetto GBA, BCBS Charlotte, NC • 7+ years of total IT experience     SUMMARY:   • 7+ years of software development experience in object oriented programming, design and development of various Web applications, Enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies with all phases of SDLC (analysis, design, development, testing and deployment).  • Excellent programming experience in various Java-J2EE technologies including Core Java, JDK 1.4/1.3/1.2, Java Beans, J2EE (JSP, Servlets), Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Applets, AWT, XML, JavaScript, Collections, Multithreading, Socket and JDBC for building server side applications.  • Strong working knowledge of polymorphism and inheritance concepts.  • Extensive experience in front- end development using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML.  • Worked on scripting Languages like Java script, Unix Shell Script.  • Proficient in the design, development and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) using J2EE Jakarta Struts 1.x Frameworks.  • Very good at java development using spring framework and hibernate.  • Good Knowledge and work experience on various Design Patterns such as Singleton, Factory Method, Service Locator and MVC.  • Good knowledge about using Clear Case, CVS and PVCS for version control.  • Experience in developing and deploying application with Oracle Web Logic, IBM Websphere.  • Worked proficiently on various IDEs including Eclipse and IBM Rational Application Development (RAD).  • Analyzed and developed Use Case diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Class diagrams using the Microsoft Visio.  • Experienced with RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle 9i,8i, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, TOAD, Ref Cursors, Constraints, Triggers, Indexes, Views, Inline, Materialized Views.  • Worked in onsite-offshore model projects and has experience in handling a team of around 7-8 people in different locations.  • Worked on testing the application including unit testing, system testing and performance testing.  • Highly motivated self starter with Excellent Communication, Presentation and Problem Solving skills and committed to learning new technologies. Work Experience Sr. Web Developer Palmetto GBA, BCBS - Columbia, SC September 2011 to Present TPL: Worked on this casualty and estate recovery development project in springs and hibernate. Developed three administration screens having the capability to add, update and delete employer data, Form 115 details and invoices screens.    CBIC: Competitive Bidding Implementation Contractor. This application is to automate the bidding process for the Medicare equipments in various locations. For this different bidders need to submit various documents before participating in the process. And the submitted documents will be verified by and a letter is sent in case of any documents missing before a particular date. Hence the task is to develop the confirmation of missing documents screen which is reviewed by 2 users of particular roles and then developing different tabs for each type of bidder.    Responsibilities:  • Requirements confirmation with the Business Analyst and the screen design.  • Designing the new tables, hbms and beans for the new data based on existing tables.  • Developing the functionality using Springs and Hibernate for different roles and tabs.  • Help with unit and component testing and make sure everything works as expected. Reviewing work deliverables before presenting to client.  • Code changes to be analyzed and implemented based on client requirements.  • Handling a team of junior developers at onsite and guiding them through development, testing and implementation.  • Participating in code-walk through after development.  • Interacting actively with client and being SPOC for client on status of project.  • Used Spring MVC for both TPL & CBIC projects  • Worked on CSS, JQuery and JSF in the project  Environment  Platforms: MS Windows  Technical: Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, CSS, JQuery, JSF  Servers: Sun One Web Server, IBM WebSphere, Apache, RAD, Tomcat v6.0  Databases: Oracle SQL developer Sr. Software Engg Bank of America - Charlotte, NC January 2010 to September 2011 There are around 30 of Bank of America Direct's Treasury Direct suite of products and other support tools' products. This includes the following applications.  BA Direct is a suite of applications (IR, PI/AT, OLS, ACH, CPA, FXWD/GP, BFX, GIR, UFD) under various environments different releases of these various products will be getting build, deployed and tested as per the evolving requirements. The job is to analyze the root cause of the defect and communicate with various support groups to fix the defects that arise due to the changes in the different environments. The task is to minimize the down time of non-prod environments so that they are available for testing as much as possible. To achieve this proactively monitor the environments, triage issue resolution, troubleshoot defects and help plan deployments efficiently.    Responsibilities:  • Problem determination (figure out what/where the problem is) in different environments like SIT, EPE and Pre prod.  • Problem resolution: get the problem resolved directly or by escalating to the appropriate team like development, DBA, web admins, etc.  • Create and maintain environment diagrams documents.  • Help Release planning to avoid repeating defects of same nature and application.  • Oversee the release migration processes.  • Help Release Management with defects root cause categorization.  • Work with downstream apps support.  • Follow up with vendors like Resonate, IBM and do in-depth research on issues to get a resolution.  • Verify OS level server settings in detail for new servers or problematic servers.  • Verify firewall ports are open as necessary.  • Verify file permissions (for known problematic files).  • Monitor environments (send notification everyday of environment availability).  • Verify high level availability after each deployment.  • Proactively check environments for configuration after each deployment.  • Proactively monitor logs during tests for problems, help setup monitoring for critical failures.  • Monitor EPE performance tests via Introscope, help tune apps in EPE environment.  • Lead a team of 8 people, which has team members at onsite, offshore and near shore.    Environment  Platforms: Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, MS Windows  Servers: Sun One Web Server, IBM WebSphere, Apache, Macromedia JRun 3.1, Tomcat, Borland Enterprise Server, Borland Visibroker  Databases: Oracle, DB2  Tools: Actuate, Wily Introscope, MQ Series, Secure Transport, Resonate, Balance, Siteminder, Clearcase, ClearQuest, Interwoven Front End Developer Benefits Tracker - Charlotte, NC May 2007 to January 2010 The Finance Business Team spends an inordinate amount of time collecting and correcting data and preparing monthly reports for higher executives. In addition, the current process and technology solution takes more than 6 business days because of the time spent by finance associates dedicated to the manual reporting and data collections processes. System needs to be closed for more than 6 business days for end user. Supplier Management Portal - Benefits Tracker is to automate some part of data capturing, data clean up and reporting process through BT application. This helps the finance associate to sync up the data in a short amount of time and report that information to the senior management. It will also help to reduce the close period duration in BT.  Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in requirements, analysis, design, coding, unit and integration testing phases of Supplier Management Portal- Benefits Tracker project.  • Performance tuning of SQLs and writing and altering complex SQL queries.  • Developing code using JAVA, JavaScript and JSP technologies.  • Interacting with client and various project managers to gather information for environment setup  • Creating technical documentation, documentation from user perspective for all developed tools.  • Involved in testing the application and code flow thoroughly.    Environment: Java, JSP, Spring, JavaScript, HTML4, CSS and SQL queries Java J2EE Front End Developer Northwestern Mutual March 2006 to March 2007 Account Service Fee Waiver Tool  The web application in struts is to develop the front end to enable various users to waive the fee for various records retrieved from the database according to the users' access levels.  • Involved in Complete SDLC of the Application  • Preparation of design document (high and low level).  • Developing web-based user interface using JSP, JavaScript & HTML with Struts.  • Coded the various service layer classes and configured the application. Worked on project deployment files such as web.xml, struts-config files for security role descriptions, servlet mappings, Java bean class definitions, Action Classes mappings, JSPs declarations and database connection pooling. Implemented extensive error handling in the STRUTS framework.  • Implemented open source Log4j logging framework in whole application.  • Used JavaScript for client side validation with HTML.  • Involved in creating new tables, stored procedures, views, triggers and SQL statements for the database related to waiving the fee and updation.  • Created the Unit test plans and Necessary end user documentation  • Involved in application integration and deployment.  • Involved in testing the application and code flow thoroughly.    User Information Consolidator Tool  To cut down the investigation time involved in accessing the various systems and reports in entitlements system, simple online tool is built that provides the following functionality: Perform preliminary checks on this data. Present a scrolling single page report containing all this information. Security- The tool can be locked down to the users in Support PDL to restrict access.  • Collected the requirements for the use cases and client interaction for gathering the requirements.  • Created Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Visio for various users.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedures, Packages and functions to fetch the data from database using PL/SQL.  • Developed the front end using JSP.  • Involved in setting up different access levels to the users.  Document management System Support  The application contains the daily and monthly report of the entire Faxed document sent to NetXPro. This application uses an xml to store the entire document Type and Document name List. The changes were to process the document as well as send the mail to support team. The process has been automated so that if once a document type is added in XML it will be reflected in the monthly report.  • Involved in coding to read the data from the XMLs to the application using Java collections and presented it in the required format using JSP.  • Involved in Deployment and build activity.  Morning Star Advisory Product  The northwestern mutual wealth management company has introduced new line of advisory products this needs the display a list of recommended mutual funds in the Envestnet Proposal system. The requirement was to develop the portal to display the various types of data and analyze it and display the reports.  • Interacted with the client for the clarifications and to resolve the issues in the analysis.  • Also involved in bug fixing after it went into production  • Involved in Business logic analysis, user interface and application design - designed the GUI for several options screens - improved usability and ease-of-use for end user were used as benchmarks.  • Created Unix shell scripts to create database tables etc.  Environment: Java, J2EE Technologies, Struts, HTML4, CSS, JavaScript, SQL queries, UNIX script, JSP, XML, Web Sphere Server Front End Developer Northwestern Mutual, India November 2005 to March 2006 Domino -Lotus Notes development  This involves developing various applications Trackers and management systems. Audit management was a workflow application designed to provide an interface to manage the various work plans, evidences and participants associated with the audit system.    Responsibilities:  • Designing the forms, developing the agents and mailing features  • Involved in Coding, Preparing the Unit test plans and Necessary end user documentation  • Modified existing programs and writing new programs to support new added rules and functionalities.  Environment: Lotus Notes, unit test plans Software Programmer Fidelity Investments Life Insurance August 2004 to November 2005 Investments Life Insurance Forms Wizard maintenance  FILI uses Navisys Front Office to capture the information of its customers and generate the required forms based on the product chosen.  When new products, funds or forms are launched into market or when there is a change in business requirements, the requirements that drive the data collection and application-forms generation change. Navisys Front Office needs to be customized accordingly. The work is to customize the application as per the changed business requirements, do the testing and deploy the same to Production to run the business smoothly.    Fidelity Investments Life Insurance web Sphere Upgrade  Migrating existing applications (iApps) in Web Sphere 4.0.5 to Web Sphere 5.1.1.  Developing automated test scripts for testing of the applications.Automated test scripts are developed in QTP (Quick Test Professional) for testing the applications  Responsibilities:  • Wrote Unit Test Cases and performed Unit Testing and Integration Testing.  • Test planning and Development of automated test scripts  • Configuration and Testing  • Interacting with client and various project managers to gather information for environment setup  • Testing, Recording of results and defects, debugging and tracking defects to closure for all phases of the testing cycle.  Environment: Web Sphere, QTP, System appreciation using UML diagrams, Navisys Front Office. Education Master of Computer Applications Osmania University - Osmania University, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Bachelor of Science in Computer Sciences Osmania University - Osmania University, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Skills Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, XML and Markup languages. Java Beans, HTML4, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, PL/SQL, C++, Unix Korn shell,Oracle 8/8i/9i, SQL, OLTP, RDBMS Additional Information Technical Skills:  Java/j2ee  Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, XML and Markup languages. Java Beans, HTML4, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, PL/SQL, C++, Unix Korn shell    Databases Oracle 8/8i/9i, SQL, OLTP, RDBMS,  Design/Tools/  Technologies    UML, Java, Servlets, Struts, JDBC, Applets, Java Beans, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat Server, XML, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL Rational Clear Case, VSS,CVS, Visio, Oracle 8i/7.x under Unix and Windows NT.    Operating Systems UNIX, AIX, Sun Solaris, Windows, DOS, UNIX ,MVS  Version Control Tools MS Visio, VSS and CVS  APPLICATIONS MS-WORD, MS-EXCEL, MS-POWER POINT, MS-ACCESS & VISIO  Other Tools  WSAD 5.1, RAD 6.0, Eclipse 3.1, SQL Navigator 5.1, VSS 6.0, Test Director 8, Actuate, Wily Introscope, Secure Transport, Resonate, Balance, Siteminder, Clearcase, Interwoven, MQSeries    Environment Sun One Web Server, IBM WebSphere, Apache, , Tomcat, Borland Enterprise Server,    Project Summary: