UI/UX Developer UI/UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> Ui/UX lead @ Intellect Design Arena inc Piscataway, NJ Work Experience UI/UX Developer Intellect Design Arena - Piscataway, NJ August 2015 to Present ?     Redesigning Risk Analyst Web App to conversation UI , this includes AI chat Bot etc   ?     Working on building JavaScript template framework for all intellect SEEC apps     ?     My responsibilities included heuristic analysis, wireframes, sitemaps, user ?ows, concept sketches & visual    design.  ?     Building new UI template framework using EXTJS, Web socket, React Js , HTML5, SASS, Grunt  o     Platform's Application Bootstrap framework simplifies application integration with Platform, it will enforces authentication & authorization, supports multi-tenancy, defines standards for all the configuration files ,bootstrap each application by creating default configuration files, improves application load time and takes advantage of browser caching (by utilizing CDN).  o     All user authentication via Keyclock,   o     CDN with Varnish cache for all static assets like fonts , icons & images   o     Device specific themes built in react js   o     Following MVC pattern      ?     Successfully Completed Risk Analyst new User interface design launch on December 2016  ?     Designing and developing Ext Js (MVC) templates , using Highchart, D3.js etc   ?     Completed Our Corporate and Marketing Website Redesigning    ?     Build a ChatBot JavaScript library which can plugin to any Web Application  , which support all major Bot engines like API.AI.      o     JavaScript SDK can be included in all Web & Mobile Application  o     Wordpress Plugin which can used in all Intelllect Product page  Site Lead Larsen and Toubro Infotech - New York, NY February 2013 to July 2015 Developed Self's architecture for the Wordpress migration specifically with the following features:  ? DFP lazy load integration for each page  ? Editor modules which integrated drag and drop and dynamic modules  ? Infinite load on page using Ajax  ? Analytical tools like Omniture and Comscore for monitoring  ? Fully responsive site  ? Custom Native Ad integration through DFP & node.js  ? Led a team of offshore developers to redesign the Self (2014) website and migrate from an outdated custom content management system (CMS) to a new WordPress driven solution. This resulted in ? a 65% decrease in time to publish for the editorial team  ? an increase from 4.3 to 5 minutes average time spent on the Self site  ? an increase in ad viewability for Self site from 55% to 67% based off of the newly created UX  ? Prioritize and mitigate issues by regularly meeting with the project manager and developers to review current and existing projects.  ? Currently working on the UI/UX design for the sponsored collection pages which will be integrated with the native advertisement implementation  ? In final stages of implementing newly optimized article & slideshow templates using backbone.js and rest API.  ? Migrating Food/Fitness tracking program to new custom platform using Node.js & Angular.js Team Lead for Front End Development Iconix 2013 to 2013 2013    ? Led the team to create interactive design for jQuery mobile  ? Integrated payment gateway on Magento and built shopping cart (www.snoopystore.com)  ? Was involved in the server set up using Grunt application.  ? Migrated comic strip to Wordpress and integrated social media and analytics Front End Developer Conde Nast Publications 2011 to 2013 Was one of two developers in charge of mobifying GQ and Details, from creating the mobify template using zepto.js, creating a responsive layout using CSS3 media query through integrating social media.  ? On Brides, created a movable type template, integrated jQuery slider for the landing page banner, created a public directory listing and integrated social media.  ? As part of a larger team, played an integral role in the Brides homepage and gallery redesign as the Front End lead. Front End Developer Cortical DB, India 2009 to 2010 Developed a responsive user interface using Twitter bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery  ? Prepared wireframes both for mobile and desktop for their website.  ? Created the admin UI using HTML5, CSS, jQuery and Javascript.  ? Was involved in the server set up using Grunt application. Front End Developer EDOCS IT Solutions 2007 to 2009 Developed a responsive user interface using Twitter bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery  ? Prepared wireframes both for mobile and desktop for their website.  ? Created the admin UI using HTML5, CSS, jQuery and Javascript.  ? Was involved in the server set up using Grunt application.    Survey and Analysis Systems, India UI Designer & Developer 2005 to 2007 Led a team of designers to develop an interactive website, logos, icons and brochures using DreamWeaver, Flash, Fireworks, FrontPage, Illustrator and Photoshop.  ? Designed and optimized graphics for brands. Education Bachelor in Animation and Computer Graphics RAI University International Skills HTML 5, MySQL, Javascript, PHP, Git, jQuery, extjs (4 years), sencha Ext (4 years) Additional Information Seasoned and exceptionally well-qualified UI/UX designer and frontend developer with over seven (7) years of experience.    Areas of Expertise:    ? Responsive grid design & development for open source  ? Wordpress Theme development using Twitter Bootstrap, Angular Js & jQuery Mobile Framework  ? Native advertising using DFP  ? Team Building  ? Proficient in HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, SCSS, Angular Js, nodejs, Coffiscript, jQuery & JavaScript  ? Design using Adobe (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign    Technical skillset  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, MAC OS  Languages HTML/HTML5, CSS, CSS3, SASS, LESS, SCSS, jQuery, Angular Js, Zepto Js, Nodejs  Design Tools Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, CorelDraw  CMS Frameworks Wordpress, Joomla, Drupal, Moveable Type, Magneto, Teamsite  DBMS MySQL, MangoDb  Version Control SVN, Mercurial, Github  Development Tools Eclipse, Komondo, Sublime2/3  Mobile Mobify, jQuery Mobile