Front End UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End UI Developer - Lincoln Peak Boston, MA ? 13+ Years of extensive Experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JSF, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON and XML. Solid proficiency with IA/UX and web usability best practices.  ? Extensive work experience in writing web application programs covering front- end/UI using the web technologies like DHTML, HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS2/3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, Bootstrap, MEAN Stack, Angular.JS, Node.JS, React JS, Ext JS, Axure RP Pro, DOM, AJAX and JSON.  ? Experience in effectively communicating conceptual ideas and translating business requirements into interactive web applications.  ? Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, table less XHTML and JavaScript that follows W3C, WCAG Web Standards and are browser compatible.  ? Experience in using Software development methodologies such as Agile, Scrum and Waterfall.  ? Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, JQuery, HTML & CSS to develop valid code and table-free sites.  ? Experience in front- end tooling workflows Node.JS (NPM), Bower, SASS, Gulp and Grunt.  ? Well versed with multiple version control tool GIT Hub.  ? Experience in developing Responsive Web Design and cross platform server side applications using Bootstrap framework to achieve scalability in real-time web applications.  ? Hands on experience for Java Server Pages (JSP) coding with focus on Cross-browser/Cross-platform compliance.  ? Experience in DOM (Document Object Model), DOM manipulations and DOM functions.  ? Extensive experience with Java IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans and Google Web Toolkit (GWT).  ? Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  ? Ability to apply W3C web standards with great skills in achieving the best cross-browser user experience for sake of long-term user retention and engagement.  ? Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, Dojo, JQuery, HTML, XHTML, DHTML & CSS to develop valid code and table-free sties  ? Knowledge on PHP, MySQL, Apache and WordPress.  ? Extensively used the backbone.js, Angular JS frame works, JSON and JavaScript frameworks jQuery  ? Good knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  ? Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, and XML.  ? Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  ? Strong debugging skills using Firebug, IE Tester, and Chrome Developer Tools  ? Experience in using version control tools such as SVN, CSV and GIT.  ? Knowledge in Unified Modeling Language (UML), Flow Chart, Class Diagrams, User Diagram, Activity and Sequence Diagrams.  ? Extensive experience in Development, Implementation and testing in various application architectures, including E-Commerce, B2B, Distributed Applications, Internet /Intranet.  Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Proficient with Eclipse, Notepad++, Visual Studio and Dreamweaver. Work Experience Front End UI Developer Lincoln Peak - Boston, MA January 2016 to Present Project:  Lincoln Peak is one of IT services firm which involves in designing, delivering, hosting, and supporting Healthcare, Finance, and Extended Enterprise SaaS solutions.  I was involved in a project to develop a customer service representative tool for different clients with particular variances set up to them to access a website through which clients can access their users data and provide them optimistic solutions.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked in a team of eight, Involved in development, enhancement, testing, security and performance of the application.  ? Designed innovative graphical user interface for the company website including site architectures, navigation layouts, using Photoshop and Flash.  ? Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  ? Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  ? Created various interactive plug-ins, widgets or design UI/UX.  ? Used Knockout to provide a simple onboarding validation mechanism.  ? Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  ? Wrote code to implement Ajax based application by fetching the response from backend API as a part of JSON.  ? Used Selenium for testing the site, test cases were written and automated using Selenium.  ? Performed Automation testing using Selenium on Web based (Browser) application.  ? Interfaced with third-party vendors to customize UI/UX solutions for web verticals.  ? Elegantly implemented page designs in standards-compliant dynamic XHTML and CSS  ? Design User Interface for the project using HTML, CSS, and Flash.  ? Developed JavaScript library for rendering domain-specific layout XML to the web.  ? Created web content and checked for cross-browser issues, operating systems, and screen resolutions.  ? Created handouts with Illustrator, Photoshop and InDesign and presentation using PowerPoint.  ? Code sites according to SEO, and keyword analysis, Social Network and Google Search Appliance (GSA)  ? Personalization of search experience based on the knowledge of end users.  ? Used GSA to obtain results in raw XML and make it presentable to end users by parsing XML file with an XLST style sheet by generating an HTML web page. Front End Developer Tunstall Americas - Long Island, NY December 2014 to January 2016 Environment: PHP, MYSQL, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, CSS, Adobe Photoshop, Selenium, Dream Weaver MX, GSA, Windows XP.  Front End Developer  Tunstall Americas - Long Island City, NY  December 2014 to January 2016    Project:  Tunstall provides wide range of health care products and services. This project is an ECRM system, which manages Customers, Products & Order Fulfillment. It specializes primarily in Order Capturing, Sales Order Processing & Warehouse Management System. It simplifies the entire process of selling the products no matter what the medium of sale.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed UI application using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  ? Used AngularJS and Node.JS to implement Single Page Architecture (SPA).  ? Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons and created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards.  ? Converted the UX design in to functional Single Page Application with features like deep linking and routing.  ? Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern.  ? Used Selectors, Events, Ajax and Dom Manipulation modules in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  ? Involved in Enhancement of existing application using Backbone.js.  ? Used multi-threading in programming to improve overall performance.  ? Used SASS for creating CSS frameworks store things like colors, font stacks, or any CSS value.  ? Used AJAX Calls $.get, $.post, $.ajax to make request to the backend and fetch the data in JSON format.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  ? Created angular services to hold application state data and integrated with back- end services using $http and $q and consumed web services using RESTFUL architecture.  ? Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  ? Developed server side REST web services and called them from angular controllers.  ? Developed the JQuery callback functions to implement asynchronous communication using AJAX.  ? Responsible for writing test cases and Peer level testing. Build and Deployment in WebSphere Application Server.  ? Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and project management.    Environment: HTML5, Angular JS, Node.js, CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX, JavaScript, MVC, JQuery, RESTful Web Services, JSON, Eclipse, Backbone.js, REST web services, MySQL Server. UI Developer San Jose, CA November 2012 to December 2014 Project: This is an internal application for the employees of Adobe. The Business wants to communicate with their employees through this web Application. The Employees will be logged in with their intranet credentials. The employees can check out the latest happenings, New Announcements from the business. They can also post their ideas for the better improvement of the business.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  ? Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  ? Used jquery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  ? Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing Angular JS, JavaScript API.  ? Coded dynamic and browser compatible UI web pages using JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, JQuery, Ajax and responsive design in MVC environment.  ? Involved in developing HTML and Angular Js for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular JS.  ? Created pages for Login using single sign on, main page containing favorites and page for continuous integration configuration.  ? Worked with CSS3 and bootstrap to create Responsive web designs for multiple departments/pages.  ? Created animation effects during the data load, waiting for the Ajax response using JQuery.  ? Interact with other developers and end users to design and implement new features throughout the framework.  ? Developed Responsive web design using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  ? Debugging using firebug & web developer tools on Chrome, Firefox and Internet Explorer.  ? Prototyped several versions of possible UI approach to provide choices to the business.  ? Developed the page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  ? Used jQuery, a cross browser JavaScript library to dynamically update the page content on the client side.  ? Developed unit test cases and functional test cases using Karma framework.  ? Improved the performance and response time of the application by implementing AJAX.  ? Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals.  ? Used JSP, Servlets, and HTML5 to create web interfaces. Developed Java Beans and used custom tag libraries for embedding dynamic into JSP pages.  ? Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  ? Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  ? Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, Web Service call and JSON.  ? Developed a core component of Analytics with Angular JS.  ? Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  ? Ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle.  ? Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links. Frontend web Developer JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH October 2010 to November 2012 Environment: Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, services, Sublime Text, Oracle 11g, GitHub, Google Developer tool, Bootstrap, Grunt, SVN, Firebug  Frontend web Developer  JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH  October 2010 to November 2012    Project: JPMorgan chase is redesigning its application to a single page application using in-house developed JavaScript MVC framework. This new framework is built using and extending libraries like jQuery, Backbone.js, Node js, LESS, Mocha, Chai.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed application features using the new custom MVC framework.  ? Worked with MVC framework BackboneJS.  ? Worked on Motion Stories using HTML5 new features like Animations, Transitions, Carousel, video.  ? Developed mockups and prototypes using HTML and CSS3.  ? Participated in Design Review meetings with Architect, PM, Designers and Developers.  ? Involved in Code review meetings with Front End Developers.  ? Developed UI interface using AngularJS for rich user interaction.  ? Worked in Agile/SCRUM methodology approach for UI Development.  ? Fixed bugs found in the Production.  ? Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with AngularJS controllers under specific modules, manipulating nodes in DOM tree.  ? Used Photoshop for image editing and website design.  ? Implement data grid/tables using Bootstrap 3.0 and Angular for front- end client facing of the SPA application.  ? Developed AJAX based web based UI framework by utilizing jQuery library  ? Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap, and used LESS pre-processor.  ? Implemented content pages using CSS Preprocessors like LESS.  ? Implemented Mobile friendly Responsive Design using Bootstrap 3.0 and CSS3 media queries, viewable over mobile, tablet, and desktop platforms.  ? Developed web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  ? Cross-browser testing (MSIE, Firefox, Chrome, Opera and Safari) and cross-platform (MAC, Windows 7/8, Firefox and IE).  ? Used Jasmine for Unit Testing.  ? Worked closely with Visual QA team in fixing the defects.  ? Used Source Tree, Git for version control and JIRA for defect tracking. Web UI Developer Independent Health - Buffalo, NY September 2007 to October 2010 Environment: HTML5, CSS3, LESS, Bootstrap 3.0, AngularJS, Node JS, Backbone JS, Agile, jQuery, Git, Photoshop, JIRA, NPM, Source Tree, Gulp, Bower.  Web UI Developer  Independent Health - Buffalo, NY  September 2007 to October 2010    Project Description: IIMA (Insurance and Inventory Management Application) the project was to develop an application, which is used to process Health Care claims. It allows users to search the company data repository through the web. The requested data can be displayed in a summary view or through a detailed view. The application involves automated approval or rejection criteria to preprocess the claims.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated actively in Requirements gathering in close contact with the client and was responsible for functional requirements documentation.  ? Understood the Insurance business functionality and business process of the system. Responsible for developing UML (Use cases realization models, Class & Sequence diagrams) models using IBMRational Rose XDE.  ? Developed pages using HTML5, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, CSS3 and JSON.  ? AJAX used for the Asynchronous data populating on pages  ? Developed a fully functional login page for the company's user facing website with complete UI and validations.  ? Coded JS for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  ? Also designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript framework like Angular.js, Node.js and Ext.js.  ? Responsible for MVC design and implemented usingSpring MVCframework  ? Expertise in Implementing Dependency Injection in various aspects of spring framework.  ? Designed and developed user interface (UI) components using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used JQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  ? Used Ajax, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing.  ? Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  ? Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using JQUERY UI Library.  ? Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information  ? Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  ? Used the Node.js and Angular JS MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  ? Used JQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  ? Implemented XML data parsing using SAX and Web Services (SOAP) using Apache Axis2.  ? Implemented design patterns like Service locator and DAO.  ? Designed and implemented the data layer components using Hibernateto connect with Database.  ? Utilized Hibernate's Polymorphic many-to-one associations for the purpose of referring instances of subclasses and participated in design of data base and created tables in Oracle.  ? Created Stored Procedures and functions and wrote complex SQL queries (Oracle DB) for various functionalities.  ? Responsible for Integration testing and debugging the application.  ? Developed JUnit testing framework for various modules. Web Developer Wipro Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2005 to September 2007 Environment: Java, JSP, Struts, Tiles, XML, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Web Services (SOAP), Hibernate, Oracle 10g, Web Sphere, ANT, UML, Rational Rose, JUnit.  Web Developer  Wipro Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana  August 2005 to September 2007    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for transforming designs mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery, JSP/JSON, XML and XSLT  ? Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users  ? Developed the Web Interface using Servlets, JavaServerPages, HTML and CSS  ? Business Services using the Servlets and Java  ? Created JDBC statements to call stored Procedures  ? Business logic is implemented using Struts framework, MVC, Designed and Developed Business delegate Servlets and Objects  ? Developed and modified Servlets to accept and process request from the clients  ? Developed various objects using java and HTML and DHTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with Controllers to get data from Oracle database  ? User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases using UML  ? Developed database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, indexes  ? Extensively used XSLT to transform XML documents to HTML  ? Worked on jQuery Light box for creating image and video galleries  ? Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using JavaScript  ? Embedded the flash content into the web pages using SW Object  ? Created Ajax calls to exchange (request / responses) information with database  ? Developed social network services for user interaction using Ajax, JavaScript, CSS and DHTML  ? Used Subversion (SVN) as a repository tool and as a version control Software Developer Hyderabad, Telangana July 2003 to August 2005 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively involved in requirements gathering and analyzing them, checking the dependencies and design of the project.  ? Designed and developed User Interface using JSP, CSS, HTML and JavaScript. Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  ? Designed and Developed Java Script frame work which is wrapper on top of JQUERY frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  ? Built and rolled out branded site for company reseller network increasing lead response volume by 300% within two months.  ? Dramatically improved customer ease of use and clarity of information.  ? Used Ajax, OO Java Script, JSP, JQuery, HTML and CSS to develop the application.  ? Developed different JQUERY component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  ? Involved in redesigning the entire site with CSS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  ? Worked on integrating JQuery APIs with MVC pattern.  ? Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the site.  ? Improved outgoing quality through test and yield improvements and characterization. Also reduced costs through test time improvements.  ? Wrote test plans and performed unit testing and performance testing.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, OO JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JSP, JQuery, Servlets, MVC, DOM, SQL, PL/SQL, Windows Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), JSON (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (10+ years) Additional Information Skills  Ajax (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), JQUERY (10+ years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (10+ years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (10+ years)    Technical Skills:  ? Scripting Languages JavaScript, UNIX Shell Scripting  ? Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XML, XHTML, DHTML, JSON, Core Java, JSP, Servlet, Struts2, spring, Web Service, Hibernate, JDBC, Ajax, Java Script, MVC, DOM  ? Methodology Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall  ? JavaScript Libraries JQuery, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Node.js  ? Version Control Tortoise SVN, EriDoc, CVS, Clear Case  ? IDE Eclipse, NetBeans, Notepad++, Visual Studio, Adobe Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Toad, SQL Developer  ? Programming Languages SQL, PL/SQL, Core Java, C, C++  ? RDBMS Oracle 10g/11g  ? Operating Systems Windows, Linux, UNIX, Ubuntu  ? Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, JBoss  ? Special Software Products and Testing Tools Microsoft Visual Studio, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Bugzilla, BSCS IX R2/R3/R4, CBIO, Eforze, MS Office