PHP Developer & Front- end Designer PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> Designer PHP Developer & Front- end Designer Brooklyn, NY 10+ years creating web applications in 3 countries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PHP Developer & Front- end Designer Primary Glasses - New York, NY August 2014 to May 2017 New York, US    ? Create a reference website with Drupal  ? Develop and publish an android app  ? Develop custom theme with Bootstrap 3  ? Develop custom templates to tweak interface  ? Develop custom modules to enable new features  ? Create custom views to query data sets in various ways  ? Optimize website for high volume traffic with redis  ? Integrate cloudflare for caching and security  ? Optimize website for search engines Google, Yahoo, Bing  ? Integrate various social networks for visitor interaction  ? Integrate payment gateways with minimal commission  ? Creating reports via google analytics  ? Creating and managing website with aws ec2 instance  ? Using git for versioning and data transfer PHP Developer & Front- end Designer Quadjobs - New York, NY May 2014 to August 2014 New York, US    ? Create a job portal with Laravel    ? Develop data models to store day to day application data  ? Integrate and debug themes created by frontend team  ? Optimize website for high volume traffic with redis  ? Optimize website for search engines Google, Yahoo, Bing  ? Integrate payment gateway for paid subscription service  ? Integrate mailing service for newsletters  ? Reporting to managers of day to day activities and gathering input PHP Developer & Front- end Designer Laptop Repair London Plus - London March 2011 to January 2014 London, UK    ? Create an Online Store with Drupal-Ubercart  ? Develop Custom Theme and Add or Modify Modules as Required  ? Make a Mobile Version of Website and Work on Mobile App Version  ? Overhauled Laptop Parts Warehouse and Introduced Component Tagging  ? Item/Product Listing with Image Editing and Product Shipment Options  ? Optimization of Website for Google, Bing and Yahoo Searches  ? Advertise Website with Google Adwords and Local Classifieds  ? Manage Inventory for Sold-Out Stock and Arrival of New Stock  ? Integrating Payment Gateways, Discounts and Returns on Sales  ? Acquiring Packaging Materials and Shipping Items in a Timely Schedule PHP Developer & Front- end Designer Simeon Fashion - London January 2010 to November 2012 London, UK    ? Create an Online Store with Prestashop  ? Develop Custom Theme and Add or Modify Modules as Required  ? Bulk Listing of 1000+ Products from Excel Spreadsheet  ? Optimization of Website for Google, Bing and Yahoo Searches  ? Advertise Website with Google Adwords and Local Classifieds  ? Bulk Updating of 1000+ Products from Excel Spreadsheet  ? Integrating Payment Gateways, Discounts and Returns on Sales Web Developer & Graphic Designer Dots & Coms, Vadodara, India March 2004 to October 2009 Developing Websites with Wordpress, Drupal, Joomla, etc.  ? Developed Websites by Coding in Raw PHP Format  ? Develop Custom Themes and Custom Modules    ? Manage Database Using MySQL, PGSQL, SQLite, etc.  ? Porting Websites from Web Host to Another Web Host Education PG Diploma in IT London Essex College - London, Greater London November 2009 to July 2012 Bachelor in Computer Applications MS University June 2003 to December 2007 Skills PHP (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), HTML 5 (5 years), MySQL (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Apache (10+ years), Linux (5 years), Photoshop (5 years), Drupal (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), SEO (5 years), Server (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Frontend Frameworks CMS  SASS Laravel Drupal-Ubercart  Compass PHP-MVC Prestashop  LESS Symfony Magento  Foundation CakePHP Wordpress  Bootstrap Yii Joomla    Tools Design OS  Git Photoshop Fedora Linux  Composer Gimp Windows All  PHPUnit Indesign Mac OS All