Freelance Front End Freelance <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Freelance Front End - Vision Dispensing Ltd San Diego, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Front End Vision Dispensing Ltd - London April 2017 to Present Freelance Front End ? Remote working from California and organising international times to be an Developer effective member of the team  Vision Dispensing Ltd ? Continued work on the front end as a consultant  London, UK ? General Bug fixing and upgrades to the site working with the UX team  Apr 2017 - Present Front End Developer Vision Dispensing Ltd - London September 2015 to February 2017 Using Git version control, later upgraded to Gitflow  London, UK ? Optimized the gulp Task Runner and added environment vars for bespoke Jenkins  Sep 2015 - Feb 2017 tasks  www.visiondirect.co.uk ? Introduced Atomic Design to the SASS and provided a typography class of features for our marketing team to use in the Magento CMS  ? Consulted with UX on best practices for UI under duress of translation deformation  and responsive alterations  ? Upgraded and maintained the front- end standards for the Javascript, HTML and SASS / CSS  ? Completed the sites responsive styling across multiple browsers and devices  ? Created and implemented a custom dependency script  ? Interviewing for new front end staff, some of which are now fully employed and growing well within the company. Front End Developer Sainsbury's Entertainment - London June 2015 to September 2015 Front End Developer ? Working in an agile environment  Sainsbury's Entertainment ? Fixing bugs in an AngularJS framework on top of a Slim/Zend/Symphony hybrid  London, UK ? Worked on planning new functionality in our books brand  Jun 2015 - Sep 2015 ? Gained a little more exposure to Javascript testing Front End Developer SVN and then on to Git - London September 2009 to May 2015 Working in a fast paced startup environment  Guvera / Blinkbox Music / we7 ? As a designer I maintained the existing we7 website on top of a Java  London, UK ? Used CSS, HTML and worked in .jsp and .tag files  Sep 2009 - May 2015 ? Designed new features working closely with the Product and Development  ? As a front end developer I created Javascript / jQuery widgets using Mustache  templates  ? Worked closely with developers on best practices for modular coding standards  ? Version controlling, SVN and then on to Git  ? Used NPM and Grunt  ? Gained exposure to Jasmine tests UI Designer Photoshop and Illustrator - Peterborough September 2007 to March 2009 UI Designer ? Design and implement for a white label structure for cross browser compatibility on Bauer Media / EMAP top of C#.NET Using HTML, CSS, Photoshop and Illustrator  Peterborough, UK ? Learnt about components with User Controls including CSS and Javascript  Sep 2007 - Mar 2009 ? Contributed in UI best practices and coding standards  ? Liaised with internal magazine clients during the course of design conception  retaining brand guidelines  ? Worked closely with C#.NET developers for upgrading and constructing new white  label features Web Designer Ideal World Shopping Channel - Peterborough May 2006 to September 2007 Created dynamic home page flash files to optimise workload  Peterborough, UK ? Created 3 temporary full life cycle ASP sites 3 weeks with basic admin features to May 2006 - Sep 2007 continue promotions and generate product pages during the overhaul of 3  websites.  ? Had leg shaved on Christmas TV Special Developer Multimedia Design - Southampton June 2003 to May 2006 Interactive UI for CD-Rom, web & animation design using Adobe, Macromedia  Mad Productions Ltd Products & Lightwave 3D  Southampton, UK ? Created an application for Rotary Watches storing XML data and media to Jun 2003 - May 2006 generating new CD-Roms  ? Website design involving from initial conception to implementation using Classic  ASP, CSS, HTML and minimal Javascript  ? Worked closely with Developers allowing them to focus databases and services Developer Multimedia Design - Nottingham September 2001 to April 2003 Brand and interactive design for numerous clients  Darkwater Design ? Built the company presentational CD-Rom  Nottingham, UK ? Worked closely with other designers and marketing  Sep 2001 - Apr 2003 ? Utilizing Adobe, Macromedia products and Lightwave 3D New Media Designer Diva-Net - Cambridge July 1999 to April 2001 and the website using Macromedia Director and Flash  Cambridge, UK ? Website redesign and maintenance  Jul 1999 - Apr 2001 ? First introduction to PHP, HTML and OOP Education HND in Informational Illustration Lowestoft College 1997 to 1999 BTEC Graphic Design Isle College - Wisbech 1995 to 1997 GNVQ Intermediate Art & Design Stanground College - Peterborough 1994 to 1995 Skills HP-UX (2 years), Javascript (10+ years), jQuery (5 years), UI (5 years), USER INTERFACE (5 years) Links http://pocketninja.design https://github.com/PocketNinjaDesign http://codepen.io/PocketNinjaDesign https://www.linkedin.com/in/duncan-gossage Additional Information Technologies  Expert ? Adobe CC, CSS3, HTML5, SASS, jQuery, Responsive Design  Proficient ? Javascript, Gulp, UI/UX Design, Bootstrap, ES6  Working Knowledge ? AngularJS, ReactJS, Redux, Typescript, PHP, jsDoc, Webpack, Jest