Sr. Front- End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front- End Developer San Jose, CA • Expert in developing User Interface for UI applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, XUL, HTML5 /DHTML, DOM, XHTML, jQuery, CSS3, Ajax and JSON.  • Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface YUI Framework, Dojo, JQuery, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML CSS3 to develop valid code and table free sties.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries like angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, Dojo, Ext.js, and Node.js and developing Rich Internet Applications RIA.  • Professional in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages.  • Extensive experience on implementing the AJAX features using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in using Front End editors like Dreamweaver, Komodo, Sublime Text2 , Aptana Studio and Microsoft Expression Web.  • Experience in creating functional specifications with visual design mockups in Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Flash.  • Strong knowledge in cross browser compatibility issues and W3C standards. Good Knowledge in using Dojo Components and integrating backend applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 frontend using OO JavaScript framework.  • Experience of working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like GruntJS  • Experience with Performance tuning tools like IE8 JS Profiler, Fiddler and Charles Proxy.  • Experience with versioning tools like Git, Subversion(SVN), Clear case and CVS.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome. Work Experience Sr. Front- End Developer First Tech Federal Credit Union - Mountain View, CA June 2016 to Present First Tech Federal Credit Union (or First Tech) is a federally chartered credit union headquartered in Mountain View, California. It is regulated under the authority of the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). First Tech has over 405,000 members, and over 7.9 billion dollars in assets with 40 branches located mostly in high technology business centers of California, Colorado, Oregon, Washington and five other states and Puerto Rico. It was the first financial institution to offer telephone interactive voice response access and online banking.    Responsibilities:  • Developed views and user interfaces for Shift Application and Alchemy Module.  • Developed Single-page Web application - a mobile-first, responsive Web application.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, Less, Bower, Grunt, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, Angular JS, Core Java, GIT, Eclipse, React Native, React JS, VS2010, Asp.net + C#, Frameworks 4.0, SQL server 2008 R2, and Agile methodologies. Sr. Front- End Developer Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA November 2014 to May 2016 CloudCity is a Cisco Unified Computing System Cloud showcasing system for solutions and labs. This system manages the scheduling into these labs. This system is well integrated with the API's of UCS Director, Cisco internal Active Directory APIs, and Microsoft Active Directory API's to validate what the user requests is available at the time requested and is then provisioned prior to the time requested and then cleaned up after the user event has occurred. The UCS Director instances will do the underlying provisioning but this is initiated from the new system, verified by the new system, and rolled back by the new system utilizing said API's.    Responsibilities:  • Created a mobile-first user-experience CSS framework, focusing on performance, modularity, and responsive design principles, to assist in the Brand Modernization effort at CISCO. As part of the Standards and Governance team, I created the code manifestation of the style guide, demos, and provided engineering feedback during the design process.  • Developed views and user interfaces for CloudCity Cloud showcasing system.  • Developed Single-page Web application - into a mobile-first, responsive Web application.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS2, CSS3, Less, Bower, Grunt , XML, JSON, JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX, jQuery, Core Java, GIT, Eclipse, and Agile methodologies. Sr. Front- End Developer Wyndham in Orlando - Orlando, FL March 2014 to October 2014 CLUB WYNDHAM, one of five Wyndham Vacation Ownership primary consumer brands, offers more than 80 resorts and approximately 13,800 vacation ownership units across North America and the Caribbean for our approximately 527,000 owner families. Wyndham Vacation Ownership, a member of Wyndham Worldwide's (NYSE: WYN) family of companies, is the world's largest vacation ownership business, as measured by the number of vacation ownership resorts, individual vacation ownership units and owners of vacation ownership interests.    Responsibilities:  • Designed responsive prototypes for Wyndham Vacation Ownership website.  • Integrated JSON based resorts data into 'Explore Resorts' section.  • Incorporated MSN weather service into individual resort location based on latitude and longitude values.    Projects Profile:  https://www.clubwyndham.com/cw/home.page    Environment:  Foundation Zurb, HTML5, CSS2, CSS3, XML, JSON, JavaScript, Angular JS, Require JS, AJAX, jQuery, Core Java, GIT, Eclipse, and Agile methodologies. Senior Front- End Developer Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA August 2008 to February 2014 Cisco WebEx Social  Worked on Cisco WebEx Social (formerly Cisco Quad), Cisco WebEx Social is an enterprise collaboration platform that combines the power of social networking, content creation, and real-time communications. Employees can quickly connect with the people and resources they need to get work done. WebEx Social helps break down organizational silos with easier collaboration across departments and geographies. Valuable knowledge is shared across the organization and captured in one highly secure, centralized location.    Integrated work force enablement is the platform with many portlets on one platform to cater the needs of Cisco business and employees. This platform can be used to host any kind of business applications so that all the employees can access different applications through one platform. Cisco WebEx Social is an enterprise collaboration platform for today's workforce: social, mobile, visual, and virtual. It puts people first by offering an integrated and personalized experience that brings together the collaborative, business-oriented, and transactional tools and applications people use over the course of the workday.    Through the combined power of social software and unified communications, the connections between people, information, and communities become visible and actionable. People are freed from email and un-tethered from their desktops. They're able to customize, personalize, and control their own experiences. And the answers they're looking for automatically find them. The result is a workforce that's engaged, empowered, and enlightened to deliver to its fullest potential.    Cisco CEC Search  Cisco's intranet site, provides information and interactive applications for all employees.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop proof of concept prototypes for advanced features and new user interaction models.  • Develop User Interfaces for mobile applications, portlets and websites.  • Customize the core UI "look and feel" aspect of the user experience.  • Develop pixel-perfect responsive UI for websites, products and mobile apps. Work on the mobile applications UI development for Andriod, IPhone and CISCO CIUS.  • Build fast, dynamic user interfaces for portlets and applications using Java, JavaScript and AJAX technologies and JavaScript frameworks such as DOJO, jQuery, YUI and Ext JS.  • Structure the UI in accordance with W3C web standards for HTML and CSS.  • Developed the DOJO component library and Bootstrap theming for Cisco WebEx Social.  • Collaborate with cross-functional groups and guide them through the implementation process.  • Find solutions for various UI related cross-browser / cross-platform issues and maintain ADA web standards.  • Create CSS based layouts from wireframes and integrate user interfaces with Java middle tier.  • Define and implement unit and integration test framework for UI layer.  • Design, develop and test JavaScript code using the Dojo JavaScript Toolkit framework for developing widgets and Ajax-enhanced features.  • Participate in user training, UAT Support and production roll out. Coordinate with business team, user community and offshore teams in a multi-vendor environment.  • Participate in full SDLC (Agile), including iterative development, estimations and design sessions.  • Own the user interface layer of the application suite roadmap. Provide technical guidance to development teams as required.  • Create the reference architecture for UI standards and ensure they are adhered to by the development teams and understood by technology partners.    Projects Profile:  http://www.cisco.com  http://www.cisco.com/web/products/webexsocial/index.html  http://www.iwe.cisco.com/  http://wwwin-tools.cisco.com/cecsearch/search.do? (Cisco intranet)    Environment:  Adobe Creative Suite, HTML5, CSS2, CSS3, XHTML, XML, JSON, JavaScript, Dojo, Dojo Charting, AJAX, EXT JS, YUI, jQuery, jQuery mobile, Core Java, J2EE, Spring, JSP, Struts, Java annotations, Hibernate, XSD, Spring portlets, Life Ray portlets, Websphere portlets, Web services, Unix, Sub version, GIT, Maven, Hudson, Junit, Check Style, Find Bugs, Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g , Eclipse, TOAD, Web sphere 7.0, Tomcat and Agile methodologies. Sr. Web Applications Developer Radiant Info Systems Ltd - Bangalore, Karnataka March 2006 to July 2008 Responsibilities:  • Created HTML email templates and newsletters for e-mail marketing campaigns.  • Developed web-site mock-ups for clients to ensure quality control and client satisfaction before project development phase.  • Executed and monitored standards for user interfaces, page design and graphics development.  • Designed complex interfaces to support third party systems.  • Web page development from design to test and up to production deployment.  • Worked with cross functional teams, understood and refined user interface requirements, designed and wrote code, and clearly documented the development process.  • Collaborated with product owners, developers and test engineers at release levels.  • Actively participated in requirements reviews, and architecture/design meetings.  • Coded and debugged user interfaces using suitable technologies.  • Completed application development by coordinating requirements, schedules, and activities; contributing to team meetings; troubleshooting development and production problems across multiple environments and operating platforms.    Projects Profile -  http://www.oracle.com  http://www.oracle.com/corporate/community/oef_care/index.html  http://www.oracle.com/marvel/index.html  http://www.oracle.com/openworld/2008/index.html  http://blogs.oracle.com/oracleopenworld/  https://oraclestore.oracle.com/  https://mix.oracle.com/ Systems Analyst Timken Engineering & Research - India Pvt. Ltd - Bangalore, Karnataka March 2001 to August 2005 Responsibilities:  • Led the web user interface designing/graphic designing and user interface development activities at TER-I (Timken Engineering & Research - India). Maintained site-wide design standards and contributed to the evolution of standards.  • Designed and developed internet/intranet web applications and client server applications by setting expectations and features priorities throughout development life cycle; determining design methodologies and tool sets; completed programming using languages and software products; designed and conducted tests.  • Involved in Designing and development of programming systems making specific determinations about system performance. Prepared detailed flow charts and diagrams outlining systems capabilities and processes.  • Conducted system analysis and development, with limited support to keep the systems current with changing technologies.  • Analyzed system specifications and translated system requirements to task specifications.  • Was responsible for analysis of the existing programs including performance, diagnosis and troubleshooting of problem programs, and designing solutions to problematic programming.  • Provided recommendations to management concerning issues of programmer productivity and software development management.  • Managed development teams and mentoring them with client communication, interpersonal communication, technical practices, etc.    Accomplishments:  • Visited CANTON, OHIO for Project Discussions with the counterparts and project implementation.  • Involved in project analysis, concept building, information design and visualization of Japanese and Russian versions of Timken.com.  • Successfully set up the Timken India website.  • Improved loading speed of Timken.com by developing alternatives.  • Developed new section of Timken.com for Timken Technical Services.  • Tested loading times for Timken.com in India.  • Investigated possibilities for HTML e-newsletters and news blasts.  • Managed multi-lingual functionality of the site.  • Created and executed test cases, for each functionality of the site.  • Used SQL queries for database testing to retrieve and verify data accuracy.  • Optimized the Timken.com web site for search engines.    Projects Profile:  http://www.timken.com and other multilingual websites  http://www.timkenmerchandise.com  http://www.timkenstore.com/ptp/do/mall  http://www.timkendirect.com  http://www.corp.inside..tkr (Timken Corporate intranet website)  http://www.teriws.inside.tkr (TER-I intranet website)  http://www.corp.inside.tkr/ebusinses/ (intranet website for Timken IT)    Catalogs - Graphic Designs:  http://www.timken.com/industries/superprecision/catalog/  http://www.timken.com/industries/aerospace/literature/index.asp  http://www.timken.com/industries/rail/resources/generalliterature.asp  http://www.timken.com/industries/rail/resources/maintenanceliterature.asp  http://www.timken.com/industries/rail/resources/technicalliterature.asp Software Consultant eSoft Consutling (P) Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh April 2000 to March 2001 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, designed and developed software solutions using various computer operating systems, tools and languages as per the company's and client's requirements.  • Developed sitemaps, wireframes and comps for web sites and applications.  • Was involved in concept building, information design and visualization of websites.  • Worked on websites with dynamic content. Built dynamic web pages using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and CSS. Education MS in MS Software Systems Birla Institute of Technology - Pilani, Rajasthan Skills HTML (8 years), HTML 5 (3 years), CSS (8 years), CSS3 (3 years), Foundation Zurb (3 years), Bootstrap (4 years), Javascript (8 years), JQuery (4 years), Dojo (4 years), Angular JS (2 years), Ajax (5 years), JSON (4 years), User Interface Design (5 years), Web Development (8 years), Joomla (4 years), PHP (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE    Languages/ Web Technologies  (X)HTML, HTML5, CSS2, CSS3, PHP, JSP, JAVA, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, Angular JS, Require JS, Node.js, jQuery, Dojo and    Software/Applications  Adobe Creative Suite, Acrobat  Pro, After Effects, Contribute,  Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash,  Illustrator, Photoshop, Final Cut,  MS Office, Google Docs,    Code Analysis Tools  JSLint, JSHint    Project Management  JIRA, Rally    Skills  Layout Design, Theme, Application Development, PSD to HTML, SEO, SEM, Web Analytics, Responsive Web Design/ fluid techniques, 508 compliance and Agile methodologies (SCRUM)    Responsive Frameworks  Bootstrap, Foundation Zurb    Content Management Systems  Joomla, WordPress    CSS Preprocessor  Sass, Less    Front End Build Tools  Bower and Grunt    Database MySQL, Oracle, SQL, PS/SQL Source Code Management Git, Subversion(SVN), CVS Operating Systems OS X, Windows, Unix