Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer New Brighton, MN Work Experience Web Developer University of St. Thomas - Saint Paul, MN February 2018 to May 2019 • Develop web components using Apache velocity templating and Vue.js  • Develop and maintain websites  • Graphics using Adobe elements: photoshop, illustrator and in-design.  • Create WMS forms using HTML and CSS and SASS  • Analyzed and repaired accessibility issues on the university of St. Thomas Website  • W3C and s508 web accessibility standards. In my role at St. Thomas, one of my goals was to build fully accessible sites by enforcing standards such as Alternative text for images, Keyboard input, transcripts for audio, contrast color and many more. I also used siteimprove for testing my web pages for accessibility.  • Build web components in a content management system (CMS)  • Twig for templating  • React.js  • SQL database development  • Building marketing campaign web pages and best practices  • I use Git for version control  • Developing site maps using Slickplan  • Jira task management  • WordPress and Drupal  Key Skills  • Promoting and communicating new ideas  • Creating highly accessible web applications  • Creating process improvements  • Instituting new technologies  • Writing maintainable cross-browser code  • Ensuring code is scalable and responsive  • Creating WordPress child themes and Drupal 8 content types  • Prototyping and wireframing  • Tracking projects using Asana and Jira Front- End Developer Precioustatus.com May 2017 to May 2018 • Develop web applications using HTML, CSS, Javascript, and java  • Develop and design prototypes for software applications using Sketch Prototyping Tool  • Graphic design using Adobe suit (Photoshop, illustrator, InDesign and fireworks)  • Agile development methodology (SCRUM)  • Version Control using GitHub  UI Designer at Precioustatus  • Work closely with developers and users to define and refine user requirements.  • Proficiency at communicating through workflows, personas, stories, and wireframes to guide a team's work  • Work within deadlines and rapid iteration cycles  • Consult with internal teams (i.e. front and back- end development, UI/UX Design and users) to identify solutions that meet documented business objectives  • Test prototypes and finished products Student Web Tech University of St. Thomas - Saint Paul, MN May 2016 to January 2018 • Develop Websites  • Train clients to use Terminal Four CMS to manage websites  • Social Media Marketing using Hootsuite  • Front Desk Management  UI/UX Tasks at St. Thomas  • Developed detailed user guide for both mobile and web applications  • Work in close collaboration with software engineers and product managers in the framework of an agile software development process  • Developing and maintaining a productive working relationship with project sponsors, and key stakeholders  • Wireframing  • Prototyping web applications and campaign pages  • Ability to quickly render potential user interface and website concepts and structure in varying levels of fidelity  • Ability to read, write and interpret instructional documents such as design documents, evaluation reports, and facilitation manuals Software Engineer Intern Outbox Hub - Kampala, UG June 2014 to August 2014 • Applied Agile Software Development Approach to develop an online shopping system for law income crafts makers in Uganda, using Python and Django Framework.  • Applied Human Centered Design in order to develop a user friendly product with expected functionalities. Education Masters in Software Engineering in Software Engineering University of St. Thomas - Saint Paul, MN May 2018 Bachelor of Science in software engineering in software engineering Makerere University - Kampala, UG May 2015 Skills Html, Vue.js, Php, Python, Sql Additional Information Technical skills  • Java. Python, HTML, PHP, CSS  • Social Media Marketing using Hootsuite  • Android  • React.js  • Vue.js  • SQL  • Tableau