Front- End Developer/E-commerce Specialist <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/E-commerce Specialist Web Developer | Five Dog Solutions Amarillo, TX Extremely organized and comfortable working in a fast-paced environment. Adept at managing multiple projects with ease using expert time management methods. Focused on driving productivity and exceeding objectives. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer/E-commerce Specialist Five Dog Solutions - Amarillo, TX March 2019 to Present • Develop web sites using HTML and CSS while keeping in mind SEO protocol.  • Create social media ads for clients.  • Maintain websites using webmaster tools.  • Deconstruct websites and implement SEO requirements.  • Problem solve Google optimization issues.  • Build e-commerce sites with woo-commerce and Shopify.  • Build websites with WordPress and other CMS software.  • Create a rapport with the client so that I can help market their product/services at my best capacity. Computer Lab Assistant Amarillo College - Amarillo, TX May 2018 to March 2019 • Supported the academic needs of AC student by problem-solving and assisting with their homework issues in MS Office  • Maintain computer lab Student Worker Amarillo Museum of Art - Amarillo, TX August 2017 to May 2018 • Operate a multi-line telephone system and direct phone calls to the appropriate person  • Warmly greet all guests and provide outstanding customer experience   • File, fax, make copies, enter data (MS Excel) with zero errors Computer Lab Director/Hope Academy Administrator Inner-City School - Denver, CO 2005 to 2006 • Set-up and maintain the school computer lab  • Teach basic computer skill to students  • Assign students lessons in Hope Academy Education Associate in Coding and Design Amarillo College - Amarillo, TX August 2017 to December 2019 Skills Microsoft Office emphasis on Excel, Computer and Internet savvy, Communication skills (2 years), Front End, Javascript, CSS3, UI, Front-End Certifications/Licenses Computer System Support Certificate Present I am prepared for computer support tasks such as replacing computer parts, installing and maintaining small networks, maintaining security of computer systems, and creating and maintaining files using Microsoft Office. Web Developer Specialist Present Provides students with basic skills in web development and programming. Groups Embrace Present I am a founding member of Embrace a multicultural club that embraces Amarillo College's diversity. Additional Information Programming languages include: HTML, CSS, C#, Swift, and JavaScript, Java and PHP