Front- End Software Engineer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Software Engineer Front- End Software Engineer - Synacor, Inc Culver City, CA Miracle Everett is a front- end web developer most recently working on Preact, Node.js, and PHP based projects with between 10 - 15MM unique visitors monthly. Passionate about the machine-human interface, Miracle loves bringing designs to life. Over the course of her career she has brought to various teams an expertise in front- end engineering and design, product management, marketing, and technical sales. Highly motivated and consistently delivers over 100% expected sprint velocity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Software Engineer Synacor, Inc - El Segundo, CA May 2018 to Present Focuses on implementing most current web practices to create scalable front- end web app seen by 10-15MM unique visitors monthly. Designs and implements Preact components shared between 50+ enterprise level clients/projects. Maintains legacy PHP code base while migrating functionality to Preact components ensuring mobile first development. Develops and maintains configurations of 50+ front- end consumer facing projects. Leader in implementing modern HTML5/CSS3 architecture. Director of Product CarLabs.ai - Calabasas, CA June 2017 to December 2017 Directed company wide product development strategy and roadmap including tactical  development research, analysis, and decision making. Specialization on in-market positioning and sales strategy. Led UI/UX development and design team. Organized and assisted in the direction and planning of technical sprints and timelines. UI/UX Engineer CarLabs.ai - Calabasas, CA March 2017 to December 2017 Worked on user interfaces for natural language processing services using JavaScript (React), HTML, CSS3, and SASS. Created, focused and executed campaigns around UI/UX improvements across multiple platforms, including web and Facebook messenger. Directed UI/UX development of content management systems. Designed and implemented custom web views for chatbots with a focus on the specialized needs of a client's users. Product Manager CarLabs.ai - Calabasas, CA March 2017 to June 2017 Delivered designs of current and future product lines to development teams. Acted in real-time as a UI/UX decision maker for development teams and clients. Chatbot personality design with a focus on humanization and relationship building. Design and implementation of specialized chatbot prototypes/MVPs. Worked directly with clients and end users to direct and develop optimal user experiences. Junior Web Developer CarLabs.ai - Calabasas, CA October 2016 to March 2017 Utilized CSS3, HTML5, and JavaScript (React) to redesign and rebuild chat interface with a user centered focus. Developed solution based design to correct known UI pain points. Lead migration of current products from jQuery to React. Lead campaign toward simplification and redesign of chat navigation. Rebuilt bot UI and directed campaigns to refocus on UX. National Account Coordinator West UCS - Los Angeles, CA March 2016 to December 2016 Managed sales portfolio of 30+ Fortune 500 and Fortune 1000 companies. Played a critical role in winning $13M contract. Consistently over quota, averaging 115% of monthly quota. Closed $500,000 in new recurring revenue in first 5 months. Awarded sales distinction month over month. Technical sales and product consultation. Technical end user support and training. Education Bachelor of Science in Biology University of Illinois at Chicago - Chicago, IL Skills HTML, Javascript, Ux, Sass, Css, Ui, Jira, Data analysis, CSS3, Front-End, Node, React, HTML5, Front End, PHP (1 year), Git, JSON, Less, Preact, YAML, Agile, Unix, Bash, Grunt, Webpack, Backbone.js Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/meverett/