Front- End Developer (Contractor) <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Contractor) Software Developer Salt Lake City, UT - Experience working in large and complex code bases, including legacy applications.  - Hands-on experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPAs) using React.js and Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks such as Ruby on Rails.  - Experience using Git in a team environment (merge, rebase, squash, resolve conflicts, appropriate use of branches)  - Well experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Object Oriented  Programming (OOPs) concepts  - Knowledge of browsers and DOM and can solve cross-browser compatibility issues, optimize client-side performance, and build responsive designs.  - Familiar with JSON based REST Web services  - Demonstrated design and UX sensibilities Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer (Contractor) Workplace21 - Seattle, WA May 2019 to Present • Responsible for React UI and architecture.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation using Object Oriented JavaScript  • Help with UI design decisions to keep design intuitive Software Developer Self Employed - Salt Lake City, UT February 2017 to Present • Involved in Project Estimation, delegation, planning and execution process.   • Turn design concepts into polished, accessible, cross-device, responsive experiences   • Incorporated complex business logic into functions and stored procedures for reusability.  • Implemented React router for building the single page applications Software Developer Easy Storage Solutions June 2018 to February 2019 • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using Ruby on Rails.   • Worked closely with the product and the testing teams to understand the requirements, make necessary improvements and resolving the bugs.   • Worked with React components, Forms, Events, Keys, Animations.   • Developed consumer based features and applications using Ruby on Rails, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, and ReactJS.   • Created and deployed new features and enhanced existing features.   • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Rails framework and Ruby, as well as conduct code reviews.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and React.js.  • Extensive experience with version control like Git, SVN, and Docker. Instructor of Software Development Dawson Community College - Glendive, MT August 2017 to July 2018 • Communicate empathetically with new learners   • Give interactive lectures and leading programming exercises   • Maintain relationships with hiring partners.   • Break down complex coding concepts into small manageable chunks   • Lead out logistics, business strategy, and remote access Education BS in Computer Science Utah Valley University Present Skills Ruby, Ruby on Rails, ReactJS, JavaScript, JQuery, SCSS, CSS, HTML 5, Docker, Git, Agile, SQL, Scrum, Bootstrap, Responsive Design, Redux, Material-UI Links https://github.com/huntersfuntime http://www.huntersfuntime.com