Freelance/Contractor Freelance/Contractor Chicago, IL Experienced digital designer and developer seeking opportunity to bring knowledge of programming, design, and digital media marketing to your company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance/Contractor UX Design/Full-Stack Development - Chicago, IL January 2018 to Present • Developed and designed conceptual designs and prototypes for various clients/companies. Web Clerk Purdue University Department of Financial Aid - West Lafayette, IN August 2017 to January 2018 • Conducted accessibility audits following WCAG 2.1 best standards.   • Handled copy for several department-run minisites.   • Collaborated with stakeholders in the department to ideate and execute from concept-to-launch of the Purdue MyMoney financial-wellness website. Research Assistant Purdue Polytechnic Institute - West Lafayette, IN October 2016 to May 2017 • Developed research protocols for the evaluation of developmental systems for an educational-learning interface.   • Designed and developed low-fidelity wireframes and prototypes using Balsamiq, Three.js and LeapMotion VR. Marketing Intern Office of International Programs - West Lafayette, IN January 2016 to May 2017 • Designed flyers, posters, and brochures for department-sponsored events.   • Managed departmental social media accounts and handled content creation to a subscriber base of 20,000+ students.   • Conducted various online marketing methods to increase Facebook page following by 60%, resulting in a 30% increase in attendance at department-sponsored events. eCommerce Front- End Developer Intern CDW Corporation - Chicago, IL June 2016 to August 2016 • Developed scalable UI for CDW’s new mobile rebranding.   • Collaborated with the design department to translate visual concepts into functional online experiences.   • Designed and collaborated with the Engineering and Marketing team to create an iconography index for CDW’s design system. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Graphics Technology in Computer Graphics Technology Purdue University August 2014 to December 2018 Skills Prototyping (3 years), Web Design (4 years), Usability Testing (2 years), Illustrator (4 years), UX Design (3 years), HTML (4 years), Javascript (3 years), Vue.js (1 year), Python (2 years), CSS (4 years), Wireframing (2 years), SQL (2 years), After Effects (2 years), Photoshop (4 years), Invision (2 years), Figma (2 years), Sketch (2 years) Links https://tbrangman.github.io