SMART Center Ambassador SMART Center Ambassador Recent Physics Graduate with plenty of research and programming experience Fayetteville, AR As a student, I maintained a good GPA as well as involvement in important academic projects and organizations. Before I continue my education, I want the chance to work while I re-establish myself in Fayetteville. With my degree, I hope to find work in research, engineering, or software development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SMART Center Ambassador Arkansas State University - Jonesboro, AR September 2018 to May 2019 As an ambassador for the College of Science and Mathematics, I assisted other students during and outside weekly scheduled tutoring. I also participated in campus outreach, sometimes requiring academic advising, other times answering or touring around prospective students. Front End Developer Arkansas State University - Jonesboro, AR August 2018 to May 2019 Small interdepartmental project from ASU. I assisted in the development of a website and app in collaboration with the Arkansas Forestry Commission to reduce unprescribed burnings by farmers across Arkansas. Student Researcher Arkansas State University - Jonesboro, AR January 2018 to May 2019 Advised by Dr. Bruce Johnson, I assisted in the development of his optical homodyne chirp analysis technique. I recreated and vastly improved our methods of data collection and simulation and heavily assisted in mathematical and computational analysis during my involvement. Volunteer Disability Services Notetaker Arkansas State University - Jonesboro, AR January 2018 to May 2018 Took notes anonymously for these courses:  • Linear Algebra  • Discrete Structures Occupational Therapy Student Worker Arkansas State University - Jonesboro, AR August 2015 to November 2016 I performed several secretarial duties during my work study and completed odd jobs around the departments in which I worked. Education Bachelor's in Physics Arkansas State University - Jonesboro, AR August 2015 to May 2019 High school or equivalent Beebe High School - Beebe, AR August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Programming (Mathematica, C++, Java, Python, Javascript) (3 years), Research (2 years), Problem Resolution Certifications/Licenses Driver's License June 2019 to May 2027 Class D, no restrictions, no endorsements. Additional Information While attaining my B.S., I minored in both computer science and mathematics. I also participated in two academic poster presentations:    Koiwa, T; Davis, J; Benbrook, C; Kim, D. Usage of Try-with-resources Language Feature in Java SE 7+: A Case Study. STEM Posters at the Capitol. 20 Feb. 2019.    Watson, K; Mize, J; Davis, J; Johnson, B. Development of an Optical Homodyne Technique to Determine Coherence of Pulsed Lasers. APS DAMOP Conference. 28 May – 1 June 2018.