UX/UI Developer UX/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UX/UI Developer - Conn Appliances, Inc Apt, AR • UX/UI developer with 2 years experience of front- end development. Multitasker who thrives in fast-paced environments.  Expert time manager and communicator.  • Creating HTML pages, updating websites, maintaining websites development websites.  • Proficiency in designing tools such as Sketch, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Invision.  • Strong developing experience with HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Strong knowledge and experience with Cross Browser Compatibility issues and Optimization for web, including CSS Sprites  and best practices. Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Developer Tools.  • Well experienced in using version control systems subversion (SVN), Git. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience UX/UI Developer Conn Appliances, Inc - The Woodlands, TX April 2018 to Present Developing project prototypes and maintained optimal workflow. Collaborated with business and developers to create clean, simple and intuitive experiences, test display and functional issues across all platforms, browsers, and devices.    • Project: Migration from Magento 1.X to Magento 2.X 11/2018 to Present  o Worked on Magento2 migration project for site, designed product modules to enhance the performance and user  experience for customers using Photoshop. Installment of the latest version of Magento and rebuild the existing site around the new platform with data migration, code migration, code rebuild.  o Successfully mentor new team members through company-wide expectations and team processes.  o Build and maintain design/interaction templates and style guide  o Deliver User Interface Specifications along with actual UI code using HTML, CSS and JS for developers to implement  o Helped on enhancements to the website that include, SEO, SEM, web payment and page speed performance.  o Participating in Agile methodology of development and provided timely delivery of tasks.  o Involved in all steps of development process from design to release and support.  o Maintaining code repository, website performance and UX/UI standards for web applications.    • Project: Online Fulfilment 08/2018 to 10/2018  o Gathered and synthesized business requirements to create custom user interfaces, prototypes using Sketch and Invision.  o Designed web application to enable DocuSign for online orders to complete Conn's credit application orders and include the ability to sign purchase credit contracts online.  o Created optimal branded mockups for internal and client usage using Invision.  o Coded the front- end part for this web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.    • Project: Prequalification 08/2018 to 10/2018  o Prequalification online enabled a customer to apply for a credit application without a hard hit in the customer's credit  profile. Enabled changes in the credit application flow and present a message that utilized the prequal retail flow that  is enabled for submitting and processing credit applications without a hard hit.  o Establish and enforce practice-wide UX/UI standards for application, and reporting  o Document and circulate functional and design requirements, standards, and best practices  o Implemented the whole front- end for this web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Front- End Developer what.it.is - Austin, TX August 2017 to March 2018 Worked on customizable and interactive WordPress themes, marketing websites, email templates, and mobile/web apps using  custom UI controls, Sass, PHP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Responsible for maintenance of existing client sites and actively  working on all front- end / UI queries. An active participant in the GitHub community, with contributions in many projects and queries. what.it.is August 2017 to October 2017 o Built new features and functionality to bolster the capabilities of a Cyber Security Solutions website, including landing  pages, lead gen forms, SEO optimization using WordPress, PHP, JavaScript, and ALM. Link:  https://inspiredelearning.com/    • Project: Sparkle Stories Android Application 10/2017 to 11/2017  o Worked with the dev team to develop Search functionality and Hybrid App leveraging Angular and Ionic. Link:  https://sparklestories.com/ Coordinator of Student Affairs University of Houston Clear Lake - Houston, TX February 2016 to May 2017 Supported HR staff with new hire orientations and monthly departmental meetings. Reviewed HR paperwork for accuracy  and completeness by verifying, collecting and correcting additional data. Web Developer Softvan - Ahmedabad, Gujarat January 2014 to August 2014 Worked on 24*7 At Your Service project using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSP, Servlet and Google Maps API.  Created a web-based portal that served as a fast channel for providing medical care. Developed the application and tested  project for bugs. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Houston - Houston, TX Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Gujarat Technological University - Gujarat, IN Skills Ajax (Less than 1 year), JavaScript. (3 years), jQuery (Less than 1 year), Photoshop. (1 year), Sass (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills    • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Flexbox, UIKIT  • Project Methodologies: Agile and Scrum, Object Oriented and Waterfall  • Content management Systems: Magento, WordPress, Contentful  • Software and Tools: Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Sketch, Invision, Visual Studio, Eclipse, Xamarin, XCode  • Version Control System: Git, SVN  • Team Player, Strong Interpersonal Skills