Product Manager Product Manager Product Manager - Ople Mountain View, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Product Manager Ople November 2018 to Present AI startup providing a platform to optimize the data science process for enterprise companies  ? Managed product lifecycle from PRD to customer launch and support  ? Transitioned team of 10 (7 engineers, 2 data science researchers, and 1 designer) in adoption of product management  tools and processes (AHA, sizing, etc), to implement structure and provide clarity, improving efficiency and clarity  ? Identified usability issues in UI and drove redesign efforts, increasing user efficiency by 12%  ? Defined user stories and created release plans and product roadmap, providing key stakeholders with a clear  understanding of product vision and priority  ? Met with customers to demo product and gain direct user feedback, in order to guide future features and prioritization Software Engineer Equinix March 2017 to August 2018 Global colocation and data center provider, generating annual revenues of over $3.6 billion  ? Worked on redesign of customer portal, a B2B app generating $250M of annual recurring revenue  ? Automated over 500 tests using Selenium, ReadyAPI, Postman, and SoapUI  ? Implemented and documented new automation framework, saving 80-100 man-hours per project per team  ? Collaborated with product managers to understand test cases, ensuring detection of the most likely regressions  ? Gathered product requirements, user stories, and business rules, ensuring test validity and optimizing coverage Front End Developer Mistnet.io August 2016 to October 2016 Cyber security startup providing threat detection and prevention technologies to enterprise companies  ? Incorporated vital features and functionality utilizing JavaScript to ensure seamless user experience  ? Drove design process of internal web application interface, optimizing user experience  ? Solely built responsive company website to provide a mobile-optimized experience Product Manager Hues of Blue January 2016 to August 2016 Application matching those in need of mental health support with peer mentors willing to help  ? Led team of 4 developers in building web application matching users seeking psychological help to capable peer  mentors  ? Conducted user research to fully grasp user needs and pain points  ? Designed product roadmap to guide development efforts and prioritize user needs  ? Created wireframes to model user stories and workflow  ? Categorized and prioritized development tasks and user stories Growth Marketing Intern YogaTailor App September 2015 to December 2015 Mobile health platform providing personalized yoga routines and mindfulness resources at scale  ? Drove social media marketing via Pinterest, increasing user base over 120% and user engagement over 200%  ? Executed manual testing and bug reporting across multiple OS platforms and devices  ? Managed WordPress blog to improve user experience Education Certificate in Software Product Management University of Alberta 2016 Bachelor's Degree in Psychology University of Nevada - Reno, NV 2015 Skills Product Management, Product Development, B2B Links http://linkedin.com/in/spanich