SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA Remote SQL Server DBA - Artic Mechanical Inc Gilroy, CA Experienced Database administrator and Product Engineer (Autonomous Vehicle Technician) with a demonstrated history of working in the construction and autonomous industry. Skilled in data Architecture, Administration and Migration (ETL), Transact-SQL (T-SQL), Apex Data Loader, Responsive Web Design and JavaScript. Strong education professional with a Bachelor of Science - BS focused in Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Plant Chemistry.   An astute fellow in Peace and Conflict Resolution in administration and Corporate entities.     Skilled in practical application of the following technologies :  DBA, SQL Server, MySQL, Data Warehousing, Oracle, PostgreSQL, PL/SQL, Transact-SQL, SSIS, Business Objects, MS Access, Linux . Work Experience SQL Server DBA Artic Mechanical Inc - Los Angeles, CA January 2016 to Present Responsibilities: • Consolidated 380 SQL Server instances to four centralized SQL Servers, SQL Server environment/databases assessment/inventory, migration to SQL Server 2012/2014/2016, design and built SQL Servers, configure SQL 2012/2014/2016 on all machines.  • Upgrading and migrating - migrated SQL 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008R2 SQL servers to SQL 2012/2014/2016.  • Day-to-day activities such as SQL installations, configure, test, and deploy SQL instances, configure SQL native backups, backups and restore, truncating, shrinking, and maintaining log files, export data and files.  • Creating logins, groups, users, roles, databases, dropping logins, groups, users, transferring schemas, checking for database consistency.  • Configure firewall settings and TCP/IP ports.  • Patch SQL servers.  • Fine tuning SQL performance.  • Monitoring the performance of the scheduled jobs and alerts.  • Developed SQL Server Maintenance Plans.  • Recovering the databases from backup in disasters.  • Troubleshoot daily program problems to assist program users in accessing and manipulating computerized data.  • High Availability - Implemented and supported SQL Clustering • Help monitor SQL Servers using the performance monitoring tools SQL server 2012 Activity monitor and data collection tools for both real-time and archived data.  • Troubleshooting - Effectively use Profiler to find performance issues and deadlocks. I am familiar and comfortable with Perfmon. Have resolved blocking and long running queries through Activity Monitor and Profiler.  • High Availability - Implemented and supported Log Shipping, Mirroring, Always on and supported several Disaster Recovery tests. Front End Developer Codify-Academy San Francisco January 2018 to September 2018 Experience using browser debug tools like Safari Develop, firebug, W3C etc.  ? Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript.  ? Strong experience in CSS3 preprocessors styling such as SASS ? Used HTML5/HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript to design dynamic and browser compatible pages.  ? Experience in handling web content management systems (CMS) ? Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  ? Used JavaScript, JQuery for user interactions in page.  ? Developed HTML templates and performed client side Validation using JavaScript.  ? Used Grunt and Node JS as server for the front end development.  ? Used CSS3 to develop UI Components such as Accordions and Model Windows using pure HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Involved in the UI review with the UI architect and business units and developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups.  ? Github ID ; https://github.com/BreezeIQ ? Online store link ; https://breezeapparels.store / SQL Server DBA Proscap - Engineering and Energy Group January 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities: • Participated in creating indexes to improve the performance of database and Created Constraints, Defaults and Views • Help monitor SQL Servers using the performance monitoring tools SQL server 2012 Activity monitor and data collection tools for both real-time and archived data.  • Harden SQL Server Security by reducing the surface area so as to prevent the physical data being hacked from hackers and more proactive maintenance • Expertise in extraction, administration, building schedule, upgrading servers and applying patches to 2008/12, fixing integrity checks/ optimization check alerts, system administration audit, SQL Server licensing inventory & true up, research possibility.  • Administration - Efficiently assisted for BA's with SQL server maintenance with several applications because of their less time period and I never left my portfolio.  • Upgrading - I have updated Server OS to 2012 and upgraded SQL servers to 2016 • Migrated data from different sources including flat files, MS EXCEL, to SQL Server 2016 by using SSIS.  • Problem Fixation - Effectively moved the integrity checks/ optimization check alerts to 5.30 AM • Prioritize, plan & implement remediation, according to the server report security alerts provided by the manager and I have gone through the start and end date of each server mainstream and extended MS support. Education Codify Academy - San Francisco, CA 2018 certification in Autonomous Vehicle Technician/Operator Cruise Automation October 2017 to December 2017 Bachelor of Science in General Chemistry University of Buea 2009 United States Institute of Peace - Washington, DC 2008 Leadership Academy and Business Plan Writing (J.C.I) University of Buea 2008 Skills .NET (2 years), Analyzer (4 years), Business Intelligence (4 years), Clustering (3 years), Data Transformation (4 years), database (4 years), DDL (4 years), Linux (4 years), MICROSOFT ACCESS (4 years), Microsoft Office (4 years), Microsoft Project (4 years), Microsoft Publisher (4 years), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (4 years), Microsoft Visio (4 years), MS Access (4 years), MS OFFICE (4 years), MS SQL Server (4 years), Shipping (3 years), SQL (4 years), SQL Server (4 years), DBA, Postgresql, Sql Dba