Front End/UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End/UI Developer - HealthEdge Jersey City, NJ • Over 3+ years of extensive experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML5, HTML, XHTML XML CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery Meeting W3C standards.  • Experience in Software life cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the time-lines for the project.  • Experience in designing websites with W3C standards using HTML4/5, CSS2/3 to get best cross-browser user experience for long-term user retention and engagement.  • Proven track record in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images.  • Experience in Typescript language with ECMAScript (ES6)6.0 programming standards.  • Explored new features and gained good knowledge in Angular 2/4/5/6.  • Experienced in various IDEs like Eclipse, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visual Studio and Webstrom.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (JQuery) and developing Rich Internet Applications RIA.  • Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular.js, Node.js, Require.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Ext.JS 4.0 X, Responsive Design and Dojo toolkit.  • Extensive experience on implementing the AJAX features using JavaScript and JQuery.  • High level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer for testing applications.  • Experience with versioning tools like Clear case, Subversion, CVS and Git Hub.  • Self-motivated, able to work independently and in teams; can handle multiple projects while paying attention to details; accomplished problem solving and analytical skills.  • Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, excellent leadership, communication and interpersonal skills and ability to work under strict deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End/UI Developer HealthEdge - Burlington, MA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, analysis and design and documentation as the application was started from scratch.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 5, XHTML, CSS 3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.js, Node.js and Ext.js.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries.  • Used JQuery and Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Worked Extensively with Angular CLI for creating components, Services, pipes, Directives.  • Worked with some of the new features of Angular 6 like ng-update, ng-add and ng-template.  • Implemented Angular features like components, directives, filters, pipes, routing and adopted new features from Angular 5 in our application.  • For the better user navigation between the components used routing feature using Angular 4 router module.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Created prototypes in HTML5, Photoshop, JavaScript and CSS3 for different UI pages.  • Designated UI architecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to constructs conceptual Wireframes and Mockups.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Used Dreamweaver as HTML Editor for designing new pages.  • Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Worked on SASS & LESS as they easily compatible to convert the existing CSS and are also CSS extensions.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular.js, Angular 4/5/6, Node.js, Ext.js, Responsive Design, XML, SASS, LESS, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, DOM, Firebug, XML, JSON, DHTML, agile, SQL, Windows. Front End/UI Developer TJX - Framingham, MA July 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0 Rich UI for the Self-service Application using jQuery Ajax framework and Widget based JavaScript programmed model.  • Involved in developing UI pages using HTML5, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Ext.JS, Bootstrap, JQuery for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Created prototypes in HTML5, Photoshop, JavaScript and CSS3 for different UI pages.  • Used the Node.js and Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Worked on migration from Angular.JS to Angular 2 to implement new features and increase the application performance.  • Developed custom structural directives and custom attribute directives in Angular 2 which can be reused across different modules in the application.  • Developed Angular components in TypeScript for web-based electronic tax filing system.  • Maintain Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive Design.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards  • Created and modified new and existing pages, applied new styles on the pages with the help of Dojo and JavaScript.  • Used JQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, Responsive Design, Angular 2, Angular.js, TypeScript, Node.js, Ext.js, Require.js, Bootstrap, Firebug, XML, XHTML, XSLT, DOM, JSON, JNDI, DOJO, Oracle, Windows. UI/Web Developer Home Street Bank - Seattle, WA March 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designing and developing at every stage of software development lifecycle (SDLC).  • Understand and modify existing systems as business requirements change.  • Debugging various defects relating to implementation of business logic.  • Responsible for developing organization's Web site and all custom web applications using JQuery, analyzed and Developed objects as per the client's requirements.  • Macromedia Dreamweaver, JavaScript, HTML and XML.  • Front- end GUI development using browser friendly JavaScript, AJAX, CSS and JQuery.  • Developed Single page applications and Custom Directives using Angula.js.  • Created custom Angular directives for reusable components.  • Designed different front- end forms using CSS.  • Designed and developed CSS behaviors, CSS styles, CSS fonts, CSS buttons, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo elements in CSS.  • Worked with full UI control of HTML/CSS, maintaining code and cleanliness.  • Writing queries and statements to test database for retrieving information, editing data and inserting data.    Environment: HTML, Dreamweaver, Flex, Photoshop, Angular.js, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, XML, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (3 years), Apache (Less than 1 year), Backbone (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), Bugzilla (Less than 1 year), database (1 year), Dhtml (2 years), Dreamweaver (2 years), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Html (2 years), Html 5 (2 years), Internet explorer (Less than 1 year), Javascript (3 years), Jquery (3 years), Json. (2 years), Oracle (1 year), Sass (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Xml (3 years), Xslt (1 year), Angular, CSS3, Front End, Front-End, HTML5, Node, React, UI, Java, User Interface, Angularjs Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Apache, PHP, Responsive Design, SASS, LESS  JavaScript Libraries Ext JS, Backbone.js, Node.js, Angular.js, Require.js, Bootstrap  IDE's and Tools Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, Dreamweaver, Firebug, Developer Tools, EditPlus, JSfiddle, Webstrom, Tatastrom, Sublimetext  Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Debugging Tools Firebug, BugZilla, (internet explorer)  Database PL/SQL(oracle), MySQL, MSSQL  Operating System Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC