Data Scientist Data Scientist Data Scientist Milpitas, CA Work Experience Data Scientist General Assembly (GA) Data Science Immersive Program - San Francisco, CA February 2019 to June 2019 • Used multiple embeddings to create a multi-layered neural network to detect insincere/toxic questions in a Quora dataset.  • Used Reddit's API to scrape posting data, and applied natural language processing to build a classification model predicting Reddit post origins.  • Built a regularized regression model to predict house sale prices using data with a large number of features. Insurance Benefits Specialist American Income Life - Concord, CA September 2018 to February 2019 Effectively manage sales and activation of insurance benefits, respond to policy service requests, and assist clients with application process. Marketing Support Analyst - Contract Realogy - Concord, CA April 2018 to September 2018 • Support real estate agents in development and execution of marketing initiatives, especially with software/hardware issues. Tabulate and troubleshoot technical issues related to the rollout of new Agent-side software (HubSpot CRM, ZenDesk, etc).  • Assisted first-time users with demonstrations of new in-house marketing creation platform "Listing Concierge" (LC) and collaborated with service support teams to ensure top-quality listings. Completed marketing material touch-ups as needed. Energy Services Analyst Commercial Energy of California - Oakland, CA March 2017 to December 2017 • Analyzed client energy spend within PG&E tariff restrictions, and made recommendations based on past usage and future energy needs while ensuring the proper processing and submission of PG&E tariff rate changes.  • Used Salesforce to track and audit customer contract information. Enter audit quotes into Great Plains and run reports to track and verify billing.  • Used Excel macros, pivot tables, and VLOOKUP functions to create interactive Excel sheets for sales teams to present to customers. Marketing Coordinator - Contract FriendMedia - Pleasanton, CA February 2017 to March 2017 Co-Founder and Front- End Developer CivilInformer - Livermore, CA March 2016 to November 2016 Associate Technical Recruiter Collabera - San Ramon, CA October 2015 to February 2016 Skills in Depth  • Programming with object-oriented design in Python (especially Jupyter Notebooks)  • Predictive analytics, machine learning, and deep learning with: TensorFlow, scikit-learn, Keras, Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, MatPlotLib, Seaborn, PyPlot, Beautiful Soup, NLTK, PyPlot, StatsModels, NLP  • Modeling with: Times Series analysis, Ensemble Models, Model Stacking, Random Forest, KNN, Logistic Regression, Linear Regression, Regularization, Naïve Bayes, Support Vector Machines, Gradient Descent, ARIMA, K-means, DBscan, Bayesian regression, Maximum Likelihood, AB testing, Regressive Neural Networks, Convolutional Neural Networks  • Web scraping, XML, HTML, JSON, API, AWS  • Advanced Microsoft Excel skills (e.g PIVOT tables, etc.), SQL, MATLAB  • Tableau, Qlickview  • Microsoft Office, Adobe Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator Education Bachelor's in Marketing University of Arizona - Tucson, AZ August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Excel, SQL, Powerpoint, Microsoft Office, Business Intelligence