FRONT END DEVELOPER AND DESIGNER, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO <span class="hl">FRONT</span> <span class="hl">END</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> AND DESIGNER, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Front End Developer New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience FRONT END DEVELOPER AND DESIGNER, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO ADVANCE FOAM October 2016 to Present Designed, prototyped and built a user authenticated online ordering platform for the largest mattress and foam manufacturer in the English-speaking Caribbean. The application processes over 9k orders per annum, automates work previously performed by  2.5 employees, transforms customer experience and was first delivered to customers within 9 months of project inception.    Lead Front- End Developer responsible for the design, development and delivery of project.  Drove the gathering of requirements by documenting existing customer habits and internal order processing techniques,  architecting the company's transition from a manual to a digital order entry process.  Designed and developed high-fidelity mock-ups detailing the UI/UX of the application using Sketch.  Researched, evaluated and selected libraries and frameworks to be integrated into project.  Architected and built the view layer of the application, translating mock-ups into responsive React components.  Made application dynamic by passing application state down to React components from Redux store.  Built event handler and controller logic that uses events in the DOM to update application state.  Collaborated with Back- End Developer to design asynchronous requests that fetch search results from application's database.  Designed and built dynamic transactional emails that are delivered to users after they have successfully placed an order.  Provided customer support by corresponding with clients, managing issues page, troubleshooting problems and fixing bugs.  Spearheaded the evaluation and building of feature requests directly responsible for the on-boarding of several new clients.  Designed and developed custom shopping cart and file processing animations using CSS transitions and transforms.  Lead the implementation of AirBnB's JavaScript Style Guide, ensuring code consistency and quality throughout the project. WEB DESIGNER, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO SELF EMPLOYED September 2017 to December 2018 Designed and developed websites for an educator, an artist and an architect, using Squarespace CMS.  Negotiated client vision, managed expectations and mentored clients through the creation of their first ever websites.  Personalized the appearance of templates by inspecting the DOM and creating CSS rules that style targeted HTML elements.  All projects were delivered on time and within tight budgetary guidelines outlined at project inception by the client. ARCHITECTURAL DESIGNER SOLOMON CORDWELL BUENZ - San Francisco, CA September 2013 to October 2015 Extensively involved in the technical documentation of 3 residential projects, each over 100 units in size.  Responsible for the creation, content production and assembly of a number of technical, presentation and value engineering  packages that directly lead to the city approval of projects and the on-boarding of potential clients. Education Bachelor of Architecture in Architecture University of Texas at Austin, School of Architecture - Austin, TX August 2013 Skills Javascript, React, Front-End Links https://github.com/kyleknaggs