Frontend Engineer/Full Stack Developer Frontend Engineer/Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Frontend Engineer/Full Stack Developer - Scholastic Corporation Work Experience Frontend Engineer/Full Stack Developer Scholastic Corporation - New York, NY April 2016 to Present Scholastic Corporation is an American multinational publishing, education and media company known for publishing, selling, and distributing books and educational materials for schools, teachers, parents, and children. Products are distributed to schools and districts, to consumers through the schools via reading club and fairs, and through retail stores and online sales. Among all the different projects I worked on RCO-Reading club online project. RCO is exclusively designed for parents and teachers. Parent or Teacher can be signing in the site and explore all different functionality. While purchasing book they can used different coupons, promotional code, rewards points and so much other existing thing.    Responsibilities:  • Created and optimized graphic websites and application interfaces on SFCC (Demandware) platform using Cartridges, ISML's, SASS, jQuery, Angular and SFCC (Demandware)Scripts, HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap.  • Translate business requirements into working software.  • Extensively worked with ISML, HTML5, DOM, DHTML, CSS/3, Media Query, JavaScript ES6, Angular 6 and jQuery to get rich GUI.  • Created and developed and maintain new front- end Salesforce / SFCC / Demandware applications, with ISML, SASS, jQuery, JavaScript, Media Query and tested and debug it in SFCC cartridges including Pipelines and Controllers using different web tools and ID's like Eclipse, Git, Jira and sublime.  • Worked with CSS preprocessor like SASS for better CSS management.  • Created signing page, notification pages for Desktop and Mobile with help of ISML from mock-ups / wire frames.  • Extensive use of CSS3 to achieve different animation effects.  • Worked with media query to make the site responsive.  • Also worked with jQuery to create web based dynamic pages as well as for events, effects and animations.  • Worked with different API to make app dynamically functional.  • Develop reusable UI components that address customer requirements and business needs.  • Used GitHub and its sub module as the version control system.  • Using Chrome Developer Tool, Firebug, IE Developer Toolbar for development and testing.  • Optimized websites which is compatible to all the major browsers like Chrome, Firefox, Safari and IE.  • Developed components to fetch the data from the backend using AJAX.  • Used different Bootstrap components like Carousel, Collapse, Dropdown, Tabs to make the site attractive.  • Generated dynamic ISML templates providing hierarchical-based groupings and aggregations for varying datasets in SFCC.  • Having experience to worked with content slot and content assets in SFCC(Demandware) environments.  • Integration of 3rd party Web Services.  • Created Single Page Application (SPA) for authenticating multi user role-based applications in Angular Router.  • Experienced in writing Components, Pipes and Services to separate concern and handle different situations by using Angular.  • Used Angular forms to validate fields and created custom validator directives  • Created custom directives for re-usable components.  • Created API in Node Js with express library and Transferred data between frontend and backend Component by using different MySQL Query for Database.  • Compiled the application and implemented various tasks using GRUNT and Webpack module bundler.  • Used HTTP in Service to connect with URLs from Web API and used postman to test Web API.  • Followed Agile Methodology and participating in Scrum Meetings.  • Provided information for sprint planning, time-estimates and development commitments in an Agile environment.  • Actively participate in code reviewing meeting.  • Communicating with offshore team on daily bases.  • Having experience to work with Git, Jira,Gulp, Confluence, Jenkins and Bitbucket extensively.  • Worked with Underscore Js, Moment.js, lodash library as well.    Environment:  ISML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, SASS, Java Script, ES6, Angular Js, Node JS, SFCC, Express, SQL, JQUERY, JQUERY UI, HTML DOM, AJAX, JSON, GitHub, Lodash, Underscore.js, Photoshop, Twitter Bootstrap, Moment.js, Git Flow, Demandware script,Bitbucket. UI Developer Angus Analytics - Bristol, PA July 2015 to March 2016 Angus Analytics is energetic Company which provides different products and services like Angus Hedging, Angus Advisory, Angus Tools, Brite Etc Among all the products I was working on Brite Product. Brite is the most powerful tool to run, grow, and optimize company fuel delivery and service business, from single location operators to the largest operator in industry. Brite's provide user-friendly widgets and displays support organizational structures of any size, type and complexity, and its cloud-based secure system is completely customizable to meet the needs of any organization.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Single Page Application using AngularJS for different modules.  • Created and optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Created custom AngularJS directives for re-usable components.  • Create different modules with specific controllers, templates, scopes, custom filters and directives using AngularJS.  • Worked with URL routing handled by UI state router, helping to divide the application into logical modules. Each of which would be instantiated when its route was invoked.  • Also worked with jQuery and jQuery UI as JavaScript library for events, effects, animations and widgets.  • Responsible for the design and implementation of UI and back- end coding.  • Optimized websites compatible on all the major browsers like Chrome, Firefox, Safari and IE.  • Used CSS frameworks Twitter Bootstrap to make website Responsive.  • Developed components to fetch the data from the backend using AngularJS and AJAX.  • Worked with SQL and MongoDB database.  • Having experience to wire up different store procedures to end points.  • Provided information for sprint planning, time-estimates and development commitments in an Agile environment.  • Having experience to work with git flow and bitbucket extensively.  • Having experience to run mongo dB script in power shell.  • Worked with node.js to wire up SQL store procedure.  • Using Sublime Text Editor working with Angular JS Application Designing and developing with Node JS, Mongo dB, bower, Gulp to make test server.  • Worked with underscore js library.  • Also have experience to work with moment.js to validate and manipulate date.  • Worked with lodash for different functionality.    Environment:  HTML5/4, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, SASS, Java Script, JQUERY, JQUERY UI, HTML DOM, AJAX, JSON, GitHub, Angular js, Node js, Lodash, Underscore.js, Twitter Bootstrap, Moment.js, Git Flow. Front End Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA November 2014 to June 2015 Active Video Networking, AVN, is a TV Channel guide program running on legacy set top box. Legacy set top box is earlier version of X2 set top box. AVN project is designed to get the look and feel of x2 boxes on legacy boxes as legacy box is older version. To get the same look and feel, html pages are being used. Later on, worked on Diagnostic pages for Xi3 and XVC set top boxes. Xi3 set top box is a part of X1 non-DVR HDMI-only device. Diagnostic pages are created for Technician as well as viewer to see different kinds of diagnostic related to set top box.    Responsibilities:  • Working as an HTML developer on AVN application and developed its different sub-applications like, Weather App, Traffic App etc.  • Analyzed, Designed and developed Web based application as per the requirement.  • Translate business requirements into working software.  • Using HTML DOM, DHTML, CSS/3, JavaScript and AJAX got rich GUI.  • Worked with CSS preprocessor like SASS for better CSS management.  • Followed Agile Methodology and participating in Scrum Meetings.  • Created home page, weather and traffic pages for TV Channel Guide with help of html5 from mock-ups / wire frames.  • Extensive use of css3 to achieve different animation effects.  • Extensive use of java script to create web based dynamic pages as well as for events, effects and animations.  • AVN app is designed for TV so worked with different key code to achieve different functionality using remote.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible, suitable for set top box and standards-compliant.  • Worked with different API to make weather app dynamically functional.  • Using JSON to transmit data for server communication site wide.  • Worked with jQuery to create diagnostic pages for XI3 and XVG set top boxes.  • Worked with multiple Ajax call to get data from set top box and display in diagnostic pages.  • Developed web pages for HD and SD resolution.  • Communicated with the test teams for the successful Test Cases  • Working on setting up applications with Node js and created documentations and presentation for the same.  • Used GitHub and its sub module as the version control system  • Using Chrome Developer Tool, Firebug, IE Developer Toolbar for development and testing.    Environment:  HTML5/4, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, SASS, Java Script, JQUERY, JQUERY UI, HTML DOM, AJAX, JSON, GitHub    • Diploma in Web Developer from Bytes Computer Education Center. Education Bachelors of Science Rajiv Gandhi University Skills Visual studio, Git, Svn, Eclipse, Version control, Angular, Javascript, Node, Nodejs, Jquery, HTML 5, CSS3, SFCC, ISML, Demandware Script, SASS, JQuery UI, Ajax, JSON