UI Front End Developer UI <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Front End Developer - Maryland Health Benefit Exchange (MHBE) Maryland City, MD • A Professional with Experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements Analysis and Debugging, Applications Design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Installation, Testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  • Experience in Client Scripting language and server side scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript with ECMA6 features, TypeScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular1.x/2/4/5, React, Redux, Backbone.js, Express, Node.js.  • Developed user interface by using the ReactJS, Flux for SPA development.  • Experience in developing Graphic User Interface (GUI) to display report data using D3.js with Cross-browser compatibility and Web application scaling.  • Experienced in collaborating with Design team/UX team/ business stack-holder to understand and translate the requirement into web applications.  • Extensive experience on implementing the AJAX with rich features like deferred, promises, pipe, and call back functions.  • Experience in creating user interface widgets using jQuery, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Rich experience with development using AngularJS extensive features for loading views in a Single Page Application, MVC structure for JavaScript files, data-binding using Angular JS directives and also building custom directives.  • Experience with Gulp/Grunt task runner and combined with Node, Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries.  • Experience in the developing applications for different platforms like web browser, iOS, Android, and Chrome OS.  • Strong expertise in the iterative Agile and Scrum development methodologies for software development.  • Extensive experience using JSF, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, JSTL and JNDI.  • Experience with Jasmine and Karma for Unit Testing.  • Experience using JIRA for defect tracking.  • Excellent communication skills to discuss the projects with technical and non-technical SME's and also during the sprint meetings for Agile as well as Scrum development methodology.  • Great ability to write clearly, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Experience in using revision control systems CVS, Git and Jazz.  • Working experience on tools like Sonar and Jenkins.  • Experience working with a wide range of applications in all phases.  • Known for ability to multi-task and work on different applications at the same time.  • Proven track record demonstrating innovative and unique designing skills, computer proficiency, ability to work in a stressful environment with projects and interaction with every team member.  • Some of the attributes that would describe me would be Team player, Quick learner, Hard- worker, Self-Motivated and Strong interest in Front End Development.    Software:  JBoss, Eclipse, Atom, Sublime-Text, Windows, Ubuntu, Visual Studio (high school VB Class), Microsoft Office, Selenium, Apache Maven    Framework: MVC Pattern, jQuery,  Internet: JQuery, Angular 5, CSS2.1/3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, DHTML, XML and XHTML.  Languages: Java, J2EE, Visual Basic, PHP, JavaScript, C++, Oracle SQL  SaaS: Salesforce  Operating System Windows XP, Mac OS, Unix/Linux.  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic.  Testing Frameworks Junit  Version control SVN, Git, CVS  Web Services RESTful, SOAP, XML  Workflow and Delivery Responsive web design (RWD), Mobile Development, Single-Page Applications, cross-browser compatibility. Work Experience UI Front End Developer Maryland Health Benefit Exchange (MHBE) - Baltimore, MD February 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved to create different cross operating system compatible user interactive mobile application pages, using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  • Developed Search Engine using JSP, presented the XML data in the web page using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, AngularJS, Wire-framing, HTML5  • Use Node and Express Framework to set up routing mechanism to respond to HTTP requests  • Use Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Express.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React -Draggable  • Technologies used AWS, Spring Boot, AWS, JAXB, XML, Embedded Tomcat, Maven, MySQL, HTML, CSS and Node.js  • Used Ember.js to create and support the REST API and UI for enterprise-level data migration platforms and licensing estimation/product shopping cart applications while actively relaying status updates to PMs and managers.  • Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML5, CSS3, Vanilla JavaScript, Express, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS and Bootstrap with MongoDB database.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, jQuery UI and Angular JS.  • Worked on JavaScript and HTML5 Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website.  • Developed Light box effect for landing page using JavaScript and Vanilla JavaScript.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Created client-side validation using technologies such as Angular JS and JavaScript. Developed angular 2 custom directives.  • Managed user accounts in Salesforce.  • Extensive experience in implementing model-view-controller MVC5 architecture using Angular Framework.  • Gained expertise in application testing using Selenium (Java), TestNG and Maven  • Gained firsthand experience by working on front- end projects using Angular 5 framework, Typescript, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS  • Research and troubleshooting for various Frameworks used for development: Spring Boot, Java Server Faces, Struts, Angular 5.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, AWS, Angular Js, Angular 2, Angular 4, NodeJS, Vanilla JS, Ember, React JS, JSON, bootstrap, JSON, XML, JSP, Responsive Design, JSON, Agile, Notepad++, Eclipse Kepler, WebLogic, Oracle11g, PostgreSQL. UI Developer Zephyr Technologies - Whippany, NJ June 2017 to January 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developed UI applications for the business and software systems having IEEE standards.  • Used the functionalities for writing code in HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQUERY, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • Participated in development of a new business application for the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Wrote the backend to modify the tags in the database using JSON for data transmission.  • Designed user friendly navigation to display various sections of data using jQuery.  • Created Dynamic Web Pages with Web Controls and developed forms with HTML5.  • Developed server-side REST web services and called them from angular controllers.  • Styling pages with CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  • Application implemented as a single-page, angular.js client.  • Developed Unit test cases for the Angular controllers using Jasmine.  • Designed, developed and implemented Single Page Application (SPA) in Angular JS by consuming JSON from a Spring MVC, using Spring Security to secure the application.  • Used Selectors, Events, Ajax and Dom Manipulation modules in jQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Met with the project manager frequently for reviewing project goals and for creating proposals for future developments and researching their fields for UI design.  • Involved in migration of project from Spring, Hibernate, My SQL based framework for JDBC, Oracle.  • Used Git for version controlling.  • Developed the jQuery callback functions to implement asynchronous communication using AJAX.  • To create new website features wrote Angular controllers, views and services.  • Worked on coding, styling, testing on reusable JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 libraries for complete UI controls.  • Wrote test plans and performed unit testing and performance testing by using Angular JS testing frameworks like Karma.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE6  • Developed the web applications for backend system by using Angular with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Java/J2EE, JSON, Usability Testing, Agile, IntelliJ, MVC, Rest Web Services, Eclipse, MySQL Server, Git. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems University of Maryland Baltimore County (UMBC) - Baltimore, MD Skills Front End, Javascript, UI, Front-End