Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Tealium San Diego, CA Work Experience Front End Developer Tealium - San Diego, CA July 2018 to Present Technical Scope: React.js, MobX.js, Cypress.js, Bootstrap, Styled-Components, Trello, VSCode, Webstorm  Chrome Dev Tools  Supported the development of new features and fixed bugs, while migrating code base from Backbone.js to React.js/Mobx.js. As as part of practice every new component create in react, was created off a mock-up and  backed up with cypress tests. Collaborated with team to implement, design, and organize changes that would  allow code base to scale, such as implementing the Airbnb style guides into our code base, and proposing  React Styleguidist. Front End Developer BAE Systems - San Diego, CA July 2017 to July 2018 Technical Scope: Flux Architecture, React.js, Cesium.js, Semantic-UI, Jira, VSCode, Chrome Dev Tools, Build innovative applications to promote business transformations, brand activation, and revenue growth.  Support effective integration through analysis and recommendation of relevant user-interface frameworks.  Collaborate with other developers to deploy and configure development environments. Provide advanced  troubleshooting to resolve complex problems and offer innovative solutions. Utilize Chrome dev tools to debug  code and improve end-user experience. Leverage Flux Architecture and React.js to develop overlapping  actions, components, and stores.  Languages: JavaScript, LESS, SASS, CSS, Typescript, HTML 5, ES6  Tools: React.js, Mobx.js, Cypress.js, Ember.js, Angular 2+, Redux.js, Express.js, Sequelize, MongoDB, Mongoose, Docker, JQuery, AJAX, Jasmine, Protractor, BootStrap 4,  Google Material Design, Should.js, Mocha.js, Foundation, Semantic-UI, SuperAgent.js, Jest.js, Webpack, Babel, Npm Scripts, Gulp, Grunt, Git, Github,  Bitbucket, Jira/Confluence, Kanban Boards, RESTful Web Services, Xcode, Objective- C, Swift  James Hall Front End Developer Songspace Inc - Nashville, TN February 2017 to April 2017 Technical Scope: Ember.JS. Sass, QUnit, Chrome Dev Tools, Jira, Slack. Utilized Ember.JS to build and maintain web pages. Created acceptance and integration tests through Qnet to ensure quality deliverables.  Interfaced with business partners to analyze and integrated business goals into the development process.  Supported customer satisfaction by utilizing Jira for ticket management. Offered front- end and back- end  support to enhance services, support client needs, and solve emerging problems. Performed database  modeling, solution architecture, and business systems analysis. Created and maintained front- end automation  scripts. Utilized Kanaban style workflow to increase productivity. Contract - Front End Developer American Specialty Health, Inc - San Diego, CA August 2016 to January 2017 Technical Scope: Ember.js, Chrome Dev Tools, Sass, Ember aps, Developed and styled web-pages from the design stage, to the mock up stage, to final product  implementation using Sass. Provided technical support throughout the entire project lifecycle. Updated and maintained internal Ember applications to improve ongoing use. Leveraged Agile methodology to develop  projects in two-week sprints. Outlined tasks through analysis of user-stories. Created project timelines, deadlines, and requirements to ensure timely delivery of applications.  Key Achievements:  * Collaborated across the team to develop new Code Standards to improve quality of outputs. Full Stack Developer Localism - Long Beach, CA January 2015 to August 2015 Technical Scope: FiveStar, Angular 1.3, Localite, UX, Stripe, Balanced Payments, Mail-Fun, Twilio, API's, Ubuntu, NGINIX, MongoDB, Sass  Built user-facing rewards applications using Angular 1.3. Assessed and integrated client requirements to produce personalized applications. Utilized Ubuntu, NGINIX, and MongoDB to establish backend deployment on Rackspace. Supervised and mentored two junior developers. Designed, configured and styled web-pages  using Sass. Offered continuing technical support to identify problems and implement solutions. Jr. iOS Developer Zeek Interactive - Huntington Beach, CA November 2013 to February 2014 Technical Scope: Xcode, Objective-C, Various Apple Frameworks  Worked as a junior engineer while in college. Fixed software bugs in Objective-C and C++. Jr. iOS Developer Localism - Long Beach, CA June 2013 to October 2013 Technical Scope: Xcode, Objective-C, Various Apple Frameworks  Collaborated with designers to come up with User Experience for iOS App "#LosAl"(No Long on Store). Took  up remaining dev work after Senior Dev left half way through project. Was responsible for integrating iOS App with Parse SDK. Jr. iOS Developer City Of Long Beach - Long Beach, CA April 2013 to June 2013 Technical Scope: Xcode, Objective-C, Various Apple Frameworks  Was responsible for updating app from iOS 4 to iOS 6 Standards. Updated Architecture of app to fit MVC  guidelines. Implemented new features.    ! Leveraged Angular-cli and Angular 4 to create Common Grounds Portal application for Paradigm INC  that enabled customers to buy workspaces customized in 3 rd party APIs.  ! Created user-interface allowing users to search Github for other users; project premiered at San  Diego JavaScript Meetup.  ! Contracted as iOS application developer by Zeek Interactive Inc., Localism Inc., and City of Long  Beach.  ! Contractor for Score-Shuttle to work on FrontEnd and Backend Javascript Web App.  ! Contractor for Third Cousin to work on "Find-LMS" Project.  ! My current side project's stack includes, Node.js, Express.js, Sequelize.js, postgres, postgis, and Angular 8. When completed a user will be able to discover dog parks, and decide to go based on the  current population of dogs at nearby dog parks. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University - Long Beach, CA 2016 Skills Git, MYSQL, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jamesohall87