Software Engineer Software Engineer Actively seeking a challenging and responsible full-time opportunity as a Software Engineer. Los Angeles, CA • 2 years of industry experience and 2+ years of hands-on experience as a Front- End Developer.  • Proficient in developing JAVA and JavaScript-based applications.  • Experience in database development skills with SQL Server and MySQL.  • Strong in developing applications using Angular 2+, HTML5, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Good understanding of the Document Object Model (DOM) and MVC Architecture.  • In-depth knowledge of Object-Oriented Programming Concepts and Computer Science fundamentals.  • Experience working in an Agile Environment and implementing REST APIs.  • Capable of performing Cross-browser compatibility and Unit Testing.  • Comfortable working with Product Managers, Software Engineering, and Business Analyst. Work Experience Software Engineer Waste Management - Houston, TX January 2019 to June 2019 •     Designed, Developed and Deployed analytic reporting real-time dashboard  •     Worked with JavaScript, HTML5, Angular, CSS, REST APIs, and jQuery  •     Created & worked on the AngularJS framework with the use of modules, controllers, services & filters   •     Developing UI mock-ups and prototypes to illustrate application and sites functions and looks like  •     Built responsive web pages to provide an optimal view experience with good UI/UX designs and layouts Web Developer HMPS Inc - Norwalk, CA May 2018 to January 2019 •     Successfully built Single-Page Applications with Angular JS, JavaScript on the custom-built framework.  •     Improved and maintained efficiency by reconstructing official website with latest technologies and frameworks  •     Wrote SQL queries to manipulate the database and tested existing queries to optimizing its performance.  •     Worked closely with business analysts, Project Managers, and QA Testers to understand the technical requirements of each project, designed and provided technical solutions.  •     Developed responsive web pages using Angular, JavaScript, Java, CSS, HTML, JQuery, and bootstrap. Front- End Developer Innoventaa Technologies - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2013 to July 2014 • Supported applications for multiple organizations and support onshore teams with deployments, updates, and patches.  • I have tested front- end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.  • Built reusable code and libraries for use across the organization.  • Updated and maintained application based on client requests using JavaScript, HTML, jQuery, Angular JS, and Bootstrap. Education M.S. in Computer Engineering California State University - Fullerton, CA January 2015 to January 2018 B.S. in Computer Engineering and Science Gujarat Technological University July 2010 to June 2014 Skills Eclipse, Java, jquery, Ms visual studio, Front-end, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Html5, Database, Sql server, Mysql, Unit testing, Angular, Angularjs, UI, HTML 5, CSS