Lead conference calls to troubleshoot and activate circuits daily Lead conference calls to troubleshoot and activate circuits daily Lead conference calls to troubleshoot and activate circuits daily - Granite Telecommunication North Attleboro, MA Software Developer specializing in front end web development and network security. Experienced  with the Agile development process specifically scrum. Background in process management and QA  testing. Well-versed in programming languages JavaScript, Python, SQL. Work Experience Lead conference calls to troubleshoot and activate circuits daily Granite Telecommunication - Quincy, MA April 2019 to Present Quincy, MA  • Responsible for ordering and configuring groups of commercial DIA circuits.  • Lead conference calls to troubleshoot and activate circuits daily.  • Configured network devices of all types to fit customer need and security protocol. Electronic/Mobile Sales Associate Target - North Attleboro, MA August 2018 to March 2019 • Assisted customers with all thing's technology, providing information and opinions.  • Facilitated Mobile carrier operations (Switching carriers/plans, upgrading service). Front End Developer, Scrum Master Event Finder - North Dartmouth, MA September 2017 to May 2018 Created a Web app that uses web scrapers and crawlers to aggregate event data that can be  searched and filtered based on user preferences or location.  • Lead my team using the scrum software development process.  • Designed and implemented all front- end/UI aspects. System Administrator Tree Brothers - North Attleboro, MA January 2015 to December 2017 • Designed, implemented, and maintained a database used to track past contracts and employee information.  • Implemented IT solutions (hardware and software) along with database security. Teaching Assistant CIS Laboratory - North Dartmouth, MA September 2015 to May 2016 • Collaborate with other mentors to present lab assignments and propose possible routes for finding solutions.  • Assisting students with problems that may arise throughout their programming process. Education Bachelor of Science University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth - North Dartmouth, MA 2018 Skills Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Python, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Sql, Sass, Networking, Java, jquery, Information security, Selenium, Frameworks, Css, Computer vision, Automated testing, Maintenance Links http://derekkohansky.com Additional Information Skills  Languages: Java, Python, C, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, SQL  Frameworks: jQuery, Angular, React, Sass, bootstrap, git  Other: Computer building/maintenance, Networking, Computer information security, Relational/Non-  Relational databases, Computer vision, IoT concepts, Selenium, Automated testing, TCP/IP suite,  Network configuration.