Creative Coding Instructor Creative Coding Instructor Creative Technologist, Technical Artist, UX Designer Brooklyn, NY I am really passionate about interactive media. As an Engineer and a Designer, I create seamless and relevant digital interactions to hone the integrity of a design, both from a programmatic and imaginative perspective. My work crosses a broad range of categories in the digital space including UX design, AR/VR and machine learning.     I specialise in bridging the gap between design and development to facilitate quick prototyping, testing and implementing changes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Creative Coding Instructor Parsons School of Design - New York, NY July 2018 to Present Taught object oriented programming for creative applications to grad school students.  Mentored students on their design concepts and helped them realise their ideas through an interactive, custom coded platform.  Tutored classes for creative coding and web development for over 175 BFA+MFA  students. 3D Print Lab Technician Making Center - New York, NY August 2017 to May 2019 Operated and serviced high end 3D printers, 3D scanners and haptic modelling  devices.  Conducted orientations to train students and faculty to use the 3D printing services.  Assisted students preparing their projects in CAD and various 3D modelling softwares. Research Resident Recyclism - Paris, FR May 2018 to July 2018 Research Assistant to artists Benjamin Gaulon and Jerome Saint clair  Hacking and developing software for an obsolete french telecom device called the minitel. Exploring the sonic and visual afterlife of this defunct videotext online service for live performances and artistic installations. Ux Designer/ Front End Developer Elite Tech Healthcare Sollutions January 2017 to April 2017 India Ux design including: User flows, content stratergy, primary research (card sorts and UX Design Intern Dezine Careers - Gurgaon, Haryana November 2016 to January 2017 Designed an online curriculum on ‘ design practices for businesses ' . Helped organise workshops across 12 different management schools in New Delhi.  Designed marketing collateral to promote outreach. Digital Electronics Engineer BEL - New Delhi, Delhi January 2016 to May 2016 Signals and system department , Developing and servicing both military and commercial grade radar systems Education MFA in Design and Technology Parsons School of Design - New York, NY May 2019 Ux Design Summer Future London Academy - London August 2016 B.Tech in Electronics & Communication Engineer Manipal University May 2016 Skills Adobe illustrator (6 years), Adobe indesign (6 years), Adobe photoshop (6 years), Autodesk maya (2 years), C# (2 years), HTML (4 years), CSS3 (5 years), Javascript (5 years), JQuery, User Experience Design, User Interface Design, Web Design, Web Development, Application Development