Home and Life Expert Home and Life Expert Team Leader-Freelance Web Developer Lafayette, LA Multi-talented in Sales consistently rewarded for success in planning and operational improvements. Experience in policy development and staff management procedures positively impacting overall morale and productivity. Work Experience Home and Life Expert Sears Holdings Corporation - Lafayette, LA May 2019 to Present • Performed various administrative functions, including filing paperwork, delivering mail, sorting mail, office cleaning and bookkeeping.  • Monitored social media and online sources for industry trends.  • Worked with customers to understand requirements and provide exceptional customer service. Front End Web Developer - Remote Jack Girl Studio - Laplace, LA December 2018 to Present • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement using Google Analytics, a web host, and Search Optimizer.  • Took concepts and produced design mockups and prototypes to strengthen designs, enhance user experiences and improve site interactions.  • Created site layout and user interface using HTML and CSS practices.  • Strengthened company brand and identity by creating distinctive website and logo. Merchandising Specialist/Sales Consultant/Google Expert Best Buy - Lafayette, LA October 2016 to May 2019 • Worked with sales team to collaboratively reach targets, consistently meeting or exceeding personal quotas.  • Used consultative sales approach to understand customer needs and recommend relevant offerings.  • Implemented up-selling strategies, encompassing recommendation of accessories and complementary purchases. Busser/Server Olive Garden - Lafayette, LA February 2015 to June 2016 • Worked with POS system to place orders, manage bills and handle complimentary items for dissatisfied customers.  • Upsold high-profit items such as appetizers and mixed drinks to enhance sales numbers.  • Collected credit card, cash and gift certificate payments from customers and made proper change for cash transactions. Education Associate in Business Management University of Louisiana at Lafayette - Lafayette, LA August 2014 to May 2018 Skills Sales Support (4 years), Customer Service (5 years), HTML 5 (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), Microsoft Office (4 years), Google Suite (2 years), Mac OS X (4 years), Windows 10 (2 years), Python (1 year), Web Development (2 years), Database Management (2 years), Customer Relationship Management (2 years), Problem Solving (5 years), Time Management (5 years), Linux (1 year), MySQL (2 years), Django Web Framework (1 year), Sales, Data Entry, Account Management, MS Office Links https://jackgirlstudio.com Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/eugb2p4rlonvlnwz Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/li-bvuohjqlnzoi1 Retail Cash Handling — Expert April 2019 Calculating retail transactions and knowing cash drawer policies and procedures. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/b5n4o-pcwey0oaoj Sales Skills: Influence & Negotiation — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively use influence and negotiation techniques to engage with and persuade customers. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/btrtdewcjskzf9ql Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information 1. Developer of a Small Business Website, and track behaviors/users/sessions through Google Analytics.  2. Plans on taking the CompTia A+ Certification Test on the second week of October 2019.  3. Update websites from client request (very collaborative)