Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Developer - Xaxis Work Experience Lead Developer Xaxis - Playa Vista, CA 2018 to Present As Lead Developer for AdLabs, the in-house creative team for Xaxis, I've developed  platforms and utilities for various teams within the organization, created code style  guides for my team, created and documented conventions for working with partnering creative platforms, been the liaison with our partnering creative platforms, and have assisted other developers on the team with both debugging their code  and troubleshooting platform setup. While managing these tasks, I have also    working on dynamic ad campaigns for our clients when complex or advanced setup has been required. Senior Front- End Developer Xaxis - Playa Vista, CA 2016 to 2018 As Senior Front- End Developer for AdLabs, the in-house creative team for Xaxis, I  assisted in the development of a platform that continues to be utilized by many of the employees across various teams of the company within the US. I also began  development of other platforms, utilities, and portals for my team as well as other  teams within the company. This development has either been done on my own, through collaboration with other members of my team through git, or by  collaborating with members of other teams either within Xaxis or from partnering  companies. Interactive Developer Xaxis - Los Angeles, CA 2014 to 2016 My role began on the in-house creative team for the programmatic media buying  company, Xaxis. This team, called AdLabs, specializes in dynamic ad creation.  These dynamic ads utilize Xaxis' proprietary data as well as data from partnering  creative platforms via their APIs to inform the ads and personalize them in real time. I  converted Flash-based ads into HTML5 ads as well as created new HTML5  experiences for ad spaces. All work has relied on being able to translate mocks and storyboards into pixel-perfect working units. Web Development Intern Wylie Wilson - Venice, CA 2013 to 2013 I helped maintain products and product structure in an e-commerce site driven by Magento. This involved product input and categorization. I also made small style and layout updates as well as assisted with photo touch-ups for the product shots. Education Bachelor's of Science in design The Art Institute of California - Los Angeles, CA 2014 Skills Back end, Git, Html, Javascript, Angular Links http://www.lisabenmore.com