Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Lewisville, TX • Over 2+ years of IT experience as a UI Developer in analysis, design, development and testing of web applications.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making web pages cross browser compatible.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation.  • Good knowledge of JavaScript, CSS3, CSS and HTML5/HTML and their behavior on different browsers.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Node.js, Angular.js, Responsive design.  • Basic knowledge on Database Management Concepts.  • Responsible for checking Cross Browser Compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features.  • Flexible, enthusiastic and project oriented team player with solid communication and Analytic skills to develop creative solution for challenging client needs.  • Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Node.JS.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, HTML5.  • Strong web development skills with HTML5, JSP and AngularJS.  • Extensive experience in web design using CSS3, Bootstrap. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Advit Software & Business Solutions Pvt. Ltd January 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, design and implementation of front end part of the application.  • Developed the UI Screens using HTML5, DHTML, XML, Java Script, Ajax, JQuery Custom-tags, JSTL DOM Layout and CSS3.  • Used Bootstrap, AngularJS and Node.js in effective web design  • Used JQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Practical exposure and/or experience with some JQuery, JSON, AJAX.  • Create responsive layouts for multiple devices and platforms.  • Developed layouts, navigation and animation buttons for customers.  • Designed and Developed front- end UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  • Gathering requirements for business. User interface designer and web developer for enterprise application development.  • Developed project's web page as Single Page Application(SPA) by using AngularJS.  • Designed and developed various Screens using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Involved in writing application level code to perform client side validation using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Utilized various JQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Agile methodology was used to follow the cycle of requirement gathering to deployment.  • Conducted unit testing and end-to- end testing on the supported browsers and devices.  • Worked closely with business users and developers of team to resolve issues.    Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Angular.JS, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, Education Master of Science in NPU Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Fremont, CA Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Windows 7/8/10, Ubuntu, Linux, Mac OS  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery.  Programming Languages JavaScript, JQuery, Java, SQL.  JavaScript Frameworks Angular.js, Node.js, Express.js, JQuery UI  IDE, Editors Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Net Beans IDE, Sublime, Brackets.  Database Oracle 11g, Mysql.  Debugging Tools Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools.  Web Servers Apache Tomcat, Web logic, Jboss.  SDLC Waterfall, Agile, Scrum.  Browsers Firefox, Chrome, IE, Opera, Safari