Flex Driver Flex Driver Chicago, IL • Over 3+ years of extensive experience in IT experience as a Front- End Developer, developed and supported of web & Enterprise applications  • Solid experience in developing web pages using HTML/HTML5, XML, CSS/CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, and Angular (JS, 2, 4).  • Good experience on Eclipse, Oracle, Unix, Linux, SQL, MySQL, Express, Frontend toolkits, and ScrumMaster.  • Good experience in development of E-commerce and retail applications.  • Good in analyzing legacy systems and migrating onto new technology stack.  • Good experience in agile software development process.  • Good experience in continues integration and continuous delivery model.  • Team player with excellent technical, communication & inter personal skills.  • Ability to learn new technologies and quickly adaptable. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Flex Driver Amazon.com - Chicago, IL April 2019 to Present Driving with Amazon, delivering all types of packages and food. Delivering to houses and commercials door to door. I ensure their deliveries are delivered on time as promised, which keeps the trust, the promises and the relationship with our customers are fully confident and in a high level of performance. Front End Developer Ward Mobile - Chicago, IL February 2015 to April 2019 Small, privately owned business selling mobile phones for providers like T-Mobile, Verizon & others. It is also a retail store for phone accessories, phone repairs and some hardware/software upgrades and updates on a personal level. Branch for the IT needs such as installing, debugging, testing, maintaining, and repairing software on computers, laptops, Android and IOS. This service provided to customers who needed websites created from scratch, websites updated, edited or maintained. Education Master of Science in Information Technology in Network Management Colorado Technical University - Colorado Springs, CO December 2015 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Software System Engineering Colorado Technical University - Colorado Springs, CO December 2011 Associate of Science in Information Technology in Software System Engineering Colorado Technical University - Colorado Springs, CO December 2009 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), APACHE CORDOVA (Less than 1 year), Bash. (Less than 1 year), Cordova. (Less than 1 year), Database (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Git. (Less than 1 year), LAMP. (Less than 1 year), LAMP Stack (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), MongoDB. (Less than 1 year), MySQL (Less than 1 year), Unix (Less than 1 year), Visual Studio (Less than 1 year), Windows 8 (Less than 1 year), Windows XP (Less than 1 year), Front End, Angular, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ymalkawi Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Platforms: Linux, Windows, Mac, LAMP, MEAN, Angular, Ionic. Cordova.  • Operating Windows: Windows XP, Windows 8, 8.1, 9, 10, UNIX, and LINUX.  • IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio Code (VSC), and Bash.  • Database: MySQL, MongoDB.  • Tools: VS Code, Gulp SSH, Git.