Visual Designer Visual Designer Charlotte, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Visual Designer Xceleration - Charlotte, NC February 2019 to Present • Designed and developed custom client-facing WordPress themes using HTML5, CSS3, and PHP. I developed the themes to include support for widgets and custom post types to make it easily editable for non- developers from the WordPress admin.    • During a tight-deadline rebrand of a child company, I worked closely with the creative team and senior leadership to effectively rebrand the company’s internal and external identity.     • Designed user-focused web components and websites through the design process of research, wireframes, mockups, and prototypes to facilitate efficient revisions and ensure project scope is maintained.      • Worked alongside the creative team and senior leadership to design a Shopify website for a child company that was in line with the company brand and supported the long term company vision. I developed custom HTML and CSS UI components in conjunction with the Shopify theme builder.    • Designed and developed custom email templates for clients using HTML, CSS, and Sketch.     • Utilized Google Analytics and Google Data Studio to effectively display user data from internal applications on a custom report.     • Engaged in market research, competitor research, and keyword research to create an SEO strategy that would improve our onsite and offsite SEO.  Front End Web Developer Carolina Auto Image - Charlotte, NC June 2016 to Present • Designed and developed a mobile-responsive website that resulted in a 100% increase in site traffic over the course of a year.     • Designed and developed a static website using HTML, CSS, and JS to increase website traffic and the number of leads gained through the website.    • Used Azure Cloud Services to host the website to ensure quick load times and reasonable monthly costs.     • Redesigned the website in WordPress for ease of editing using their CMS.    • Provided ongoing support and maintenance to ensure client satisfaction and avoid website downtime.     • Analyzed the website traffic using Google Analytics and provided monthly performance reports to show potential opportunities for growth and places we can work to optimize.  Lead Web Designer & Digital Marketing Specialist Unconditional Media - Charlotte, NC August 2017 to February 2019 • Implemented highly targeted PPC campaigns for clients with limited budgets to increase site traffic from their target audience while maintaining strict budget requirements.    • Analyzed website performance and implemented WPO and CRO strategies to increase onsite conversion rates.     • Orchestrated training for new ad specialists to streamline the hiring process and onboard new employees efficiently and effectively.    • Lead and mentored junior PPC specialists to facilitate both their career growth and company growth.    • Managed website and marketing projects to ensure project scope was maintained and all objectives were delivered.     • Communicated carefully with clients to understand their business goals, determine project objectives, and resolve concerns.  Education High school or equivalent Home Based - Charlotte, NC September 2006 to September 2017 Skills UI, User Interface, Photoshop, Sketch App, Figma, HTML 5, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, User, User Interface Design, Adobe, Indesign, Google Analytics, Google Webmaster Tools, Google Data Studio, SEO, Search Engine Optimization, SASS, NPM, GIT, Bootstrap, Wordpress, Shopify, Information Architecture, Sketch, React, Front End, Front-End, HTML5, Node Certifications/Licenses Google Adwords January 2019 to Present