UX Engineer UX Engineer UX Engineer Redmond, WA Front- end engineer with 5+ years of experience in web development and design. Passionate in developing web applications and libraries that provide a great user experience. Strong background in graphic design and branding enables effective cross-team communication. Looking for more experience as a full stack or front- end engineer. Work Experience UX Engineer Microsoft through Aquent - Redmond, WA January 2018 to July 2019 • Contributed to several projects centered around Office UI Fabric, Microsoft's official open-source UI framework for building experiences for Office 365.  • Engineered an internal Human Interface Guidelines (HIG) site for Fabric that included rich documentation for designers, engineers, and product managers using React and TypeScript.  • Worked to port the internal HIG site code to rebuild the public site for Office UI Fabric.  • Tech stack and skills: React, TypeScript, Jest, Enzyme, Azure, Git, Kanban Front- End Engineer & UX Designer Outreach, Inc - Colorado Springs, CO November 2015 to November 2017 • Created and managed landing pages and creative graphics on the Cost Per Lead team using adaptive web designs to generate leads for clients' advertising campaigns.  • Found creative solutions using JavaScript to enhance the features of campaign landing pages.  • A/B tested and optimized conversion rates to find the perfect design and fit for each clients' needs.  • Converted the team to a Kanban task system to optimize team communication and workflow.  • Tech stack and skills: JavaScript, REST APIs, A/B Testing, AWS, Git, Kanban Lead WordPress Developer & UX Designer UZU Media August 2014 to November 2015 • Designed, developed and maintained client websites built with WordPress or other CMSs.  • Led the design process, from exploration to print, of client branding.  • Tech stack and skills: WordPress, HTML, CSS, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign Education Associate in Multimedia Graphic Design, Focus on Web Development Pikes Peak Community College Skills Git, Javascript, Typescript, Webpack, Linux, Html5, Frameworks, Engineer, Illustrator, Wordpress, Kanban, Indesign, Photoshop, User experience, Azure, Adobe, React, CSS3, Docker, Java Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jordancjanzen https://github.com/jordandrako https://www.jordanjanzen.com