Front End JS Angular, React and SDK Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> JS Angular, React and SDK <span class="hl">Developer</span> Professional Software Developer with 5years+ Web Experience Silicon Valley, CA I am an open minded optimistic male bilingual [English and French] software developer with with 5+ years of work experience in various software fields, ranging from programming an MVC pattern, secure and flexible and modulated back- end to designing and developing a beautiful stable and responsive front end based on skills I have acquired over the   • Blockchain  • Cryptocurrencies  • E-Commerce  • Shopify  • JavaScript  • jQuery  • Angular 1&2  • Ionic  • Cordova  • ReactJs  • HTML 5  • CSS  • Less  • SASS  • OOP  • Design Patterns  • PHP  • NodeJs  • MySQL  • Git  • Arduino  • Wordpress  • E-Commerce   • Photoshop  • Illustrator  • Flash  • UX Design  • Interaction Design  • Logo Design  • Page Layout  I've worked in many different types of environments using many different technologies. I've worked on large teams as a consultant. I've worked as the primary developer on projects. I've written custom APIs, I've developed web applications, I've designed user interfaces for uses across a myriad of industries. I've worked for Microsoft and worked on the Windows 10 user interface. I've worked as a consultant for Paramount Pictures. I've worked for Adobe. I've worked onsite, I've worked remotely. I've worked with many different defect tracking applications. I've used TDD to develop applications. I've written unit tests for legacy codebases. I've refactored legacy codebases. I've worked as a technical editor and author for O'Reilly, Manning Publications, Adison Wesley and Adobe. I've lead other developers and provided documentation and training to teams and individuals. I've given presentations at conferences on many different software engineering topics including live coding and demonstrations.  I have also participated in various open source conference and projects including Rocket.chat, WorldBrain, Blockchain. I have left behind me a trail of good reviews due to well done jobs i have done be it web, server, app, database, graphic design, utility and tools programs to accomplish specific tasks. I do not code for money, I code because I love what I do, I know how to work in teams as well as work alone and mastered time management.    Work with me and I promise you will not be disappointed. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End JS Angular, React and SDK Developer QuickBlox September 2018 to June 2019 Quickblox is an internet communication provider. They provide customized Chat and WebRTC services for easy ad-ons to websites or standalone service. So, I was to build samples showing full usage of the functionalities of their JS SDK with various JavaScript Frameworks   • I built the debugged the current Chat JS Sample   • I built the Chat Sample in ReactJS   • I built the WebRTC Sample in ReactJS   • I built the Chat sample in AngularJS 6+   • I built the WebRTC Sample in AngularJS 6+   • Added Features to the JS SDK   • Implemented these features in ReactJS, JS, AngularJS.   • I was part of the Technical Department for solving bugs reported by Customers.  Software Engineer (Blockchain) Swypto Exchange - Los Angeles, CA November 2016 to February 2018 Swypto Exchange is a crypto currency exchange platform, and i had a remote job here to work on most of the system as what i met was only the ui. So i had to setup the back end and connect it to the front end with api. These tasks included  • Configuring A database  • Cloning a crypto currency (Litecoin)  • Setting up payment gatways  • Echange Logic    Even though these tasks where challenging but as a hardworking developer i made sure I completed these tasks on my contract correctly and promptly leaving a smile on my employer's face. Front End Developer Sendape February 2016 to August 2016 • Amongst the first three developers in this startup which grew massively in functionality during my stay.  • Refactored all the front end code to utilize a REST API.  • Developed an analytics module using python and LeafletJS which logs the activities performed by users on the Sendape platform.  • Built the user interfaces for a great majority of the functionalities that were added. Lead Developer Black Apple Studio - Pacifica, CA May 2015 to December 2015 • Built and maintained the client area of the Claim Social Authority platform from scratch using Laravel 4.  • Built and Documented a REST API for the platform.  • Integrated the platform with 3 rd party API’s like Mailgun, Paypal, Payfast, Youtube and Alexa which helped to increase revenue by more than 300%. Full Stack Web Developer MaatWebsite January 2015 to March 2015 I was a vital part of the engineering scrum team responsible for creating and maintaining an enterprise KYC (Know your Customer) management solution using Laravel 5, Docker, AngularJs, Microservices, jQuery Datatables, MySQL, Web Sockets, RabbitMQ and PHPUnit for tests. Designed and built a monitoring module for managing alerts from a 3rd party organization (GBR). Software Developer( Front/Back End Developer) Emologicx - Brooklyn, NY February 2014 to December 2014 Started Doing front end development and i am able to think creatively and designe and code a beautiful stable and responsive front end interfaces not leaving out animations and other factors that improve user experience with the following technologies which I have mastered HTML5, CSS3, Sass, Less JavaScript including AngularJs, VanilaJs, Jquery, Android Studio and other small libraries that pop up to solve a particular problem on client side like offline usabality with serviceworkers.    Four Month later i was a able to think strategically and configure an Apache server over SSL and and installing security certificates for https, based on PHP, then later NodeJS and currently Python. Write modular and reusable code using and maintaning frameworks that employ the MVC paradigm and able to manage a MySQL database and a No-SQL database like MongoDB, Pouch, SQLite for android,    I have done a lot of creative high res graphic designing from posters, to advert billboards, to pictures, mini videos, logos using powerful software from the Adobe Family like Photoshop, After Effects and Illustrator.    My other skills include Block chaining a new digital paradigm used for a decentralized information system. Automation, able to write pieces of utility tools to carry out automaton process like Data migration, that safely migrate data from one point to another in an automated manner, Text analyzer using regular expressions to read texts and emails and pull out some information.    I am time concious diligent and carry out my tasks perfectly not because of money obligations but because I love what i do. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering University of Buea - Buea 2010 to October 2014 Skills PHP (6 years), JSON (5 years), Javascript (6 years), Java (4 years), NodeJS (4 years), Blockchain (3 years), C, Embedded, Linux, Python, C#, Laravel (3 years), Git, MYSQL, CSS, ASP, Android, HTML 5, Jquery, React, Angular, Node, Front-End, Front End, Bootstrap, CSS3, UI Certifications/Licenses Laravel Certification April 2018 to Present I have successfully completed the test requirements on April 16th 2018 and demonstrated the knowledge and skills to be recognized as a Certified Laravel Developer.