Remote Mysql database/web admin Remote Mysql database/web admin Full Stack Web Engineer and Graphics Designer Lanham, MD It might seem strange that I get excited thinking about data, codes, colors, typography and cascading style sheets, but my passion for all aspects of graphic design and web technologies has remained strong throughout my 7-year career. I am very interested in the graphic design, web design, engineering, research and anything in between.     My background includes corporate, agency and freelance graphic design and web development experience, with a history of leading print, interactive and digital design dynamic web projects to acclaimed completion.     Highlights of my skills include:    Print and Digital Graphic Design  Database setup and management for E-commerce projects.  Website, UX and GUI Design  Packaging Design  Adobe Premiere    I am backed by a BSC in Computer Science and proficiencies in Adobe Creative Suite, HTML, HTML5, CSS, WordPress, PHP, MySql and a range of other design, video, web, wireframe and multimedia software. Work Experience Remote Mysql database/web admin ALAS INC - Hyattsville, MD November 2017 to Present Update and maintain Mysql databases, implement marketing strategy on front end to drive in more sales. Remote Digital Marketer and Web Administrator ALAS INC - Hyattsville, MD June 2016 to Present Provide on-demand social media graphics designs, prints designs, Wordpress sites updates and management, E-mail marketing, newsletter designs, data and E-commerce support for time sensitive and  complex projects as well as routine duties. SENIOR PHP AND MYSQL ENGINEER Codelab LLC - Bladensburg, MD August 2015 to Present 08/2015 - present    • Enhance existing database development practices and processes driving engagement, adoption, and automation for our clients.  • Work jointly with frontend developers along with other team members to set up objectives, as well as design cohesive,  functional script.  • Work with MySQL, analyzing and constructing performant queries.  • Construct performant MySQL statements to debug or correct data when required.  • Following agile development practices, have experience with iterative solution development (working within a Scrum team environment).  • Experience with PHP MVC frame work.  • Think strategically, creatively and innovatively using sound judgment and technical skills.  • Design and implement capabilities around data governance, compliance management, security, and reporting.  • Collaborate with team members to perform database upgrades, implement logical replication, etc  • Consult and participate in the deployment, configuration, monitoring, and ongoing operations of relational and non- relational database services.  • Develop database schemas and related application architecture alongside product development teams.  • Tune database performance through query plan optimization, indexes, etc  • Work with Software Engineers, Product Managers, and Quality Assurance Analysts to diagnose and resolve technical  issues.  • Work with Agile development teams to ensure smooth promotion of code to production.  • Effectively communicate and engage with all service stakeholders both internal and external.  • Support our client's after sales issues. FRONT END DEVELOPER & E-COMMERCE STRATEGIST(UX/UI) Codelab LLC - Bladensburg, MD August 2015 to January 2018 Build, modify and maintain web applications with HTML/CSS/JavaScript, ensuring compatibility, accessibility, and visual  fidelity across multiple browsers and platforms  • Advise engineering & business stakeholders on best practices, compatibility issues and tradeoffs  • Augment development tooling to improve software quality, iteration speed, and maintainability using modern  technologies like Grunt.  • Bridge the gap between engineering and product, working equally well with Designers and Project Management  • Write clean, tested, and well-structured code.  • Develop, maintain and improve front- end testing suites (functional, visual, and integration) to protect against regressions and ensure project stability. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology - Kumasi November 2005 to November 2010 Skills Front End, UI, Javascript, React, Front-End, Node, CSS3, HTML5, Angular, Bootstrap