Student Programmer Student Programmer Student Programmer - University of Central Missouri Warrensburg, MO Work Experience Student Programmer University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO January 2019 to Present • Worked on development of OMMM Application for Chemistry Students.  • We used JIRA to manage the project.  • Utilised linechart's of d3.js for data drill and enhanced the streaming performance.  • This is standalone application that is being enhanced using C#. Safety App, Student Programmer University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO August 2018 to December 2018 • Worked on development of Safety App for Students.  • Designed and Developed native mobile apps using react native components and libraries.  • Established and maintained a library of UI assets with versioning in Git repository  • Utilized React Navigation for routing and passing data between screens.  • Utilized React native components like Images, height, width, text input, flex box for development of new features Trainee .NET Developer VLS Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2017 to July 2018 • Worked on front end as well as backend programming of the project.  • Worked on SQL stored procedures that are used in ASP.net code  • Developed code to improve efficiency using jQuery  • Performed unit testing after developing the code.  • Collaborated with team to work on ITRM development server Front End Developer Edutor Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2017 to May 2017 Partnerships: Samsung, Samsung Edusdk and Microsoft office 365  • Worked on IGNITOR(E-Learing) application development  • Developed UI code using jQuery, HTML and CSS  • Developed code using jQuery.ui elements  • Followed agile methodology and software development life cycle  • Tested the application after development Developer Filtering Unwanted Messages in Social Network - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2016 to March 2016 • Developed Java application on Online Social Networks  • Performed database operations using JDBC  • Developed Java code for filtering messages  • Collaborated with team to understand and learn the work    Internship Intern in Coign iSpeak, Tarnaka, Telangana - IN February 2015 to August 2015 • Developed windows application that speaks for user surfing internet.  • Developed code using C#.net.  • Presented daily progress of project work to the team lead  • Collaborated with team to understand and learn the work Education Bachelors of Technology in Computer Science in Computer Science Satyam Learning Campus Institute of Engineering and Technology May 2016 Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO Skills Visual studio, C#, Git, Html, Javascript