Senior Full Stack Web Developer Senior Full Stack Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full stack web developer Las Vegas, NV Creative web developer dedicated to building and optimizing the performance of user-centric, high-impact websites for nationwide. Leverage technical, analytical and problem solving skills to create dynamic, high-speed website and platforms fueling competitive advantage and revenue growth. Work Experience Senior Full Stack Web Developer BillionSchmidt Private Equity Firm - Las Vegas, NV March 2019 to Present I知 working as a full stack web developer for this company, My duties is to create and update the company projects. Making sure that the sites are responsive, clean and secure.  I知 in a close touch with the team such as graphic designers and the product manager to make sure I receive the correct and the best quality data and information I need.  I知 currently working on big project from A-Z, I知 doing the front- end side plus the back- end side to make sure i meet the requirements and the deadlines of this complex project. Front end web designer DigiGroupHoldings LLC - New York, NY October 2017 to May 2018 My duties was to make sure that all the website elements and pages to be responsive and clean.  Making sure that the code is readable by other developers, Designing Responsive web pages using HTML5, CSS3 And bootstrap.  Perform requirement analysis conversing with the clients and decide theme and layout of website.  I have learned the teamwork because most employees was overseas and i have learned more techniques to build fast and quality responsive websites.  Used the following environment: HTML, CSS, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, W ordpress, JavaScript, MVC 2, AngularJS, NodeJS, Adobe Photoshop, BootStrap. Full Stack Web Developer Ibspoint - Amman, JO November 2016 to April 2017 W as the only Full stack developer in the company, so i was responsible to build websites from scratch.  Have done over 20 full functioned websites such as online eCommerce websites, Social network websites, Portfolios for artists.  I have created complex database designs for big companies located in Dubai and i was doing proposals and meetings with our clients and i have done most kind of website categorize in the market from simple portfolio websites to complex social network websites and i was handling large amount of API'S for big companies.  I have learned how to responsible for a whole company websites and projects, and how to be professional with our clients and managers, and i have learned the team work.  Used the following environment: HTML5, HTML, CSS2/3, MVC, JavaScript, Angular JS, PHP, JQuery, BootStrap, AJAX. Full stack web developer Lozern Co - Amman, JO February 2015 to January 2016 *Almost same as IBSPoint  This company contains the following brands: GEOX, Skechers, Anta and Crooks.  W as the only Full stack developer in the company, so i was responsible to build websites from scratch.  Have done over 20 full functioned websites such as online eCommerce websites, Social network websites, Portfolios for artists.  I have created complex database designs for big companies located in Dubai and i was doing proposals and meetings with our clients and i have done most kind of website categorize in the market from simple portfolio websites to complex social network websites and i was handling large amount of API'S for big companies.  I have learned how to responsible for a whole company websites and projects, and how to be professional with our clients and managers, and i have learned the team work.  Used the following environment: HTML5, HTML, CSS2/3, MVC, JavaScript, Angular JS, PHP, JQuery, BootStrap, AJAX. Sales man Geox - Amman, JO February 2013 to January 2015 I was sales man at Geox selling goods, My job is to deal with clients, money and credit card transactions. Education Bachelor's Degree in computer science Hashemite University - Amman, JO November 2020 Skills Adobe photoshop (2 years), Ajax (5 years), Angularjs (1 year), bootstrap. (1 year), Css (5 years), databases (5 years), Html (5 years), Javascript (5 years), Jquery (5 years), PHP (5 years), Python (Less than 1 year), Unity 3d (Less than 1 year), User interface (3 years), Wordpress