Job Seeker • Possess 4+ years of professional experience in web and multimedia designing, web front end coding, web development, SEO/SEM.  • Extensive knowledge of current Web Standards, hand-coding of HTML CSS3, HTML5, DIV based HTML (Tableless) custom backgrounds, Print design, ecommerce templates, Online advertising, web analytics, social media, Image optimization.  • Developed Responsive Web site based on client need to support mobile devices to using Bootstrap.  • Developed navigation, animation, buttons, icons and wireframe creation.  • Responsible for the design and development of web sites and web applications through the use of Photoshop, Dreamweaver.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links, W3C validation, troubleshooting and problem solving.  • Website Portfolio located at www.jinal.info Work Experience Sheath INC - Franklin Square, NY March 2012 to Present Responsibility:  • Working with CSS3/ HTML5, DreamweaverCS5 to create elegant template using for eBAY Listings, Ink Frog Listings and Amazon.    • Handling different eBAY account for the company and also using Adobe Photoshop to create the desired photos for the product which mainly sells on eBAY and Amazon.    Environment,: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Adobe Photoshop, DreamweaverCS5, MySQL. RDBMS, Windows XP. Front End Web Developer Absolute Solutions International - Ahmedabad, Gujarat January 2007 to December 2009 Responsibility:  • Worked with the team of developers to follow complete software development life cycle and builttrusting relationships with designers, programmers and clients.  • Used hand coding in CSS, Java Script, and HTML technologies to develop and design UI application.  • Designed, developed web sites using JavaScript, CSS, HTML on cross browser platform.  • Designed interactive web pages for e-commerce module and generated Tableless (DIV based) web page layout using MVC framework.  • Performed quality assurance testing and validation of forms and different websites.  • Used HTTP protocol to transfer the data from client to server computer.  • Used Bugzilla software to file and document bugs.  • Worked with the team of developers to follow complete software development life cycle and collaborated with designers, back end programmers and analysts.    Environment: HTML CSS, JavaScript, Adobe Photoshop, MySQL. Windows XP. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology Gujarat University - Gujarat, IN Master in Computer Science Bridgeport University Links http://www.jinal.info Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Designing Softwares Adobe Photoshop CS5, Dreamweaver, MS office, Web developer toolbar, Fire bug  Programming languages HTML5/CSS3,XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Fluid Grid (Responsive Web Design)  Operating Systems Win XP/7 & 8, Win Server2000/2003  Database Systems  MS SQL server My SQL, MS Office, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), SQL Server Business Intelligence Studio (BIDS), Enterprise Manager    Online Marketing SEO, Google analytics, Email marketing, Social Media(Facebook, Twitter etc), Blogging, Link building,