Front- end Developer - Project <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Project Front- end Developer - Project - Aquinas Healthcare Somerset, NJ • Over 3 years of Information Technology experience in Web Application development and  User Interface(UI) as Front- end Developer in various domains includes Insurance, E-  commerce and Health Care.  • Proficient in developing modern Single Page Application(SPA) using AngularJS and  Angular 2.  • Expertise in creating web applications using HTML4/5, JavaScript (ES6, Typescript),  XML, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery and other frameworks, such as AngularJS and  Angular2.  • Experience in handling JSON parsing along with AJAX calls to render the web pages  with dynamic content.  • Extensive experience in Bootstrap and Media queries to create quick, responsive and  consistent websites.  • Hands-on experience in MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework using AngularJS.  • Good knowledge in various design patterns such as Prototype, Proxy, Singleton, Factory.  • Have hand-on experience in design and create NoSQL database for example MongoDB.  • Good experience in consuming RESTful Web Services to implement AJAX call and  updating dynamic functionality of HTML in JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Expertise in advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as jQuery, Angular JS,  Angular2, Node.JS and Object-Oriented Programing in JS.  • Skilled at creating controllers, models, filters and services using Angular JS.  • Skilled at creating component, router and services by Angular2.  • Familiar with mainstream browser developing debugging tools/plugins such as Chrome  Inspector and Firebug and IE Tester.  • Experience in using the testing tools Karma/Jasmine.  • Experience in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases in Agile, including  Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing.  • Proficient in version control tool such as Git.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, quick learner, self-motivated, ability to  work individually, capable to work under pressure and as well as in a team environment  with good team spirit. Work Experience Front- end Developer - Project Aquinas Healthcare - Springfield, NJ May 2017 to Present E-Health Care Application  Aquinas's team of professionals is dedicated to provide the most compassionated and reliable  home healthcare.  In this project, E-Health Care provides solutions for physicians and customers in order to improve communication between consumers and their healthcare providers. The system is  implemented with various functionalities such as making an appointment, showing  customers' summary, paying bills and health evaluation based on customers information etc.  Responsibilities:  • Utilized Agile/Scrum development methodologies to manage the development life-cycle.  • Implemented the presentation layer for the application using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap  and Angular 2.  • Created slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus, tab navigation and responsive web design using CSS3, Bootstrap and jQuery.  • Used Angular 2 Component, Pipes and Service to deploy dynamic doctors' information  and Router handle multiple view of web contents.  • Created custom directives and custom filters built in $http service from controller using  Dependency Injection features.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process  web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Used RESTful Web Service which support JSON and XML to access back- end data  payload.  • Used JSON for data exchange between client and server and AJAX to reduce the load of network and update the certain components of website.  • Used Express Router in Node.JS to get user order history information, and sent as input  jQuery Fusion charts to create rich UI reports for visualization.  • Developing API using MVC framework for logic and exposed business.  • Helped to developed stores procedures, triggers, functions and database tables in Mongo  DB.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various  browsers.  • Involved in TDD for developing and performing test cases using Karma/Jasmine.  • Use Git as distributed version control and file management system.    Environment:  HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, Angular 2 2.0.0, Angular JS 1.5.6, Bootstrap 3.1, jQuery, Ajax,  JSON, Node.JS, GIT, Karma/Jasmine, Mongo DB, Agile. Front- end Developer - Project New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ September 2016 to April 2017 Customer Service Application  Tomlinson Insurance Agency is located in Chillicothe, OH and is independently owned and locally operated to handle customer insurance needs.  This project mainly focused on developing responsive web platforms for customers where customers can make online requesting quote, modify quotes, provide the more insurance  types, make payments and review customer information.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with team based on Agile/Scrum methodology to develop the system.  • Used HTML5, Bootstrap Grid System and CSS3 Media Queries to develop single  responsive application in all platforms like desktop's tablet's and mobile phones.  • Worked on user interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript DOM manipulation, jQuery  and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Created AngularJS components like controllers, Services, Directives to collect user data  and implement from validation in Angular.  • Utilized AngularJS in built directives for implement costumed directives and used in creating multi page view using templates and Ng-route.  • Involved in creating AJAX calls using AngularJS to handle data operations including  ordering and filtering to improve functionality.  • Used AngularJS $http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Used Node.JS to run Web pack tasks and build properly the project.  • Implemented modules into Node.JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Implemented event handling logic using jQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using AJAX, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Involved in implementation queries to the back- end MongoDB database to implement the GET/POST functionality for JSON contracts.  • Used Jasmine to do unit testing and kept JavaScript Programming functionally  • Used GIT to control version update and manage project.    Environment:  HTML 5, CSS 3, AngularJS 1.3.11, Bootstrap 3.1, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, JSON,  MongoDB, GIT, Jasmine and Agile. Front- end Developer - Project New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ January 2016 to July 2016 Shop Online Application  All World Furniture Inc. has one of the largest modern contemporary furniture showrooms with attached warehouse in the San Jose.  In order to give customers a rich set interface shopping service, the system was added many  new features. (like more shopping products, holiday discount, shopping cart, different  payment method, order management and customer information)  Responsibilities:  • Worked with team based on Agile/Scrum methodology to develop the system.  • Designed and developed user interface using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript libraries.  • Developed custom directives and created Angular JS services to consume in controllers.  • Responsible for the overall layout design, create a responsive webpage and implement  dynamic features by using Bootstrap.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Involved in JavaScript coding for validations and passing attributes from one screen to another.  • Used JSON and AJAX to get response from server and multiple aspects of the website to improve functionality.  • Responsible for managing the interchange of data between the serves and users using  Node.JS.  • Called the RESTful web service calls for Post, Put, Delete and Get methods.  • Used GIT to control version update and manage project.    Environment:  HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, Angular JS 1.2.0, Bootstrap, Node.JS, jQuery Front- end Developer - Project Alibaba Networking Technology - Hangzhou, CN September 2014 to July 2015 Online Payment Application  In this project, online payment enables customers to login and view their mortgage related  information like viewing past monthly payments, make one-time payments, set-up recurring  payments, modifying payment amounts or scheduling future payments.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile Methodology based approach to UI Development.  • Extensive use of Angular JS for developing the SPA (Single Page Applications) for internal application/tool.  • Involved in design and development of UI component, which includes frameworks such as JavaScript and jQuery in conjunction with HTML4/5, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Implemented JavaScript module patterns using asynchronous script loading.  • Extensively involved in writing JavaScript / jQuery Ajax call to retrieve the data from the back- end then display on the screen in a well-organized way.  • Implement Singleton, Factory design pattern based on the application requirements.  • Implemented JavaScript module patterns using asynchronous script loading.    Environment:  HTML 4/5, CSS 3, Bootstrap 3.1, JavaScript, jQuery, Agile Education M.S in Electrical and Computer Engineering New Jersey Institute of Technology Information Technology Hangzhou Electrical Technology University in China Skills AJAX. (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), Git (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), jQuery. (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies Angular 2, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, Node.JS,  Bootstrap  Languages JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3    Web Design Pattern Singleton, Factory, Proxy, Prototype    Database/Servers MongoDB    Management Tools Git    Testing Tools Karma, Jasmine    Operating Systems Mac OS, Windows    Methodologies Agile Methodology