Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer New York, NY • Have almost 3 years of experience in developing web applications using all the latest and greatest web technologies like HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, Bootstrap, ANGULAR JS, JQUERY, JSON, XML.  • Proficient in developing web applications using HTML5, CSS3.  • Proficient in JavaScript, jQuery & Angular JS.  • Experience in implementing web application using Angular JS framework.  • Experience with IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, Notepad++.  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects.  • Design and developed Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Experience with object oriented JavaScript, problem-solving and analysis.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Animations.  • Good experience in building cross browser compatibility applications using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Experience in Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle phases like AGILE methodology, Test driven development.  • Knowledge on server side CSS preprocessors like LESS, SASS and have knowledge on Adobe Photoshop.  • Good understanding of developing application from scratch.  • Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team.  • Capable of learning any new technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer Excelacom software - INDIA February 2012 to November 2014 It provides consultancy for software development and implementation, support for web site development and maintenance, services for setting up an Intranet. It has successfully carried out several software development projects. I involved in developing web pages for clients ranging from small business to corporate sector.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in the full life cycle of the software design process including requirements definition, design, interface implementation, unit testing, and maintenance.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML/HTML5, XHTML, DOM, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Jquery, Angular Js, JSON, and Ajax.  • Utilized the HTML5 DOM local storage features to store data locally client side processing.  • Involved in redesigning the entire site with CSS styles for the consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  • Designed & implemented web pages that are compatible in mobile, web, tablet with cross browser compatibility across several browsers.  • Analyzed and optimized pages for maximum performance.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Responsible for making responsive web pages including mobiles devices using bootstrap and media queries.  • Developed web pages which are more responsive by using CSS framework called Bootstrap.  • Web application development using Angular JS with cutting edge of HTML5 and CSS3 technologies.  • Used Angular JS MVC framework in the development of the web applications.  • Designed single page applications by using Angular JS.  • For new website features wrote Angular controllers, views, and services.  • Developed and used Angular bindings for various scripting tasks in Angular js.  • Developed and executed test data for unit, functional and user acceptance testing to assure quality project deliverables.  • Performed deployment during testing and development.  • Involved in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization techniques (SEO), which increases the performance and security of the application.  • Used AJAX calls through Angular JS to populate the data tables on the front- end.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Designed and developed JavaScript frame work which is a wrapper on top of Jquery frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  • Developed asynchronous communication by using AJAX, which loads the particular component of webpages, without reloading the entire page.  • Utilized CSS preprocessor libraries for developing CSS functions and reducing repetitive CSS files.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in developing web services RESTful for communicating client with the remote server, by using HTTP methods.  • Followed Agile methodology for developing the application.  • Participated in the status meetings and status updating to the management team.    ENVIRONMENT:  HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Less, JavaScript, Angular, Angular UI, jQuery, bootstrap, AJAX, Angular JS, grunt, JSON, bower, MAVEN, Jenkins, J2EE, JSON, GIT, Mongo DB, Agile, Java. Education Masters in Computer Information Systems California University of Management and Sciences June 2016 Skills Adobe Photoshop Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XHTML and JSON.  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows and Mac.  JavaScript Libraries JQuery, AngularJS  Debugging Tools Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools, IE Developer Tools.