SQA SQA San Jose, CA Seeking a Business Analyst Opportunity to apply my experience from different phases of product development, to enhance my skill sets, and to contribute to the team's success in accomplishing business goals.  • Good knowledge of Agile SDLC, QA methodologies and tools, development processes.  • Effective team member with excellent work/time management skills, excellent leadership, communication skills and ability to work under strict deadlines.  • Experience working in different phases of SDLC, analyzing business requirements, identifying gaps.  • Quick learner and organized in utilizing resources effectively.  • Self-motivated, able to work independently and in teams; can handle multiple projects while paying attention to details; accomplished problem solving and analytical skills. Work Experience SQA Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA June 2015 to Present Pleasanton, CA June 2015 - Present  Tested various functionalities of KP's Responsive appointment center module for web/tablet/mobile and certified it to the business for a pilot release. Played a crucial role in making sure the rules defined by the business are met and identified gaps if there are any.    Responsibilities:  • Actively contributed in weekly iteration planning and user story grooming sessions with business users.  • Analyze and validated Business requirements, identified gaps in requirements and assured the gaps are met as per design.  • Participated in Agile Ceremonies and code review sessions, helped co-workers in project setup.  • Prepared for and presented screencasts/videos for weekly stakeholder demos to showcase the work accomplished by the team.  • Identified, logged, and worked with business teams to validate and prioritize defects.  • Hands on experience with Mac OSX, web and android, iPhone, device testing, ADA and Accessibility testing.  • Developed test scenarios, test plans and test cases for Functional UI, regression testing.  • Developed automation suites compatible with all browsers. Used developer tools to view and debug HTML, DOM and JavaScript errors. Front End Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX September 2013 to May 2015 Developed a web application for internal users of the company. Collaborated with Business teams to define business requirements, prioritize user stories and size stories appropriately by providing technical inputs.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered user requirements from business SME (Subject Matter Experts).  • Actively contributed in Iteration Planning and grooming Session with business users.  • Provided technical input during the user requirements analysis.  • As part of an Agile team, actively participated in story level grooming sessions to appropriately size user stories.  • Suggested business editing Acceptance criteria based on technical possibilities.  • Identified solutions to problems encountered when meeting business requirements.  • Involved in building interactive portable widgets for internal users using HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery/Angular and the latest AJAX libraries.  • Developed web application compatible with all browsers. Used Firebug, chrome developer tools to view and debug HTML, DOM and JavaScript errors. Education Master in Business Administration in Business Administration Silicon Valley University - San Jose, CA 2011 to 2013 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Testing Tools: AMP, firebug, XPath, HPQC, Perfecto, Eclipse, Selenium Webdriver.  • Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows, MAC OS X, Ubuntu.  • GUI Tools: MS Office, Adobe Photoshop.  • Requirement Management: Rally, Jira, Share point.  • Languages: JavaScript, Java, HTML, CSS, SQL.