UI- Developer UI-<span class="hl">Developer</span> UI- Developer - Scotts Company Columbus, OH • A very passionate Front End Developer having over 4yrs of professional experience in Developing, Testing and Implementing rich user-interface applications using modern web technologies.  • Proficient in developing a web-page/web based application quickly and effectively using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, OO-JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON. Also, in making web-pages cross browser compatible.  • Experience in developing applications using Angular JS, Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and in creating reusable components, various forms, tooltips, menus, tabs, widget that support drag and drop, animated effects, date and time selectors and many others using jQuery.  • Hands on experience with full stack software development life-cycle, object oriented programming and agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing webpages/applications using different javascript frameworks like Angular and Node JS to integrate with backend.  • Command on Angular JS controllers, directives, creating custom services with factory and service methods, routing and handling animated events.  • Strong potential in writing a highly efficient code for deployment which is well-maintainable and perfectly-documented.  • Possess good debugging skills and thorough handling of cross browser issues.  • Experience in Functional, Performance, User-Acceptance testing and creating unit test cases using Jasmine/Mocha.  • Experience working in a fast-paced environment using Agile/Scrum, TDD methodologies.  • Hands on experience in using the version controls like SVN & GIT and well versed in using Atlasssian tools like Jira, Confluence, bit-bucket etc.  • Quick and Independent learner, extremely motivated and adept at building strong working relationships with peers and management.  • Strong interpersonal abilities with excellent communication skills and ability to work independently within a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI- Developer Scotts Company - Columbus, OH April 2015 to Present Project Name: CRM Tool    Project Description:  Worked on the development of a CRM tool that had been designed and developed using Python 2.7.1, SQLAlchemy 0.7, Angular JS 1.0.1, Bootstrap 2.3.2, AJAX, JSON, and Google Cloud Services ( including Google App Engine, Google Cloud Storage, Google Datastore, Google Blob store, etc.). This same application we have developed in Android and IOS to make effectively use of the native features of these mobile platforms.    Responsibilities:  • Working closely with Team lead and other Developers to improve the existing Dashboard application which is used by the sales team.  • Responsible for building the client side UI validation and implementing the Business logic based on user selection using AngularJS and jQuery.  • Created Angular custom services using service and factory methods, directives and used various angular services like $rootScope, $modal, $location, $q, geoLocationService, $filter, roleAccessService as dependencies.  • Developed a search field functionality based on the store selection in different territories in angular and styling it with rich user-interface design.  • Worked on storing the data on the client side using LocalStorageService of angular and Local Storage in javascript which is very useful in retaining the data when the app is refreshed or closed accidentally.  • Worked on JS moment object to modify the dates, to calculate the duration of times and to display various dates and times in different format according to the client requirement.  • Implemented different styles and layouts using Bootstrap and CSS3 for easy and best display of data.  • Developed grid Layout using Bootstrap grid classes and also tested for different media-queries.  • In order to manage routing to specific states in the application, used resolve in Angular UI router as a best practice which allows data to be provided to the controller before it gets loaded, as a result it promotes the separation of concerns by making http and service calls asynchronously.  • Created custom factory service that relies on Angular $http injection to make Ajax calls back to a server and used RESTful web services to update and modify data at the server side.  • Integrated Raygun with the app in order to track all the client side JavaScript errors and resolved major bugs which are causing performance issues.  • Built an Automated shell script which checks all the required versions and installs any missing dependencies to minimize the stress in installing Cordova on local machines to test the application on android and iOS platforms.  • Improved on python and worked on few minor backend fixes in python.  • Deployed the App on Google App engine, tested and debugged using chrome- developer tools.  • Worked in all phases of SDLC, including requirements analysis, design and development, bug fixing, supporting QA teams and debugging production issues.  • Well Versed in using Jira to track the issues and mastered grunt with all commands. Used bower for successfully implementing the dependencies.    Environment: Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, Linux shell script. Front- End Developer JP Morgan & Chase - Columbus, OH February 2014 to April 2015 Project Name: Scrum-DV Dashboard App    Project Description:  Whole scope of the project is 'Data visualization' (Making Dashboards) which will be used throughout the Chase across all the scrum Teams level to keep track of their progress and to achieve efficient results. Front End Developer Prorize - Atlanta, GA March 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Worked on CSS to design the navigation, gradient background and used other style properties to enhance the look of the web page.  • Worked on jQuery to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML5 and JavaScript codes and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues.  • Created and performed SQL queries to fetch data from the backend database.  • Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and jQuery.  • Worked on testing the cross browser compatibility.  • Used SVN for Version Control.  • Analyze the response of JSON in order to update DOM.  • Documented the entire project, which contains detail description of all the functionalities.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.    Environment: Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX. Front End Engineer Softsol - IN April 2011 to January 2012 India    Responsibilities:  • Worked on their front- end site to give a better user interface functionality.  • Responsible in implementation of the presentation layer (GUI) for the application using HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on JavaScript DOM manipulation and picked up on jQuery.  • Using jQuery developed simple nav bars and other features by using multiple jQuery selectors.  • Designed and developed UI Search and results screens for legal Professionals.  • Developed the Login, Policy and Claims Screens for customers using AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Interacted with business system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the project.  • Involved in developing test plan and procedures.  • Migrating legacy applications to multi-tiered web applications.  • Developed web pages with functionalities like login, register, forget password, Email, Filters using JavaScript, jQuery and HTML.  • Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and pop up screens and used HTML to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user requests.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Debugging webpages with firebug and fixing issues.  • Testing browser compatibility and addressing browser compatibility issues.  • Optimizing SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Perform code review with peers to ensure code optimization and web optimization techniques are followed.    Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AJAX, SQL. Front End Developer Intergraph April 2010 to August 2010 • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design to improve the User interface of the web page.  • Converted the Photoshop mockups in to hand-written HTML and CSS pages.  • Developed an internal web portal for listing of different Distribution boards and information of different customer details.  • Using JavaScript, developed a logic to add the user data linked to their email-address into the portal which has edit and delete options on that.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible on all the major browsers like Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, jQuery, JSON.  JS Frameworks Angular JS, Node JS.  Programming Languages JavaScript, Embedded C, VHDL, C, Linux Shell scripting, Python.  GUI editors Visual Studio, Py-charm, Eclipse IDE, Sublime Text