FRONT- END DEVELOPER <span class="hl">FRONT</span>-<span class="hl">END</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> FRONT- END DEVELOPER - ARCHWAY PARTNERSHIPS, INC Trumbull, CT I am looking for an opportunity that will allow me to use my passion and experience in web and mobile app development, care of UX and design while allowing me to explore and learn on a daily basis. I look forward to challenges and enjoy immersing myself in difficult web development related tasks, explore new technologies and ways to build things and improve overall code quality. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience FRONT- END DEVELOPER ARCHWAY PARTNERSHIPS, INC 2017 to Present This time main goal - websites performance, and I proposed ways to improve it, implemented some and planned for future other solutions. Team education on coding best practices, daily tickets, new features, post-release hot fixes, code reviews. New software to improve development design teams workflow and increase quality and performance to achieve greater end results in user conversion and satisfaction. FRONT- END DEVELOPER, FREELANCE Trumbull, CT 2015 to Present 06611  d remote contractor I worked with a variety of clients and companies from USA, Germany, Australia, Great Britain, Denmark, and France on different projects from simple landing pages to complex financial portals and SasS apps. Focused on responsive web (Worked for creators of Bootstrap) and high quality, fast performing styling and scripting. Created interactive pages with animated SVG's and advanced CSS Animations.    Accomplishments  - Coded a theme store template from Sketch for the Bootstrap team based on Bootstrap v4.  - Successfully converted fixed width loan website (based on Drupal) to responsive and cleaned up to increase performance. (lendme.dk)  - Coded most of the yournet.eu's websites with animated svg's, parallax, animations and other effects involving SCSS and JS. Recently started working on hybrid mobile apps for iOS and Android  - Implemented custom tiles in Jive for companies like Malwarebytes. JUNIOR FRONT- END DEVELOPER ARCHWAY PARTNERSHIPS, INC 2014 to 2015 Collaborated extensively with back end development team, quality assurance, and business units to contribute to project requirements and deliverables. Communicated with designers regarding implementation of complex UI elements, to ensure a responsive layout that displayed accurately and interacted beautifully across multiple devices and OS versions.  Accomplishments  - New features development using JSP, JavaScript, SCSS  - Brought innovative ideas to improve our web presence  - Contributed to continuous improvements by suggesting enhancements.  - Debugged and performed troubleshooting of existing code and new features.  - Post release cross browser QA to ensure all features are working as expected.    eCommerce projects:  http://wsjwine.com  http://macyswinecellar.com  http://laithwaiteswine.com FRONT- END DEVELOPER, FREELANCE 2013 to 2014 Developed lots of customer facing-web sites for small companies and local businesses utilizing my design and development skills.  Accomplishments  - Hand-coded HTML/CSS  - JavaScript/jQuery for dynamic and interactive pages  - Wordpress themes customization  - Responsive web development and design Education Bachelor in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems Rivne State Humanitarian University 2006 to 2010 Skills HTML (5 years), JavaScript (2 years), Bootstrap (4 years), CSS (5 years), jQuery (3 years), Front-End (4 years), Angular (Less than 1 year), Front End (5 years), UI (2 years), HTML5 (5 years), Sketch (3 years), Ionic (Less than 1 year), NativeScript (Less than 1 year), Angularjs Additional Information Skills  HTML, CSS, SCSS, Pug (Jade), JavaScript, jQuery, Angular, Ionic, NativeScript, Vue JS, JSP, Bootstrap 3/4, Wordpress, Drupal, Sketch/Avocode, Photoshop, Git, SVN, Jive, Gulp/Grunt, CLI, Agile, Jira, Bitbucket, SVG, Performance optimization.