Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> North Brunswick, NJ • Experienced in programming and development of computer, web-based, and mobile applications with a focus in object oriented coding.  • Completed augmented reality application that provided access to collection of items via an animated guide.  • Created an Android application that employed internet functionality to enable access by multiple clients while maintaining synchronized data on the server.  • Motivated by challenging projects and a well focused team. One aspect of being a developer that I love is leaving work at the end of the day knowing that I'm smarter than I was at the beginning of the day because of the learning I've done for a project. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front End Developer Verizon Wireless - Basking Ridge, NJ October 2015 to Present • Developed complex dynamically generated pages within tight deadlines.  • Worked with outside vendors to implement and improve how our company uses their products to increase sales.  • Improved upon the development standard of my team and documented them to improve the team’s process.  • Worked with our marketing team to expand our options for how to advertise to our customers.  • Developed new ways of using our personalization tools to dynamically market to unique audiences.  • Lead multiple initiatives (include new templating techniques and building dynamic content to reduce maintenance) to allow new functionality across our site.  • Developed a process by which we can use device data from our backend catalog to create personalized advertising.  • Received multiple awards for my performance on high priority projects for the business.  • Lead multiple site projects by coordinating with other teams and developers to ensure the deadline was met. Education B.A. in Interactive Multimedia The College of New Jersey - Ewing, NJ December 2014