Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Springfield, IL To join a top-notch team of developers with the goal of delivering cutting-edge user interface designs and successful production-ready front- end code.    To apply W3C web standards with great skill and craftsmanship in achieving the best cross-browser user experience for sake of long-term user retention and engagement.    Experience and Skills Summary    • Front end developer with 8+ years of experience in structuring, developing and implementing interactive websites, innovative use of technology and SEO to drive traffic and engage users. Able to complete projects efficiently and satisfy customers with attractive, user-friendly websites and applications.  • Keen understanding of new software trends in reference to the latest libraries and frameworks, with the UI background to comprehend how to deliver accurate information to potential clients in addition to meeting daily Scrum requirements and deadlines.  • Adept in Web application programming languages (JavaScript, AngularJS, CSS3, HTML5, AJAX, Jquery).  • Well versed with testing websites for compatibility on multiple browsers including Safari, Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Opera.  • Hands-on experience with converting websites into responsive webpages supporting various mobile devices and tablets.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) pertaining to Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Debugging, and Execution for Web Application Interfaces.  • Exceptional team player with thorough communication and troubleshooting skills with adaptability to learning and monitoring new technology trends.  • Prioritized and managed multiple tasks across multiple projects, under tight deadlines.  • Worked with backend engineers and QA to see projects through, from conception to completion.  • Assured that all user input is validated before submitting to back- end.  • Collaborated with other team members and stakeholders.  • Ensured the technical feasibility of UI/UX designs.  • Technologies Used  AngularJS, Bootstrap, Bower, Grunt, Node, Git, Jquery, SASS, CSS3, HTML5, Wordpress. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front End Developer Think Design Collaborative - Hyderabad, India October 2012 to November 2016 DURIAN  Durian one of the largest furniture brands in the country, and e-commerce being its key initiative. Design features a balance of traditional and modern, with a hint of multi-color palette.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with Bootstrap framework to build the base structure and layout of the website.  • Worked with marketing to make changes to design of web site to enable a better flow for users to download the product.  • Worked on SASS to build optimized CSS to work across multiple webpages and styles.  • Implemented video player features using HTML5 for playing in-house videos to clients.  • Collaborate with management or users to develop e-commerce strategies and to integrate these strategies with web sites.  • Worked on image optimization as the project is based on lot of images.  • Validating user actions on the client side and providing responsive feedback.  • Involved with cross browser testing and compatibility using chrome, Firefox and IE.  • Close working with the backend team to get best results.  • Check live http://www.durian.in/    Environment:  HTML5, SASS, Jquery, Bootstrap, Webstorm, Bower, Grunt, Node.    Pidilite  Pidilite is a consumer centric company committed to quality and innovation. For decades, we have been pioneering products for small to large applications, at home and industry, which have forged strong bonds with people from all walks of life.    Responsibilities:  • Created custom template with new stands of code optimization.  • Participated in requirements gathering by working closely with onshore technology team.  • Created standards for HTML & CSS class and ID naming conventions, leading to a more organized development effort.  • Participated in weekly code review meetings to improve our markup via group critique and brainstorming.  • Incorporate technical considerations into web site design plans, such as budgets, equipment, performance requirements, or legal issues including accessibility and privacy.  • Maintained schedules and assured on-time delivery of content.  • Check live http://www.pidilite.com/    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Wordpress.    LINCHPIN  Linchpin is an enterprise learning app that makes the process of learning engaging, fun and rewarding.    Responsibilities:  • Maintain understanding of current web technologies or programming practices through continuing education, reading or participation in professional conferences, workshops or groups.  • Created responsive websites using Bootstrap and Custom template for Linchpin APP.  • Created custom CSS and JavaScript to support various designs and functionality as specified by design team.  • Created CSS animations and single page presentation for the app display.  • Responsible for ensuring pattern consistency throughout all pages for appeal and brand recognition.  • Worked with team of back- end .NET developers to ensure all user interfaces maintained intended design once they were dynamic.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers.  • Check live http://www.linchpinapp.com/    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, Animation, Jquery, Jquery UI, Bootstrap, Notepad ++.    AXIS EDGE  Axis's Edge rewards portal was revamped to see through User's goals and aspirations; and connect bank's business objectives with them. Through a mobile-first approach, we shaped up the portal to be easy to use from wherever the customer is and present a Edgy, Modern and Responsive face to the customers. Axis Edge rewards: Winner of 'Champion of Champions' and Winner of 'Best Rewards program'.    Responsibilities:  • Brought the color theme from the brand and designed the layout according to the standards.  • Utilized bootstrap from creation of carousel view of the home page in addition to a contemporary pop-up modal per requesting to Login/Signup.  • Debugged all look and feel issues in the target browsers, in conjunction with quality assurance.  • Optimized websites towards a responsive format using Bootstrap and Media Queries.  • Incorporate technical considerations into web site design plans, such as budgets, equipment, performance requirements, or legal issues including accessibility and privacy.  • Maintained schedules and assured on-time delivery of content.  • Check live https://edgerewards.axisbank.com/    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Bootstrap, Dreamweaver.    BAJAJ ONE APP  Better UX by integrating 17 apps into one. BFS One App is developed exclusively for its employees, as a single window to help employees fulfill both personal & professional tasks at hand. The idea of OneApp was to house an ocean of features to meet the needs of its employees.    Responsibilities:  • My team overhauled the front- end code base, drastically improving performance and maintainability.  • Evaluate code to ensure that is valid, is property structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices or operating systems.  • Create web models or prototypes that include physical, interface, logical, or data models.  • Develop website maps, application models, image templates or page templates that meet project goals, user needs or industry standards.  • Develop system interaction or sequence diagrams.  • Create web models or prototypes that include physical, interface, logical or data models.  • Document technical factors such as server load, bandwidth, database performance and browser and device types.  • Check the app in live http://www.thinkdesign.in/work/bajaj-one-app.html    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Dreamweaver, Hybrid Mobile App, Bootstrap.    RELIANCE LIFE INSURANCE  Reliance Life Insurance is amongst the top 5 private sector life insurance companies in terms of individual WRP (weighted received premium) and new business WRP. The company is by far the largest non-bank promoted private life insurer with over 10 million policy holders, a strong distribution network of over 900 branches and over 1,00,000 advisors.    Responsibilities:  • Fostered close communication with a large development team that included .NET developers and a front- end designer to ensure that the user interface remained true to spirit in all aspects of possible data scenarios.  • Participated in a structured software development process that included sprints with daily scrums, implementing feedback from quality assurance team members, and using version control software.  • Created and implemented a custom CSS grid system, with CSS media queries for mobile responsiveness.  • Tested front- end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.  • Participated in solving user-testing issues to ensure new tools met the needs of members.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Microsoft Visual Studio.    INDIAN ART COLLECTORS  The largest online platform in India for art; and brings artists, galleries, collectors, dealers and art resellers together by way of its online user experience.    Responsibilities:  • Build out the structure and layout from the design standards.  • Created custom CSS and JavaScript to support various designs and functionality as specified by design team.  • Styled the entire registration/login process with an alternate design.  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, drop down and toggle menus, and tab navigation using jQuery.  • Responsible for ensuring pattern consistency throughout all pages for appeal and brand recognition.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Responsive, Browser Compatibility, Dreamweaver.    ZETA MAIL  Research and UX Design for marketing automation platform.    Responsibilities:  • Developed standard wireframes and architecture agenda by shadowing projects in the IT department.  • Analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Writing non-blocking and concise, easy to read code, resorting to advanced techniques such as multi-threading, when needed.  • Planned and implemented huge modules in a standards way.  • Being 100% desktop use application, it wasn't needed to design the layout for mobiles.  • Component-based development.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Browser Compatibility, Photoshop, Dreamweaver. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru University - Hyderabad, Telangana