UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Southwest Dallas, TX • Strong knowledge of Front- End Development Frameworks for designing compatible cross- browser applications for browsers and portable devices.  • Experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making web pages cross browser compatible.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, Node.js, Angular.js, React JS, Responsive design.  • Experienced in using various IDEs like Eclipse, Edit plus, Sublime text, Notepad++ and Microsoft Visual.  • Expertise on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  • Extensive experience on implementing AJAX features using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed Graphical User Interface (GUI) to display report data using JQuery in Cross-browser compatibility and Web application scaling.  • Resolved cross-browser issues and web site usability issues worked on modern browsers like Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, Safari and IE. Worked closely with the product, QA teams and support UI implementation efforts.  • Developed UI using JQuery and JavaScript Library for Web Application and Mobile Application.  • Created User Interfaces for Mobile/Tablet/Desktop using HTML5 & CSS3.  • Strong HTML5/CSS3 skills with solid knowledge of usability, accessibility and cross browser issues.  • Extensively developed Rich Internet Applications and various UI widgets using JQuery.  • Experience with Object oriented programming concepts, Data Structures.  • Experience in designing UI patterns and UI applications using JavaScript framework, used tools like Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4, Adobe Fireworks CS3 and Adobe Illustrator CS3. Work Experience UI Developer Southwest - Dallas, TX January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working as a UI Developer, assisting my team in developing two different Web-based applications.  • Used the functionalities HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Node JS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON and Bootstrap in creating UI pages.  • Refactored and enhanced an existing Angular JS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance which resulted in 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spin up and enhanced performance.  • Used Angular JS as a framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server,  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular JS, Node JS and Bootstrap.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing Responsive Design & Themes using front end development frameworks, including Bootstrap as well as PHOTO SHOP. Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using the Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using the Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Used Bootstrap front- end framework for faster and easier web development.  • Extensively used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes. Used JQuery to make RESTful API calls and Designed/documented REST APIs for collection and retrieval of high data.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS implemented.  • HTML5 and CSS3 latest tags are used to design the web pages and HTML local storage web applications are used to store data.  • Extensively used Node.JS to achieve MVC architecture to control the flow of the application and decouple the views from the business logic.  • Used Eclipse IDE and JSON for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Implemented JavaScript source code embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and callback functions.  • Worked on various two different projects, writing HTML, CSS and JavaScript based on provided designs to get web sites and web applications built within a team atmosphere.  • Developed Custom Directives to be reused across different modules in the application.  • Worked with Twitter Bootstrap framework making use of grids, advance components like Navs, Navbars, Pagination, Alerts, Progress bars etc.  • Developed source code to consume JSON response received through XHR/AJAX calls using JQuery.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Node.js, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio, Backbone.js, MySQL, Photoshop, Firebug. Front End UI Developer Motorist's insurance group - Columbus, OH August 2016 to December 2017 Project Name: Business Application  Description: We worked on Multi-user permission strategy, a technical solution to prevent insider threat problems. The framework uses a hierarchical structure of the employees in the organization such that if any user requires access to certain classified information, the framework selects a set of approvers randomly and sends the request to those approvers who are authorized to grant permissions. Implemented an application based on this framework to accomplish the goal and a thorough performance analysis is conducted to arrive at result.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile Methodology environment.  • Developed UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Backbone.JS and AJAX.  • Designed and developed the user interfaces with various tools and implemented ASP.NET validation controls, Java Script, JQuery, CSS for server and client- side validations respectively.  • Implemented the responsive Web designs using the SASS CSS preprocessor, CSS3 media queries, and Bootstrap.  • Used the latest HTML5elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, React.js, Jasmine, Karma, RESTFUL API Services and JSON.  • Integrating Reacts Redux framework to scale and maintain the application better while handling large amounts of data.  • Consumed REST based Micro services with Rest template based on Restful APIs.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website that fit all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone.  • Designed graphics, buttons, and logos for the website to enhance the application features for the user.  • Used Angular.JS to create custom directives for navigation bar, sidebar filters for patient data, strict filters for exact match search and other re-usable sections.  • Used $http with Angular.JS interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used UI-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  • Leveraged two- way data binding through $scope in applications built on Angular.JS and implemented different validation control on the web-pages using Angular.JS.  • In React Js developed efficient updating of HTML document when data changes and it's a Single Page Application.  • Worked with several React elements, react node and React components in React Dom technology (React.JS)  • Created Menus and Drawer component by using Typescript and React.js.  • Used React-Redux to set State and props between Parent and child component.  • Responsible for implementing UI mockups, integrating third party REACT libraries, and handling/creating redux store data.  • Use Flux & Reflux to manage your data in React and Make HTTP requests in React & Flux.  • Created React JS components using JSX, followed FLUX design pattern for unidirectional data flow.  • Involved in customizing the JSX files for rendering the UI in implementing React JS.  • Used Backbone.js for Fetching Data from the Server by giving URL to get JSON data for model and to populate model from the server. Captured the details and specifics of the website design via storyboards for prototyping.  • Implemented Backbone.js and React.js to create a dynamically changing website.  • Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tool and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions.  • Used Grunt for JavaScript files concatenation and minify to improve performance in loading web pages.  • Worked with Jasmine and Mocha in testing and performed Unit testing and execution testing utilizing JUNIT.  • Build micro services for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  • Tested pages for cross browser compatibility for Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE by cross browser hacks and requirements.  • Created test suites using Jasmine, karma and worked on tools like NPM, Bower with respect to the requirements.  • Coordinated with the teams for QA / UAT and issue tracking and bug fixing.  • Used JIRA for the bug tracking and project management.  • Involved in AGILE process, two-week Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application to deliver in time.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.js 2.0, Typescript, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, Backbone.js, React.js, XML, JSON, Responsive design, Redux, Visual Studio, Grunt, Agile, Jira, Azure, IE 6, 7, 8 9 10, Firefox, Chrome. Skills AJAX (3 years), HTML (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), jQuery (3 years), JSON (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages JavaScript, JSX, ES6, C  JavaScript Library and Frameworks Angular JS 1.x/2.0/4.0/5, React.JS, Redux. JS, JQuery, Node JS, Express JS  Web Technologies HTML 4/5, CSS2/3, AJAX, XML, JSON  Project Build/Management Tools Web pack, Babel, Loadash.JS  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall  Version Control SVN (tortoise SVN), GitHub, Jira, Bitbucket  Workflow Responsive Web Design, Single Page Applications, Content Management.  Debugging Tools Firebug, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar  Operating Systems Windows (7, 8, 10), Mac OS, Linux/Unix  Database MONGODB, SQL Server