Senior Front- End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front- End Developer Princeton, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front- End Developer Sprint - Reston, VA May 2017 to August 2018 Project: This project is to build a part of the Sprint online shopping system. Our team designs the products exhibition and customer service systems. The customers have a unique token to access their accounts and choose products (phone plans, contract phone or web service etc.) online. Customer service team can also use token to help customers with their orders.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in a team to create SPAs utilizing ReactJS to communicate with RESTful web services for maintaining and managing order tracking system.  • Developed the main layouts and navigations using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Created Single Page Application (SPA) using react-router for login system and used Axios to retrieve and post data between frontend and backend.  • Implemented Redux along with react for states maintain. Created actions and reducers to pass stateless data around components.  • Implemented Responsive web design using Media Query and Flex-box with the help of React-strap, React-select.  • Used Higher Order Components (HOC) to make components reusable and added more functionalities to components as well.  • Utilized React Lifecycle methods at different phases to make the request, change states, increase efficiency and catch errors.  • Added redux-thunk as middleware and original store. Used dispatch and getState to handle different actions.  • Added dynamic functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  • Worked with ECMA Script 6 features. Used Babel and webpack to build JSX and ES2015(ES6).  • Used Stripe as plug-in software for online e-commerce store checkout.  • Utilized debugging tools such as Chrome inspector and React and Redux Devtools extensions to fix issues and bugs.  • Implemented remote integration with 3rd party platforms by using RESTful services.  • Used JIRA to deal with the Agile development environment and solve the issues from UAT environment.  • Used SourceTree, Git version control.  • Cooperated with QA, manager and the team members to test for the browser compatibility issues and implement cross-browser accessible interfaces.    Environment:  React JS, Redux, Babel, NodeJS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, RWD, NPM, jQuery, GIT, Agile, Scrum. Senior Front- end Developer Lincoln Property Company - Dallas, TX April 2016 to March 2017 Project: Lincoln Property is a commercial real estate firm offering a comprehensive suite of value-added services for clients. Our project is to design and refine the client service system. It can be used to manage customer service and allow internal employees to receive, manage and sort residents' message. We used framework Angular 2 to design and develop all front- end features and cooperate with back- end developers to exhibit available rental houses for future residents.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture with Angular 2 and separated functions into different modules according to their purposes.  • Developed Front- End of web application with HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular2.  • Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle, analyzed, designed, implemented and tested an E-commercial platform.  • Worked on all the latest angular concepts such as service, custom directives, components etc.  • Implemented Angular 2 code to handle cross-browser compatibility issues in Chrome, IE, Safari and Firefox.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Designed the agent portal using framework angular 2 along with HTML and CSS3 new features like the multi-column layout.  • Implemented responsive web design and mobile-friendly design using Bootstrap grid system and CSS media query.  • Performed various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript and Angular 2 custom directives.  • Used the D3.js library for data visualization on the external and internal web pages.  • Optimized a website with Bootstrap to provide mobile device user a smooth, responsive and friendly experience.  • Used AJAX call for data transmission between front- end and back- end services.  • Transformed values display within a template by using Pipes of Angular2.  • Cooperated with QA, manager and team members to test for the browser compatibility issues and implement cross-browser accessible interfaces or devices.  • Worked in the Agile environment with regular meetings weekly and team conference every four weeks.  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs, increase productivity, and improve communication.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS 3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, NodeJS, MongoDB, Web Service, WebStorm, Sublime. Front- end Developer Trintech Inc - Dallas, TX July 2014 to January 2016 Summary: Trintech Inc pioneered the development of Financial Corporate performance Management (FCPM) software to optimize the Record Report Process. Our project is to build a candidate management system. It keeps tracking candidates' easily and hiring process. It allows employees in Trintech Inc to locate a specific candidate easily and efficiently. Candidate's detailed information for the interview is also displayed on an editable page.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented in the development of internal financial management system with AngularJS and Express.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture and built different modules that associated each other with the specific controller, template, scopes, custom filters and directives by AngularJS.  • Used custom directives to modularize the webpage and isolate scope to prevent data reveal.  • Used AJAX and JSON to interact with RESTful APIs and two-way data binding to manipulate dynamic content on web pages.  • Involved in services to get and handle data from APIs and share data between different controllers.  • Used Bootstrap layout and CSS media query to implement responsive web design and mobile friendly design.  • Produced client-side validation through JavaScript and AJAX for asynchronous communication.  • Implemented built-in and custom filter to control data searching.  • Used CSS3 animation to generate the webpage with better visual effects.  • Used JSON Web Token (JWT) to implement back- end user authentication, and machine-pack to encrypt general user information.  • Used Firebug, IE developer toolbar and chrome canary tool to debug JavaScript code test the compatibility  • Used SLACK for teammate communication and worked in the Agile and monthly reporting with the project manager.  • Cooperated with QA to improve functionality and fixed redundancy issues with the team member.    Environment:  HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, Eclipse, Wireshark, Ubuntu. Front- end Web developer Cheetah Mobile Inc - Beijing, CN May 2013 to April 2014 Summary: Our project is to build an internal employee management system and a questionnaire, test, and feedback system. The system keeps fresh every day to help employee management and create the best strategic approaches for recruiting the right people for the right positions.  Responsibilities:  • Built interactive portable widgets for internal users using HTML, CSS, jQuery and the latest AJAX libraries.  • Developed an Android application provided users with specific news or hot topics they interested in, and integrated location-based services in the App to provide an optimal route for sightseeing in Eclipse (Java).  • Developed complex, re-useable, attractive and cross-browser web interfaces which have attributes of high-speed, good readability and easy accessibility.  • Provided remotely training for new technicians.  • Designed and developed Web pages using HTML, CSS, and XML.  • Used CSS borders and jQuery Menus as parts of the UI navigation.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  • Gathered data from API/web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updated the DOM within the result sets.  • Effectively implemented AJAX in developing dynamic web pages.  • Developed web application compatible with all browsers, used firebug, chrome developer tools to view and debug HTML, DOM and JavaScript errors.  • Involved in using Core Java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Serialization, Thread pools, lock interface etc.  • Engaged in analyzing the requirements and depicted them through use of versatile cases and scenarios.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, XML, DOM, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, ECLIPSE. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering Southern Methodist University Bachelor of Science in Telecommunication Engineering HOHAI University Skills REACT, HTML, Angular2, AngularJS, Javascript