Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Silver Peak Systems Inc Newton, NJ ? 4+ years of extensive experience as a Front End UI/UX Developer with solid understanding of database designing, development and installation of different modules.  ? Expertise in designing and developing User Experiences for Web Applications using Web Experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  ? Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, and Ajax that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  ? Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Angular.js Framework & CSS-Bootstrap to develop valid code and table-free sites.  ? Extensive experience as web developer with a strong background working on open source technologies, including JSP, PHP, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Flash, Photo shop. Work Experience Front End Developer Silver Peak Systems Inc - Newton, NJ March 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for developing organizations Web site and all custom web applications using JQuery, Macromedia Dreamweaver, Javascript, HTML and XML  ? Front- end GUI development using browser friendly Javascript, AJAX, CSS, JQuery.  ? Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  ? Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  ? Worked extensively on applications to work properly on Android devices and all the browsers like Mobile safari, Desktop safari on Windows, IE, Firefox, and Chrome.  ? Worked on Express framework in Node.js to get data from the MongoDB database and to bind the response data to the HTML5 using Angular 2.  ? Implemented responsive web UI and made better user experience using CSS3 and Bootstrap.  ? Developed Single Page Application (SPA) with two-way data binding using Angular 2 and developed nested views with the help of Angular 2 Router.  ? Implemented template-driven form validation using Angular 2.  ? Worked on JIRA to maintain and update the task.  ? Created custom directives in JS and React JS for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.).  ? Design and develop user controls and custom controls in the product using AJAX  ? Use JavaScript for client-side scripting which reduce server trips and decrease the response time of the web application request.  ? Implemented and tested the enterprise application with JQuery, Spring MVC.  ? Used GIT for Version Control to track check-ins and rollback code.  ? Developed functions to acquire data from REST Web Service using Angular 2 and HTTP  ? Observable.  ? Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as required. Perform coding, debugging and testing.  ? Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, LESS-CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular.js, Responsive Design, Twitter Bootstrap, JSON, Agile, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, Windows. Education Masters in computer science in computer science Rowan College at Burlington County - Willingboro, NJ