Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Capital One Morristown, NJ • 5+ years of extensive professional experience with the web development and engineering teams as a user interface (UI) developer with strong front- end development skills.  • Expertise on client-side UI application development using HTML/HTML5, XHTML, CSS/CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, Ruby, JavaScript library and JSON.  • Experience in working with CSS Background, Layouts, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular.JS, Backbone.JS and Bootstrap.  • Excellent in creating and maintaining responsive web pages that would work on multiple devices including desktops, mobile phones and tablets.  • Experienced working in both AGILE/SCRUM and SDLC based development environment  • Worked with cross browser compatibility issues and did testing on the browsers like Safari, IE-8, 9, 10, Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Experience in working MVC Architecture, GITHUB and also in using version control (SVN)  • Experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Good experience in Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques in order to develop web applications.  • Involvement in using various IDE's Sublime Text, Notepad++, Eclipse, Visual Studio.  • Good experience with Form Validation by Regular Expression, and jQuery.  • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags.  • Specialized in developing Web 2.0 Apps using core jQuery along with AJAX/JavaScript.  • Involved in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs.  • Good Experience with tools like Rest client, Postman to test RESTful Calls.  • Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Familiar with package manager like Bower and Grunt to perform installation and maintain necessary packages for required projects.  • Capable of working on debugging and troubleshooting using unit testing and debug tools such as Fire-Bug, IE tester and Chrome inspector.  • Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Worked closely with information architects, developers and others to produce a team-driven end product which leads to a top-notch user experience.  • Good written and oral communication skills and Interpersonal skills with a strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members.  • Dedicated to fulfilling client expectations and providing a high quality level of work. Work Experience Front- End Developer Capital One - Morristown, NJ March 2015 to Present Capital One is a financial company corporation providing specializing in credit cards, home loans, auto loans, banking and saving products etc. This portal is used in USA and offers form based enrollment for users to increase member satisfaction through streamline user experience.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for daily maintenance and improvement of live website using HTML, CSS JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created cross-platform compliant HTML e-mail template for major organizations reaching thousands of recipients.  • Designed and developed the web applications and interface using Ruby, Rails, HTML5, CSS3.  • Used several jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Worked closely with UX designer and BA to have the project requirement and describe what kind of design can be implemented, ensure what kinds of function module we want to achieve and also we need get some idea to make it friendly to client.  • Created customized forms using HTML and JavaScript, date picker using Bootstrap.JS.  • Involved in the MVC architecture by using framework of Angular.JS.  • Developed prototypes in HTML and CSS.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Developed client side validation with Angular.JS.  • Brief experience on implementing Angular.js in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Extensively used CSS along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Created responsive website for smart devices using Bootstrap and media queries.  • Worked on Node.js environment to build the application.  • Re-designed/developed the main website to improve user experience and added new functionalities.  • Worked with cross browser compatibility and thoroughly performed UAT.  • Used Jasmine for unit testing.  • Debugging the code using browser tools like Firebug.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  • Used agile/scrum methodology for the software development.  • Worked closely with QA/QT team in fixing the reported bugs/defects.  • Used Sublime as Integrated Development Environment.  • Designing the user experience interface UI/UX.  • Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards.  • Further tasks include management of all MS Access database and all the required tables to store different survey information related to the site.  • Collaboration with team members design, analysis, coding, testing and review website.  • Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests and to get the approval from business on the design changes.  • Experience documenting business specifications, technical specifications and user training material.    Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.js, Bootstrap, DHTML, XHTML, JQuery, Ajax, Jasmine, Firebug, sublime, Agile/Scrum. Front- End Developer CSRA - Albany, NY November 2013 to February 2015 CSRA Inc. provides information technology services to U.S. government clients in national security, civil government, and health care and public health.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement analysis and technical assessment to make user-friendly interface. Also, involved in translating functional requirements into technical requirements.  • Involved in design, development, testing and maintenance phases of the Software Development Life Cycle.  • Designed Responsive UI pages which can be displayed properly in different size screen by Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  • Implemented Model-View-Controller (MVC) Architecture by using Angular.JS to develop single page application (SPA)  • Involved in designing and writing functionalities of the web applications using Ruby on Rails, Ruby gems and various other technologies like Angular.JS, Ember.JS, Backbone.JS, JavaScript and jQuery  • Implemented fundamental web functions using JavaScript and applied jQuery to simplify programming.  • Used JQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using JQuery framework.  • Responsible for the overall layout design that meet cross-device compatibility using Bootstrap, colour scheme of the website using HTML and CSS.  • Created user interaction page which involves client side validation.  • Generating fundamental JavaScript functions and jQuery on web pages to create dynamic environment such as subcategories, highlighted links, clickable buttons and dropdown menus.  • Designed the dynamic web page including some creative Animations and Transitions by using the powerful CSS3 feature.  • Established connections with server using Ajax. Stored and accessed data in search pages with JSON.  • Extended CSS as needed to accommodate new data and display types.  • Created a new UI library to show the demo to the client with the flow process.  • Used Chrome Developer-tool, Fire-Bugs, IE Tester to debug and fix cross browser issues.  • Solved cross-browser compatibility issues using Bootstrap.  • Worked in GitHub to manage the code repository.  • Worked with web testing team helping and leading in the development of the test concept.  • Delivered UI solution to ensure designs are in compliance with specifications.    Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, XML, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Fire-Bug, GitHub. Software Developer Sidusa Systems Inc - Princeton, NJ November 2012 to October 2013 This is a healthcare application, wherein a person who has is uninsured can sign-up on the website and request a free prescription discount card which offers medicines at a discounted rate.    Responsibilities:  • Developed new and maintenance of existing web application features for both internal administrators and public-facing end users.  • Developed RoR customer facing applications, which meet the requirements outlined in our application development specification.  • Implementing Behavior Driven Development using Rspec and Cucumber Performed testing.  • Developed performance report by following BDD and Agile.  • Assisted in setting up service and integrating add-ons in applications to meet business and technical requirements.  • Fixed and troubleshoot bugs in current system, and revised source code to eliminate redundant functions and streamline processes.    Technologies: Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular js, Node.js, Bootstrap, DHTML, XHTML, JQuery, Ajax, Firebug, sublime, Agile/Scrum UI Developer Sodel Solutions Pvt Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2011 to October 2012 Client: - Thyrocare  Thyrocare is India's first fully automated diagnostic laboratory with a focus on providing quality at affordable costs to laboratories and hospitals in India and other countries. This application is useful for user to schedule his appointment for particular health checkup.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed several modules for the front- end application using HTML, CSS, JQuery, Javascript etc.  • Used JavaScript for client side validation  • Also managed User Interface of the applications. Additional responsibilities included co-ordination with client regarding daily activities.  • Involved in requirements gathering and collaboration with different business teams for documenting specifications.  • Adhered to strict coding standards for a more maintainable code.  • Successfully implemented Search Engine Optimization (SEO) of application by bringing page rank to 58 from 83.  • Created customized forms using HTML and JavaScript, date picker using Bootstrap.js  • Also developed different User Interface for tablet and desktop users. Successfully implemented Responsive CSS as well.  • Documented application functionality and standard operating procedures for business processes.  • Designed and implemented the designed application components as needed.  • Fixed cross-browser compatibility issues from development stage of website for various browsers.  • Involved in designing requirement documentation for different level of System Design/Development.  • Continuously involved in production support and worked for an immediate critical bug fix on production.  • Implemented CSS for cleaner and more readable code, thus minimizing the use of inline styling.    Technologies: JavaScript, Refinery CMS, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, Bootstrap, JQuery, Adobe Photoshop, AJAX, MySQL, GitHub, Agile Methodology. Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux (Ubuntu), RHEL  Programming Languages: SQL, C, Java, Ruby on Rails, PHP  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Restful JSON, AJAX, DOM, Media queries.  Library/Framework: jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS.  Developer Tools: Sublime, Notepad++, Dreamweaver, Visual Studio, Eclipse.  Version Control Tools: GIT (GitHub), SVN  Debugging Tools: W3c validator, IE Tester, Jasmine, Fire-Bug, Chrome Inspector.  Project Management tools: MS Project Professional, COCOMO  Database: SQL Server, MYSQL, MS-Access, Oracle Server.  Others: Wordpress, Refinery CMS, Thinking Sphinx, Bootstrap, Responsive CSS, Atlassian Jira, ServiceNow