Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - CVS New Jersey Wildlife and Game Refuge, NJ • Over4+ years of extensive industry experience in designing and developing dynamic web pages.  • Proficient experience in Web application developmentusing HTML4/5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Type Script, Angular2, AngularJS, ReactJS, Node.js, DOM and Ajax.  • Expert knowledge in designing SPA using AngularJS, Angular2.  • Hands on experience with various software methodologies such as Waterfall, Agile, and Scrum  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Extensive experience with JS frameworks like AngularJS and NodeJS.  • Good experience with CSS preprocessors such as SASS and LESS.  • Expertise with Bootstrap and Media Queries in developing Responsive Web Design.  • Actively involved in using Angular JS, Bootstrap and HTML5 to enable client-side date to meet specific criteria by applying various validation variable.  • Proficient in User interfaces for n-tier Web application using jQuery, AJAX, JSON and Responsive Web Design.  • Expertise with JavaScript frameworks andlibraries includingAngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX and RESTfulservices.  • Experience in UI Architecture design using Angular2 components. Thorough understanding of core concepts like Ng Modules, Services, Dependency Injection, and decorators.  • Experience in using AJAX requests like RESTful API's and Web Services using AJAX and JSON.  • Used RESTful web services using jQuery, AngularJS and React JS to fetch response data for user interface.  • Hand on Experience using JavaScript MVC framework like AngularJS.  • Knowledge in package management toolkits likeWebPack, Gulp, Grunt and Npm Scripts.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting the existing code using debugger tools like, Firebug, Chrome developer toolbar etc., and Able to identify problems in the initial stages and execute quick resolutions.  • Expertise is using Jasmine, Mocha, Karma for unit Testing.  • Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT and SVNand project management tool JIRA.  • Excellent communication skills, team player, quick learner and self-motivated. Work Experience Front End Developer CVS - Florham Park, NJ July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Responsible for ensuring all client-side validations are full filled using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Extensively participated in designing and developing responsive website using React JS to serve Desktop, Tablet and Mobile users.  • Implemented Bootstrap effectively to develop Custom Navigation bar and custom forms.  • Developed User Friendly web pages using jQuery plugins to implement features like Drag and Drop, Autocomplete etc.  • Sound understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM functions.  • Performed Unit Testing on client-side using A/B testing.  • Used Agile (SCRUM) methodologies during project development.  • Tested cross browser compatibility and fixed layout related bugs in compatible browsers.  • Extensively used Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.  • Used GIT for Version Control.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Java, ReactJS, RESTful, Mocha, NodeJS, GIT Front End Developer Cisco - Raleigh, NC July 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed dynamic Multi-Browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, React.js, Redux and Flux.  • Built user interactive web pages using ES5, ES6, TypeScript, LESS and Angular 2.  • Extensively participated in designing and developing responsive website using React JS to serve Desktop, Tablet and Mobile users.  • Utilized JSP tag libraries to state custom tags and JSP to design User Interface.  • Used various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Employed modules into Node JS to assimilate with designs and requirements  • Used JS Framework to interact with API's and RESTful web services.  • Used ReactJS and Flux for developing Single Page Application.  • Participated in creating Stable React Components and shaped stand-alone functions to be added for future usage.  • Used React JS to template faster compilation and to develop reusable components.  • Used React-Draggable to implement Drag-Drop functionality.  • Used React.js Observable library to implement HTTP requests to handle multiple values over time.  • Achieved form-function and validation using Redux-Form.  • Worked on React.js Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components, which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Created front- end unit tests using Mocha for React Action methods and Reducers  • Extensively used Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.  • Used GIT for Version Control.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Java, ReactJS, RESTful, Mocha, NodeJS, GIT Web Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL December 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Responsible for ensuring all client-side validations are full filled using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Extensively instigated jQuery to perform AJAX calls to create interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Used Angular 2 component-based architecture to integrate services to consume RESTful API's.  • Implemented Bootstrap effectively to develop Custom Navigation bar and custom forms.  • Developed User Friendly web pages using jQuery plugins to implement features like Drag and Drop, Autocomplete etc.  • Used LESS pre-processor and CSS to make application responsive.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to implement necessary packages.  • Involved Largely in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Implementation, Integration, Testing and Development of the project.  • Sound understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM functions.  • Performed Unit Testing on client-side using Mocha, Chai, Jasmine and Karma.  • Used Agile (SCRUM) methodologies during project development.  • Tested cross browser compatibility and fixed layout related bugs in compatible browsers.  • Used GIT for version control.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular, Bootstrap, LESS, AJAX, JSON, NPM, ECLIPSE, Agile, Jasmine, Karma, GIT UI developer New York Life - New York, NY November 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for enhancing the User Interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS as per requirements.  • Built web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins, AJAX, JavaScript.  • Responsible for designing, developing, maintaining and bug fixing a Single Page Application using Angular.  • Worked extensively in adding new modules to existing system.  • Transformed design models into web application rendering to project requirement.  • Used JS $http service to implement asynchronous communication with RESTful Web Service  • Used MVC architecture and two-way data binding for creating webpages.  • Analyzed Data Object Model (DOM) layout, JavaScript functions, Cascading Styles across cross browser Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar  • Extensively used Jira for project tracking.  • Used Jasmine for unit testing and JUnit for Execution test.  • Extensively used tools like Safari web inspector and chrome developer tools for debugging both scripts and styles.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Used SVN for version control.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, RESTful, AJAX, Jasmine, DOM, MVC, SVN Education Master's