Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Delta Airlines Atlanta, GA More than 5 years of extensive IT experience in Front End/UI development with emphasis on HTML/HTML5,  XHTML, DHTML, XML, CSS/CSS3, AJAX, DOM, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS,  Angular 2/Angular 4, D3.js, ReactJS, NodeJS, ExpressJS and BackboneJS.  Strong experience in Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) - Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and  maintenance of applications.  Expertise in MVC architecture, Object Oriented programming along with building SPA (Single Page  Applications) using AngularJS and Angular 2.  Familiar with Creating modules, controllers, directives, services, filters by considering AngularJS framework.  Familiar with improving code quality of the app by incorporating John Papa Angular style guide.  Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM functions.  Good understanding in developing Responsive Web designs from scratch as well as using frameworks like  Bootstrap.  Experience in Object Oriented JavaScript (ES5 and ES6) and use of design patterns like module, revealing  module and singleton pattern.  Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS  margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS pre-processing platforms such as  LESS and SASS.  Working knowledge in implementing AJAX in web clients to asynchronously communicate with server  resources.  Experience in working with RESTful Web services, XML and JSON data formats communication.  Proficient in creating MEAN Stack based web applications using AngularJS, NodeJS, MongoDB and  ExpressJS.  Knowledge in creating modular designs by using Angular 2 and Typescript.  Adept in writing clean, efficient, sematic, easy to read code.  Hands on experience with Spring MVC, Spring Boot and Hibernate frameworks.  Developed web applications based on different Design Patterns such as Model-View- Controller (MVC), Data  Access Object (DAO), Form Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Transfer Objects etc.  Experience in D3.js to build interactive data visualizations in web browsers and creating UI reports.  Experience in creating the charts for Dashboard applications using D3.js.  Skillful in designing database in, MySQL, MS SQL Server, Oracle and Mongo DB databases.  Knowledge of tools like Chrome Element Inspector, Firebug, IE Tester for testing and debugging.  Practical knowledge in Unit Testing along with End-To- End Testing using test framework Qunit, Jasmine and  test runner Karma.  Experience in profiling web applications and removing performance bottle necks and designing web  applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  Experience in using various IDEs for development - Notepad++, Sublime Text, Eclipse, IntelliJ, WebStorm,  etc.  Strong knowledge of UX Design principals and experience in Adobe Photoshop.  Experience in designing UI layouts using Microsoft Visio and Creately  Familiar with Adobe Photoshop, Abode Illustrator for image manipulation and defining site layout and have  experience in Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Microsoft FrontPage and Prototyping.  Experience with working closely with back end developers, converting PSD to Pixel perfect layouts for both  Web and Mobile layouts.  Strong understanding in using controllers, modules, directives, factories, services, dependency injection and  digest cycle in AngularJS.  Ability to work with various browser compatibility issues of various browsers like IE, Mozilla, Chrome, etc.  Experience in NPM, Grunt, Gulp task runners to manage projects and Bower package manager to install  libraries and dependencies.  Hands on experience with various version control tools like SVN, CVS and GIT  Knowledge of Continuous Integration tools like Jenkins, Bamboo and build automation tools like Ant, Maven.  Experience in deploying applications using Amazon Web Services (AWS-EC2, S3, Cloud front).  Experience in Unit Testing, Functional Testing, Browser compatibility Testing and Automation Testing.  Experience in working with TDD, ATDD, BDD and CI/CD engineering practices.  Well Acquainted with Waterfall, Scrum & Agile methodologies and proficient in using Agile bug tracking tool  JIRA.  Exceptional communication, collaboration & team building skills with proficiency at grasping new technical  concepts quickly and utilize the same in a productive manner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA May 2016 to Present Delta Airlines is a major American airline, with its headquarters and largest hub at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta  International Airport in Atlanta, Georgia    Key Roles and Responsibilities:  Involved in the design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX along with development of layouts for web application matching the requirements.  Worked towards creation of prototypes before actual development along with UI deliverables such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups and interface design specifications.  Designed front- end applications, User Interactive web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript framework  AngularJS and D3.js.  Followed MVC Structure to develop Application in AngularJS and D3.js.  Consumed RESTful web services using AngularJS HTTP service and rendered the JSON data on the screen.  Used JSON format for all server communications. Developed Angular Factor classes to build models from plain JSON messages  Implemented Webpack for downloading third-party library files and babel was implemented to use  ECMAScript 6(ES6) features.  Utilized ECMAScript 6 new features for supporting classes, constructors and for inheritance.  Implemented ECMAScript 6 arrow functions for lexical scoping and less ceremony when defining an anonymous function.  Improved performance on Angular.js side by not saving the session data on the memory side, which will be a significant overhead to server.  Developed Slide bar, Popover, Type ahead, Dropdown functionality using Angular Strap.  Utilized vanilla JavaScript to perform simple tasks where load times were critical and when needed to make  async requests and handle some user events even when the user does not make that much interaction with the website.  Used AngularJS two-way data binding for automatic synchronization between the view and the model.  Implemented Angular JS Validation to validate user inputs and to create user-friendly web application  Developed Angular JS Directives to extend the grammar of the web through reusable HTML elements,  attributes, and classes.  Utilized Angular 2 concepts like building the components, Data binding, String Interpolation, Property Binding,  Event Binding, Two-way Data binding (with the help of Forms Module), Directives using *ngif Structural  Directive) to Output Data Conditionally, Styling Elements dynamically with ngClass, Outputting Lists with ngFor, Attribute Directives, Understanding ngSwitch, Pipes, Interpolation, Services & Dependency Injection,  Using Services for Cross-Component Communication, Routing, Dealing with Reactive forms in Angular,  Validations.  Used AngularJS AJAX effectively to create pagination and with client-side events like quick search.  Developed base HTTP service on top of Angular JS HTTP service to communicate backend web services.  Loaded data into jQuery data tables using Restful Services.  Filtered data using different multiselect dropdowns and based on time and date as well as search Keywords.  Used D3.js to select elements, create SVG objects, style them, and add transitions.  Development of analytical reports using D3.js and Kendo UI Frameworks.  Developed various charts for dashboard applications using D3.js  Used jQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  Developed fast loading images using Adobe Photoshop CS3.  Installed and maintained front- end libraries and their dependencies by Bower.  Used NodeJS and ExpressJS to perform RESTful API operations.  Utilized NodeJS to set up local host as well as take advantage of NPM to manage the packages that contain the tools needed for this project.  Implemented the Node.js server-side code to interact with Mongo DB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose drivers.  Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap.  Used Apache Tomcat as a web server for the project.  Used Gulp to perform code minify and compile LESS to CSS.  Used JIRA as a bug and project tracking tool.  Utilized GitHub as repository and Git for version control.  Performed Continuous Integration using Jenkins, Bamboo.  Performed unit testing and end-to- end testing using Qunit framework and Karma to test individual modules.  Tested Angular 2 Services using Stubs and passed data via the fixture component instance.  Utilized Agile Methodology (Scrum) to manage full life-cycle development of the project and involved in sprint- planning, daily stand-ups, reviews, retrospectives, release planning and demos.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, RESTful web services, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS 1.5, Angular  2, D3.js, Bootstrap, Bower, Gulp, LESS, Qunit, Karma, Firebug, Chrome Dev tools, Jenkins, Node.js, Express.js, NPM,  Sublime Text, JIRA, Mongo DB, GIT, Agile, Google Material Design. Front End Developer Par Pacific Holdings - Houston, TX July 2014 to December 2015 Par Pacific Holdings, Inc owns, manages and maintains interests in energy and infrastructure businesses. The  company strategy is to identify, acquire and operate energy and infrastructure companies with attractive competitive  positions  Key Roles and Responsibilities:  Involved in requirement analysis and design phases to implement with minimal errors.  Involved in re-designing the whole Website into a new look and feel as per the business requirement which we  make it easier for a user to navigate.  Involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  Designed front- end applications, User Interactive web pages using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, D3.js, ECMA  Script 5.0(ES5), Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, React.js.  Worked with Flux as application architecture then moved on to REDUX as a state container for dynamic data  handling.  Reinventing the website with react REDUX to improve the experience of 1000+ users, working on server-side  configuration for API route creation and connecting with Mongo DB Data Base Worked with Flux as application architecture then moved on to REDUX as a state container for dynamic data handling.  Installed and built React.js bindings which are not included in Redux.js framework.  Developed responsive web pages by implementing Bootstrap CSS and CSS Media Queries.  Worked in integrating Node.js with React.js for describing UI as a function of state, and emitting state updates in response to actions by Node.js.  Generated container components using the functionalities provided by React JSX for maintaining  performance.  Created the front- end web pages using React.js with Babel for performance.  Utilized JavaScript, JQuery, XML, AJAX calls for calling the back- end functionalities.  Was involved in retrieving data from SQL database tables using SQL Stored procedures and SQL  parameterized queries.  Involved in collection and projection of the fetched data into respective fields (checkboxes, drop-down, etc.)  using JSON objects.  Implemented Virtual DOM and React libraries to render only the subcomponents of a webpage.  Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap.  Utilized JIRA for task assignment, bug tracking tool.  Developed the application using Backbone.js to perform operations on the server.  Built real-time application using backbone.js and web sockets via Socket.io.  Designed and implemented backbone.js APIs (some handling 1,800 requests/second at peak), micro services,  caching layers, and monitoring.  Implemented real time encoding (backbone.js) of the uploaded files by users.  Implemented backbone.js functions parallel execution with help of STEP library, which is an async control flow  library built for backbone.js.  Used Node Package Manager(NPM) as a package manager to install the necessaries packages and Grunt as a task runner to compile the SASS files into minified CSS files.  Worked with the team, helping them build out their markup and CSS. My specialty is large scale CSS, focusing on reusability and modularity using preprocessors like SASS.  Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  Involved in maintenance of web security and prevented cross-site scripting, SQL injection attacks by using  parameterized queries.  Used NodeJS to build Grunt tasks and build the project.  Used Tortoise SVN version control throughout the development.  Used Apache Tomcat as a web server for the project.  Tested and applied the branding on a step by step procedure using Jasmine.  Utilized Agile Methodology (Scrum) to manage full life-cycle development of the project and involved in daily  SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  Provided KT to new team members along with updating technical documents on day to day basis.    Environment: HTML5, XHTML, XML, AJAX, Bootstrap, Redux.js, React.js, JSX, Babel, Node.js, SQL, Tortoise  SVN, Sublime, JSP, JSON, CSS3, JavaScript, ECMAScript 5, Agile, Grunt, NPM, Jasmine, SASS, Backbone UI Developer Sara Lee Corporation - St. Louis, MO August 2013 to June 2014 The Sara Lee Corporation is an American consumer-goods company based in Downers Grove, Illinois. It has operations  in more than 40 countries and sold its products in over 180 nations worldwide. Sara Lee is also the brand name of a number of frozen and packaged foods.    Key Roles and Responsibilities:  Worked in a team, which involved developing the UI, layout and front- end programming (HTML4) for web  application that matches requirements of sprint.  Followed MVC Architecture to develop the web applications.  Communicated with the BA and involved in feedback sessions to comprehend the requirements of the UI layout of the web application.  Creating GUI designs and developing UI specifications for internet and intranet sites.  Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  Transformed the Photoshop mockups into HTML and CSS pages  Created the screens with table-less designs following W3C standards  Successfully implemented the RESTful Web services Integration using XML and JSON.  Wrote JQuery scripts intended for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes  Used jQuery to implement AJAX functions to establish data communication between server and browser and implemented RESTful web services using XML and JSON.  Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with SQL  Implemented browser-side element effects like Hide, Show, Event Handling and DOM manipulation with jQuery  Developed database connection and SQL Queries to create dynamic content on web pages.  Developed code to call the web service/APIs to get the data and display it in the interface using jQuery/AJAX.  Involved in designing CSS based page layouts which are cross-browser compatible on all the major browsers like Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE  Implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls  Extensive development of UI using jQuery, Backbone.js, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  Worked with quality assurance group to give user enhanced experience and reduce the number of key strokes  Developed fast loading images using Adobe Photoshop CS3.  Involved in meetings with the end-clients and discuss regarding developing custom UI Components that are  cross browser compatible  Used SVN version control repository for source code management    Environment: HTML, CSS, Java/J2EE, JSP 2.1, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE, MS Office, Backbone.js, Adobe Photoshop,  Oracle, Git, AJAX, Scrum, J Unit, log4j, Ant, Maven, Web Sphere Application Server, MVC Architecture Web Developer E Wedding Bands - Provo, UT January 2013 to August 2013 The project is designed for customers who want to marry and for vendors who supply wedding services like flowers,  DJ, photography, invitations and stationary. The website is also capable of sending the invitations on-line, and a wedding website can be created and shared with friends, relatives and family members, depending on the information  provided such as particular category, budget cost and some keywords.    Key Roles and Responsibilities:  Communicated with BA's to understand their business models and goals and help define strategy, content, and features.  Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs in accordance to W3C standards  Designed mockups, GUI layouts by using HTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  Used JavaScript libraries to create slider and page-turning animations on calendar widgets.  Effectively utilized JavaScript to ensure every functionality is working correctly and showing up a meaning  message whenever required.  Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML  pages.  Implemented design process upon client approval and built out all assets: buttons, products shots, UI components  Participated in day-to-day meeting, status meeting, strong reporting and effective communication with project  manager and developers.  Participated in bug thrashing sessions to discuss and resolve bugs that were reported in JIRA.  Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Involved in fixing Front- End issues with the layouts.  Used GIT as version control tool.  Provided KT to new team members.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, RESTful, XML, JSON, GIT, Notepad++, Oracle, JIRA Education B.Tech in Information Technology in Information Technology JNTU-H Skills AJAX (4 years), CSS. (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), jQuery (4 years), JSON (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Java, C#, Python, Ruby on Rails, SQL  Languages  Front- End Development HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript (ES5 & ES6), DOM, jQuery,  AJAX, XML, JSON, Twitter Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular 2/Angular 4, NodeJS,  ExpressJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS, D3.js, LESS, SASS, Typescript, Vanilla JavaScript,  Google Material Design Concept & Material Design Lite Framework.  Designing Tools Adobe Photoshop, Abode Illustrator, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Microsoft FrontPage,  Microsoft Visio, Creately  Development Tools WebStorm, Sublime Text, Notepad++, IntelliJ, Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio Code  Databases My SQL, MS SQL Server, Oracle, Mongo DB  Web Services SOAP, RESTful Web services.  Build Automation Maven, ANT  CI Tools Jenkins, Bamboo  Package Management NPM, Babel, Webpack, Gulp, Grunt, Bower  Bug Tracking Tool JIRA  Testing Tools Qunit, Mocha, Jasmine, Karma, Selenium Web Driver  Debugging Tools Chrome Developer, Firebug, IE Tester  Version Control SVN, CVS, GIT  Cloud Tools Amazon Web Services (AWS-EC2, S3, Cloudfront)  DevOps Tools Docker, Vagrant    Operating Systems Windows XP/VISTA, UNIX/LINUX, Mac