Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Fremont, CA ? Extensive experience in Web Application Development, especially in the Front End  ? Proficient in using HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap and D3.js  ? Good at data structure and algorithm, find the best way in time flexibility  ? Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), including requirements analysis, applications design and development, testing and maintenance, documentation  ? Experience in developing in MEAN stack with Node.js and mongoDB  ? Experienced in designing data visualization using Chart.js and D3.js  ? Familiar in using JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) a lightweight data-interchange format to build collection of name/value pairs and ordered list of values  ? Understand functional specifications and develop creative solutions to meet business requirements  ? Possess good team-management and leadership qualities  ? Quick learner and a great Team Player with excellent development and trouble shooting skills  ? Fluent in English and Mandarin Chinese, also proficient in Cantonese and Korean Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer EvelynBird inc September 2014 to September 2015 EvelynBird inc. is a start-up company on the cutting edge, which aims at developing professional web applications for its clients. It also provides management and technical maintenance for products. This company also looking forward to work with Java environment to extend business area.    Project: Employee Management Panel  Description: Employee Management Panel is a web application that helps enterprise manager to develop and improve recruiting methods, make general and specific hiring decisions, and keep tightly contact with the employees.  Responsibilities:  ? Designed SPA with MVC architecture using Angular.js framework  ? Designed and developed Service and Factory components to share data across controllers in Angular.js  ? Designed custom directives for charts to build a readable and reusable application  ? Communicated employees by convenient chat system built by chat.js  ? Developed Data Visualization using Less.js, Chart.js and D3.js  ? Developed UI in Bootstrap and CSS3 for a responsive and cross-browser compatible web site  ? Set up the schema and create database in MongoDB to store JSON objects  ? Integrated Front- End with Server-Side APIs using $http service in Angular JS  ? Used Ajax call to connect the database and get the JSON file  Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, Angular.JS, JSON, Ajax, chat.js, Sass.js, Jasmine, MongoDB Web Developer Dadi Real Estate Co., Ltd August 2008 to May 2012 Dadi Real Estate Co., Ltd., provides details about their properties available to sell, rent and lease. Property management services provide on-site administration to help owners of office, industrial, retail and specialty properties reduce costs and enhance their property values. Tenant Representation for organizations that lease large spaces. Valuations provide impartial assessments of real estate worth.    Web Development Projects  Project 1:  Developed a new web site for the Real Estate Company that listed all of the managed properties and took potential customers to know each property of the house, this website can sort the house by beds quantity, baths quantity, house style, year built and construction area. Show up the images and details when buyer click the detail button.  Responsibilities:  ? Extensively work on front end with JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3  ? Used Angular.JS templates which could be plugged into one HTML container, as every web page is an overlay on the main frame page  ? Used CSS3 preprocessor Less.js to create variables, to simplify lengthy CSS3 markup  ? Set up user profile in MongoDB and enable customers to register and log in ? Designed Angular custom directives for charts in D3.js to built a more readable and reusable application  ? Debuged in Firebug for Mozilla Firefox, and Developer tools for Chrome  Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, Angular.JS, JSON, Jasmine, MongoDB    Project 2:  Included in this development, our team create a "Client Administrative Panel" that made it very easy for the reality agents to update the listings, removing sold properties and add new properties.  Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed internal house information web page in Angular.JS framework  ? Built RESTful API to achieve CRUD operations for posts  ? Developed UI in Bootstrap for a responsive and cross-browser compatible web application  ? Used UI-router replace the ng-router to create the module in this app  ? Used Jasmine.js to test Angular.js controller by built test cases  ? Communicated with Business Intelligence team to work corporately  Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS 3, Angular JS, Node.js, Ajax, Bootstrap, MongoDB, REST API, Jasmine Education Master in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA October 2012 to August 2014 Bachelor in Digital Media Chengdu College of University September 2008 to June 2012 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Technologies OO JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, AJAX, JSP, SQL, JSON, XML  Framework/Libraries jQuery/jQuery UI, Angular.js, ember.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Jasmine/Mocha, Jshint/Jsxhint, D3.js, RESTful API, i18n  Operating Systems Windows, Unix/Linux, Mac OS