Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Advance Auto Parts, Richmond City, VA Henrico • Extensive experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML5, CSS3, Less/Sass, UI Bootstrap, JavaScript, jqLite, EcmaScript6, TypeScript, AngularJS, Angular 2.0, AJAX, JSON, Restangular, Angular CLI, npm and Gulp.  • Extensive knowledge in developing Single Page Applications (SPAs) using JavaScript framework AngularJS  • Builted the Angular application with ECMAScript 2015(AKA "ES2015" or "ES6") the latest version of JavaScript.  • Extensive experience in writing the Angular 2 application with TypeScript.  • Extensive experience on Angular CLI command line interface.  • Experience on working Putty to track down the server logs in production boxes.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  • Good knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap, Angular UI Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Familiarity in Client Side designing and validations using HTML and Java Script.  • Responsible for checking Cross Browser Compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome Developers Tool, IE Developer Tools and Firebug.  • Worked in building all phases of Agile Software Development including requirements analysis, applications design, development, maintenance, implementation and testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  • Working with an Agile, Scrum methodology to ensure delivery of new features and high quality work with every three week iterations.  • Experience on on-call support, used BMC Remedy IT SERVICE MANAGEMENT tool.  • Proven track record in demonstrating innovative and unique designing skills, ability to work in a stressful environment with projects and interaction with every team member.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to meet project deadlines.  • Some of the attributes that would describe me would be Team player, Quick learner, Hard- worker, Self-Motivated and Strong interest in Front End Development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer Advance Auto Parts, Richmond City, VA June 2015 to Present Project Description: APEX is a latest Point of Sales System(POS) for Advance Auto Parts stores that integrates with APAL(old POS) for tendering transactions of Automobile customers. It is a web-based selling tool which serves both Retail, Commercial and B2B customer orders.    Responsibilities:  • Requirements gathering from business and defining specifications for the system.  • Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Creation of high level and low level design documents and review with the team before coding the requirements.  • Developing a rich user interface for Store Members using HTML5, CSS3, UI Bootstrap, jqLite, EcmaScript6, Restangular, Angular UI Grid and AngularJS.  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3 and UI Bootstrap.  • Used Restangular which is an AngularJS service for consuming data from a RESTful API.  • Extensive experience in implementing model-view-controller (MVC) architecture using Angular Framework.  • Used UI -Grid for getting virtualized rows and columns while rendering large sets of data to display in a grid.  • Design website and maintain the website content up to date.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, EcmaScript6 and AngularJS.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  • Migrating the APEX application from Angular 1.4.8 into Angular 2.2.0 using typescript.  • Used Angular CLI a command line interface used in our application for scaffolding.  • Writing extensive unit tests using automated TDD tasks  • Creating e2e test suites for all components, and running them with Protractor.  • Creating configuration, build, and test scripts for Continuous Integration environments  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Implemented a professional and production quality build and unit-test automation system with Gulp.  • Used Node.js, Gulp for testing the application in local environment.  • Used GIT- SVN for version controller purpose.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular UI Bootstrap, lodash, Restangular, JSON, Ajax, Angular JS framework, Angular UI router, ng-idle, Angular Toaster, Angular toggle switch, Angular UI Grid, Angular Hot Keys, Angular 2.2.0, TypeScript, DbVisualizer 9.2.1, MS VISIO, Photoshop, Bootstrap, MVC, Nodejs, Gulp, NPM, Web API, Jenkins, Putty. UI Developer ICICI Bank Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design.  • Generated UI mockups from paper-and-pencil concepts to high-fidelity prototypes that convey the interaction model using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQUERY.  • Wrote JavaScript and JQUERY to make sites interactive.  • Used JQUERY extensively to implement the AJAX driven application used internally.  • Fixed Cross browserissues in Internet Explorer 7+ (including IE9), Safari, Chrome, and Firefox and contributed bug fixes.  • Rendered HTML from XML stream using XSLT as per the business logic for different widgets.  • Worked closely with backend JAVA team who integrated the rich and intuitive UI with JSPs.  • Wrote code to consume the JSON data as a part of JQUERY AJAX calls and update the DOM.  • Worked with testing team to fix the reported bugs and defects from front- end standpoint.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript/AJAX, XML, JSON, Photoshop, Linux, Apache Tomcat, Java. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating System Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/8, Mac, Linux, Unix  Web Technologies  HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jqLite, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML Restangular, AngularJS, Angular 2.0, TypeScript, NPM, NodeJs, Gulp    Languages C, C++, Java, PL/SQL  Application Server JBoss, Apache Tomcat  IDE & Editors Notepad++, Microsoft Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text, WebStorm, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite  Database SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle  Debugging Tools Firebug, Chrome Developers Tool, IE Developer Tools  Version Controls SVN, GIT  Methodologies Agile  Other Tools MS Office, MS Excel 2010, DbVisualizer 9.2.1, Putty