UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - CPS Energy Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer CPS Energy - San Antonio, TX July 2016 to Present Description:  CPS Energy is the nation's largest municipally owned energy utility providing both natural gas and electric service. We serve more than 786,000 electric customers and 339,000 natural gas customers in and around San Antonio, the nation's seventh largest city. CPS Energy commits millions of dollars to energy efficiency rebates and programs for our customers. Our Save for Tomorrow Energy Plan (STEP) looks to reduce our community's demand for electricity by 771 megawatts (MW) - the output of a large power plant - by 2020.    Responsibilities:  • The project operates on Agile project development cycle with Bi-weekly sprints, daily standup, retrospective sessions and sprint planning.  • Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, UI reviews, and maintenance.  • Designed and developed the agent portal using framework AngularJS 2.0 along with HTML5, CSS3, and TypeScript.  • The portal is made responsive using CSS3, preprocessors like SASS, Bootstrap, and media queries to support desktop and tablets.  • Written modular, secure, and well-tested front- end code in TypeScript, HTML5 and CSS using the latest web.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Involved in designing mockups for the Angular 2 component development.  • Worked on AngularJs 2.0 validations to provide the better security in web applications.  • Used Angular 2 for client-side data binding and template based UI development. Worked on Angular 2 Templates, like writing inline template/ external template, {{ }} for interpolation, [] for property binding, () for event binding, # for variable declaration, * for structural directives.  • Created Angular 2 components like controllers, services, directives and forms to collect different user data and implemented form validation in Angular 2.  • Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Used REST client / POSTMAN to check the response of various API's, Swagger UI as a visual documentation for back- end implementation and client-side consumption. Handled various exceptions based on the response.  • Developed secured credit and fraud check flows for customer verification.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as agent performs application tasks.  • Worked on customer's cart including the add/remove items, save items in cart after log out and estimated taxes based on store location.  • Developed the activation flow for new Modesto lines and porting lines.  • Created a build process for different environments like develop, staging and production.  • Demonstrated knowledge of code reviews, unit and regression testing.  • Used Webpack to build TypeScript modules.  • Involved in writing test cases using Jasmine and Karma to ensure 100% code coverage.  • Generated the code coverage report using Istanbul.  • Used GIT for source control and JIRA for tracking purposes.  • Followed the coding standards, it makes for easier modification in future releases.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, AngularJS 2.0, RxJS, TypeScript, Agile, Bootstrap, REST API's, Webpack, TSLint, Jasmine, Karma, Istanbul, NPM, GIT, JIRA, Zeplin, MAC and VisualStudio. Front End Developer Sears Holdings Corporation March 2015 to February 2016 Description:  First Data (NYSE: FDC) is a global leader in commerce-enabling technology and solutions, serving approximately six million business locations and 4,000 financial institutions in more than 100 countries around the world. The company's 24,000 owner-associates are dedicated to helping companies, from start-ups to the world's largest corporations, conduct commerce every day by securing and processing more than 2,800 transactions per second and $2.2 trillion per year.    Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with Business System Analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI Modules been built.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JSON, AngularJS.  • Used Angular.JS framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  • Used Angular.JS factory and services for dependency injection.  • Using Angular.JS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Used $http in Angular.JS for consuming RESTful web-services.  • Used Angular.JS routers like "UI Router" to establish routing between nested html views.  • Proficiently used custom Angular.JS Filter, Directive, and Service to achieve the various functionalities of the website.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Used Bootstrap for responsiveness and expertise in Grid Control System.  • Developed and implemented UI controls and API's using Angular.JS.  • Used two-way data Binding techniques and custom filters.  • Manipulated data using CRUD operations of MongoDB database management system and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service  • Used Node.js to run the application on the grunt server.  • Used Protractor for end-to- end testing in JavaScript and AngularJS code.  • Used Grunt to compile Sass files and JavaScript files.  • Managed and administered multiple instances of GIT, including build server and operating environment.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, Angular.js, Backbone JS, Node.JS, JQuery UI, Gulp, JSON, Protector, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flax, JavaScript, JSP, SASS, MVC. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNT University Master's in Information Technology in Information Technology COLORADO TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY Skills CSS (5 years), HTML5 (5 years), JavaScript (4 years), UI (4 years), USER INTERFACE (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/ CSS3, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, DOM, DOJO, GUI, Responsive Web Design, JSON, SASS, and LESS.  Developer Tools Web Storm, Adobe Dreamweaver, Notepad ++, Eclipse, Net Beans.    Methodologies Agile/Scrum, Waterfall, TDD  JavaScript Libraries JQuery UI, Require.JS, Angular.JS, Node.JS, React JS, Bootstrap, Ember JS, Knockout JS, jasmine, karma, backbone.js, Handlebar.js  Debugging Tools Fire bug, Dev Tools, Fiddler, Chrome  Data Access MY SQL, Oracle, Mongo DB, SQL server  Web Servers Tomcat, Apache, WebLogic