Software Developer/ Front end Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front end Developer New York, NY • Around 4 years of IT experience as a Front- End/Web/UI Developer with active involvement in designing and developing the websites.  • Extensively used HTML, CSS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, AngularJS.  • Used Bootstrap for responsive design and.  • Proficient in developing using AngularJS Forms, Events, Validations, Modules, Factory Services, DOM, Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Node.js, AngularJS, Backbone.js.  • Extensively used the JavaScript frameworks jQuery.  • Worked on responsive design using media queries, bootstrap and Angular UI bootstrap, etc.  • Developed web applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • The Angular JavaScript framework for building web applications is highly efficient to use with the other latest frameworks.  • Hands-on experience using JQuery plugins and JavaScript Frameworks like Angular JS in web application.  • Experience in created web related modifications and changes using Photoshop.  • Experience in designing web pages with menus and paginations using JavaScript and JQuery plugins.  • Good understanding of advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks, such as AngularJS.  • Extensive experience with CSS3 and leveraging best practices, modifications of existing CSS files to enhance the user experience.  • Used HTML, CSS and JavaScript to render the dynamic web pages (presentation layer) for the application.  • Experience in cloud stack such as Amazon AWS.  • Performed website optimization and faster page loading using CSS sprites.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking.  • Experience in using various tools and IDE's for designing and development like Eclipse, NetBeans, Adobe Photoshop, Notepad, Sublime.  • Excellent understanding of relational databases involved in application development using MySQL.  • Developed the UI with AngularJS as filters, root scope, custom directives, single page applications and templates.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and have good experience on different browsers such as Safari, Google Chrome, Mozilla, Internet Explorer, etc.  • Skilled at writing SQL, Designed Stored procedures, Functions & Triggers.  • Experienced in Design, Development of web-based Applications using Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in deploying applications on Windows environments.  • Hands on experience with Integrated Development Environments (IDE's) and tools like Eclipse,  • Strong verbal and written skills. Good problem solving and communication skills. Able to work in a diverse environment, shares responsibility for the team's success or failure, and self-motivated to contribute towards team/company goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer/ Front end Developer Government of Gujarat - Gujarat, IN September 2011 to February 2015 Project: Stock Management System.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Worked on Angular JS which combines web applications with Model View Controller capability to make development and testing of code efficient.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and Also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Used AngularJS for page functionality, pop up screens and drop-down menus on the webpage  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR JS and NODE.JS.  • Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Design custom buttons to have some config options so that some functionality can be added.  • Integrated process into build system which auto-generates REST API documentation from source code improving API documentation quality and availability while reducing maintenance costs.  • Experience and proficiency in developing application using JavaScript frameworks.  • Create Grid Panel to hold different component.  • Used the responsive utilities of the Bootstrap frameworks to facilitate the design displaying properly on different devices.  • Worked on NPM to manage the dependencies through command line.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and increase the load time of web pages.  • Has worked in AngularJS for client-side scripting and synchronizing applications.  • Add image icon to different buttons to make those buttons more visible.  • Developed a Utility function to increase the reusability of the code in different places.  • Object is extended to override some built in class to improve some UI components.  • Object is created to remove the history from the previous preview grid.  • Implemented an auto mode where the JavaScript automatically cycles through and Also selects each tab periodically until a tab is explicitly selected.  • Worked on various cross browser (Chrome, Safari, Firefox and android native browsers) compatibility issues.  • Compile a system design procedure proposal that meets every requirement and follows agile methodology.  • Implemented application deployment on Apache Tomcat web Server.  • Used SVN for Source Control and Version Management.  • Designed interactive pages with W3Cstandards.  • Analyzed the requirements and designed the flow of task using flow charts and dependently designed flow between pages of the UI.  • Created event driven Web Forms using C# .Net and implemented form validation using Validation controls using both Custom validation and JavaScript was written for Client-side validations and also used the new validation.  • Worked with ASP.NET Web Forms, Web Services, and State Management, caching features, configuring optimizations and securing the web application. Developed the Code-behind files in C#.NET and VB.NET.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Converted the mock-ups in to hand-written HTML, CSS and JavaScript code.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces.  • Coordinate with business and solicit usability requirements  • Ability to test and debug using developer tools and the console required  • Involved in developing a user centric market driven site redesign.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Created web content and tested all the websites with multiple browsers, operating systems, and screen resolutions.  • Performance tuning by caching the appropriate data objects.  • Developed and maintaining the layouts using CSS for all intranet applications compliant with W3C    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, AngularJS, NodeJS, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, Web Services, Agile Methodology, JIRA, GitHub, Bower, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL Server, Windows NT, UNIT TESTING, Windows 7 professional. Education Master's in Computer Science Northwestern polytechnic University August 2016 Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering Gujrat University - Gujarat, IN August 2011 Skills .NET (3 years), AJAX (3 years), APACHE (3 years), CSS (3 years), ANGULARJS (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  • HTML/ HTML5, CSS/ CSS3  • JavaScript, jQuery, JSON.  • LESS, SASS  • AngularJS, Node.JS  • NPM, Bower  • AJAX  • JQUERY  • Visual Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans  • Apache Tomcat  • Windows, Linux, Ubuntu, Mac OS X, UNIX, LINUX  • T-SQL, PL/SQL  • My SQL, SQL Server, Oracle  • PHOTOSHOP, FLASH  • Waterfall, Agile, Scrum