Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Jersey City, NJ • 2+ years of expertise in developing the web pages according to Information architecture and Usability standards using HTML/ HTML5, CSS/ CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Good experience in Web Application Development, Interface Web Design, developing Interfaces for multiple browsers.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for making the web application user interactive.  • Knowledge in the JavaScript libraries like jQuery.  • Strong knowledge in writing form validations using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Hands on experiences in utilizing CSS Media Queries and Bootstrap.  • Good working knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Used Bootstrap Grid System and CSS Media Queries to develop single responsive application with good user experience in all platforms like desktop's, tablet's and mobile phone's.  • Experienced in web project development as a Web Developer.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  • Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Experience on working with CSS background, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Worked with different WordPress Themes to develop applications based on WordPress.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Used SVN, GIT for version control and Clear Quest for bug fixing.  • Experience working on both UNIX based and Windows Environments.  • Experience in documentation using MS tools (Word, Excel, PPT, Project and Access).  • Excellent oral and written communication and interpersonal skills.  • Involves in understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements.  • Experienced in major web applications servers such as Apache Tomcat.  • Highly curious and passionate to learn about new front- end development technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Charles Schwab Corporation February 2016 to January 2017 Charles Schwab is a Schwab Online Application used by sales representatives of Schwab on a daily basis to perform brokerage, investments and trading operations. It is an Intranet based web application developed using Angualr.js, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and SQL Server 2014 database.    * Designed and developed responsive webpages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and jQuery based on the W3C standards and web 2.0.  * Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML 4.0/5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and XML.  * Extensively used JavaScript, jQuery UI and jQuery to provide UI functionality.  * Developed web application to create user registration and authentication screens, sales catalog display and flow charts of investments.  * Involved in working with Home Page Carousel, slider and multi-select list boxes.  * Handling cross browser compatibility issues (IE, Firefox and Safari) on both Windows and Mac. Also used fall back codes.  * Involved in source code management with the help of GitHub using push and pull operations of GIT and created a local GIT repository so that the source code can be managed locally.  * Followed agile methodology and iteration planning.  * Used SVN for version control and JIRA for bug tracking.  * Developed UI and implemented for some-plug-in using JavaScript, HTML, CSS and XML.  * Applied jQuery scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purpose.  * I also mainly involved in Schwab prospect site re-design from where we have developed web pages from scratch.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Twitter Bootstrap, SVN, Windows XP/07 and MS Office. Front End Developer MUFG Union Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ January 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, System study and designing of the project.  • Developed front- end screens with HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript Extensively did client side validations using JavaScript.  • As a developer, coordinated with business in understanding the business process and requirement understanding.  • Created various web page layouts using HTML and CSS.  • Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS and JavaScript.  • Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  • Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internal layouts.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  • Defined text alignment, size, borders and many other typographic characteristics.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Worked on developing a suitable GUI for ATM locator.  • Participated in Code review and Quality Assurance.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, DOM, DHTML, Eclipse, SVN, Windows XP/07 and MS Office. Education M.TECH in Computer Science & Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technical University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML, HTML 5, DHTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), CSS3, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX.  Editing Tools Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime Text Editor, Brackets  Application servers WebSphere, WebLogic  Database Oracle11g, MySQL.    Operating Systems Windows, Mac, Linux.  Version Controls SVN, GIT.