Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Laravel Developer Lancaster, SC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer Full Stack Laravel - Lancaster, SC November 2017 to Present 29720 nearly $100k annually.  • Created the Roku channel for Elevation Church which increased our viewership by over Phone  8,000 users per week.  407-312-9455 • Responsible for maintaining all uptime and updates for all of the churches sites,    E-mail including StevenFurtick.com and ElevationWorship.com  • Organized the pre-existing team of developers into their respective roles, empowering  srosenthal82@gmail.com  them to utilize their capabilities to their fullest potential while pushing them to expand Lead Front End Developer LinkedIn April 2016 to November 2017 Gateway Professional Network Education AA in Graphic Design Lake Sumter State College January 2008 to May 2010 General Beaver River Central School September 1998 to June 2001 Skills BOOTSTRAP, LARAVEL, ANGULARJS, jQuery, WORKFLOW Additional Information Skills • I rebranded the 8 year old flagship product for this company that facilitates  optometrists, branch managers, and consultants to make decisions based on sales  Laravel 5.* performance displayed in number of charts and graphs written in AngularJS/Highcharts.  • I branded, mocked, templated and created the infrastructure for a custom  product/dashboard built for the largest lens/frames distributor in the world. This  Vue JS project is still being used by nearly 2 million people per day.  • Learned and adopted and applied the scrum agile workflow.    jQuery Apr 2014 - Owner  Apr 2016 WebRev LLC  • I started this business with nothing but a computer and a drive to be successful and  Bootstrap 3/4  grew it to a healthy 6 figure income within 12 months.  • I rebranded and rebuilt a website for a successful lawyer in Florida that increased not  just revenue but gave his marketing team better insight into where they were losing  CSS3  potential traffic to their competitors.  • Rebranded and created the face for the largest oil broker in Mexico.  • I built several custom tools/widgets for a nationally syndicated television personality.  • Single-handedly built a custom e-commerce platform for an infomercial company that  was featured on HSN and QVC.