IT Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Essex, MD Having working with Amazon for like 2 years now, I do have an experience as a problem solver, leading Ambassador and with my technical know how i can uphold your prestigious Company to higher height.   With my educational backgroung i don't see why am not the best person for the available position. My flexibility is beyond reach.  Competent Cyber sercurity Analyst and my CAP+ Certification is in progress.  Am a fluent African who got a mastery of English and French perfectly and I am educated with the Americans work ethics and morals_ this makes me versatile. Lastly, am forever grateful and thank God for my LAW Degree which give me an upper head to any other candidates, the sky is my limit. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Analyst Washington Tech SOlution - Washington, DC February 2016 to September 2016 • I develop, review and update Information Security System Policies, System Security Plans (SSP) and Security baselines in accordance with NIST, FISMA, OMB, NIST SP 800 -18 and industry best security practices including System Security Plan (SSP) based on findings from assessing controls using NIST SP 800 - 53A rev 4 and NIST SP 800-53.  • I review and update security documents such as SAR, ATO, CP and PTA, PIA, IR, RA. Privacy Impact Analysis (PIA), System Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E) and Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M)   • I conduct Security Control Assessment on General Support Systems (GSS), Major Applications and Systems to ensure that such Information Systems are operating within strong security posture.   • I put together Authorization Package documents for Information Systems to obtain ATO.   • I undertake continuous monitoring after authorization (ATO) to ensure continuous compliance with the security requirements.   • Reviewed and updated some of the System categorization using FIPS 199   • Vulnerability & Penetration Testing Tools, Nessus, Kali Linux, Cain & Abel.  Cyber Security Analyst  • Created and updated the following Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A) artifacts, SOP, ATO, SSP, SAP, SORN, SAR   • Conducted FISMA complaint security control assessments to ascertain the adequacy of management, operational, technical privacy controls.   • Involved in security incident management in order to mitigate or resolve events that have the potential to impact the confidentiality, availability, or integrity of information technology resources and waivers.   • Created and maintained security metrics in order to help senior management to make decisions.   • Provide support to internal and external audit teams in gathering evidence to validate controls   • Utilized tools to track, record, and transfer request orders and incident tickets.  •Conduct vulnerability scans on a routine or ad-hoc basis.   •Research, evaluate and assess emerging cyber security threats and trends.   •Research, evaluate and test new cyber security tools and capabilities  •Perform risk analysis of proposed capabilities resulting in specific technical recommendations for improving security and/or mitigating cyber risk.   •Solid understanding of computer network protocols including TCP/IP.  •Highly effective communicator (both verbal and written).   •Possess excellent analytical and problem-solving skills.   •Excellent organizational, detail, multi-tasking and time management skills.    Perform day-to-day support and maintenance of the IT Security program such as PO&AM, Assessment and Authorization(A&A), Vulnerability scanning, Using Nessus tools. Worked with Client to keep current/updated their security policies and procedures, assisted intheir findings their remediation. Cyber Security Analyst AE SONEL - CAMEROON June 2013 to September 2016 Performing Assessment and Authorization (A&A) and continuous monitoring testing/projects, reviews of security documents updated by ISSO to confirm they are FISMA compliance, reviews and validation of items uploaded into POA&M tracking tools. Contingency plan performed making sure am using NIST guidance. Incident response. ISO, NIST, Sans-20 Critical Security Controls Standards or PCI Data security Standards are used to determine if security controls are effective and prepare report on IT weaknesses and recommendation for noted exceptions. Provide weakly reports. Education LLB G.B.H.S MUTENGENE - Cameroon March 2012 to January 2015 Skills Good listener, Microsoft office, Technical know how, Versatile, (3 years), Information Security, Nist, Cyber Security, Cybersecurity, Information Assurance, It Security, Siem, Cissp Certifications/Licenses General Evaluation Report (LAW Degree ) February 2015 to Present I grow up in Africa, having a different experience from what I can see here. I believe Family values is all we need to maintain longetivity and monopoly. Am going to be the heart and the soul of your company especially us sharing the same values.    Lets make History. Additional Information Am an outgoing person... On the slogan; it takes team work to achieve our goal.