Senior Analyst Senior <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Senior Analyst - Unicorn Consulting Inc Hyattsville, MD I am an enthusiastic, committed and focus IT Security Analyst with industry-leading engagement experience. I am an energetic leader with 4 years excellent ability to effectively and efficiently carry out roles with high levels of responsibilities with innovative and creative problem solving skills in various roles. I possess extensive knowledge of IT Risk Management, compliance, Controls testing and review, follow through with solid execution skills to deliver timely measurable results. Work Experience Senior Analyst Unicorn Consulting Inc - Washington, DC January 2013 to Present • Expertise in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication (NIST SP) documentation: Performed assessments, POAM Remediation, and document creation using NIST SP 800-53 Rev.2 and NIST SP 800-53 Rev.4.  • Knowledge of Several Computer Environments: Performed evaluation and guidance on security control implementation on multiple environments include Windows server, Windows 8, Windows XP, Solaris, Oracle, Cisco IOS, custom created applications, and COTS applications.  • Security Documentation: Perform updates to System Security Plans (SSP), Risk Assessments, and Incident Response Plans, create Change Control procedures, and draft Plans of Action and Milestones (POAMs).  • Training of clients and coworkers: Created training decks to train clients and coworkers on processes at the client site. Additionally, ran training sessions, using the created deck, on how to process POAMs, function requirements, and NIST control mappings.  • POAM Remediation: Performed evaluation of policies, procedures, security scan results, and system settings in order to address controls that were deemed insufficient during Certification and Accreditation (C&A), RMF, continuous monitoring, and FISCAM audits.  • Developed Solution to Security weaknesses: Developed solutions to security weaknesses while working on POAM remediation and Corrective Action Plan (CAP). Assisted ISSOs create solutions to weaknesses based on system functionality and pre-existing architecture.  • Communications between multiple clients: Acted as the single point of contact for clients in regards to POAM remediation and CAP remediation. Handled internal communications within Office of Information Security and external communications with several different divisions on a daily basis. Maintain excellent working relationships with both internal and external customers using communication skills.  • Risk Management Framework (RMF) assessments and Continuous Monitoring: Performed RMF assessment on several different environments using both scanning tools and manual assessment. Assessment included initiating meetings with various System Owners and Information System Security Officers (ISSO), providing guidance of evidence needed for security controls, and documenting findings of assessment. IT Security Analyst COMPUQUIP LLC August 2011 to December 2012 • Helped guide System Owners and ISSOs through Certification and Accreditation (C&A) Process, ensuring that Operational, management and technical control securing sensitive Security Systems are in place and being followed according to the Federal Guideline (NIST SP 800-53).  • Determined Security Categorizations using the FIPS 199 as a guide  • Identified Security Controls and Construct a Compliance Matrix for tracking.  • Reviewed Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) System of Record Notice (SOR)  • Reviewed System Security Plan (SSP)  • Implemented information security requirements for IT Systems through System Life Cycle from requirement definition phased through disposition.  • Reviewed Clients' processes relating to Vulnerability Mitigation, Training on C & A Tools.  • Provided Support for System Testing and Evaluation (ST&E)  • Conducted Security Risk Assessment and documented Key Controls.  • Developed Test Plans; Testing Procedures and documented test results and exceptions  • Performed ST&E, produced the test result and recommend solutions  • Reviewed Plan of Action and Milestones (POAM) Education Bsc in Computer Science University of Ibadan