Sr IT Security Engineer Sr <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Sr IT Security Engineer - Atos A corporate security expert with industry experience in developing, installing, managing,  auditing and maintaining secure technology architectures and products while ensuring planning,  testing, verification and risk analysis is in compliance with set security standards. Comfortable in  interacting with all levels of the organization and customer-centric in service delivery. A good  team player and Highly motivated Technical Support Professional. Work Experience Sr IT Security Engineer Atos December 2018 to Present Oversee security deployment of SIEM infrastructure and Integration with McAfee ATD, MAR,  ePO, NSM, Web Gateway Endpoint protections and serving as the main point of contact for investigating and resolving security-related issues.  Key Achievements:  ? Designing and deployment of SIEM solutions on customers environment which aligns  with best industry standards.  ? Monitor the security of critical systems (e.g., e-mail servers, database servers, web  servers, etc) and changes to highly sensitive computer security controls to ensure  appropriate system administrative actions, investigate and report on noted irregularities.  ? Building correlation rules that meets customers requirement and surpassing the set  standard in a more proactive and dedicated model. Sr IT Security Analyst/Engineer Fujitsu January 2017 to December 2018 Oversee security deployment of SIEM infrastructure, McAfee ATD, MAR, LogRhythm, Endpoint  protections and serving as the main point of contact for investigating and resolving  security-related issues. Develop threat and vulnerability management policies.    Key Achievements:  ? Designing and deployment of SIEM solutions on customers environment which meets  the customers business needs.  ? Using sandboxed environment to analyze unknown files and tagging them in a central  system.  ? Monitor the security of critical systems (e.g., e-mail servers, database servers, web  servers, etc) and changes to highly sensitive computer security controls to ensure  appropriate system administrative actions, investigate and report on noted irregularities.  ? Manage and monitor systems associated to Identity and Access Management (IAM)  solutions Provide incident and problem management support.  ? Assess current environment and make continuous improvement to it to align with future  state architecture.  ? Provide Identity and Access Management eco-system onboarding direction and support  to development and design teams.  ? Performs real-time monitoring, security incident handling, investigation, analysis,  reporting and escalations of security events from multiple log sources.  ? Investigate potential or actual security violations or incidents in an effort to identify issues  and areas that require new security measures or policy changes.  ? Experience with tools such as Nessus, Qualys, Burp Suite, NMAP, Metasploit and other similar tools. IT Security Analyst Alert Logic May 2016 to January 2017 Recruited to implement enterprise-wide information- security program; oversee enterprise wide  efforts to identify and evaluate all critical systems within the enterprise.    Key Achievements:  ? Developed security documentation to include policies and procedures for the Vulnerability Assessment Team.  ? In-depth analysis of payload to determine what type of attack which includes SQL  injections, Pagerank, Apache Strauts, Zeusbots, Ransomware, XSS and determining the immediate remediation for these attacks.  ? Used various vulnerability tools to assess operating system, web, and database  vulnerabilities and developed remediation steps for clients.  ? Monitored the security of critical systems and changes to highly sensitive computer  security controls to ensure appropriate system administrative actions, investigate and report on noted irregularities.  ? Conducted network vulnerability assessments using tools to evaluate attack vectors,  identify system vulnerabilities and develop remediation plans and security procedures. IT Security Engineer/ Analyst Starz Entertainment May 2015 to December 2015 Managed web vulnerability program, conducted risk assessment, third-party vulnerability  assessment including audit reviews and penetration testing. Conducted infrastructure  vulnerability management; managed multifactor authentication (Duo) across the VPN, incident  response and monitored organization's networks for security breaches and investigate a violation when one occurs.    Key Achievements:  ? Installed, configured and integrated Snort IDS which is currently being used in Starz  production environment to monitor traffic across over 100 devices and enforce policies where applicable.  ? Recognized potential, successful, and unsuccessful intrusion attempts and compromises  using MSSP and via analysis of relevant event detail and recommended corrective  measures which avoided future violations.  ? Managed SIEM infrastructure, IDS and IPS Security Event tuning and noise reduction.  ? Conducted gap assessment of internal IT/IS policies in comparison to ISO 27001/27002  standards.  ? Educated business unit managers, IT development team, and the user community about risks and security controls.  ? Managed SIEM infrastructure, IDS and IPS Security Event tuning and noise reduction.  ? Designed security architectures and technical control standards.  ? Vulnerability scanning of the enterprise network with Nessus scanning tool. Education MSc in Information Technology and Management University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX May 2016 Skills Associate (Less than 1 year), CCNA (Less than 1 year), Certified Information Systems Auditor (Less than 1 year), Certified Information Systems Security Professional (Less than 1 year), CISA (Less than 1 year), Cisco (Less than 1 year), Cisco Certified Network Associate (Less than 1 year), CISSP (Less than 1 year), deployment (2 years), Engineer (2 years), ESM. (Less than 1 year), Information Technology Infrastructure Library (Less than 1 year), ITIL (Less than 1 year), Security (3 years), SIEM (2 years), Systems Security (Less than 1 year), Technology Infrastructure (Less than 1 year), training (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ademolaonishemo