IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Fort Worth, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst FTS International - Fort Worth, TX June 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities  SAP ECC, SRM, GRC, PORTAL, PI, Solution Manager, BI, and BW role and user maintenance. Provisioning and deprovisioning user accounts and fire fighter accounts. Works closely with both SAP technical and functional teams to ensure the success of the overall SAP solution.   Analyze and implements SAP security requirements.  Act as Audit focal point for SAP application.   Maintain security access, creating user accounts and groups in Active Directory. Configure and administer Exchange email accounts.  Develop and maintain SAP documentation and procedures.   Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and report all findings daily in DELL Secureworks.    Accomplishments  Assisted with the launch and execution of SAP and SAP Fiori. IT Security Administrator Alcon Labs - Fort Worth, TX May 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities  Process provisioning requests including new hires, terminations, and application access.   Perform all security administration functions with maintenance of user profiles and roles. Modify and manage NTFS permissions.   Configure and maintain Local Administrator passwords on all servers.   Responsible for support of existing security policies and procedures, as well as creation and implementation of new security procedures.  Monitor and support internal network security, including adding/deleting users and shared permissions.  User Provisioning for all business systems such as Windows Server 2003, AS400, PeopleSoft, SQL and Active Directory. IT Security Administrator Exxon Mobil - Fort Worth, TX January 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities  Process provisioning requests including new hires, terminations, and application access, prioritizing according to current standards.   Review provisioning requests against permissions appropriate to specific user roles. Assist in training of new Information Security Administrators. Perform all security administration functions with maintenance of user profiles and roles.  Responsible for Active Directory clean-up and AS/400 clean-up in production and development environments  Configure and maintain Local Administrator passwords on all servers. Rename network devices in order to ensure compliance with server naming convention. Education Associates of Applied Science in Information Technollogy ITT Technical Institute - Troy, MI 2003 to 2005 Skills SAP Security (2 years), Workday (1 year), Active Directory (7 years)