Independent Consultant Independent Consultant Independent Consultant Parker, CO Innovative technology leader bringing 20+ years of experience leading and directing cross-functional teams in the delivery of IT system and infrastructure aligned with customer and business objectives. Continually evaluates and adopts technology ahead of the curve, enhancing business operations and effectiveness. Proven track record in implementing, managing and supporting complex IT initiatives that drive ROI while positioning company on path toward continued growth and success. Strong sense of commitment to driving excellence in creating a culture of empowerment that motivates staff to exceed expectations. Work Experience Independent Consultant FoldingLight, LLC - Chicago, IL 2018 to 2018 • Independently established networking infrastructure and IT processes, communicating directly with vendors to secure cost-effective solutions.  • Oversaw the complete overhaul of hardware, implemented several hosted virtual solutions, and worked with developers to establish a trading platform utilizing new tools.  • Managed the allocation of a $100K IT budget across 12 companies, working to consolidate process and data management solutions throughout the organization. Director of IT | Chief Network Architect Equitec Group, LLC - Chicago, IL 2007 to 2017 • Steered all technical vendor relationships, establishing and cultivating partnerships firms to create an economy of scale for infrastructure and while securing cost savings through contract negotiations.  • Designed and implemented the network and compute environment to meet business requirements for development and operation teams, allocating IT budgets of up to $4.5M throughout tenure.  • Spearheaded several software revisions and implementations, conducting training while maintaining zero downtime during training hours on a consistent basis.  • Facilitated the transition of all trading platforms from Windows to Linux, working closely with developer teams to gather and implement requirements for efficient trading operation.  • Led major telephone upgrades and IT enhancements, including implementing a hosted VoIP solution and executing regular server refreshes every nine to twelve months. Contracted Security Analyst ABN AMRO Bank - Chicago, IL 2007 to 2007 • Assumed responsibility for the global security and maintenance of the online banking environment across a compute and network infrastructure following an acquisition.  • Monitored network intrusion detection systems, firewalls, and log correlation application to identify, respond to, and document all incidents on a global scale.  • Identified and reported trends regarding potential threats and initiating escalation procedures to counteract potential vulnerabilities within the network. Contracted Network Security Consultant McDermott Will & Emery - Chicago, IL 2006 to 2007 • Implemented Cisco Security Agent on more than 150 servers, including testing against all applications, installation and upgrade of CSAMC server, reporting, and creating documentation.  • Conducted ongoing maintenance, resolving issues and creating new rules and exceptions as needed while securing and updating beneficial license terms.  • Facilitated a rollout of SafeGuardEasy encryption on corporate laptop, independently overseeing the creation of install scripts, documentation, and providing support for the product. Network Security Consultant Sanofi-Aventis Pharmaceuticals 2005 to 2006 • Served as project leader for ongoing upgrades, implementations, and maintenance across the organization, including completing a stalled rollout for more than 20,000 laptops.  • Launched IBM Proventia Desktop Security on more than 5000 workstations and laptops, creating policies, managing licenses, and resolving issues for clients.  • Developed and executed a remediation process designed for virus protection, creating and utilizing a USB tool to facilitate efficient rollout across the organization.  • Led the upgrading of multiple Websense servers from version 5.5 to version 6.2 and migrated databases while installing the Network Agent and establishing a Directory service. Network Engineer II, Contracted Northrop Grumman Commercial Information Services 1998 to 2005 to Unocal Corporation    • Managed several large-scale projects throughout tenure in addition to maintaining all routing and switching, LAN services, and Cisco Security Agents for the organization.  • Maintained 99.9% uptime for LAN services while rebuilding and redesigning servers and workstations with more than 2000 personal computers.  • Implemented and maintained the desktop Cisco Security Agents globally, including the deployment and upgrade of all agents, creation of new policies, and testing all applications. Education A+ Certification Houston Community College Skills Networking (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), Information Architecture (8 years), Information Security (10+ years), Information Technology (10+ years), Operations Management (7 years), Operations (10+ years), Linux (8 years), Microsoft Server (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Telecommunications (4 years), Cloud Computing (2 years), Virtualization (9 years), Budget Management (4 years), Hardware (10+ years), Disaster Recovery (5 years), Exchange Server (7 years), Active Directory (4 years), Citrix (6 years), System Administration (10+ years), Vmware (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Colorado MED badge - Keyholder April 2019 to April 2021 Additional Information Technical Expertise    Networking, Information Security, Microsoft Office, Active Directory, System Administration, IT Management, Network Design, Microsoft Windows Server and Desktops, Linux Server, Linux Desktop, Routing and Switching, Nokia Checkpoint Firewall, SonicWALL Firewalls, Office 365, Cisco Adaptive Security Appliance, Multicast, TCP/IP, BGP, OSPF, Monitoring, Disaster Recovery, Citrix Hypervisor, VMWare, IDS/IPS, Cisco IOS, Cisco Nexus, Cisco Catalyst, Amazon Web Services, Infrastructure Design and Management, Enterprise Architecture, Microsoft Exchange, Citrix Workspace, Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops, Citrix ADC (NetScaler), Firewall Administration, Wireless, Change Management, Backup Administration, Technical Support, Data Center Cyber Security