Technology Support Specialist Technology Support Specialist 15 years of experience in information technology . Punxsutawney, PA Experienced and knowledgeable information technology professional with 15+ years of experience seeking to contribute his skills in a systems administrator role. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technology Support Specialist Community Action, Inc - Punxsutawney, PA August 2017 to Present • Configured, installed, maintained, and updated all organizational systems, both physical and virtual, including Windows 7, Windows 8.1, Windows 10, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2016, Linux, and Polycom videoconferencing systems.  • Configured, installed, and maintained organizational network including firewalls, switches, etc. as well as establishing secure VPN connections between main office and five satellite offices using Sonic Wall network security appliances.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and resolving hardware and software issues.  • Configured, installed, and maintained all organizational printers and copiers.  • Collaborated with vendors to locate replacement components and resolve advanced problems.  • Managed all user accounts, appropriate access, and security both on-premises with Active Directory and in Office 365.  • Researched and evaluated hardware and software and made recommendations to executive management.  • Maintained and updated a Microsoft Access database used to run Jefferson County, PA's medical assistance transportation program to include creating custom forms and reports using Visual Basic for Applications.  • Communicated with organizational staff to develop and conduct information technology related training to include email phishing, Microsoft Excel, and proprietary internal systems. Game Developer High Velocity Paintball - Punxsutawney, PA June 2003 to February 2019 • Developer for an online multiplayer paintball game with more than 150,000 registered users.  • Implemented gameplay systems and logic including graphics engine, physics engine, and game logic in Visual Basic.  • Assisted with installation and configuration of game server.  • Prioritized tasks and carefully managed time to consistently meet delivery dates.  • Worked closely with other staff to break down project goals into various job duties and tasks.  • Used debugging techniques to identify issues with code and resolve errors.  • Communicated regularly with end-users to receive feedback. Intelligence Analyst/ Security Manager U.S. Army - Fort Carson, CO March 2005 to September 2010 • Served as the Battalion Security Manager with the responsibility for the management and implementation of personnel, information, and physical security programs.  • Reviewed, analyzed, and interpreted National Security Agency (NSA), DOD, DA, WAMC and MEDCOM regulation/directives pertaining to the security programs for which responsible.  • Safeguarded classified and sensitive material.  • Assisted organizational communications section with setup and configuration of both unclassified and classified computer networks.  • Assisted with troubleshooting and resolving hardware and software issues.  • Configured, installed, and maintained organizational printers including large format plotters.  • Assisted with setup and configuration of Cisco VOIP phone systems.  • Compiled intelligence information and disseminated data through media, such as plots, briefings, messages, reports, and publications; maintain intelligence libraries.  • Oversaw, prepared, and delivered intelligence briefings and other reports.  • Assisted in establishing and maintaining systematic, cross-referenced intelligence records and files.  • Coordinated with others on personnel security matters. Updated clearance and access rosters for all DoD civilians and military personnel assigned to the organization.  • Conducted security inspections to ensure compliance with directives concerning dissemination, reproduction, transmission, storage and safeguarding, and destruction of classified material.  • Kept supervisors informed of potential scheduling conflicts and resourcing problems, and provided recommendations for avoidance/resolution of problems. IT Specialist (Volunteer) Goodwill Industries - Punxsutawney, PA June 2000 to March 2005 - Punxsutawney, PA June 2000 to March 2005  • Responsible for troubleshooting and resolving hardware and software issues.  • Configured, installed, and maintained organizational printers and copiers.  Assistant Network Administrator Assistant Network Administrator Jefferson County-DuBois A.V.T.S - Reynoldsville, PA September 2003 to June 2004 • Assisted with managing user accounts via Active Directory.  • Assisted with administration of on-premises Microsoft Exchange server.  • Assisted with troubleshooting and resolving hardware and software issues.  • Assisted with imaging, configuration, and deployment of new desktop computer systems.  • Oversaw deployment of and subsequent scans with new antivirus software across entire network to successfully eliminate viruses. Database Administrator KTH Architects - DuBois, PA June 2003 to September 2003 • Created and maintained a database for digitization of all prior architectural design projects.  • Created custom forms and reports utilizing Visual Basic for Applications  • Assisted the IT manager with troubleshooting and resolving hardware and software issues.  Information Technology Support Education Computer Science Pennsylvania College of Technology - Williamsport, PA Computer Science Pikes Peak Community College - Colorado Springs, CO Intelligence Operations Cochise College - Sierra Vista, AZ Computer Science Colorado Technical University-Colorado Springs - Colorado Springs, CO Skills System Administrator (10+ years), System Admin (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Vmware (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Group Policy (10+ years), Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, Windows Server, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2016, Hyper-V, Firewalls, DHCP, DNS, Office 365, Microsoft Office (10+ years), VPN, Routers, Sharepoint, SQL, Information Technology, Printers (10+ years), Procurement, Troubleshooting (10+ years), HTML, Leadership, Team Building, Written Communication, Oral Communication, Scheduling, Multitasking, Database Management, Database Administration, File Management, Backup and Recovery, Veeam, Endpoint Protection, Analytical, Pattern Analysis, Help Desk, Remote Desktop Services, VOIP Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Sergeant Certifications/Licenses Warrior Leader Course Present A  course that trains specialists and corporals in the fundamentals of leadership. The course curriculum includes instruction in leadership skills, training skills, and war-fighting skills.