Technical support to staff, administration and students Technical support to staff, administration and students Technical support to staff, administration and students - Columbus Public Schools Columbus, NE My objective is to obtain certifications in CompTIA Security +, CISSP. To enter my field where I can prove to be the most beneficial to my employer as well as to myself. Work Experience Technical support to staff, administration and students Columbus Public Schools - Columbus, NE January 2019 to Present Repair of HP Chromebooks Owner Shonka Computer Services - Columbus, NE 2015 to Present • Repair laptops, desktops, handheld devices and other devices.  • Virus removal and forensics  • Transfer data  • Wipe and clean hard drives  • Offer phone support Information Security Analyst Shonka Computer Services - Lincoln, NE January 2016 to June 2016 • Analyzed traffic of network for DDOS attacks  • Worked with DMCAs  • Investigated Phishing email and origins, blocked.  • Tools used: Splunk, Scrutinizer, ARP table, StealthWatch, Box tools, URL query. Admin tools for resetting passwords for compromised email accounts.  • Member of InfraGard Systems Administrator, IT Specialist/Helpdesk Support Apogee Retail - Columbus, NE September 2008 to November 2015 • Liaison between the offsite Director of IT and contractors hired for projects.  • Directed onsite IT staff with re-stack projects by delegation of all tasks.  • Created relevant and useful technical documentation and project plans.  • Effectively identify potential security risks and took reasonable countermeasures to safeguard (lockdown) computers in a networked environment using GPO.  • Oversaw the database server and client software.  • Performed PC hardware and software diagnostics, troubleshooting, and installation and repair.  • Assigned as the local administration of lab equipment such as printers, file sharing and security.  • Assisted the Administrator in setting up lab topologies and providing technical support.  • Supported and maintained lab equipment from high-end routers and switches to desktops.  • Ran and maintained network switches, routers and helped Administrator in conducting lab simulations. Remote desktops and virtual machines.  • Assisted in exchange planning and switching equipment domains based on requirements.  • Maintained Active Directory, Exchange Server and Bulk Copy Program (BCP).  • Performed risk management by identifying hazard, assessing the risk, controlling the risk and reviewing the control process.  • Assisted offsite Network Administrator with troubleshooting and maintaining network.  • Researched all skewed records and corrected them in the database working with SQL.  • Provided remote support for several stores located in different states.  • Maintained and supported 500+ computers at this location.  • Reimaged computers to keep them updated with newest releases and drivers.  • Assessed requests from managers before sending them on to the offsite IT Director.  • Created and scheduled work plans for all projects and set deadlines.    • References furnished upon request Education Masters in Information Security and Business Assurance Kaplan University Bachelor's Degree in Systems Security Westwood College Online Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Iis, Tcp/ip, Dhcp, Tcp, Telnet, Virtual machine, Sql, Metasploit, Nessus, Snort, Wireshark, Ghost, Ftp, Http, Imap, Nntp Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  OS and Servers: Windows / XP / Vista, Windows 7, 8, 10. UNIX, Linux, and Red Hat. Active Directory, Microsoft Server 2003, 2008, 2012 and 2016, Cisco, Exchange, CIC, IIS, SQL, MacOS  Software: MS Office (up to the latest), Lync (Skype for Business), Parallels, Virtual Machine, Norton Ghost, Adobe, JAVA, Interaction Intelligence software.  Security Tools: Wireshark, Metasploit, Nessus, Aircrack, Snort, Cain and Abel, Netcat, Tcdump, Sysinternals and HijackThis.  Hardware: PC repair, Printers, Hubs, Cable Scanner, Cabling including installation and some troubleshooting diagnostics, and VOIP, network switches. Polycom Phones and SIP Pucks.  Protocols: TCP/IP, SMTP, HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, IMAP, POP, TELNET, UDP, NNTP, MAC, DNS, DHCP    SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS  Colleges and Apogee Retail/Savers/TVI    • Ability to create relevant and useful technical documentation and project plans.  • Effectively identify potential security risks and take reasonable countermeasures to safeguard (lock down) computers in a networked environment using GPO.  • Assist in database server and assist database client software.  • PC hardware and software diagnostics, troubleshooting, installation and repair.  • Local administration of lab equipment such as printers, file sharing and security.  • Assist Administrator setting up lab topologies and providing technical support.  • Supporting and maintaining lab equipment from high-end routers and switches to desktops.  • Running, maintaining network switches, routers and helping Administrator in conducting lab simulations.  • Assist is exchange planning and switching equipment domains based on requirements.  • Maintained Active Directory  • Maintain Exchange Server  • Risk Management  • BCP  • Experience with Network security tools  • Computer Forensics  • Network servers  • Some web development and programming    TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE    Apogee Retail/Savers/TVI (Call Center environment)  • Assist on WAN/LAN integration project  • Responsible for up keeping over 400 computers, both PCs and Virtual.  • Implementation of Microsoft Server Active Directory structure including Organizational Unit strategy, Group Policies & IPsec  • Microsoft Visio  • Some SQL Express and MySQL  • Reimaging computers using Norton Ghost and WDS  • Worked with: Splunk, Scrutinizer, ARP table, StealthWatch, Box tools, URL query. Admin tools for resetting passwords for compromised email accounts.  • Microsoft Project  • Restacking of Call Center  • Support to end users    Westwood College, Microsoft Server Administration Mid-term Project (NW254 - Internetworking I)  • Network design project based on Microsoft Server  • Project lead responsible for all aspects of corporate WAN design & implementation  • Scope included all hardware, software & network topology  • Design of internal & external DNS namespace configuration    Westwood College, Microsoft Server Introduction Mid-term Project (NW202 - Microsoft Network Operating Systems)    • Network design project with 6 offices and 150 employees based on Microsoft Server  • Assist Project leader responsible for all aspects of project including corporate WAN design & implementation  • Scope included hardware & software & network topology  • Responsibility for Domain Controller topology, resource/file sharing and IPsec