IT System Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> System <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT System Analyst Bellevue, NE Work Experience IT System Analyst Northern Natural Gas - Omaha, NE December 2018 to Present • Northern Natural Gas Contractor  • Corporate Headquarters : Omaha Nebraska  • Provide 3rd tier support to internal NNG customers  • Primary project Cisco IP phone corporate upgrade of 1471 phones from a 7962 to the 8851 internally and externally.  • Imaging and compliance enforcement as needed.  • HP laptop and desktop PCs as the primary brand of choice for NNG. Desktop Support Analyst II HCL Technologies - Omaha, NE March 2016 to Present • Vendor for Cox Communication Inc  • Supporting 950 employees onsite, 7 Solution stores, Cox Business, Cox Media and Stonegate warehouse.  • Top ticket resolver for the last 3 months in the Central region.  • Customer Service specialist.  • Cisco Unified CM administration  • Dell laptop, tablet, desktop support  • SCCM  • Large scale imaging and deployment experience  • Asset Management  • Desktop Support  • Verizon portal Sprint cellular support  • Iphone, Samsung cellular configuring and troubleshooting  • RSA and Mobile Pass VPN token administration Product Support Analyst Ellie Mae - Omaha, NE April 2014 to November 2015 • Worked on a full service help desk assisting clients with installation, configuring, administrating and troubleshooting Encompass 360 loan mortgage software through email, chats, and phone calls.  • Makes timely and sound decisions based on all available input; addresses root cause of issues; recognizes problems and acts accordingly.  • Support Windows server platform, Microsoft SQL database, relevant web technologies, and networking.  • Resolve problems in a timely manner with minimal assistance for 85% of all cases assigned.  • Provide maximum first-call resolution, balancing completeness of resolution and quality of service while maintaining appropriate technical escalation rates. Information Security Analyst Solutionary - Omaha, NE October 2013 to April 2014 • Monitoring and analyze client's network activities from Solutionary's Security Operations Center (SOC).  • Accurately investigate, validate, escalate and disposition security events in a Linux environment.  • Read, interpret and follow all Escalation Procedures, Shift-to-Shift notes, white board communications, room announcements, etc., escalating to an appropriate manager when unsure or unclear.  • Knowledgeable in information security, networks, network devices and network monitoring tools, as well as network/system administration. Help Desk Analyst Alegent Health - Omaha, NE October 2012 to October 2013 • Provide phone and email support to end users for hardware and software failures remotely using Bomgar and Windows Remote Desktop.  • Maintain, troubleshoot and repair user's computer operating systems, software packages, and all other software and hardware platforms within the company. Maintains critical system end user functionality.  • Support all user systems including Windows XP and Windows 7 PCs, laptops, e-mail, directories, remote access, standard Windows desktop applications and specialized mission critical applications. LAN Engineer Omaha Public Schools - Omaha, NE August 2012 to October 2012 • Assisted System Engineers in router and switch upgrades replacing legacy HP and 3Com switches with Cisco routers and switches for the school district.  • Implemented wireless access points and helped users configure PC's and laptops for wireless connectivity.  • Performed network upgrades in the school swapping out new equipment for the old network backbone equipment that was in place. System Support Services Specialist Pamida Stores Operations Co., LLC - Omaha, NE May 2012 to July 2012 • Service desk position answering the phone for technical support for end users at Pamida.  • Provide technical and operations support to stores, distribution center, and general office teammates from Pamida locations nationwide.  • Receive, log, and analyze and resolve customer technical and/or procedural problems; monitor and operate data center systems and applications across a variety of platforms. Primary systems supported are WIN XP desktop workstations, Windows NT servers, and point-of-sale (POS) systems.  • Troubleshoot technical/procedural issues using established knowledge database and personal skills/experience. Determine when problem can be solved and when it must be escalated to one of the IS support teams.  • Communicate status of high severity problems to all affected business units and leaders in accordance with established procedures and timelines. Remote Install Technician Election Systems and Software - Omaha, NE February 2012 to April 2012 • Responsible for the installation and configuration of Unity GEMS and Election Ware election software.  • Supporting opened, closed and primary election ballot construction database creation and candidate integration for district, county state and Federal Elections.  • Installation of Window XP, Windows Server 2003 R2 and Windows 7. Technical Support E-Mail Solutions - Omaha, NE August 2011 to February 2012 • Technical support on behalf of Data Robotics for DROBO their Data storage robot products featuring a large range of home and business solutions for local and network data storage.  • Face to face and over the phone support of Intel-based and Macintosh computer systems including file repair, file recovery, networking and subnetting. Interfaces included USB 3.0, Firewire, ESATA, ISCSI and Ethernet. Technical Support Peter Keiwit - Omaha, NE April 2011 to August 2011 IM Help Desk Technician  • Working on a full service help desk with Active Directory, and Remote- in Desktop support based on a ticket queue and incoming cold calls, directly supporting Windows XP, Microsoft Office 2007 Suite, Server 2007, SAP as well as many other applications.  • Also, assist with VPN and intranet portal support and access to SharePoint designed locations. SAP access and role request responsibilities.  • Conduct account creations and changes for employees through Active Directory and Exchange Manage Consoles including security groups, distribution lists, and file/folder permissions for various levels of access.  • Conduct Blackberry Enterprise Server duties and active sync connections for mobile device support. Also support VOIP phone systems such as ShoreTel and Cisco desktop and computer systems.  • Maintain company security policies configurations, and virus protection systems such as Forefront Security. Conduct virus removal and scanning of systems needing removal of malware, worms, and viruses. Technical support CoSentry - Bellevue, NE November 2010 to April 2011 • Provide Help Desk support to businesses as first line of technical support over the phone. Monitor tickets, order parts, schedule repairs and manage service tickets for clients.  • Provided a liaison between financial institutions, Cisco, and Cisco engineers for scheduling, appointment settings, arrival of parts and repairs estimates and documentation over the phone and on line. Patient Interviewer Professional Research Consultants - Omaha, NE June 2008 to April 2010 Conduct surveys on patients' experiences and care in hospitals nationwide on the phone. Data Developer Infogroup - Papillion, NE February 2007 to March 2010 • Perform Custom Data Processing for Fortune 500 clients on an IBM Mainframe environment. Includes Window based applications and JCL with proprietary programs. Insure accuracy and timely delivery according to customers' requirements.  • Pull demographic, geographic and customer characteristics for list building and client mailing order.  • Used Market Smart-Oracle based data bank for marketing purposed. Education Associate's Degree in Computer Systems & Network Technology Vatterott College - Omaha, NE Skills Active Directory, testing, access, Active Directory, testing, training, access Additional Information • Over 11 years experience in a Help desk/Technical support environment.  • Broad knowledge of software procedures and ticketing systems over multiple platforms.  • Experience in phone calls, email, chat and remote desktop troubleshooting  • Laptop, Desktop, Mobile device, and tablet troubleshooting and connectivity capability.  • Superior customer service skills.    WORKING KNOWLEDGE BASE:    Microsoft Windows Solution Desk NetOp Malware  Macintosh OS Footprints LiveMeeting Firewall  Microsoft Office Right Now Go to Assist Internet  Webex BMC Service Desk Express Android Chat Support  Bomgar POB Microsoft Lynx Remote Desktop  Remote Desktop Five9 Wireless Virtual Desktop  SCCM Cisco VOIP Phone Dell Samsung  Iphone IPad Desktop Laptop  Tablet Surface Imaging Deployments  Point of sale VPN LAN/WAN Inventory  Asset Managment Service Now Skype Telepresence