IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - ARC OF UNION COUNTY, Springfield City, NJ Newark, NJ An Information Security Professional that supports a wide varieties of security activities including supporting Assessment and Authorization (A&A) efforts under the NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF), Security Life Cycle and Vulnerability Management, review of security impact on change requests, review accounts for the systems under my purview. A proven project and team lead with aptitude for good customer service, and excellent communication skills.  Other Key Areas of Competencies  * Experience with applying Information Assurance (IA) frameworks, including NIST RMF, NIST SP 800-53, NIST SP 800-37 to IT system development or assessments  * Knowledge of IA policies and procedures, including access control, incident response, contingency planning, or configuration and change management.  * Experience developing A&A documentation from scratch and performing security assessments  * Experience with administering, operating, or interpreting and analyzing results of vulnerability or configuration scans using tools such as Tenable Nessus  * Experience with IT administration, IT Cybersecurity, or IT Help Desk  * Familiar with dealing with defense-in-depth, and other information security and assurance principles and associated supporting technologies  * Demonstrate proficiency in the following areas: multi-tasking, critical thinking; and the ability to work quickly, efficiently and accurately in a dynamic and fluid environment Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst ARC OF UNION COUNTY, Springfield City, NJ February 2019 to Present • Review policies and procedures for compliance with applicable standards and to identify areas of improvement for finding remediation.  • Prepare, maintain, and implement system security plans for high-visibility information systems.  • Identify key stakeholders in A&A efforts and ensure system documentation reflects current security configurations to include hardware and software components.  • Conduct and complete an annual review of required HIPAA regulations and reports.  • Perform various Information Assurance support functions in support of the client's applications.  • Create and maintain documentation as it relates to network and server configuration, mapping, processes, and service records.  • Set the standards for access controls, audit trails, event reporting, encryption and integrity controls.  • Coordinate vulnerability remediation efforts with contractor and agency staff in order to remediate findings within specified deadlines and report findings in POA&M documents. Computer System Analyst UNIPARK CORP - Jersey City, NJ May 2018 to January 2019 • Maintained responsibility for analyzing and continuously monitoring cybersecurity and privacy policies, programs, compliance artifacts, or standards to support security compliance, systems accreditation, and management.  • Assisted customer program offices in interpreting and applying mitigation strategies.  • Reviewed documentation to ensure compliance with regulatory cybersecurity requirements.  • Led in the development/adoption and enforcement of information security policies, maintained cybersecurity procedures and processes as assigned.  • Coordinated with contractor and department staff to provide requested artifacts for assessment-related engagements in a timely manner.  • Developed core documents such as Security Plan, Contingency Plan, Incident Response Plan, and Standard Operating Procedures.  • Provided primary support of Microsoft Exchange environments and related hardware and software.  • Participated in incident response and process protocols including incident reporting and communicated the security posture of systems through designated reporting mechanism. IT Coordinator UNITED AMERICAN SECURITY - Union, NJ December 2017 to July 2018 Provided administrative support, such as status reporting and meeting meetings, preparing tender specifications and advised on the selection of computer hardware and software as required.  ? Identified potential risks associated with environment of operations and advised on mitigation strategies through devices such as security cameras.  ? Conducted functionality and gap analyses to determine the extent to which key business areas and infrastructure comply with statutory and regulatory requirements.  ? Reviewed documentation for accuracy and to ensure compliance with federal cybersecurity requirements.  ? Assisted and facilitates any external security evaluations and inspections, providing the visiting teams with required information and other requirements.  ? Provided help desk support to resolve application, hardware, connectivity issues at all locations.  ? Ensured the availability, performance and security of IT systems and applications  ? Performed risk analysis and management, documentation management and controls, information access controls and sanctions for failure to comply Software Quality Assurance Analyst HUDSON GREENE MARKET - Jersey City, NJ December 2016 to September 2017 Participated in the creation of quality assurance standards and making recommendations for changes to the processing systems.  ? Maintained client-specific Plan of Action and Milestones and supports remediation activities as well as inventory of hardware and software for information systems.  ? Ensured the availability, performance and security of IT systems.  ? Identified, documented, prioritized, and addressed IT-related capability gaps & requirements to support the client's mission.  ? Reviewed, implemented, and made recommendations for process improvements based on previously conducted business process analyses  ? Maintained appropriate security measures and mechanisms to guard against unauthorized access to electronically stored and /or transmitted data and protect against reasonably anticipated threats and hazards.  ? Ensured compliance through adequate training programs and periodic security audits. Data officer AC NIELSEN NIGERIA - Lagos, NG January 2007 to May 2015 Responsible for developing and governing our data and information strategy in order to drive business decisions and growth.  ? Developed data procedures and policies, and worked closely with various departments to collect, prepare, organize, protect and analyze data assets while ensuring that the company meets industry best practices.  ? Part of the team that Implemented data privacy policies and compliance with data protection regulations.  ? Responsible cleaning, sorting and merging inputted data in the data software QPSMR.  ? Responsible for the analysis, acquisition, installation, modification, performance monitoring, support, and improvement of server, network, and storage infrastructures.  ? Evaluated and recommended new information security technologies and countermeasures against threats to information or privacy.  ? Assisted in performing on-going security monitoring of organization information systems Education BSc. in Computer Science Lagos State Polytechnic - Lagos, NG Skills security, training Certifications/Licenses Driver's License