SAP Specialist SAP Specialist SAP Specialist - Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc New York, NY Responsible for providing IDocs monitoring, analysis and support of more than 500 products for procurement and order to cash transactions within Global Linkage interfaces. Work extensively with order management processing specifically on master data; basic functions; item proposal; output control; sales documents; item categories; schedule line categories; delivery documents; account determination; inbound deliveries; intra company sales process & STOs (Stock Transfer Orders), and consignment process to perform editing and IDOC (Intermediate Document) Processing. Proactively identify potential rules to stop creation of failed transactions and recommend solution. Collaborate with business team members across multiple functions to correct failed IDOC and to ensure efficient fulfillment for products. Review, create, request updates on master data records. Support artwork, components, bill of materials updates, creation and consolidation. Supported planning master data changes to ensure completeness and accuracy based on business requirements, processes and change requests. Developed work instructions and SOPs (Standard Operational Procedures) for Global Planning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SAP Specialist Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc - Manati, PR, US August 2017 to Present Responsible for providing IDocs monitoring, analysis and support of more than 500 products for procurement and order to cash transactions within Global Linkage interfaces. Work extensively with order management processing specifically on master data; basic functions; item proposal; output control; sales documents; item categories; schedule line categories; delivery documents; account determination; inbound deliveries; intra company sales process & STOs (Stock Transfer Orders), and consignment process to perform editing and IDOC (Intermediate Document) Processing. Proactively identify potential rules to stop creation of failed transactions and recommend solution. Collaborate with business team members across multiple functions to correct failed IDOC and to ensure efficient fulfillment for products. Review, create, request updates on master data records. Support artwork, components, bill of materials updates, creation and consolidation. Supported planning master data changes to ensure completeness and accuracy based on business requirements, processes and change requests. Developed work instructions and SOPs (Standard Operational Procedures) for Global Planning. Material Master Data Analyst Congar International - Cayey, PR, US October 2015 to July 2017 Responsible for maintaining bill of materials of more than 1400 products. Review the Master Data Record, creating and updating products to ensure completeness and accuracy based on business requirements, processes and change requests. Proactively analyze data and solve problems, working through conflicts and challenges and driving issues to closure. Active management and collaboration with business team members across multiple functions to ensure correct data setup. SAP Security Analyst Amcor Rigid Plastics - Cayey, PR, US December 2012 to September 2015 Provided security design, administration, analysis and support for all SAP system modules and landscapes such as ECC, BW, Solman, SRM, and APO. Supported management of transports from Development, Quality and Production ensuring that proper procedures have been followed for their deployment. Managed Segregation of Duties (SoDs) and Approva BizRights to streamline Compliance and Strengthen Business Controls. Reduced inappropriate access to zero more than once. Managed security changes for a customer group of about 1,500 users from North, Central and South America. Partnered with the Business Analysts Team to understand structural security needs and convert them into actionable security best practice changes requests for SAP. Supported SAP security aspects on more than 450 projects and four implementations. Troubleshot existing roles to determine and rectify arising authorization issues. Developed training materials and strategies on security processes for new team members, first level support, and SAP Local Referents. Saved the organization tens of thousands of dollars on SAP licensing by maintaining accurate user statistics. Constantly interacted with users as a coach, guiding and influencing their practices in regard to deviations from policy, procedures and best practice. IT Compliance Analyst Amcor PET Packaging - Manchester, MI January 2010 to November 2012 Managed Segregation of Duties (SoD) and requests for SAP security changes for a customer group of about 1,500 users from North and South America. Supported SAP security aspects of several projects, including the implementation of a new general ledger. Supported the integration of SAP security between AMCOR and ALCAN during their merger. Graduate Assistant to the Supply Chain Eastern Michigan University - Ypsilanti, MI January 2008 to December 2009 Graduate Assistant to the Head of the Supply Chain Department. Contributed on developing training materials for SAP, including demand forecasting, master production scheduling, capacity planning, material planning (MRP), and inventory management. Assisted in research on logistics and supply chain in a global context. Education Bachelor's