Operations Engineer Operations Engineer Operations Engineer Oakdale, MN Work Experience Operations Engineer Ameriprise Financial Services - Minneapolis, MN January 2011 to October 2017 Recruited by Ameriprise from IBM Global Services based on a "can do, get it done" reputation, dealing with even the most difficult tasks and situations by working with technical teams, vendors and directly with clients. Originally hired for special projects, reviewing the current environments and identifying opportunities for improvement. Special projects led to building out the Problem  Management Team and ServiceNow processes. This included travelling to Delhi and Bangalore to train IBM Global Services (India) teams now servicing the Ameriprise account. Moved to  Operations in 2013 where responsibilities included maintenance of established server standards, responding to internal and external audit requests, providing expert analysis of data provided by vendors, documentation of violations and resolutions. Continued to interact with all levels and aspects within both Technology and Financial groups in order to maintain the best security possible. Position eliminated with U.S. Operations group.  Accomplishments include: • Development of Ameriprise Windows Server Standards.  • Deployment of Server Standards to all vendor managed servers (IBM, CSC and CompuCom).  • Design and implementation of Group Policies for compliance and risk-based issues.  • Design of secure working environments integrating multiple customers and applications.  • Implementation of hardware monitoring tools.  • Set Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) when building and maintaining servers.  • Ongoing validation of the health of the Windows environment using Ameriprise and IBM tools.  • Assured environment was compliant to the approved Server Standard to maintain Best Practice.  • Design and implementation of ServiceNow reporting for Problem Management Team.  • Recognized expert on all Intel based hardware (IBM, Dell and HP).  • Utilized as subject matter expert, known for willingness to share knowledge and skills. System Administrator/ Security and Audit IBM Global Services - Minneapolis, MN January 2005 to January 2011 Ameriprise/American Express Account - Responsible for responding to all Windows internal and external audit requests. Provided steady state support of Ameriprise Windows Infrastructure.  Successfully worked with technical teams, vendors and directly with the customer to develop best practices for configuring and maintaining a sound environment, including server and file access,  SAN/HBA, and networking. Participated in the completion and troubleshooting of Day 700 (Ameriprise split from American Express). Also, a key member of the team that migrated the AMEX\Ameriprise NT 4.0 Domain to a secured Windows Active Directory. Consultant through  InterTech Consulting. Senior Systems Analyst Minneapolis Federal Reserve Bank - Minneapolis, MN July 2000 to October 2004 Responsible for daily operation of entire Server Farm (250 Windows and Unix Servers), Print servers and national Federal Reserve Systems FAX application. Position included daily support, as well as 24/7 on-call response. Created and maintained a solid support environment with over 99% uptime. Developed a new HP Blade Server environment, and a new HP  SAN technology.  Risk Automation Support Services, Supervisor - Responsible for the IT support of Credit,  Reserves and Statistical groups in Risk Management. Responsible for the evolution of the RASS 4- member support team into the Federal Reserve Bank IT organization. Activities included supervising 3 employees, installation and upgrades of national applications, audit and request of security access on mainframe and windows servers. Maintaining department Contingency plan and participation in Off-site recovery. Help Desk Technician, Lead Net Perceptions, Inc - Eden Prairie, MN February 1999 to May 2000 Architected Helpdesk Expert System. Designed Active Voice OS2 Repartee Voice Mail System.  Designed a global support strategy, as company grew from 100 to 380 employees worldwide. Also handled facilities management (space, electrical, HVAC, building security). Y2K Project Specialist American Medical Systems - Minnetonka, MN April 1998 to November 1998 Y2K Project  Examined AMS documentation for Y2K compliance and recommend needed upgrades to executives. Consultant through Programming Alternatives. Sr. Technical Consultant - 3M Corporate IT 3M Corporation - Maplewood, MN January 1993 to April 1998 Responsible for building standards on workstations and writing images, primary support person for Y2K, IT Operations and International Support. Designed, built and implemented a desktop support strategy. Built and maintained test server environment. Responsibilities included the daily support of the entire 3M Corporation, including 3M Executive Services. Operating System support, lead support for FTP, RAS, Terminal servers and connectivity to mainframe and servers. Expert on all mail platforms (SMTP, Lotus Notes, All-in-1, Profs, VAX). Provide support to 3M Executive  Services. Consultant through Programming Alternatives. Technical Analyst, Corporate Operations Norwest Bank - Minneapolis, MN July 1983 to January 1993 Responsible for cost analysis, benchmarking and bid process for High Speed Rollfeed and Optical  Disk Systems. Key team member for year-end processing projects, and bank acquisition due- diligence. Designed and implemented a corporate-wide paper recycling and print operations consumable recycling effort. Received many awards, including Service Excellence. Education High school Skills Active Directory. (10+ years), Deployment (10+ years), documentation (10+ years), STORAGE AREA NETWORK (10+ years), Cloud Computing (3 years), Servicenow (3 years), Clarity (2 years), BMC Awards Service of Excellence 1992-03 Received for outstanding work during Year-end project. Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 June 2015 to Present Additional Information KEY TECHNICAL SKILLS  Architecture and Engineering: Proficient in analysis, auditing (SOX, HIPAA and internal),  documentation, development of procedures and configuration management. High proficiency with  reporting tools (ServiceNow, Remedy). Familiar with software deployment tools. ITIL certified.  Cloud Services: IBM SmartCloud, Microsoft Azure, AWS.  Enterprise Applications: Windows Active Directory, IBM Tivoli Tools, IBM BigFix, VMWare and  Citrix, ServiceNow, BCP, EMS.  Hardware: IBM (all) X-Series and 8-way server technology, HP/Compaq (all) DL, ML, Blade, Dell (all),  PowerEdge.  High Availability Cluster: Optimization and performance planning. Applications: IBM High  Availability Cluster Multi-Processing (HACMP), Microsoft Cluster (MSCS), Veritas Enterprise and  Cluster Server. Storage: Internal and External (SAN and NAS).  Internet: IIS server, SSH, Secure FTP server (DFS), DNS.  Networks: TCP/IP, IP Aliasing, and Remote Access Server, Terminal Services, RAC (hardware  console).  Operating environments: Windows 10 OS, and prior versions. Windows Server 2016 OS, and prior  versions. Unix/Linux.