Information Security and Compliance Team Lead Information <span class="hl">Security</span> and Compliance Team Lead Information Security and Compliance Team Lead - Regal Entertainment Group Knoxville, TN Talented and highly engaged security systems engineer, analyst, and leader with powerful analytical skills. Dedicated to security, compliance, and continuous learning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security and Compliance Team Lead Regal Entertainment Group - Knoxville, TN December 2017 to Present Retain all Level III Analyst responsibilities  ? Serve as backup for Director of Information Security  ? Manage day-to-day work Infosec team work distribution and focus  ? Infosec technology portfolio analysis and implementation strategy  ? Attained ISC(2) CISSP certification Information Security and Compliance Analyst III Regal Entertainment Group - Knoxville, TN January 2014 to December 2017 Train and develop Regal Infosec team members  ? Implemented and administer several systems critical to Regal's security posture and PCI compliance: LogRhythm, Bit9, FireEye, Malwarebytes,  ? Manage Regal's SSL certs  ? Document Regal Infosec systems' administration and troubleshooting procedures  ? Administer ManageEngine ADSelfService Plus, ADManager Plus, ADAudit Plus  ? Implemented Malwarebytes Endpoint Security for all desktops and laptops  ? Developing plans and staging all Regal Infosec systems for move to new colo datacenter  ? Attained EC-Council Certified Hacking Forensics Investigator (CHFI) Certification Information Security and Compliance Analyst II Regal Entertainment Group - Knoxville, TN January 2012 to December 2013 Resume all Level I analyst duties  ? Administer Xceedium Gatekeepers, CyberArk Privileged Identity Management Suite, Regal Infosec VMWare ESXi Sandbox, CentOS box running Nessus scanner  ? Work with new POS rollout project stakeholders to implement controls to ensure security and PCI compliance of new POS systems  ? Ran several proofs-of-concept for AV, FIM, Log Collection, and IPS systems  ? Support yearly SOX audit with reporting from AD and CyberArk  ? Attained GIAC Windows Security Administrator (GCWN) certification Information Security Analyst I Regal Entertainment Group - Knoxville, TN June 2010 to January 2012 Administer AV Systems SEP 11/12, Lasso log collection, Tripwire CCM, ANX TruComply  ? Implemented and administer PacketMotion PacketSentry  ? Serve as primary incident handler and POC with MSSP Secureworks  ? Analyze and remediate (daily) PCI event reporting from Secureworks  ? Perform FIM, Vulnerability, and Compliance Scanning/Remediation  ? Perform Quarterly PCI Scanning, Remediation, and Attestation of Compliance  ? Develop documentation and Corporate IT Policy  ? Perform yearly PCI-mandated IT security training for Corporate employees  ? Wrote monthly IT security articles targeted to 20K retail site employees  ? Audit disaster recovery exercises and tape handling procedure  ? Work with QSA and other members of Regal Infosec to attain yearly PCI ROC  ? Attained GIAC Certified Enterprise Defender (GCED) Certification Telecom Analyst, Help Desk Lead, Tier II IT Analyst, Desktop Support Brunswick Corporation - Knoxville, TN January 2004 to May 2010 Helpdesk Support Specialist I, Alyeska Consolidated Service Desk SAIC - Oak Ridge, TN April 2002 to January 2004 Education B.A. in Russian Language University of Tennessee - Moscow, RU December 1994 Additional Information Significant experience engineering and administering privileged access, endpoint security, log collection/alerting, MFA, and FIM systems.  Nine years of experience attaining an annual PCI ROC on a small security team with limited resources.  Support of annual SOX and financial controls audit cycle.  Excels at identifying risks and vulnerabilities, and in turn, recommending and implementing security solutions, remediations, and processes.  Extensive experience in implementation, support, and maintenance of IT security systems in large, multi-site retail environments.  Adept in auditing IT systems and processes.  Skilled in developing and maintaining relationships with internal and external customers.  Enthusiastic team player with excellent interpersonal and leadership skills.  Effective oral and written communications abilities.    TECHNOLOGY  Operating Systems Windows XP - 10, Server 2008 R2 - 2019, VMWare ESXi, CentOS & Kali Linux  Password Storage and Management: CyberArk PAS, Xceedium Xsuite  Privileged Access Management: CA PAM, CyberArk PIM Suite,  Multifactor Authentication: RSA SecureID, RSA Authentication Manager,  Active Directory Management and Automation: ManageEngine AD SelfService Plus, ManageEngine ADManager Plus  Vulnerability Management and Remediation: Qualys Vulnerability Scanner, Nessus Vulnerability Scanner  FireEye Threat Prevention Platform: AX Malware Analysis, NX Network, EX, CMS, ETP),  Log Collection, Storage, and Analysis: LogLogic EVA, LogRhythm XM, LogLogic EPV, Cybermaxx SIEM  Endpoint Security: Carbon Black Protection, Symantec Endpoint Protection 12/14, System Center Endpoint Protection, Malwarebytes for Business, Secureworks Red Cloak  Firewall Management and Analysis: Check Point Smart Console NGSE  File Integrity and Configuration Management: Tripwire CCM, Carbon Black Protection, Symantec Application and Device Control  Managed Services: Secureworks, Cybermaxx