Sr. Internal Auditor, IT Sr. Internal Auditor, <span class="hl">IT</span> Sr. Internal auditor, IT - Unum Chattanooga, TN Senior level auditor with extensive experience and knowledge of retail IT applications, network/infrastructure, and security frameworks (including: ISO/IEC 27002, NIST CSF, COBIT, COSO, SANS CSC) and regulations (e.g. PCI). Proficient in building these frameworks into IT and audit best practices, policies, and procedures. Natural ability to create and maintain strong and effective relationships with all levels of the organization (end user to C-Suite) and external partners (external auditors, service providers, and regulators). Positive attitude, effective listener, team player, highly analytical, able to see both the big picture and execute on the smallest of details. CISA Eligible; IAA, ISSA, & ISACA Member; ITIL Certified; ISA Fundamentals for PCI. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Internal Auditor, IT Unum - Chattanooga, TN August 2017 to Present Conduct assurance and advisory activities in compliance with the Institute of Internal Auditors' International Professional Practices Framework. Monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of governance structure(s) and risk management frameworks. Aligned ITGC controls with NIST 800/53 Standards and ISO 27000 standards to conform current practice to accepted business norms. SOC2 guidance to internal control owners as well as reviewed and tested with external auditor. Subject matter expert for SOX, COSO, PCI, & GDPR. Special projects as requested by management or the Audit Committee. Sr. IT SOX and Security Analyst Belk, Inc June 2016 to August 2017 Compliance Duties: ITGC audits on all financially significant operating systems, applications, networks relating to security & access, back-up and recovery, change management, and SDLC processes. Technical SME for the IT Compliance team. Trained and mentored audit team members on different organizational platforms, how each interacts with other systems in the environment, and guided them during scope and walk-through/discovery gathering sessions. Worked with external auditors on follow-up items, questions, and expanded sample selections when needed.  From a risk perspective: Created compliance program driven by and aligned to NIST Framework, CSC Sans 20, PCI DSS Requirements, and SOX regulatory standards. Aligned current Company Policy structure to NIST framework making sure each was aligned to a CSC (SANS20) and/or PCI DSS Requirement(s).  Security Awareness duties: PCI Lead; Annual security awareness training and reporting for all store and corporate associates; Drafted and published monthly security awareness articles in Corporate newsletter. Designed and distributed security awareness posters. Belk, Inc - Charlotte, NC February 2013 to August 2017 Change Manager Duties Belk, Inc August 2015 to June 2016 included: Co-facilitator of the Change Advisory Board (CAB). Created Change Management Procedures eliminating found gaps. Implemented procedures, change/maintenance windows, PIRs, and RFC reviews focusing on ITIL driven strategies while following SOX guidelines. Drafted roadmap for future enhancements. Responsible for change requests from submission to implementation and provided updates to CIO, CTO, and EVP.  Incident Management Duties included: Managed the lifecycle of all IT Operations and Corporate System(s) Incident tickets. Quarterly reviews and reporting of vendor partner SLA (Service Level Agreements) adherence to senior VPs and C-Suite executives.  Problem Management Duties included: Restructured the Problem Management practice to align with ITIL standards, updated Problem Management policy and procedures, and communicated to IT. Worked with internal IT and IT Vendor partners to identify and manage known errors thru resolution, making sure a viable workaround existed until Problem could be fully resolved; confirmed RCA (Root Cause Analysis) was completed, testing was performed, and changes were implemented; and conducted post implementation reviews/monitoring until problem confirmed resolved. Reported on trends to business owners and executives. Sr. IT Operations SOX Analyst/PCI/Multi-Vendor Governance Belk, Inc September 2014 to August 2015 Management assessments on AS/400, Mainframe, and Windows abends on financially significant systems, monthly ITGC audits of the Change Management process, and assisted Compliance team with SOX quarterly audits. PCI liaison for Operations. Multi-Vendor Governance administrator duties included reviewing underpinning (vendor)contracts, SLA governance, and gathering statistics for C-suite Executives on a weekly, monthly, quarterly basis. Attended Board meetings and presented results of vendor related statistics. Sr. SOX Strategy Audit Analyst Belk, Inc May 2014 to September 2014 Created, implemented, and audited new IT SOX Requirements based on COBIT standards to assure systems, databases, applications, and IT processes complied with all SOX IT General Computing Controls (ITGC) for: AS/400, Mainframe, Windows, Unix, Privileged Access, Back-Up and Recovery, Contractor Access, Employee Access, Onboarding/Off-boarding, Passwords, Change Management, SDLC processes, Data Center access, and Policy/Procedures. Performed audits, reviewed IT processes to ensure compliance with mandated service levels, reported areas of non-compliance, and facilitated training of SOX and compliance controls throughout the IT organization. PeopleSoft Lead Analyst Belk, Inc February 2013 to September 2014 PS Payroll Lead for upgrade to v9.2. Facilitated requirements gathering and fit/gap sessions. Worked with solution delivery providers to ensure requirements were correctly mapped through all phases of the SDLC map. Ensured test conditions for new requirements were created, tested, and incorporated into regression test plans for future enhancements. Performed critical functional testing, facilitated UAT planning/testing with business partners and IT service providers. Coordinated the defects tracking and resolution process, secured UAT sign-offs, pilot planning, and tested implementations with IT service providers and HR business partners. President/Owner ERP Pro Solutions, Inc August 2011 to January 2013 CONTRACTED PROJECTS INCLUDED: Lead Analyst Swedish Medical Group - Seattle, WA June 2012 to December 2012 Gathered requirements, created functional specifications, and implemented a pay cycle change - consolidating four separate pay cycles (Monthly, Semi-Monthly and two bi-weekly payrolls on separate schedules) into one common, bi-weekly pay cycle with least impact to employee while maintaining the integrity of employee data on FSA calculations, garnishment deductions, and earnings balances. Assisted w/ ad hoc query requests for both internal and IRS audits. Gathered requirements, worked on developing solutions, tested, and implemented the City of Seattle sick pay ordinance. Provided production support on day-to-day PeopleSoft related issues, including tax updates and testing from 12C up to and including Year End. Assisted Benefits team w/ OE Testing. Configured Production for OE 2013. Lead Analyst George Weston (Bimbo) Bakeries - Horsham, PA September 2011 to February 2012 May 2012  Duties included: Created Test plans and test scenario templates for Tax Update testing (11C thru 12B), testing of all tax upgrades (including PA Act 32 and Year End), and reconciled all TAX900 errors. Configured Year End tables and created W2s for 2011. Configuration of new deduction codes included adding to company and general deduction tables, updating all relevant limit tables, creating functional specs for new functionality, and required interfaces to/from vendor. Tested all new deduction codes and interfaces with business partners and vendor.    Non-Contracted Positions PeopleSoft Functional Payroll Implementation Lead University of NC - Chapel Hill, NC November 2010 to September 2011 for v9.1 (time limited position)  CRP and Fit/GAP session facilitator; performed fit/gap analysis between legacy payroll system and PeopleSoft v9.1. Translated business requirements into functional specifications for payroll and benefits, worked with developers on customizations where 'gaps' existed, and presented gap solutions to business. Configured installation, core business, and employee level tables/pages. Conversion compares between legacy system and PSv.9.1. Sr. Business Analyst Masco Administrative Services - Daytona Beach, FL February 2009 to October 2010 Senior PeopleSoft HRIS/WorkBrain Analyst  24/7 Operational and IT Support on WorkBrain v.5.0.52 for Time & Attendance and PS v8.9 for Payroll. Worked with developers on new requirements and enhancements to current business practices; translating business requirements into technical design documents. Security admin for all user roles within WorkBrain. Lead in re-implementation of approximately 75% of Time and Attendance module due to Oracle S&D redesign, wrote all BRDs & FRDs for development efforts needed to support Oracle re-implementation. Responsible for all test scenarios/test scripts for integration, functional, regression, and UAT testing following the Waterfall SLDC methodology. Member of the CAB and PIR Board. PeopleSoft v.9.0 HCM Functional Lead for Payroll Mipro Consulting January 2008 to August 2008 Translated business requirements into functional specifications for payroll and benefits, worked with developers on customizations where 'gaps' existed, presented gap solutions to business. Set up Installation and Core Tables as they related to Payroll. Led all Payroll testing (conversion, integration, functional, UAT and parallel). Created all test scenarios, balanced payroll conversion files (net to gross), and kept client on task with timeline provided. Worked with 3rd party vendors gathering and presenting requirements to developers providing a clean integration between vendor systems and PeopleSoft v. 9.0. Worked one-on-one with Operational VPs, Payroll Managers, and their teams to ensure a smooth transition to PeopleSoft. Education Associate in Business and Marketing Florida Metropolitan University - Lakeland, FL 1997 to 1999 Skills ITIL (5 years), Auditing, Cobit, Hipaa, It Audit, SOX Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/tammy-munstermann-64b0117 Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 April 2016 to Present