IT Director <span class="hl">IT</span> Director IT Director Amarillo, TX About  As a decisive, reliable leader with a consistent track record of success overseeing operations, integration, and interoperability of systems, I understand the importance of results. Being an accomplished IT Manager known for uncovering cost-cutting opportunities, expanding data management capabilities, and motivating employees to perform at a high level, I revel in the challenges of accomplishing goals where others have failed. I am a passionate contributor, adept at taking on increasing responsibilities to change organizations and generate new business opportunities.  During my 25+ year career, I have cultivated many cross-functional teams that have surpassed financial and service objectives by using newly formed systems and renewed practices. A few of my recent successes include:     ?Promoted to roles of increasing authority for establishing IT systems and processes that increase output and cut cost.   ?Reduced physical server count 95% and realized $250K in annual savings by implementing process roadmaps.  ?Administered 400+ Wndows and Linux servers to support 2,500 users and advance mobility engines.   ?Consistently reduced costs and streamlined technical operations and processes in all positions held.    Skills:  Project Management - Strategic Planning - Cost Controls - Budget Preparation - Data Center Management - Capital Planning - Network Engineering - System Improvements - Troubleshooting Ticket Resolution - ITIL Methodologies - Operating Procedures - Disaster Recovery - Regulatory Compliance - Auditing Work Experience IT Director APU - Amarillo, TX 2019 to 2019 2019  Maintained the reliability and stability of company networks, all data security and the IT infrastructure. Successful completion of client and SOC 2 Type II security audits, as well as, telecommunication systems.    • Continually updated policies and procedures to encompass the always changing workflow in the company and staff. Network Engineer Amarillo Independent School District - Amarillo, TX 2018 to 2019 Supported over 60 campuses and over 60,000 users. Supported over 500 switches and routers, 60 wireless access controllers and 4000 access points. Manager of IT Infrastructure City of Amarillo - Amarillo, TX 2015 to 2017 Directed 7 network and systems engineers and supported 60 departments throughout 40 locations while managing a $3M budget. Oversaw a 180 virtualized Windows, Linux server on VMware 6.5, Windows, and Linux servers on VMware 6.5 with 50 enterprise applications, including Exchange 2013 and Office 365. Leveraged ticketing systems and Survey Monkey to improve customer service. Partnered with the county for offsite data center recovery projects. Planned and forecasted the future of network infrastructure updates, which expedited workflow. Experience with SCADA.  • Improved systems' performance 50% after consolidating two data centers into one newly built data center.  • Realized $250K in annual savings through a vitalization roadmap that cut physical server count 95%.  • Achieved up to 60% in discounts from managed contracts, vendor negotiations, and bid proposals.  • Reduced storage requirements 80% by redesigning and streamlining the file server directory.  • Implemented hybrid Agile/Scrum and ITIL methodologies and systematic root analysis to slash help desk request 50%.  • Improved infrastructure performance with an ongoing $400K fiber optic initiative. Deployed Cradlepoint cellular routers for remote sites, where broadband or fiber was not cost effective.  • Established BitLocker, point-to-point VPN tunnels, and state-of-the-art firewalls, remote access, and patch management policies within PCI, HIPAA, and CJIS compliance.  • Won a $200K grant to expand IT resources that would elevate business.  • Deployed SolarWinds by providing improved network monitoring capabilities. Network Engineer Siemens Healthcare - Amarillo, TX 2011 to 2015 Administered 400+ Windows and Linux servers for 16 remote clinics using VPN for 2,500 users. Configured core router and switches for client's infrastructure. Provided Tier 3 support and oversaw enterprise-level security access of the network within regulatory standards.  • Set up mobility engines with real-time movement across 400 wireless access points to increase wireless speed from 54 Mbps to 1300 Mbps.  • Saved 50% in electricity and cooling and decreased rack space by upgrading 120 switches from Cisco 6500 to Cisco 3750.  • Strategically advanced technical processes at new clinics by performing site surveys and implementing access points. Network Engineer AMA TechTel Communications 2011 to 2011 IT Director/ Security Officer Herring Bank - Amarillo, TX 2006 to 2010 Led 6 network and systems engineers while delivering end-to-end management of the bank's IT programs, including user support, networking, help desk, security, voice communications, and regulatory compliance. Administered 200+ Windows, Linux, UNIX servers, associated routing, and switching gear for Core, DMZ, and LAN/WAN networks. Coordinated 3rd party vendor relations and handled all mobile device connectivity and security for mobile phones and laptops. Redesigned active directory structure to protect the global network.  • Turned around ailing IT infrastructure to achieve the highest rating on federal and state-level IT audit 4 years in a row.  • Reduced new server provisioning 90% and achieve reduced footprint and utility requirements.  Professional Overview (Continued)  • Gained 50% in systems performance improvements after deploying EMC SAN devices.  • Eliminated 5 years of excess and unused services, including a T1 circuit at $300/month, after a thorough vendor audit. Lead Network Administrator and Technical Coordinator Marsh & McLennan - Amarillo, TX 1998 to 2006 1992-2006 Lead SQA Analyst 1995 to 1998 Programmer Analyst 1992 to 1996 Integrated new accounting systems and applications to expand business capabilities. Coordinated disaster recovery activity, consistently meeting all deadlines. Identified essential IT products that significantly reduced operational cost.  • Received two promotions due to demonstrated abilities to handle increasing professional and technical assignments.  • Reduced operating costs $100,000 by researching, evaluating, and implementing IT products.  • Met 72-hour project window by physically packing tapes and conducting live restores for disaster recovery exercises.  • Deployed Corporate Systems' first-ever Windows-based, front-end application, accounting system interface, which provided immediate access for authorized users, without going to the Accounting Department. Education Computer Information Systems Texas State Technical College - Amarillo, TX Industrial Engineering West Texas A&M University - Canyon, TX Electrical Engineering DeVry University - Irving, TX Skills Linux, Unix, Cisco, Citrix, Orion, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Telnet, Vmware, Data center, Exchange, Firewalls, Itil, Nas, Networking, Remedy, Solarwinds, Disaster recovery, Wireshark, Visio, Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Network Administration, Excel, Active Directory Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/stortella Certifications/Licenses Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Present ITIL Present CJIS CCNA A+ Certified Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Additional Information Key Strengths:  Project Management • Strategic Planning • Cost Controls • Budget Preparation • Data Center Management Capital Planning • Network Engineering • System Improvements • Troubleshooting • Ticket Resolution  ITIL Methodologies • Operating Procedures • Disaster Recovery • Regulatory Compliance • Auditing    Technical Skills  Operating Environments: Windows (XP-10), Windows Server (2003-2016), Microsoft Exchange (2003-2013), Linux (CentOS, Fedora, REHL, SUSE), UNIX, Mac OS.  Networking Tools: BMC Remedy, Cisco Prime Infrastructure, Dell KACE, HP SiteScope, ManageEngine OpUtils, Numara Track- It, Putty, SecureCRT, SolarWinds (Orion, Web Help Desk), Thycotic (Group Management Server, Password Reset Server, Secret Server), Unitrends Backup, Wireshark.  Hardware: Servers, Blade Servers, NAS & SAN Units, Multiple Manufacturers of (Firewalls, Routers, Switches).  Database/Productivity: Oracle, SQL Server, Microsoft (Access, Excel, Outlook, Project, SharePoint, Visio, Word).  Enterprise Tools: Barracuda (Email Security Gateway, Web Security Gateway), CA eTrust, Cisco (IronPort Email Security & Web Security), FatPipe WARP, Infoblox Grid, Kaspersky Antivirus, McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator, Symantec Endpoint Protection, Trend Micro (Advanced Threat Detection, Micro Endpoint Security), Unitrends Recovery Backup Appliance.  Hypervisors: Citrix XenServer, Microsoft Hyper-V, VMware (ESX/ESXi).  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS, TELNET, FTP.  Methodologies/Frameworks: Waterfall, Agile, Scrum, ITIL, Lean Six Sigma.