Data Security Analyst Data <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Data Security Analyst - FedEx Arlington, TN Work Experience Data Security Analyst NexTech (Contractor) FedEx - Memphis, TN March 2019 to Present Contractor)    • Provide daily support for security certificates to staff  • Supports the certificate community with data and follow-up regarding expirations  • Resolve certificate issues: i.e. installations and errors  • Configure and monitor security tools and software  • Provide recommendations in support of security goals  • Assist business partners in a world class vendor and third-party security and compliance program IT Support Infrastructure TekSystems July 2018 to March 2019 • Desktop support for end users of software  • Research and trouble-shoot issues reported by existing software users  • Assist other support specialists and IS staff as needed and continue to acquire knowledge of other programs the department supports  • Conduct training Webinars for software above and build supporting documentation for training  • Assist with training in the use of all technologies used  • Quality assurance on software as iterations are complete and prior to deployment to production  • Performed Depot functions related to PXE imaging New dell desktop & laptop installs with service master & American home shield images  • Also performed Depot refresh of existing user machines & repurposing/redeploying computer assets.  • Created computer names and added computers to appropriate OU's in Active Directory  • Imaged 10zig thin clients via the network and jump drives.  • Setup Cisco VOIP desk phones.  • Travelled to various locations out of state working Migration project. Migrated laptops, desktops & thin clients from service master domain to AHS domain using sccm.  • Installed various software including but not limited to Citrix Receiver 4.9, Cisco any connect, Cisco WebEx meeting, Microsoft Teams, Jedox, SCCM configuration manager, Microsoft Power BI(SAS), Microsoft office 365 professional, Verint AIM, Remote desktop console,  • Use ServiceNow Ticketing System to document problem/resolution issues as reported by Employees. System is used to track ticket SLA status. Also used to schedule projects requests. Network Technician\System Admin Medegen Medical August 2012 to May 2018 • Administered and created Network accounts using Active Directory 2003/2008/2012. Also managed, maintain, and resolved issues in Active Directory 03/08 (adds, deletions, and changed accounts) using Group Policy Operations (GPO).  • Administered, created & managed user accounts using Exchange 365/Office 365.  • Created, maintained & deleted user Accounts for SAP. Also used Powershell to fix mailboxes.  • Administered PBX\Nortel Phone access, change order adds & removes.  • Provided end user support for install/repair/upgrade Windows XP\7\10 desktops & Laptops including applications & printers.  • Perform preventive maintenance, troubleshoot & resolve failures on (Windows 2003, 2008 r\2, 2012r\2) VMware ESX server 6 for network file share on servers including upgrades.  • Coordinated vender related setup & repair for Network Data Center, server, cabling, desktops\laptops & printers.  • Managed IT tickets using Track It helpdesk system  • Performed technical evaluations for requests for new asset purchases as well as managed and deployed assets. Troubleshot desktop, laptop, printer, network connectivity and software issues for admin Shelby County Schools January 2008 to August 2012 January 2008 - August 2012  Technology Support  • Troubleshot desktop, laptop, printer, network connectivity and software issues for admin, staff & students.  • Installed, updated, supported and removed programs not limited to Microsoft Office, Adobe, flash/media player.  • Cleaned viruses using Norton, McAfee, ITM, sophos and other various anti-virus programs.  • Unix was used to mount disks, reconfigure OS corrupt files, and check integrity of systems hard drive.  • LDAP Authentication for WPA2 Enterprise wireless security. Lead LAN Support Analyst Thomas & Betts March 2006 to January 2008 • Configured and maintained Cherry Keyboards for Thin client use with Tops, Marc and Unix terminals.  • Imaged NT, 2000 & XP desktops/Laptops, installed & configured workstations with Novell 5x network authentication for login access.  • Programmed and maintained scanners for facility and troubleshot wireless access point & account login issues throughout the plant.  • Unix terminal was used to list jobs, unlock holds on orders, kill processes etc.  • Marc & Tops 3270 emulation mainframe we used to print orders, documents and labels for packages.  • Marc & Tops were configured to print from various brands of printers (Kyocera & Zebra). Systems Analyst Valero Refinery June 2005 to February 2006 • Using Active Directory, created & maintained network accounts, remoted into users' desktops to fix issues.  • Nortel PBX was used to administer phone services to end users, and also to process moves, adds, and changes.  • Created email accounts using Exchange Server, and troubleshot email account issues resolving address etc. Network Technician Shelby County Government January 2000 to March 2005 • Dispatched technician calls; entered end user problem/project requests, managed queues in Magic helpdesk system.  • Assisted with resetting JMS JSS & AMS 3270 emulation systems.  • Supported Mayor's, Business tax, Marriage license, Driver's license, Code enforcement, Jail, Criminal/Circuit/Traffic Courts and various government offices. IT Specialist Tek Systems June 1999 to January 2000 • Built & configured IBM, HP/Compaq desktops/laptop & servers used syscon mainframe terminal system to load server OS. Loaded Sun microsystems, Microsoft, Compaq & HP server software on servers.  • Installed & configured Office 97 & 2000, Corel Word Perfect 8.1/9.0 and anti-virus programs for desktops & laptops for such companies as McDuff, Best Buy, etc. for their customer ordering these units. Technical Info Specialist The Orkand Corporation September 1997 to June 1999 • Entered Geographical map data into SQL data base.  • Analyzed and edited the data by merging from SQL into oracle systems for accuracy.  • All of this process was GIS and gathered initially with GPS systems software running in conjunction with SQL\Oracle systems software on IBM think pad laptops. Education Associates of Electronics Engineering Technology in Electronics Engineering Technology Remington College of Technology - Memphis, TN March 1998 Skills MS Office, Excel, Business Intelligence, SQL, Microsoft Office, Powerpoint, access, testing, Cyber Security, Information Security, Network Security