Level 3 Technician Level 3 Technician Level 3 Technician - Kelly Services (working for Intel), Folsom, USA, CA Folsom, CA to work as an IT technical specialist or an engineer where I can make a significant contribution using my experience and education in business, information technology and information security. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Level 3 Technician Kelly Services (working for Intel), USA, CA - Folsom, CA July 2018 to Present Used advanced automated test suites to exercise new Intel SSD firmware (SATA, PCIe, NVMe, Cluster SSD):  • Built infrastructure for testing: Server Rack build and setup, infrastructure setup, System setup - server hardware and software, SSDs preparation;  • Responsible for Automated test execution, Manual test execution, Test Automation Validation, Test assessment;  • Responsible for Test failure debug (basic and complex), Test failure triage (basic and complex), Test failure Root Cause Analysis;  • Responsible for Test failure reporting, Worked with issue database.  • Worked with various trace analyzers during issues debug process. BUSINESS and IT CONSULTANT ITSERVICESSF February 2017 to June 2018 Deployed ERP solution (Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012R3) for Fishance manufacturing organization. Identified requirements for ERP deployment (business, technical and financial), set up the software environment and ERP software (Financial, Warehouse, Procuring and sourcing), prepared some documents, tested the ERP modules and decision. NETWORK AND SECURITY ADMINISTRATOR ITSecura, Sacramento area, USA, CA June 2016 to February 2017 • Responsible for researching and identifying the best backup solution for ITSecura's mid-size business clients who are heavy users of Linux virtual machines (VMs). The product recommendation, which was based on comparative analysis of architecture, functionality, cost, and reliability metrics, was accepted by management for implementation;  • Implemented a vulnerability scanner. Set up scans and reports on regular basis. Assessed vulnerabilities in the infrastructure of the organization. Identified and fixed some number vulnerabilities, decreased a risk of penetration and other cyber-attacks.  • Developed an intrusion detection and prevention solution (IDS/IPS). Set up and tested it. Decreased a risk of network cyber-attacks.  • Developed a centralized logging solution to create an effective tool to troubleshoot issues and resolve security incidents. Set up Linux-based centralized log server to report on servers and network infrastructure objects and display in statistics using a graphical interface. IT SECURITY ANALYST Roslesinforg + Freelance, Moscow Russia November 2013 to May 2016 Roslesinforg, + Freelance, Moscow Russia  • Worked on multi-year project for a government organization to deploy major project addressing regulatory requirements for personal data protection. Reviewed work product of the system integrator including their project roadmap and vision, technical and IT infrastructure specifications, and implementation plans. Project concluded successfully meeting stated objectives. MANAGER - CERTIFICATION AUTHORITY DEPARTMENT Pension Fund of the Russian Federation (Headquarters) Moscow, Russia. (Finance) - Moscow, RU November 2009 to September 2013 • Responsible for management of the head certificate authority (CA) and network operations center (NOC) and 83 subsidiaries. There were no compromises of keys nor major security incidents during these 4 years and availability of services of the CA and NOC were maintained at 99.99 %. Managed staff of ~170 of both on-site and remote employees.  • Initially, the CAs of subsidiaries operated as stand-alone entities and lacked sufficient controls; set up a hierarchical system of CAs to address this and mitigate the risk of a standalone CA establishing an unauthorized trust relationship with an external CA.  • Situation was there was one equipment budget for both headquarters and the 83 subsidiaries. At the time of joining the organization purchasing was done on an ad hoc basis without an overall detailed plan. Initiated a study to validate a needs-based allocation of equipment versus on the basis subsidiary size. The result of implementing needs-based allocation was increased ROI and an increase in overall VPN-equipment uptime throughout the organization.  • Designed the architecture and managed project implementing a VPN and digital signatures to secure communications between the Government Services Portal of Russian Federation and Pension Fund. The project quickly resulted in more secure transmission of personal data. MANAGER, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS VTB-LEASING (subsidiary of VTB Bank), Moscow Russia. (Finance) - Moscow, RU September 2008 to August 2009 • Successfully managed project to address the situation of VTB-Leasing using manual processes and Excel spreadsheets to manage $4M+ in assets. Deployed a new leasing accounting system and converted multiple data sources and manual processes. This rapid development project resulted in the use of a single database that provide a full range of auditable operations and reporting. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MANAGER INFOTECS Moscow Russia. (Software vendor) - Moscow, RU July 2005 to August 2008 • IT department had no formalized process management. Initiated implementation of ITIL management processes such as service desk, incident, change, configuration, and problem management to improve efficiency and effectiveness. As a result, the expenditure of IT budget resources, including for staff, became more transparent. Improved the consistency of service for users by implementing service level agreements and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that enabled management to measure IT employees' productivity more objectively.  • Initiated and chaired the Information Technology Committee to bring together senior management including the CEO and other business heads to discuss resources, budgets, and IT project prioritization. This joint effort enabled this fast-growing organization to function with improved tactical and strategic IT and telecommunications plans.  • Infrastructure was unsophisticated with essentially one large LAN design within the entire organization. Took advantage of the office's relocation to architect a more comprehensive network design that considered needs of all the departments. Access controls to network resources and the organization's information assets were significantly improved.  • Managed migration from analog telephone system to VoIP for headquarters and subsidiaries. The outcome was reduced telecom costs by 60% and all voice traffic protected by encryption. INFORMATION SYSTEMS DESIGNER JET INFOSYSTEMS Moscow Russia. (System Integrator) - Moscow, RU July 2004 to June 2005 • In response to an RFP from Severstal Group, was responsible for architecting a PKI solution and hierarchical CA system. This was the first large scale project of this type for Jet and its success resulted in significant revenue growth for the company ($500K); in addition, positive publicity enhanced Jet's reputation in the PKI market. MANAGER/ PROJECT MANAGER INFOTECS Moscow Russia. (Software vendor) - Moscow, RU September 2001 to July 2004 • Deployed security systems: firewalls, IDS/IPS, host security systems, IAS, monitoring systems;  • Successfully operated several presale technical demonstrations in large organizations (Rosneft) after which products were buyed;  • Managed of project execution to ensure adherence to budget, schedule and scope;  • Collaborated with external and internal customers;  • Interfaced with high level users to define needs and issues;  • Managed budget/forecasting;  • Directed project staff, working with multiple groups to identify requirements, develop project plans and strategies;  • Worked in projects in following economy sectors: financial, telecommunication companies, transport and retail companies, oil and gas companies, banks and government organizations. Education Master of Business Administration in Financial Management Financial University 2012 Master of Science degree and Bachelor of Science degree in Mobile Communication Systems Moscow Aviation Institute (National Research University) 1995 to 2001 Skills Cryptography, Data protection, Disaster recovery, Ids, Information security, Ips, Itil, Pci, Pki, Snort, Ssl, Vlan, Business continuity, Intel SSD (1 year), Testing (1 year), Networking (10+ years) Additional Information KEY EXPERTISE  • Execution, validation of automated tests and debugging/troubleshooting;  • Information technology/ IT security management systems (ISMS);  • Mobile communication systems security; system architecture and network design;  • Ensure security of data, network access and backup systems;  • Design, engineering software and services;  • Design, develop, implement, and coordinate systems, policies and procedures;  • Audit systems and assess their outcomes;  • Technical and business systems analysis and evaluations;  • Develop software requirements and design documents;  • Technical Project management and leadership;  • Experience managing technology in financial, service, software development, and cloud computing industries in both large and small organizations.  TECHNICAL SKILLS  • 1+ year of execution tests and validation functionality of Intel SSD;  • 1+ year of debugging Intel SSD issues;  • 15+ years of information technology and networking experience;  • 8+ years of technology management experience delivering complex enterprise-wide information technology solutions;  • 9+ years of information security application and systems experience;  • 7+ years of Linux/Unix experience (Debian, RHEL, CentOS), Open Source software;  • 7+ years of Windows Server, Windows Professional and MAC experience (MS Active Directory, Windows Server environment, Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10);  • 6+ years of software requirements management for developers and testing;  • Skilled in the design of information security management systems (ISMS), including the design and implementation of controls such as: network segmentation, encryption, content filtering, host data lost protection (DLP), firewalls, ACLs, logging/SIEM, IDS/IPS, IAM (Enterprise rights management), PKI, SSO and vulnerability scanning/assessment;  • Successful experience with large security projects, secure SDLC, risk assessment and audits;  • Deep understanding of TCP/IP networking, OSI model and protocols, DNS, DHCP, SMTP, HTTP, FTP, LAN/WAN, VLAN, Routing;  • Deep knowledge and understanding of PKI and cryptographic concepts, including symmetric and asymmetric cryptography, secure hash, digital signatures, CRL's CDP, OCSP;  • Experience with local network and internetwork communication security, business continuity and disaster recovery planning, patch management, virus checking;  • Strong general background in enterprise directories (LDAP), portals, team collaboration software (MS IIS, Active Directory, SharePoint, Project Server, Apache), cloud security, database security, Windows and Linux environments, virtualization (VMWare and Microsoft), data encryption and data protection; VPNs (including SSL/TLS, IPSec, OpenVPN), VoIP, cisco networking;  • Experience scripting in Linux CLI and SH, Python programming;  • gSuite, Office 365, GoToMeeting, Dropbox, Box, MS Office, Adobe suite/cloud, Salesforce, OpenVAS, SNORT, CISCO, BROCADE, CheckPoint, ViPNet, IBM/Rational, SalesLogix,1C, MS Dynamics 2012, Visual Studio, WordPress, Prestashop;  • Working understanding of CMMI, ITSM/ITIL, COBIT, ISO27000, PMBOK, CISSP, NIST 800-53, PCI-DSS, information security common body;  • Knowledge and understanding of full software development lifecycle (SDLC).