InfoSec Analyst & IT Architect InfoSec <span class="hl">Analyst</span> &amp; <span class="hl">IT</span> Architect InfoSec Analyst & IT Architect 13 years of experience in field of Internal Audit with due emphasis on general IT Audits and Business Process Audits. Managing IT Audit and information security with proven complete success in managing bank security risk. Proficiency in identifying areas to reduce cost by applying strategic approach to attain operational efficiencies.    • Knowledge in global open standards such as COSO & COBIT.  • Review SOX principles & compliance.  • Knowledge in IFRS.  • Knowledge in Basel II.  • Knowledge in U.S. GAAP and FASB rules and standards.  • Experienced of International Auditing and Accounting Standards.  • Experienced of equities, securities, options, etfs/mutual funds, swaps, derivatives, FX, trading over the counter, and altogether investments, trading, quotes and stock exchange.  • Understand/knowledge of FDIC standards as to preserve and promote public confidence in the U.S. financial system.  • Understand the FFIEC objectives as to a formal interagency body empowered to prescribe uniform principles, standards, and report forms for federal examination.  • Understand/knowledge of rules and regulations pertaining to HIPAA, PCI, ITIL, ISO 27001, Finra, and GRC tools.  • Implemented ICD-9 and took a short course regarding "ICD-9 to ICD-10 conversion" Work Experience InfoSec Analyst & IT Architect Santander Bank December 2013 to October 2017 • Monitoring privileged Users' Access (IAM) related to Bank' Open Systems & MF DB2 Data Bases  • Managing RBAC (Role Based Access Control)  • identifying Abnormal Behavior patterns aligned with compliance & standards (GLBA & ISO 27001 & ITIL standards and Ongoing Escalations and follow ups.  • Part of a team Generating Information Security Metrics (Such as: Work stations & Servers vulnerabilities, Monitored Assets compliance, InfoSec Awareness and BCP Testing Compliance),  • Incident Management (Archer)  • Managing the Bank' Critical Servers Assessment. Independent Contractor/Consultant Positions January 2011 to October 2013 System security consultant BCBS September 2012 to November 2012 Work flow Access Rights Review. Reviewing Identity Management. Reviewing the Entire organization documents handling' processes, to determine whether privileges are need to know/ least privileges based. Analyzing end users privileges and roles, group profiles, and super administrators. The review also determines whether the access rights management is compliant with Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) and health insurance requirements, and Hipaa security regulations. The findings statistics were handled using Excel (pivot tables, vlookups, joined tables, etc.). IT and Internal AUDIT - New York, NY April 2012 to July 2012 Call Center / CMS Review and Risk Assessment. Infrastructure, Event Systems, logs Monitoring, Reporting & recording (Nice / Avaya / Apropos / Ivault ) capabilities, Data security, Remote access, Backups and DRP, Operational Risks (Ivr/Pbx, Chat, E-mails, and Faxes Servers), Reviewing Wire Services, Web-E-Commerce Banking Services, Mortgages, Savings and Checking accounts, reviewing FFIEC, NCUA, PCI and internal regulations' compliance. Participating in Mobile business Application committee discussing interfaces, design, system security and Mobile application risks. Preparing System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) basic preliminary Risk Matrix based on COBIT. Audit Systems Super Administrator & Support IADB Bank - Washington, DC July 2011 to December 2011 Responsible for IT Audit department systems.  Roles included managing programs showing Retain and planned Audit schedules. Managing the Audit projects Management tool, and supporting the Audit system which manages recommendations, Risks, Budgets, and Recommendations Follow Ups.  Used: SQL scripts, Excel: Vlookup/Pivot tables    Risk Assessment Project Management KPMG Somekh Chaikin January 2011 to May 2011 01.2011 - 05.2011    Planning an IT Operational Risk Assessment assignment for the "Beinleumi" Israeli Bank based as of Cobit methodology. The Risk assessment plan included Bcp-Drp disaster recovery handling, batch and on line bank's system operations, Error events handling, Data Security regarding both End Users, Employees & Customers, Call Center, Systems (such as:  Main Frame & AS400 & PeopleSoft), Software and Hardware. Project Management, SDLC (QA, Data Security, Risk Management, Personnel & Budgets). IT Auditor & Internal Auditor Israel Employment December 1996 to November 2009 • Dealing room systems, investments, risks, trading desks and Brokerage. Financial instruments such as: ETFs, Mutual Funds, Credit Derivatives, Repo, equities, options and stocks.  • Internal Audit on numerous branches process implementation and compliance with regulations.  • Overseas Branch (London, UK) Dealing room, Money market, Private banking, structures, swaps, notes and equities.  • Banking systems, such as: credit, interest, FX, loans, mortgage, saving, clearing, collaterals, and much more.  • Reviewed Bank's Web Sites & Call Centers (Ivr / Cti / PBX / CMS / Nice-recording / queuing, chats, e-mails) & Mobile applications, with accuracy, testing, reporting capabilities, efficiency and Data Security.  • High data systems security: log and events monitoring, access handling, passwords, user profiles, patching, penetration tests route cause analysis. super administrator's profiles accuracy, e-commerce security risks, remote access, security zone servers, and security policy.  • FX - Foreign Exchange systems: currency market options, Swift, and Edi.  • Implemented compliance with 'COBIT' and ISO 27001 standards.  • Reviewing and testing application & system interfaces & it operational risks that affect financial reporting (in scope for SOX compliance). Such as: production environment, change management, applications and systems / infrastructure controls, security & privacy standards, backup & retention & disaster recovery management, enterprise risk assessment management, resource planning, event handling & monitoring, and evaluating and testing bleaches that were found in former SOX and BASEL II compliance reviews.  • Program QA, testing (unit, integration, regression, load, performance and user acceptance tests - both manual and automated, test plans, scenarios and scripts procedures), review programming, data dictionary, system performance, altogether SDLC, and database documentation and administration.  • Used: BusinessObjects, ACL, Access, SQL scripts, Excel: Vlookup/Pivot Tables, SPSS Education Master's Degree in Auditing & Public Administration Bar Ilan University