Lead Emergency Response Specialist Lead Emergency Response Specialist Lead Emergency Response Specialist Mitchellville, MD For 25 years my primary and Professional focus has been geared toward 3 disciplines... Physical Security, Technical Security and Emergency Management. I have a passion for each and continuously strive to sharpen my knowledge and skills as often as possible.    Career Summary:    • Physical Security - Project Manager:  I Manage the security of high-end Government and Private contracts... The US State Department (DOS), The John F. Kennedy Center...     • Emergency Management:  I provide Emergency Management for high-end Government and Private contracts... the DC Government, The World Bank...    • Jr. IT Security Analyst - Systems Administrator:  As a Security Analyst and Systems Administrator, I've completed many important Projects for companies flag ship contracts Booz Allen Hamilton (The Pentagon) ActioNet Inc. Health and Human Services (HHS) Work Experience Lead Emergency Response Specialist Homeland Security Emergency Management - Washington, DC September 2018 to September 2018 Primary Duties:  Assists in the direction, coordination and performance of work involved in the functions of the Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Administration (HEPRA) Command and Communication Center.  ? Maintain operational liaison with the District, other Federal agencies and the private sector.  ? Assuring a constant state of readiness on the part of the Health Emergency Coordination Center (HECC).  ? Providing a capability to respond to a variety of natural and man-made emergency disaster situations Site Supervisor Omniplex Security May 2014 to September 2018 Primary Duties:  CSOSA is a Federal Agency exclusive to Washington DC with a 50+ Security Guard Force. The agency assists probationers & helps parolees, substance abusers and the mentally ill to reenter the workforce & society.  ? Manage CSOSA sites including its main building a mental & substance abuse 28-day treatment center  ? Act as liaison between company and federal government (Office of Security), Manage day to day site operations and contract obligations. IT Security Analyst & Systems Access Admin Actionet Inc. IT Services Management Company December 2015 to February 2018 for HHS Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services(CMS)    Primary duties:  ? Utilizing NIST 800-53, Revision 4 to support maintain and provide support for government systems  ? Worked with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to vet and gauge the risk of contract personnel working with government systems  ? Record employee applications in OPM and EUA for government system access and ID issuance  ? Provide general and technical support to a 300-member local and remote team of employees (CMS) Facilities Security Officer-Jr Engineering Security Solutions January 2012 to March 2014 Security Analyst    Primary Duties:  ? Managing the physical and technical security of the property.  ? Creating system access accounts, company ID's, access cards and laptop set up for new employees.  ? Managing client systems, testing for variabilities, assuring systems security falls within federal guidelines. Consultant- Security Administrator Booz Allen Hamilton October 2010 to December 2011 Primary Duties:  SES Help Desk Operator, Security Analyst for Human Capital Resource Management (HCRM)    ? Formulating and defining system scope and objectives by interfacing with and acting as liaison between business stakeholder, request makers and IT team  ? Help desk officer and lead trainer for DoD Senior Executive Staff (SES) for the share point software portal  ? Documenting business processes for the purposes of design, develop and testing of product  ? Authoring System Requirements, Specification document, Requirements Management Plan, System Test Plan and function test cases  ? Lead efforts in developing a working model product that calculates personnel average work space needed in relation to office space available. Temp. Position - Site Supervisor Inter-Con Security Services - Washington, DC January 2010 to December 2010 Primary duties   o  Supervise the surge protection needed for expansion of US Passport Offices and Security entrance.  o  Control access, ID checks protect employees, visitors, property/assets of the US State Department.    o  Conduct internal investigations, detain persons of interest, work closely with the Diplomatic Security Serves (DSS) and the US Secret Service to assist when needed. Project Manager Securiguard Inc. - The J.F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts October 2007 to January 2010 Primary Duties: Security Officer and E.M.T Guard Force contract The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts March 2000 to October 2007 Conduct quarterly vulnerability risk assessments and crisis management drills  ? Conduct quarterly deliverable briefings with company and government clients  ? Conduct weekly updates with site clients on operational status  ? Author and edit standard operating procedures, Site security policies when needed.  ? Creating security action plan for prominent visitors - Heads of state, high profile celebrities, large events  ? Providing oversight on overtime, scheduling, disciplinary actions etc. Site Supervisor - US. Department of State Inter-Con Security Services - Washington, DC March 2000 to October 2007 Primary duties  US State Department, control all access, use x-ray and magnetometers to screen all visitors and property; provide site updates to supervisors, protect employees, visitors, property/assets of the U.S. State Department.    ? Conduct internal investigations, detain persons of interest, work closely with the Diplomatic Security Serves (DSS) and the US Secret Service to assist when needed.  ? Patrol exterior/interior of the US Department of State and its satellite buildings, conducting search and ID checks at all access points.  ? Meet or exceed client expectations and company requirements to include understanding of site and post requirements, being punctual, uniform appearance and being prepared mentally & physically for each shift.    Qwest Communications, training officers on site systems and to check these systems 24 hours a day to ensure compliance; risk and vulnerability. As a site that stores other companies' data and houses their servers, temperature controls and system monitoring are critical. Other responsibilities included daily updates to project manager, meeting with client's, policy and site updates. Education IT Security Systems Analyst, Concentration Criminal Justice in Criminal Justice American Intercontinental University May 2007 Certifications/Licenses Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 10 – Construction Industry Certificate- Project Manager Professional(PMP) 3 Day 60 hr. Exam Prep, boot camp Velociteach-PMI 2018 Comp TIA Security Plus+ Certification American Society for Industrial Security (ASIS) – Certificate CPR, First Aid and AED Certification Armed SPO license Washington DC Emergency Management Institute FEMA Homeland Security Certification IS-00700.a National Incident Management System(NIMS) Emergency Management Institute FEMA Homeland Security Certification IS-00200.b ICS for Single Resources and Initial Action Incident Emergency Management Institute FEMA Homeland Security Certification IS-00100.c Introduction to Incident Command System Emergency Management Institute FEMA Homeland Security Certification IS-00800.c Concepts/principles of the National Response Framework Additional Information Emergency Management Institute    FEMA Homeland Security Certification IS-00700.a National Incident Management System(NIMS)