IT Systems Manager <span class="hl">IT</span> Systems Manager IT Systems Manager - City & Suburban Renovations Hastings-on-Hudson, NY My passion for technology and engineering since childhood led me to study mathematics, electrical engineering, and computer programming, I am seeking a position where I can apply some or all these skills developing innovative and technologically challenging products. Work Experience IT Systems Manager City & Suburban Renovations - Mount Vernon, NY May 2014 to Present Developed modern procedures for IT systems lifecycle and managed the implementation.  • Configured and deployed an Asterisk VOIP PBX.  • Responsible for deployment, monitoring, and maintenance of servers, workstations, a VOIP system, and LAN Infrastructure.  • Performed web development for the company's website. Network Security Analyst Candidate Broker, LLC - New York, NY December 2011 to May 2014 Implemented several fraud prevention features to reduce the attack surface exposed to Denial of Service attacks, brute force attacks, and other malicious threats.  • Maintained lifecycle procedures and improved IT systems efficiency by analyzing uptimes and usage patterns.  • Used Kali 2.0 and Backtrack Linux as my tools for penetration testing and malware analysis.  • Used creative thinking to approach problems outside of conventional methods. CEO and President Alpha Technologies LLC - Hastings, ON January 2012 to January 2014 Designed and engineered a new binaural audio (3D sound) platform. Designed and manufactured the hardware, and assisted in the development of the software that enables the audio technology to be streamed over the internet in real time.  • Designed the process to stream high quality stereo audio over the Internet without down sampling the quality of the audio, while still keeping bandwidth usage to a minimum.  • Supervised all beta-testing of the software and hardware.  • Coordinated the website design with a team of independent contractors. Education Associates in Electrical Technology SUNY Westchester - Valhalla, NY 2011 Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering Stony Brook University - Stony Brook, NY Bachelor's in Applied Math & Statistics Stony Brook University - Stony Brook, NY Additional Information SKILLS  • Programming (C, C++, VHDL, Assembly)  • Modeling and analysis (PSPICE, AutoCAD, Lingo, IBM SPSS, Symphony EDA)  • Hardware design and testing (circuit analysis, amplifiers, Schmitt trigger oscillators, phase-locked loops, oscilloscopes, analog to digital converters (ADCs), digital to analog converters (DACs), spectrum analyzers)  • Information Security (RFID Security, Linux OS, Asterisk PBX)  Senior Project - My partner and I designed a dynamic-shifting RFID key fob, built the circuit for the RFID reader-writer and programmed it in assembly language for use on a Parallax SX-28 microcontroller.