IT System Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> System <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - RSI Security San Diego, CA • CCENT, CCNA, SECURITY+, A+, Network+,   CySA+, ITIL, CIOS, CSIS, CSAP, CSAP  • Certified Field Technician  • Certified Computer Instructor  • CompTIA Security Analytics, IT Operations and IT Secure Infrastructure Certified  • Qualys Certified Specialist  • AHA BLS (CPR) Instructor  • Networking and System Security  • Real-Time Analysis and Monitoring  • Penetration Testing  • Computer Forensic and Data Recovery  • Technical/Customer-facing experience (MSP)(MSSP)  • Information Security Analyst  • Penetration Testing  • Troubleshooting and Repair computers  • Excellent Customer Service and Quality Control  • Self-motivated and result-oriented and good team player  • Willing to relocate and travel Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT System Analyst RSI Security 2018 to Present -Configure, upgrade and relocate PC hardware, software and print devices.    -Perform software and hardware configuration across Windows platform.    -Design, develop, and test workflow processes for end-user developed applications, providing proof-of-concept support.    -Provide detailed reporting and tracking utilizing trouble ticketing system as well as design, test and modify system specifications for internal ticketing system by using ConnectWise.    -Ability to document knowledge-based articles for end-users and internal IT by using IT glue.    -Monitor and manage backup and security systems to ensure data integrity and information assurance.    -General end-user profile maintenance.    -Experience in installation and management of Active Directory, VMware ESXi    -Identifies system/application problem trends to management and recommends solutions for proactive mitigation.    -Provide onsite and Remote support by using LabTech, for Office 365, G-Suite, Meraki and SonicWall Firewalls, Webroot AV and DNS filtering, Sophos, ThirdWall, and Servers. Information Security Analyst RSI Security - San Diego, CA 2018 to Present - Asset discovery and tracking as well as security and compliance monitoring with continuous network security updates.    - Log management and analytics service based on machine-generated big data.  • Gap report and recommendations (PCI DSS, Azure, AWS, CSC)    - Help identify security risks and exposures by participating in security reviews, IT projects, and evaluations.    - Help develop the client understanding of security best practices as well as assist in remediation planning, guidance, and treatment.    - Test, deploy, and manage a suite of security tools and services, including, but not limited, to SIEM, FIM, IDS/IPS, DLP, AV, VA, ASV scanner, baseline security controls.    - Perform network vulnerability assessments, analyze results, generate reports and provide recommendations and remediation assistance by using Rapid7(Nexpose, Metasploit), Qualys (Cloud Agent, Appliance scanner, Vulnerability Management), Nessus, Retina, FortifyData.    - Digital Forensics(Encase , FTK, Autopsy, OSforensics, ...)     • Wireless site survey and troubleshooting, Penetration Testing. Computer System Instructor UEI College 2017 to 2018 -Teaching Servers, windows OS, Networking, Linux, MS Office, Cyber Security, A+ and skills for workplace success.    -Recommend changes regarding textbooks and other aspects of the curriculum.    -Complies with all Federal, State, accreditation and institutional policies and procedures.    -Certified Instructional Methodology. Certified Field Technician Electrical and Lighting, Home Depot 2017 to 2018 -Installation and setup of rack mounted A/V equipment such as monitors/displays and content/monitoring systems and switches, low voltage, IT installation applications, Setup of ancillary mobile touch based content-access devices.    -Installing, maintaining, display assembly, product merchandising and repairing electronic equipment for clients such as Apple, Bose, T-Mobile, Sprint, Cricket, Sony, Samsung, Philips, Sonos, etc.    -Diagnose and repair electronic and mechanical issues, setup wired and wireless networks, testing and troubleshooting of cable. Monitor Quality Control, Inventory Control, productivity, sales Electrical and Lighting, Home Depot 2011 to 2018 2011 - 2018)  -Customer support, daily operation, productivities, home innovation products, increasing sales, and safety.    -Monitor Quality Control, Inventory Control, productivity, sales, and customer support using KMS/KPI.    -Implement personnel safety and asset control with continuous improvement methodology (Kaizen).    -Problem resolution using DMAIC, for informed fact-based decisions.    -Received multiple awards for Best Associate, Hall of Fame, Employee of the Month and Employee of the Year.    -Completed the Home Depot advanced training. IT Help-Desk and Human Resources Baft Beton 2008 to 2010 -Provided helpdesk support for an office of 25 employees including general administration, setting up networks, security and employees accounts, installing operating systems and software, data entry, maintaining network and computer system.    -Supported HR department with administrative tasks, payroll, and administering benefits for 250 employees. Business Management Seven Color Tile 2006 to 2008 -Accountable for key responsibilities in the oversight of the family business.    -Provide clear direction about the business desires for the future, as well as financial expectations of the business. Computer Specialist Compulsory Service 2004 to 2006 -Supported engineers in IT systems installation, configuration, maintenance, and troubleshooting.    -Provided Graphic Design, video reports, flyers, brochures and pamphlets using Photoshop, Multimedia Flash, Camtasia, video studio and etc. IT Support Specialist Sadra System 2002 to 2004 -Provided help desk support including general administration, setting up networks and accounts, installing software and operating systems, Performed data recovery.    -Troubleshoot network, Virus, Malware and Related security issues. Education Bachelor's in Cyber security and information assurance Western Governors 2018 to 2021 Certificate in Information Security Certified Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service 2015 AA in Computer Science Miracosta College 2011 Diploma in Electrical Technical School 2001 Skills Security Analyst | System Analyst | Tier III Support Engineer, Networking and System Security • Real-Time Analysis and Monitoring • Penetration Testing • Computer Forensic • IT Help-desk Support • Information Security Analyst • Computer Hardware Assembly • Graphic Design in Photoshop • Excellent Customer Service • Problem Solving (10+ years), security, Active Directory, training, Microsoft Office, Cisco, System Administrator, Vmware Links https://Amirs.TK Awards RECOGNITION • CNSS 4011 Recognition Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+, CompTIA N+, CompTIA S+, CompTIA CySA+, ITIL, CCNA R&S, CCNA Security, Cyber Security Present A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information I've been in the field of IT for over 15 years. I also have the background in Human Resources, Military, College instructor and Electrical.  My experience includes:  • CIOS, CSIS, CSAP, ITIL, CCNA R&S, CCNA Security Certified  • Certified Computer instructor  • Qualys Certified Specialist  • AHA BLS(CPR) instructor  • Networking and System Security  • Real-Time Analysis and Monitoring  • Computer forensics  • IT System Analyst (MSP)(MSSP)  • Information Security Analyst  • Penetration Test  • Computer Hardware Assembly  • Graphic Design in Photoshop  • Excellent Customer Service and Quality Control  • Problem Solving  I enjoy resolving Networking and Security's issues. I'm IT operations specialist and IT secure infrastructure Specialist certified.  I've been learning every day and realize there is no perfect security. It does motivate me to pursue continuing education and to expand my knowledge about security metrics.  Life is constantly changing. Walking on the right path always brings me balance and happiness.