Sr. Manager – Cyber Security Engineering Sr. Manager – Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineering Sr. Manager – Cyber Security Engineering Monument, CO Cyber Security and Information Technology Professional with 22 years of diverse and progressive experience in the Electric Utilities industry. Proven record of success building effective cyber security teams grounded in preventing threats to the environment while increasing project team efficiency and substantially reducing project and operations costs.    Exceptional communication skills with the ability to explain technical information to stakeholders, executive leadership, regulatory bodies, vendors, project team members, and personnel at all levels. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Manager – Cyber Security Engineering Xcel Energy - Denver, CO May 2016 to Present Developed and led new Cyber Security Engineering team to execute key enterprise initiatives and cyber security strategies while providing technical oversight and architectural governance to projects and environmental changes to ensure consistent implementation and effectiveness of security controls.  ·      Provide management and support for the Cyber Security Engineering staff, Project staff, and Operational Technology (OT) teams.   ·      Responsible for developing and executing IT/OT cyber security projects across all business areas.  ·      Manage the support and maintenance program for all department cyber security tools including SIEM, AEDR, and MFA.  ·      Responsible for numerous compliance standards for Xcel Energy’s North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) Program.   ·      Remain knowledgeable about security issues, vulnerabilities, regulatory compliance, legal, and security standards that may impact cyber security.  Cyber Security Engineer / NERC CIP Sr. Compliance Analyst Xcel Energy - Denver, CO February 2013 to May 2016 Supported cyber security projects and managed compliance standards CIP-004, CIP-005, and CIP-007 for Xcel Energy’s North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) Program. Explored new technologies and incorporated into strategic plan as appropriate.   ·      Provided consistency in the deployment of solutions through development of processes, training, and implementation support.   ·      Identified industry and regulatory shifts to help position the company accordingly.  ·      Conducted internal risk assessments and investigations of compliance practices to gauge program maturity and ensure the implementation of appropriate and necessary corrective measures.  ·      Consulted with business areas to analyze, implement and maintain compliance programs, processes, and procedures. IT Supervisor - Information Security Management Colorado Springs Utilities - Colorado Springs, CO March 2010 to February 2013 Managed a team of eight (8) Cyber Security Professionals for a Municipal multi-service Utility provider.  ·      Prepared and executed enterprise cyber security strategies and business continuity plans.  ·      Successfully led major efforts to upgrade or acquire and implement state-of-the-art cyber security systems.  ·      Developed, communicated, and maintained policies, procedures, and standards to support organizational cyber security needs.  ·      Responsible for staff performance, and talent development. IT Supervisor - Enterprise Server / Data Center Operations Colorado Springs Utilities - Colorado Springs, CO March 2004 to March 2010 Managed a diverse IT team of twenty three (23) personnel, supporting over 400 Intel and UNIX servers, an IBM mainframe, enterprise email systems, infrastructure and application support, customer bill printing, databases, and storage management.  ·      Managed enterprise data center environments including a complex remodel of space, power, air handling, telecommunications, and server rack design.  ·      Planned, balanced, and executed enterprise server budget of over ten million dollars annually.  ·      Prepared and executed enterprise infrastructure strategy and business continuity planning.  ·      Responsible for staff performance, and talent development. Systems & Database Specialist Colorado Springs Utilities - Colorado Springs, CO June 1997 to March 2004 Performed systems administration duties on over 400 Intel servers, enterprise email systems, infrastructure and application support, end point security, and storage management.  ·      Managed Novell and Microsoft IAM platforms.  ·      Managed enterprise storage solution, backup, and data management systems.  ·      Member of core NERC CIP organizational team that developed compliance program.  ·      Implemented Enterprise Test Integration Lab (TIL) to provide a test/change/release environment. Education Bachelor's in Communications Univ of Colorado - Colorado Springs, CO August 1985 to May 1991 Skills Cyber Security Management (9 years), GIAC, ITIL, Electric Utilities, Budget Management, Information Security, SIEM, Cybersecurity, NIST Framework, NERC CIP, Cyber Security Engineering, Project Management, Cyber Risk Assessment, Personnel Management, Infrastructure Management, Problem Resolution, Cyber Security Policy Links http://linkedin.com/in/reineckedavid