Chief Technology Officer/CISO Chief Technology Officer/CISO Chief Technology Officer/CISO - ASPIS Protection Services Work Experience Chief Technology Officer/CISO ASPIS Protection Services December 2015 to Present Develop and maintain information technology policies, security controls and guidelines for the counterintelligence and protective intelligence staff  ? Developed business continuity plan, training and testing procedures  ? Perform risk assessments in accordance to the Risk Management Framework (NIST, DISA), and advise  executive staff and board on recommendations for any changes of the security controls  ? Develop short and long-term budget requirements for all IT solutions, investigative analysis and counterintelligence projects  ? Manage technologies, platforms and third-party vendors to combat external cyber threats  ? Advise executive management and staff on innovative solutions to collect value-added, client-tailored  intelligence in support of counterintelligence procedures  ? Design innovative technology platforms to enhance intelligence operations, risk assessments and mitigation  strategies  ? Vulnerability scanning and testing of security controls to mitigate countermeasure, and report to executive staff  status of corporate governance Senior Systems Analyst General Dynamics Information Technology August 2003 to December 2016 Ensured that required security controls are implemented, working as intended, and documented as the point of contact and subject matter expert for the USCG SIPRNet (classified) Enterprise  ? Established the Continuity of Operations plan for the USCG SIPRNet  ? Subject matter expert for USCG SIPRNet enterprise for all C&A, IATO package development  ? Technical Advisor on Change Management Team supporting Active Dirctory/Enterprise Group Policy  Management  ? Investigated security violations and security auditing on all USCG classified systems  ? SIPRNet lead for operational portion of deployment plan, 2008R2 Migration of the US Coast Guards SIPRNet  Enterprise    1|Pa ge  Marsans  ? Received multiple Letters of Commendation and Letters of Recognition for work done during hurricane  Katrina and an emergency install of shipboard systems on the 110' patrol boats overseas in support of Iraqi  Freedom  ? Mentored and trained junior IT staff on day to day troubleshooting techniques, customer interaction, and active  directory group policy management Senior Administrator/ IT Security Operations Lead US/Europe CityNet Telecommunications December 2001 to April 2003 Served as the project lead and systems engineer for the US, London and Madrid offices IT operations  ? Developed and enforced new change control systems and policies for all projects and created the new  service catalog for all future support  ? Established support center and trained staff on IT support operations  ? Developed the disaster recovery plan for the US and overseas offices  ? Provided budget management and technical direction to contractors, overseas service teams, stakeholders  and senior staff  ? Established security baselines for the creation of the company's IT service catalog and evaluated third party  vendors  ? Provided daily briefs and weekly status updates for all project stakeholders and board members.  ? Risk management assessments for both US and overseas offices NT Systems Administrator Merkle Direct Marketing June 2000 to February 2001 Performed project operations for internal and external clients, including the installation of a SAN solution for the DELL and Marriot Vacation Club International Client servers  ? Established and managed support desk for over 1100 users and over 200 systems  ? Served as the lead administrator for the transition project of moving the backup solutions on ARC Server to Veritas to conduct more efficient data backups and disaster recovery.  ? Managed the installations, upgrades, Novell migration to Windows and maintenance for operating systems and other third-party products  ? Monitored and managed the helpdesk that supported over 1,200 employees, 47 servers, and dozens of clients Additional Information Senior Director of Information Technology, vCTO, Certified Information Security Manager (CISM)/Cyber  Security Consultant/Risk Assessment and Business Continuity Planning/Corporate Data Protection  ~ with strong experience and proficiency in the following ~    • Strategic IT Operations Planning and • Cyber Security Awareness Instructor  Development • Group Policy Management/Active Directory SME  • Policy Development/Standard Operating • Vendor Management  Procedures for Information Security Control • Vulnerability Management/Remediation  Development/Change Management • DISA STIG/NIST/FISMA Compliance  • Risk Analysis/Incident Response/Disaster • Technical SME to Investigations and Operations  Recovery Planning • Technical Special Operations and Protective  • Multilevel IT Management and Team Intelligence  Development Domestic/International  • Strategic Infrastructure Planning