Technology Analyst Technology <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Technology Analyst - Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP Aliso Viejo, CA To support firm employees and clients through the effective use of information technology, excellent quality of service and to maintain the integrity of a secure network infrastructure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technology Analyst Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP - Costa Mesa, CA November 2018 to Present • Supports the business needs of the attorneys, practice groups, and local-office administrative departments and recommends appropriate applications   • Demonstrates proficiency with the firm’s applications   • Responds to and documents situations where standard procedures failed with software or hardware installations or upgrades   • Participates (with testing and documentation) in software pre-pilots, pilots and roll-outs   • Writes technical articles for the internal knowledge base on identified issues, resolutions and work-arounds and on locally managed applications   • Provides status reports to and communicates with the manager   • Performs detailed problem analysis and documents issues and resolutions related to software or network issues  • Communicates with, evaluates usage patterns of, and recommends “best practices” to attorneys and staff to ensure optimal use of the firm’s technology based on knowledge of Firm technology   • Supports Practice Support technologies, including applications, temporary war rooms, and trial sites in remote locations     Administrative and Operations Responsibilities   • Serves as a knowledgeable resource to team members within the office and the region  • Provides Mobility support and advanced troubleshooting for approved devices  • Maintains voice and LAN connections in closets and jacks  • Performs routine maintenance of servers and applications   • Resolves network hardware and software problems and coordinate with network engineers to correct issues/problems   • Deploys and supports office telephone equipment   • Troubleshoots telephone issues and coordinates with Firm Telecom to correct problems Enterprise Application Specialist Latham & Watkins LLP - Los Angeles, CA October 2016 to November 2018 • Research, recommend, and replace current Mobile Asset Tracking Software in 32 Global Offices.  • Lead business analyst for converting HP Asset Manager Procurement and Invoice modules from Elite invoicing standards to Elite 3E invoicing standards.  • Create and provide use cases, database diagrams, test cases, and training materials to customers and vendors  • Create custom workflows for integrating HP Asset Manager to financial system and mobile asset tracking software  • Effectively communicate with the Business Owner and IT Upper Management on Project Progress  • Train customers on system enhancements and new software  • Mentor and train counterparts on system processes Technology Support Analyst Latham & Watkins LLP - Costa Mesa, CA August 2006 to October 2016 • Providing advanced application, network, hardware and technical support to 150 attorneys, paralegals, staff and visitors in the Orange County office along with 250 workstations, 35 physical and virtual servers running Windows XP, Windows 7, Mac OSX, Windows Server 2003, 2008 R2 and 2012.  • Using Active Directory and Exchange Management Console to create, manage, and remove user and computer accounts; including maintaining office specific security groups and group policy membership.  • Maintaining the office group policy driven printer environment including print scripts, group policy objects and print configurations. Including hardware maintenance for HP 9000 and 4000 series printers.  • Managing and troubleshooting Cisco network equipment, as well as Cisco VOIP administration.  • Supporting corporate handheld devices that utilize either the Blackberry Enterprise Server or Good for Enterprise solutions. This includes Blackberry, iOS and Android based devices.  • Managing workstation updates using Microsoft System Center Console Manager (SCCM 2007/2012).  • Restoring data from Microsoft Data Protection Manager.  • Manage workflow using ServiceNow ITIL.  • Utilize Token RSA Administration website to manage tokens for Latham remote access users.  • Maintain an inventory of PC hardware equipment and software programs using HP Asset Management.  • Provide end-user support through various means, including answering support lines, email requests and walk-ins in a team environment; track calls and solutions by creating help desk tickets using ITSM/Service-Now, communicates with team when tackling an issue; also works with to appropriate team member when necessary.  • Conference room setups for end users for use of technology services (e.g. presentations, network connections, and audio/visual equipment) using Tandberg and Polycom video conference equipment.  • Provide assistance to end users for firm-approved applications using a variety of different methods; software includes Microsoft Office, Outlook, Interwoven, Remote Computing (Terminal Server, VPN) and other applications, as deemed necessary. Technology Support I, II and Analyst Latham & Watkins LLP - Costa Mesa, CA August 2006 to October 2016 • Providing advanced application, network, hardware and technical support to 150 attorneys, paralegals, staff and visitors in the Orange County office along with 250 workstations, 35 physical and virtual servers running Windows XP, Windows 7, Mac OSX, Windows Server 2003, 2008 R2 and 2012.  • Using Active Directory and Exchange Management Console to create, manage, and remove user and computer accounts; including maintaining office specific security groups and group policy membership.  • Maintaining the office group policy driven printer environment including print scripts, group policy objects and print configurations. Including hardware maintenance for HP 9000 and 4000 series printers.   • Managing and troubleshooting Cisco network equipment, as well as Cisco VOIP administration.  • Supporting corporate handheld devices that utilize either the Blackberry Enterprise Server or Good for Enterprise solutions. This includes Blackberry, iOS and Android based devices.   • Managing workstation updates using Microsoft System Center Console Manager (SCCM 2007/2012).  • Manage workflow using ServiceNow ITIL.   • Maintain an inventory of PC hardware equipment and software programs using HP Asset Management.  • Provide end-user support through various means, including answering support lines, email requests and walk-ins in a team environment; track calls and solutions by creating help desk tickets using ITSM/Service-Now, communicates with team when tackling an issue; also works with to appropriate team member when necessary.  • Conference room setups for end users for use of technology services (e.g. presentations, network connections, and audio/visual equipment) using Tandberg and Polycom video conference equipment.  • Provide assistance to end users for firm-approved applications using a variety of different methods; software includes Microsoft Office, Outlook, Interwoven, Remote Computing (Terminal Server, VPN) and other applications, as deemed necessary. Help Desk/ IT Department Newmeyer & Dillion, LLP - Newport Beach, CA March 2006 to August 2006 • Provide first level support to desktops, notebook systems, hardware, and customer related services; also provide support to printers, Multi-Functional Devices (MFD), and PDA's including configuring and troubleshooting  • Provide assistance to end users for firm-approved applications using a variety of different methods. Software includes: Microsoft Office, Outlook, Interwoven, DeltaView, Remote Computing (dial-up, Terminal Server, VPN) and other applications as deemed necessary Intervention Specialist/Help Desk Westec Interactive - Irvine, CA March 2005 to March 2006 • Remote Monitoring Company, providing monitoring services for security and business operations  • Troubleshooting PC's and network issues on a daily basis; work with ISDN, IP, and POTS telecommunication lines Security Console Operator Toyota Motor Sales - Torrance, CA July 2002 to March 2005 • Monitor fire alarms, burglary alarms and duress alarms for all Toyota facilities nationwide. dispatcher for Toyota security  • Responsible for the safety and concerns for Toyota associates, monitor fire alarms, burglary alarms and miscellaneous dispatcher for Toyota security Education Some college Skills help desk (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), MS OFFICE (10+ years), Outlook (10+ years), printers. (10+ years), Desktop Support, RSA, LAN, Ticketing, MAC, Production Support, HL7 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholaslmartin/ Certifications/Licenses MOS - Microsoft Office Specalist 2016 to Present Assessments Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zajeitubkodln1kq Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2pthvrcehfvyq3rv Technical Support — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/w4ahkaanybioh6fs Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information HIGHLIGHTS OF QUALIFICATIONS    ? 15 years of experience in customer service  ? Over 15 years of experience working in a help desk and call center environment  ? Known for approachability, diplomacy and calm demeanor  ? Ability to work with others in a lighthearted and professional environment  ? Excellent troubleshooting and logical problem-solving skills  ? Demonstrated ability to meet deadlines, and set priorities  ? Escalating warranty claims and effectively troubleshoot with the vendors    SKILLS SUMMARY    Hardware:  ? Advanced knowledge of HP laptop and desktop; Lenovo laptops and desktops; Apple desktops.  ? Intermediate knowledge of HP ProLiant rack mount servers and blade server enclosures.  ? Advanced knowledge and experience with network hardware including, cabling, patching and installing Cisco switches and routers.  ? Intermediate knowledge of HP Printers including maintenance, troubleshooting and intermediate repairs.  ? Intermediate knowledge of BlackBerry, Apple and Android handheld wireless devices.    Software:  ? Advanced knowledge of Microsoft OS: Windows XP, 7, 8, 10, Server 2008/2012 R2, Hyper-V configuration and troubleshooting.  ? Advanced knowledge of Microsoft Office: Certifications and experience with Outlook, Word, PowerPoint and Excel 2016.  ? Intermediate knowledge of Microsoft Domain services: Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, Print Management, Microsoft System Center Console Manager (SCCM) and Group Policy Editor including PowerShell Scripting.  ? Strong Network troubleshooting: client/server relationships, limited or no connectivity, and down network ports using Cisco CLI and Microsoft native tools.  ? Good for Enterprise, BlackBerry 5/10/13 Enterprise Server, Apple iOS and Android.  ? Altiris: Intermediate knowledge of the Altiris Client Management Suite, including Deployment Server, Notification Server, Wise Package Server and Rapid Install Editor. Including creation of Desktop Image Standards.  ? VMware: Proficient with VMware products both for server and desktop including Workstation, VMView, vSphere, and View Connection Manager.  ? Intermediate knowledge of SAN, NAS and storage concepts and hardware.