Senior Cloud Administrator, Information Security Senior Cloud Administrator, Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Boca Raton, FL Work Experience Senior Cloud Administrator, Information Security Bank of America Merchant Services, World Headquarters - Charlotte, NC July 2018 to Present Remote employee)    • Maintain strong understanding of cloud computing capabilities and limitations, business drivers, virtualization technologies, container technology, Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service and Software as a Service cloud delivery models.  • Provide cloud technology leadership, guidance and assistance to team members.  • Provide consultation on best practices for teams deploying PaaS applications.  • Work independently on complex, globally distributed cloud technology components.  • Develop and maintain documentation on business continuity, resources and procedures.  • Maintain strong understanding of system and infrastructure management in the Azure Cloud environment (Windows servers, Linux servers, firewalls, load balancers, storage, monitoring, security etc.)  • Manage Microsoft partnership and Enterprise Agreement.  • Utilize Azure and 3rd party offerings to maintain and enhance security by conducting security scans, penetration tests and PCI audits.  • Research tools, techniques, countermeasures and trends in network vulnerabilities, data hiding and network security  • Research various cyber actors TTPs, organizational structures, capabilities, personas, and environments, and integrate methodologies into risk assessment operations.  • Modification, testing and utilization of computer network attack and exploitation tools.  • Experience with Operational Risk Management (ORM) concepts and risk management.  • Experience deploying and managing both site-to-site and point-to-site VPNs.  • Implemented, managed and maintained Azure SSO and MFA for identity management.  • Manage and maintain Web Application Firewalls including the Azure Web Application Gateway (including IDS & IPS), F5 BIG-IP and Verizon CDN.  • Implement, manage and maintain Azure DDOS.  • Manage and maintain SEIM (Azure, Splunk,& Alert Logic)  • Architected the FIPS 140 level 3 solution to secure keys and certificates  • Key Management (Azure Key Vault and FIPS 140-3 compliant Gemalto/Safenet HSMs, CSRs, Private Keys, Certificates, Service Accounts and Secrets management).  • Manage server security updates, patch management & CIS benchmark server hardening.  • Architect, manage and maintain AD, Azure AD and AD sync.  • Experience with Software Development Life Cycle across lower and upper environments (DEV, QA, UAT, PROD)  • Utilize SonarQube and Checkmarx for code bug checks and security vulnerabilities scans.  • Create and maintain scripts to improve automation throughout the enterprise utilizing Azure Automation Accounts and PowerShell  • Manage and maintain Kubernetes server clusters.  • Manage and maintain the Azure EA portal, Power BI and Cloudyn for Azure cost control. Technical Consultant CSPi Technology Solutions, Inc., World Headquarters - Deerfield Beach, FL January 2008 to July 2018 • Discover, qualify and close product and service sales for Sales Managers.  • Assist Sales Managers in developing responses to RFQs, RFPs & RFIs.  • Develop enterprise strategies and solutions for CSPI's customers across all industries.  • Develop and present ROI and TCO analysis to customers  • Assist customers in deciding on OPEX vs CAPEX investments.  • Build Bill of Materials and Statements of Work for customers.  • Assist customers with HIPAA, SOX, PCI & NIST compliance.  • Develop Datacenter solutions utilizing Dell, HP, IBM, Cisco, EMC, NetApp, Microsoft, VMware, Citrix and Symantec equipment and software.  • Assist customers in improving IT processes, increasing security, solving business problems and decreasing overall IT costs based on ITIL standards.  • Present solutions to engineers, executives and C-level personnel.  • Conduct capacity planning analysis for virtualization environments.  • Manage projects including job costing, profit & loss statements and timelines for completion of projects.  • Negotiate pricing with 3rd party partners and develop Statements of Work.  • Assist in maintaining partnerships with vendors including Dell, EMC, NetApp, Microsoft, Citrix, VMware, Symantec, HP IBM, Cisco, Palo Alto Networks, RSA Security Solutions, Aruba Networks, Juniper Networks and ShoreTel.  • Responsibilities include maintaining partner certifications and keeping up-to-date with networking, virtualization, storage, security, wireless, cloud and mobile technologies.  • Responsibilities include maintaining CSPi's internal IT infrastructure including the Data Center, Virtualization, Network, Storage, WAN, Unified Communications (VOIP), Disaster Recovery & Business Continuity technologies.  • Build Microsoft licensing quotes including Office 365 and Azure for Sales Managers.  • Responsible for maintaining CSPI's Microsoft Gold Partnership including all competency requirements.  • Responsible for obtaining CSP (Cloud Services Partner) status with Microsoft.  • Recommend and deploy cloud solutions including IaaS, PaaS and SaaS.  • Responsibilities include developing and implementing CSPI's Cloud offerings including Microsoft Office 365 and Azure.  • Responsible for Microsoft Cloud Services growth.  • Office 365 sales and deployments include Office 2016, Exchange Online, EOP, DLP, MDM, OneDrive, Skype for Business and SharePoint Online.  • Active Directory integrations include Identity Management, Azure AD Connect, Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS) Single Sign-On and Multi Factor Authentication.  • Azure deployments include point-to-point VPNs, ExpressRoute, Virtual Machine migrations, Azure Site Recovery and Azure Backup Server.  • Assist customers in Microsoft Software Compliance Audits.  • Other cloud offerings include Amazon Web Services, Google Apps, Intermedia, Rackspace, Terremark, Peak 10 and Host.net. Director of IT Services PC Universe, Inc., Corporate Headquarters - Boca Raton, FL July 2006 to December 2007 • Responsibilities include managing PCU's internal IT infrastructure.  • Improving IT processes, enhancing productivity and decreasing overall IT costs.  • Recommending products and services to PCU's customers.  • Established internal standards compliant with ITIL, SOX and PCI.  • Manage departmental budgets and track P&L.  • Development of contractual agreements and respond to RFPs.  • Project management including job costing, profit & loss and timelines for completion of projects.  • Supervised monitoring of Managed Services offerings.  • Implemented CRM solution to manage customer information, ticketing and invoicing.  • Supervision of engineers to deploy and maintain solutions for PCU's customers.  • Responsible Team building, training, certifications and development of staff. IT Services Manager / Presales Engineer ePlus, Inc - Boca Raton, FL April 1996 to June 2006 • Responsibilities included providing technical support for Manchester's sales personnel and technology solutions for Manchester's customers.  • Client needs analysis & technology strategy, development of detailed Statements of Work and topology diagrams.  • Designed switched internetworks including VOIP and WiFi LANs/WANs/SANs for multiple firms.  • Evaluated vendor products in Manchester's systems integration lab.  • Quality, cost & service evaluation of Telco's and Internet Service Providers SLA's.  • Recommending products and services to Manchester's customers.  • Supervision of engineers to deploy and maintain solutions. Technology Applications Manager / Associate Merrill Lynch, World Headquarters - New York, NY November 1993 to March 1996 • Responsible for integration of hardware and software into Client/Server LANs for the Debt & Equity Markets & Investment Banking division.  • Network management includes administration of Windows NT, Banyan, Novell, Solaris-TCP/IP networks including  • hardware/software installation, configuration, version control, maintenance/repairs, inventory, security, system  • monitoring, IP addressing schemes, and troubleshooting.  • Project management includes submitting proposals for new equipment/software purchases, and providing  • timelines for completion of projects.  • Projects included Merrill's Trusted Global Advisor project, the largest NT workstation & server project on  • Wall Street with over 1,500 servers and 32,000 workstations. Systems Training Manager Society International Telecommunications for Aeronautics - New York, NY January 1990 to November 1993 • Responsibilities included the supervision of two persons locally and six persons worldwide to develop and provide technical training to network managers, engineers and airline customers on Client/Server systems.  • Position required extensive knowledge of LAN and WAN technologies including Memorex Telex, Westinghouse and SITA developed gateways utilizing the SITA WAN (the largest private data network in the world), as well as airline host connections.  • Interfacing with airline customers to determine technical information needs on a national and international level.  • LAN administration included system security, usage monitoring, hardware/software inventory, gateway/node addressing, hardware maintenance, software version control, and system backup. Systems Analyst NEC America Inc., U.S. Headquarters - New York, NY May 1987 to December 1989 • Responsible for downsizing database files/applications to operate on Novell LANs.  • Analysis and development of Accounts Receivable, Billing Control, and Maintenance/Service systems for the Facsimile division.  • Analysis included interactions with NEC Tokyo and end-users, comparisons between NEC 270 and NEC 630 mainframe systems.  • Subsystems included internal and external interfaces, entry screens, report designs and extensive flow charting. Programmer/ Analyst Entech Computer Systems - New York, NY February 1986 to April 1987 • Analysis of client needs, and documentation of job specifications and requirements.  • Development and maintenance of both single and multi-user database systems for Netware 2.01A-2.15 LANs,  • including Order Entry, Invoicing, Inventory, Job Costing, Accounts Receivable and Accounts Payable systems.  • Documentation, training and support of customized systems. Senior Programmer Legal Software Systems, Inc - New York, NY January 1985 to January 1986 Supervised and programmed modifications of database system designed for negligence firms. Education B.S. in Business Economics / Computer Science State University of New York Certifications/Licenses Microsoft MCSE Cloud Platform and Infrastructure MCSD Azure MCSA Office 365 MCPS, MCNPS, MCTEM Amazon Web Services Certified Technical Professional VMware Certified Professional Citrix Certified Enterprise Administrator Citrix NetScaler Certified Cisco Certified Design Associate Cisco IP Communications Express Certified McAfee Technical Professional RSA Certified Systems Engineer Symantec Technical Specialist APC Infrastructure Certified EMC Technology Architect Dell EA Certified Server Specialist Hewlett Packard Enterprise Presales Professional NetApp Accredited Professional Barracuda Certified Presales Professional Novell Certified Netware Engineer