Lead Business Analyst Lead Business <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Lead Business Analyst - Relevance Labs Baltimore, MD • IT professional with 8+ years of experience working in Cyber- security, Insurance and E-commerce, Specialized in Business & Systems Analysis, Quality Assurance, Requirements management, user acceptance testing, Change Management, Reporting, SQL, Data Management, Data Quality, Data Governance, Metadata.  • Worked as a Developer, Business Analyst, Business Systems Analyst and Scrum Master Roles with proven ability in leading cross functional and self - organizing teams with expertise in various phases of Software development life cycle methodologies such as Waterfall, Spiral, Agile framework Scrum, Kanban, Extreme programming and Hybrid Model - Waterfall Agile.  • Strong in documenting nonfunctional requirements using QUEST framework.  • Very strong in authoring Data Governance policies, procedures, templates.  • Supported metadata, data quality rules and metrics processes.  • Helped business in decision making by providing SWOT Analysis, Root cause analysis, Cost- Benefit Analysis and AS-IS To-Be business analysis.  • Proficient in networking with individuals at various levels while organizing, conducting and facilitating requirement elicitation sessions such as survey/questionnaires, interviews, brainstorming, focus group, requirement workshops, document analysis and JAD sessions.  • Used Tableau to create innovative executive dashboards, scorecards and weekly/ monthly reports on the status of key business measurements.  • As a Scrum Master, facilitated and time-boxed the scrum ceremonies such as: Daily Stand-up meeting, Backlog refinement, Sprint planning, Sprint Review, Retrospectives meetings including Grooming sessions.  • A problem solver with experience in providing advanced analytics and supporting actionable insights in line with product vision  • Strong knowledge in insurance PLM, eCommerce PLM, product development  • Proficient in estimation techniques like Planning Poker, T-shirt sizing, Dot Voting and Relative mass evaluation.  • Experienced in conducting Scrum Training Workshops and User Story Writing workshops to familiarize stakeholders with Scrum process.  • Well versed in writing User Stories and breaking down Epics into user stories satisfying INVEST criteria.  • Worked closely with Product Owner in prioritizing user stories using techniques like Moscow, Kano and Business Value based methods.  • Facilitated discussion, decision making and conflict resolution.  • Knowledge on Agile techniques featuring User Stories, Continuous Integration, Pair Programming.  • Guided the team to remove impediments by finding the right personnel to remove the blocker.  • As a Scrum Master coached my cross functional team on agile principles/Scrum principles and made sure the team is following them. Collaborated with both off shore and on-shore team members.  • Experience in recording and maintaining the artifacts like Product Backlog, Impediments list, sprint burn down charts and sprint burn up charts to track my team's performance and keeping it visible to the team members and owners.  • Well versed in documenting and reviewing the Business Requirements Document (BRD), Software Requirements Specification (SRS) and Functional Specification Document (FSD).  • High experience in tracing requirements throughout the development process and verifying to Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM).  • Well versed with Product lifecycle management and Project life cycle.  • Expertise in Graphic User Interface Design (GUI), wireframes and UI mock-ups using Balsamiq.  • Worked with QA team to design Test Plans and Test cases for User Acceptance Testing (UAT) using HP QC/ HP ALM.  • Ability to write effective SQL queries in SQL Server, Sybase, Oracle and DB2 databases using tools like SQL programmer and mySQL.  • Experience with the ETL on Informatica Power Center.  • Experience Setting up interview sessions with various stakeholders in gathering the requirements.  • Implementing effective change management in the organization using the ADKAR Principles.  • Experience with IT Risk management (Cyber- security) capabilities such as GRC Reporting-Supplier & Buyer, Compliance, Crisis Management & Disaster Recovery management.  • Strong cyber security capabilities to support Risk Management in Insurance and &e-commerce domains with skills like Vulnerability Management using i2 qRadar and Qualys reports, SOC functions using the Splunk and Qualys. Vulnerability Scanning using Symantec reports and Spotfire.  • Knowledge in Attack and Penetration activities using Kali Linux and capabilities like MSEXPLOIT (Penetration testing), HYDRA (Brute force), PassHash, HashCat, PYscripting to run brute force attacks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Business Analyst Relevance Labs - New York, NY October 2017 to Present Project 1: Scope of the project was to replace the existing document management system which was a third-party vendor (Blitzdocs) by an internal ECM Platform called the FileNet. The project also included the technology to develop multiple functionalities that Blitzdocs was providing.    Project 2: To develop a new platform for the New account opening team for their Enterprise content management along with various search features that would enable business to manage customer's documents.    Responsibilities as a Business Analyst:  • Lead implementation of an e-commerce solution for educators to explore, and purchase various types of teaching aid resources  • Worked on multiple projects as a Business Analyst and Lead Business analyst  • Facilitated JAD sessions and Requirement Gathering workshops to write efficient BRD.  • Documented functional specification document using Wireframes/ Mock-ups and Use case diagrams  • Identified a major scope creep and provided a document outlining the actual 100% estimate against the original 100% estimate  • Effective communication skills helped me facilitate interviews and brainstorming sessions to resolve major problems during the requirement gathering phase of the project  • Actively participated in documenting the requirement traceability matrix and User Stories as one of our project was running agile-waterfall SDLC.  • Created innovative and interactive workflow diagrams and process flow diagrams defining the current state and future state of the process.  • Helped Project Manager perform Impact Analysis and Cost Benefit Analysis during the planning phase.    Environment: IBM FileNet p8, IBM Content Navigator, Team Foundation Server, Kofax Ascent Capture 10.0, Kofax Total Agility, Conduent Blitzdocs, Blitzscan, MS Visio, MS Office Sr. Business Systems Analyst/ Scrum Master United Health Group - Minneapolis, MN September 2016 to October 2017 Project: The scope of my project was to move the entire under writing application online and readily available to the customer online on any platform, the goal was to expedite the process by implementing the automated quoting/rating systemin combination with the enhanced AI for SNA.  Responsibilities as "Sr. Business Analyst":  • Documented under writing processes and analyzed procedures to see that they would meet regulations from the Department of Insurance  • Assessed the impact of current business processes on users and stakeholders.  • Conducted interviews with key business users to collect information on business processes and user requirements.  • Collected the Business requirements and Functional requirements in the BRD and FRD.  • Utilized my SQL skills to perform queries to analyze issues during QA  • Assisted in documenting the release notes.  • Created interactive dashboards to visualize the reports and identify critical issues that needed attention.  • Worked closely with the Healthcare and Medical Billing application.  • Significantly eliminated waste of time in product lifecycle program management that involves 2 channels, 3 sub-businesses, 30+ markets and 200+ projects by reducing lead time of: 1) information manual input, 2) data compilation, 3) report generation.  • Leveraged VBA in Excel and drove the improvement for rolling forecast and 2018 LCM annual operation plan by automation.  • Ensured that changes are executable and sustainable by writing up manuals and scheduling training sessions with stakeholders.  • ERP application to ensure timely completion of the product lifecycle.  • Strong knowledge on HIPAA and other healthcare industry standards.  • Utilized tableau dashboards to create Premium forecasting dashboards, claimant correlation, Fraud Analysis and SLA dashboards to help assurers expedite their risk analysis.  • Assisted the developers to create unit tests, test cases to ensure 100% test coverage of the code.    Responsibilities as a "Scrum Master":  • Facilitated and time-boxed Scrum ceremonies like Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review and Retrospective meetings.  • Created User Stories and led the Planning Poker game to estimate them in Sprint Planning and Backlog Grooming meetings.  • Reviewed Sprint Burn down and Release Burn Down Charts to maintain team's velocity.  • Worked with the Product Owner during the Sprint Review Meeting for the Potential Shippable Product Increment (PSPI) and help decide which features met the definition of Done, DoD using the acceptance criteria.  • Helped resolved team and organizational level impediments.  • At the end of each sprint conducted Sprint Retrospective meetings such as Sad Mad Glad techniques so each stakeholder can freely express their opinions and suggest improvement measures.  • Helped the Product Owner to Prioritize the Product Backlog items using MOSCOW technique for developing Sprint tasks by taking suggestions from team.  • Used JIRA for drafting user stories, allotting tasks, backlog management, issue tracking, user story maps and generating reports.  • Maintained the Task Board that was referred to during the daily stand-ups that helped the team track the stories To Do, Work in Progress, Done and Accepted.  Environment: SQL SharePoint, AWS EC2, AWS Red Shift, AWS DynamoDB, AWS Kinesis -Fire Hose, Selenium, Rally, IBM i2 qRadar, i2 SNA, IBM i2 Analyze, Jenkins, Tableau. IT Risk Management Specialist (Cyber Security) Nationwide Mutual Insurance - Columbus, OH May 2016 to August 2016 Project: Support National Internal and External Accounts. The purpose of this objective was to ensure all accounts had the necessary access to various applications. Knowledge of each platform, each application and the appropriate corporate policies and procedures was tantamount to performing to the highest level.  Responsibilities:  • Conducted data leak prevention (DLP), ensuring company sensitive and critical information did not leave the network.  • Translated business requirements into initiatives to align with product roadmap/vision using JIRA/HPQC tool, oracle  • Monitored IT defense perimeter and scanning infrastructure, taking or recommending appropriate action per set procedures when. Reported incidents to appropriate Tier 2 or Tier 3 teams to determine any increased risk to the company and/or its clients.  • Processed intelligence reports through analysis of intelligence reports and briefings from various sources and documented indicators of compromise (IOCs) in company database.  • Owns product portfolio road map and Product life cycle management. Assist product managers and different departments.  • Responsible for handling the Intelligence and Email Operations for the SOC while maintaining proficiency of adversary tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) through analysis of email headers, malware analysis and open source intelligence.  • Familiar with multiple information security tools such as; SIEM Qradar, Intrusion Detections and Preventions Systems (Sourcefire), Malware Analysis (Hydra Threat Analyzer, Virus Total), email analysis in Rshield and Sureview, intelligence analysis (CRITs), proxy searches (Putty).  • Produce and maintain project documents (timelines, requirements, project documentation) ensuring they are complete, current, and stored appropriately  • Supported the issue resolution in the existing cyber data acquisition process.  • Interacted with diverse technical and non-technical groups, spanning multiple functional areas -Cyber Analytics, Incident Responders, Communications Teams, Security Engineering, Security Operations, Infrastructure Stakeholders, Business Management, etc.)  • Effectively communicated relevant project information to management team, business leads and stakeholders across the organization including detailed technical and operational level communications as well as project status, risks, issues, decisions.  • Effectively communicated and work with technology partners    Environment: Kali Linux- msexploit, Hydra, Password hash, Hash Cat, IDQ, Splunk, tableau, qRadar, Qualys Reporting, Symantec, Rshield, Virtual Total, Source Fire, CRITs, Putty, Sureview. Sr. Business Analyst The Hertz Corp - Estero, FL December 2014 to April 2016 Project: This project focused on creating a standardized CFMS (customer flow management system) to reduce the customer turnaround time and enhance the existing system to provide better customer support. The system was built to identify MO's of customer patterns and various services they required at a standardized level as well as the FO (field office) level.  Responsibilities:  • Utilized my communication skills to conduct JAD sessions, Interviews, Brain Storming and other elicitation techniques to collect requirements for the project  • Documented the requirements using the BRD and the SRS  • Created project plans in accordance with project management framework standards and procedures. Identified ongoing issues and gaps within project plans, in order to eliminate implementation issues.  • Acted as a liaison between the SME's and the stakeholders to assess the Risk, process reviews and policy reviews to elicit the requirements precisely  • Assisted in creating the UML diagrams and interactive mock ups for development team to understand the requirements in an orderly manner  • Assisted the development team to perform UAT testing and updated status in the SharePoint.  • Consistently tracked the project status and reported it to all the stake holders involved.  • Assisted the Product owner in all the phases of Product Development Life Cycleusing PLM phases.  • Enhanced business data visualization for the weekly Directors' presentations  • Interpret custom data into easily understandable reports for clients  • Revised business performance metrics in collaboration with IT, which increased transparency on sales key factors  • Worked closely with the product development team during various phases of PLM  • The current transformation initiative seeks to move the current IT project portfolio and delivery teams (including the teams and supporting organization) into a product focused planning and execution operating model (continuous product development strategy, release planning, and continuous delivery). This shift will include new disciplines and governing constructs influenced by modern, agile product management disciplines and execution practices.  • Responsible for leading testing efforts, ensuring that issues are identified, tracked, reported on and resolved in a timely manner  Environment: Waterfall-Scrum hybrid, Balsamiq, SharePoint, SQL Server, MS Office Suite, JIRA, Rally, HP QC, Tableau. Business Systems Analyst Germania Insurance - Brenham, TX December 2013 to November 2014 Project: Involved in maintenance and enhancement of Claims Management System for Claims Handling division. Users can file their claims using online or phone. The system gathers all the information and performs various checks and balances like eligibility, deductibles, time period, etc. The project focuses primarily on maintenance and enhancements of system by keeping up to date with changing regulations and rules.  Responsibilities:  • Project followed Agile methodology for Guidewire Claim Center Integration in different sprints.  • Facilitating daily Scrum meetings, Sprint review meetings and Sprint retrospective meetings, assisting Scrum Master in developing during Sprint Meetings. Managed RTM to ensure test cases are traceable to requirement specifications.  • Project was on a product end team and Assisted the product manager in reviewing the PLM documentation and update when required.  • Gathering business requirements, converting them into functional requirements and authored the same in making User Stories for New Claim Module.  • Conducted stakeholder Joint Application Design (JAD) interviews and facilitated meetings with project teams.  • Translated business user concepts and ideas into comprehensive business requirements and design documents.  • Created project plans in accordance with project management framework standards and procedures. Identified ongoing issues and gaps within project plans, in order to eliminate implementation issues.  • Created and maintained User Stories by interviewing the SMEs, Claim Specialists, Claim Adjusters, Field Investigators etc. to capture the process flow from First Notice of Loss (FNOL) to Claim-case closure, to communicate the requirements to development and testing teams.  • Worked closely with the business users, Stakeholders and SME's to identify, document and analyze the business process that was currently being followed to improve the time efficiency of the processes.  • Oversaw the PLM, launch readiness and engagement. Designed and executed scaled support strategies.  Environment: Agile methodology, Microsoft Suite, SQL, HP ALM, SAP Power designer, Oracle DB Informatica Powercenter Developer Signode - Chicago, IL September 2011 to October 2013 Informatica Data quality  Responsibilities:  Project 1: The primary objective of this project is to capture day to day inventory transactions, Cash Flows and Purchase Orders Customers, Policies, Products and financial related data from multiple Systems and Main Frame files. The ETL architecture consist of Landing, Pre-Landing, CDC, ODS and Integration layer.  Project 2: Automation of Widgets (36 widgets in total) in the FORTRESS to lower the time taken by TRMS in solving fraudulent transactions. The key objective of this project was to increase the productivity of the TRMS team by 15% and lower the time taken per investigation to 3 mins.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirement of the project by directly interacting with client and made analysis accordingly.  • Helped in building the New ETL Design.  • Worked closely with the product owner and assisted with PLM documentation  • Defined various facts and Dimensions in the data mart including Fact Less Facts, Aggregate and Summary facts.  • Extracting, Scrubbing and Transforming data from Main Frame Files, Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, Teradata and then loading into Oracle database using Informatica, SSIS  • Worked on optimizing the ETL procedures in Informatica.  • Performance tuning of the Informatica mappings using various components like Parameter files, Variables and Dynamic Cache.  • Implementing logical and physical data modeling with STAR and SNOW FLAKE techniques using Erwin in Datawarehouse as well as in DataMart.  • Used Type 1 and Type 2 mappings to update Slowly Changing Dimension Tables.  • Involved in the performance tuning process by identifying and optimizing source, target and mapping and session bottlenecks.  • Configured increment alaggregator transformation functions to improve the performance of data loading. Worked Database level tuning, SQL Query tuning for the Data warehouse and OLTP Databases.  • Utilized of Informatica IDQ 8.6.1 to complete initial data profiling and matching/removing duplicate data.  • Informatica Data Quality (IDQ 8.6.1) is used here for data quality measurement.  • Project was on a product end team and Assisted the product manager in reviewing the PLM documentation and update when required.  Environment: Informatica Power Center, IDQ, SSIS, SSRS, Team Foundation Server, Teradata, Share Point, Oracle, TOAD, Erwin 7.0, Unix, SQL Server, Autosys, Windows. ETL Developer Medica Health Insurance - Hopkins, MN May 2009 to August 2011 • Obtained business requirements from business users and stakeholders using JAD sessions, brain storming sessions, focus groups and personal interviews  • Established financial forecasts for the given project by using already made scope of the system.  • Developed use case model using MS Visio. Created a development plan for the overall project and prototypes.  • Gathered and documented requirements for creating bureau reports and bureau reporting mart (ISO, Mass Auto, DMV)  • Project was on a product end team and Assisted the product manager in reviewing the PLM documentation and update when required.  • Performed in depth data analysis identifying data issues in legacy system and worked with business to develop resolutions to those issues.  • Created business requirements document and functional requirements document after gathering both functional and non-functional requirements as well as user stories.  • Actively involved in data warehouse and mart design sessions for both Logical and Physical design  • Improved PLM, website analytics, A/B tests, conversion rate optimization, usability testing, prototyping etc.  • Created data mapping documents for the movement of data from production databases to the warehouse and from the warehouse to the policy and claims marts.  • Defined logic for Extraction, Transformation and Loading of data into Warehouse and Marts.  • Worked closely with offshore development team.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2005, Cognos, Rational ClearQuest, Microsoft SharePoint, MS Visio, RTM, Erwin, MS Word/Power Point. Education Bachelor's Skills JAD (5 years), Microsoft SharePoint (4 years), SharePoint (4 years), SQL (7 years), testing (4 years), Telecommunication, Forensics, Jira, Ediscovery, Business Intelligence Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Windows XP/10/Kali Linux  Modeling Tools MS Visio, Mock-Up Screens, Rational Rose  SDLC Methodologies Waterfall, Waterfall Scrum Hybrid, Scrum, Agile-Scrum, Agile  Business Skills  Process Modeling, Change Management, GAP Analysis, Impact Analysis, SWOT Analysis, JAD Sessions, Project Scheduling, Project Budgeting    Data Warehousing Data Modeling, Data Marts, OLTP, OLAP, Data Mining, Slicing/Dicing, Drill Up/ Drill Down, Pivot  Project Management Tools MS Project, MS SharePoint Server  Risk Management tools SIEM Qradar, Qualys, Sourcefire, Splunk, Symantec reports, Hydra  Requirement Management JIRA, Rally, HP ALM, MS Office, Confluence, ClearQuest  Testing Tools HPQC, Selenium  Reporting/BI Tools Tableau Desktop, IBM Cognos, Tibco, SAP Logon, Spotfire  ETL Tools Informatica  Methodology Tools JIRA, HP ALM, RALLY  Databases MsSQL, Oracle, MS Access  Finance Tools Thompson Reuters, Experian, Bloomberg B-Pipe, MorningStar  Languages HTML, XML, SQL.    DOMAIN KNOWLEDGE  • Insurance: Claims Management, Underwriting Application Management, Risk Management for DLP, Compliance Management, PCI Operations  • Cyber Security Risk Management and Compliance: Operations Risk, Credit Risk, Market Risk.  • E-Commerce: Shipping Order Tracking, Credit Card Processing, Ticketing system for customer service, Fraud analytics platform, Inventory management via JIT, PCI regulations, Risk Management.