Full Time Employee Full Time Employee Full Time Employee - Marathon Oil Houston, TX Multi-faceted experience with IT Security of organizations; particular strengths include:  • Developing and implementing innovative IT Security programs and products and services.  • Leading and Optimizing the Cybersecurity through periods of downturn and transition.  HARDWARE & SOFTWARE EXPEREINCE  Software & Hardware  • Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows 2008 R2, Windows 2012, 2016 server  • Microsoft Office 2016, 2013, 2010, 2007,  • LAN Guard, Wireshark, Nessus, Retina, Nexpose,  • Remedy, Peregrine, Altiris, Service Now  • SIEM  • Splunk, Nitro, Q-Radar, Arc-site  • ProofPoint, Barracuda  • SAP Security & Activate Directory Security  • FireEye, Palo Alto Firewall  • Carbon Black - Bit 9  • Palo Alto Traps, Cisco AMP  • Websense, Blue Coat, Zscaler, Forcepoint  • TCP/IP, IPSEC, DNS, DHCP,  • Cisco VPN, Global Protect  • Symantec & McAfee, Trend Micro, GFI Viper, Sophos, System Center Enpoint Protection    Compliance Standards  SOX/NIST/SCADA/DCS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Time Employee Marathon Oil - Houston, TX September 2015 to Present Cyber Threat Intelligence Analyst    • In-depth knowledge of architecture, engineering, and operations of enterprise SIEM. Ingested log sources for Security operations and Threat Analysis team.   • Deployment of vulnerability scanner agents and management consoles based on compliance requirements.  • Conducted vulnerability scans for every region within Marathon.  • Executed Penetration tests and provide remediation actions for various IT groups and products  • Demonstrated experience with handling incident response and able to communicate and coordinate when incidents occurred.  • Experience with threat and malware analysis as well as working with third party forensics tools for incident handling.  • Provide actionable cyber threat intelligent information for executive management relative to the business  • Worked on the Implementation of DLP polices and classification with legal.  Architecture, engineering, and administration of enterprise Privilege Access Manager (PAM) Threat Monitoring Analyst Lockheed Martin - Houston, TX May 2015 to August 2015 • Incident handling experience and advanced understanding of networking, system -Unix/Linux command line experience  • In-depth knowledge of operations of enterprise SIEM platforms ( QRadar, Splunk)  • Demonstrated experience with Computer Incident Response Experience and proficiency with Anti-Virus, HIPS, ID/PS, Full Packet Capture, Host-based Forensics  • Experience with malware analysis concepts and methods. IT Security Operations Manager, North & South America Regions Foster and Wheeler/AMEC (FTE) - Houston, TX August 2012 to May 2015 • Responsible for the activities of IT security (SIEM, incident response, DLP, Security auditing and compliance)  • Audit based on SOX, HIPAA, compliance and worked with legal and finance to ensure auditing governance was followed. Conducted investigations based on requirements from Legal and HR.  • Maintaining IT security for Foster Wheeler Americas for over 3200 users in various countries.  • Created Cyber security IT security policies and practices.  • Responsible for identity management access (IAM) for all the Americas offices.  • Application Security testing for new and existing commercial applications as well as company developed applications.  • Responsible for the activities within the IT security department as penetration testing, vulnerability scanning and remediation testing.  • Plan and prepare for future improvements to various types and operating levels of IT security hardware and software.  • Recommend IT security solutions within budget Information Assurance Security Officer KBR - Houston, TX May 2009 to August 2012 • Providing patch management to systems using WSUS and GFI LanGuard, also developing Information Assurance regulations.  • Managing web content filtering and routers and switches.  • Conducted vulnerability assessment using various scanning software including Retina.  • Deployment of Vista Enterprise with MDT and GPO management.  • Managed centralized Symantec Endpoint anti-virus servers.  • Performed security audits on network and provided user awareness training.  • Develop policies and guidelines within the organization.  • Tested commercial software for security and compatibility and compliance. Information Assurance Security Officer DRS Technical Services Inc July 2007 to May 2009 • Implemented patch management system WSUS for over 5000 customers.  • Managed web content filtering.  • Conducted vulnerability assessment using various scanning software including the following (ISS, Harris Stat, and Retina).  • Managed centralized anti-virus server for over 5000 customers.  • Preformed audits on networks for the Iraq Theater of Operations  • Provided user awareness training users.  • Ensured compliance per DOD regulations.  • Maintained and troubleshoot user accounts and policies within Active Directory and Exchange.  • Tested commercial and Government software for security and compatibility and compliance.  • Maintained and secured network infrastructure for Department of Defense.  • Modify Checkpoint Firewalls as needed to meet IT Security standards Desktop Support Analyst Sr Halliburton Company - Houston, TX April 1998 to June 2007 Desktop Analyst Citation Oil & Gas Corporation - Houston, TX December 1996 to December 1997 United States Marines August 1992 to December 1996 Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Capella University - Houston, TX May 2020 Skills Cyber Security (8 years), Desktop Support (10+ years), IT Management (2 years), Active Directory, Security Military Service Branch: United States Marines Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal August 1992 to August 1996 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ April 2010 to Present