Software Engineer II Software Engineer II IT Control Sr. Analyst and Application Configuration Sr. Specialist - Brian C. Duncan McKinney, TX A software development position that utilizes my skills for problem solving, coding, data analysis, interactive  computing, and security awareness to contribute to the goals of the organization. Work Experience Software Engineer II Raytheon - Dallas-Fort Worth, TX January 2019 to Present IT Control Sr. Analyst and Application Configuration Sr. Specialist Brian C. Duncan - McKinney, TX September 2011 to January 2019 75070 | (972) 979-5405 | brian.craig.duncan@gmail.com    Tronc, Inc. and Tribune Publishing, Lewisville, TX  • Scripted queries for financial data sources using SQL, IDEAScript, and SAP Business Objects to gather and to analyze data, and to write custom executive financial reports.  • Utilized IDEAScript for CaseWare IDEA and CaseWare Monitor to script scheduled data-source analysis for accounts payable, payroll, and travel and entertainment business processes.  • Wrote automated tests for the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) compliance of over 20 systems  used at Tribune and Blue Lynx Media.  • Handled sensitive payroll, employee, and vendor information while adhering to policies and laws.  • Worked with internal auditors on ensuring compliance with SOX and IT general and application controls.  • Configured application controls in BlackLine account reconciliation software to perform automated  financial data file imports and to execute auto-certification processes. Systems Integration Sr. Analyst Dell Services and Perot Systems Corporation - Plano, TX 2006 to 2011 Integrated and tested Sentillion Vergence Single Sign-On software, hardware, and Way2Care proximity  badging at 60 Tenet Healthcare Corporation hospitals and business offices.  • Configured, monitored, and administered corporate and local Linux Red Hat network appliance servers for Vergence Single Sign-On.  • Coded minor custom VBScript and JavaScript modifications to existing Single Sign-On bridge scripts,  startup scripts, and logon scripts.  • Controlled user and administrator access via Vergence server web administrator and Active Directory  web interface.  • Conducted Single Sign-On and Way2Care proximity badge technical training for technical staff and instructional training for end users. Site Support Analyst and Service Desk Support Analyst Perot Systems Corporation - Plano, TX 2001 to 2006 and Dallas, TX Security Officer and Team Leader Perot Systems Corporation - Richardson, TX 1998 to 2001 and Dallas, TX Utility Helicopter Repairer and Crew Chief U.S. Army - Fort Carson, CO 1992 to 1998 Camp Stanley, South Korea; Ft. Riley, KS  Army Commendation Medal |Army Achievement Medal | Army Good Conduct Medal | National Defense Service  Medal |NCO Professional Development Ribbon | Army Service Ribbon | Overseas Service Ribbon Education Master of Science in Computer Science The University of Texas at Dallas - Richardson, TX January 2019 to Present Bachelor of Science in Computer Science The University of Texas at Dallas - Richardson, TX December 2018 Associate of Science in Computer Science Collin College - McKinney, TX December 2015 Skills SQL (7 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), LINUX (5 years), .NET (Less than 1 year), C++ (4 years), C# (1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), C (1 year), MySQL (Less than 1 year), Unity Game Engine (1 year), Visual Studio (5 years), Microsoft SQL Server (7 years), NetBeans (Less than 1 year), Virtual reality (Less than 1 year), Windows (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Android (Less than 1 year), Git (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/brian-duncan-5292589 Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems: All Windows versions from 95 to 10; GNU/Linux; UNIX; Android  Software: Visual Studio, Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, Unity Game Engine, Android Studio  Development: C++, C#, C, Java, Python, Scala, Windows Forms, JavaFX, Java Swing, SQL, Apache Hadoop, Apache Spark  Hardware: PC, HTC Vive, Dell servers, thin client, peripherals