IT Security, Compliance & Quality Assurance Manager <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span>, Compliance &amp; Quality Assurance Manager IT Security, Compliance & Quality Assurance Manager - Washington Gas & Light Woodbridge, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security, Compliance & Quality Assurance Manager Washington Gas & Light - Springfield, VA June 2017 to Present Creating and implementing an IT Compliance Program, implementing SNOW GRC application to create a mature Risk Assessment program, implemented new Information Security Policy, maturing the end user Security training program, key resource on the Identity and Access Management team, main point of contact for IT for all audits (internal, software licensing, external), review contracts for IT security items and managing the IT SOX program.  Senior Compliance Analyst Fujitsu America, Inc - Richardson, TX January 2016 to June 2017 Created and implementing an IT controls framework based on ISO 27002:2013, PCI-DSS ver. 3.2 and SSAE16/SOC1 controls, by mapping IT processes to these frameworks, determining gaps and partnering with IT management to develop remediation plans. Liaison between IT management and client auditors. Information Security Specialist Experian - Allen, TX July 2014 to December 2015 Performed as Information Security Client Support. Main task was to manage onsite assessments conducted by our clients and utilizing my multiple years of experience to answer IT control questions. In the event an issue was discovered, manage the resolution and communicate resolution to the client. Other tasks included reviewing information security contract language, completion of information security client questionnaires and assisting sales with client/potential client information security questions. Contractor Capital One - Plano, TX December 2013 to July 2014 Key focus area was the creation of a "Well Managed" function to preemptively discover control weaknesses, implement new controls and ensure effectiveness of current IT controls. Also, managed risks, waivers and other risk processes within the Archer framework and acted as the Divisional Data Champion for Home Loans within HPSM. IT Process and Controls Lead Specialist PepsiCo - Plano, TX September 2011 to September 2012 Worked closely with all Business Information Services (BIS) parties in the development and implementation of BIS IT General Controls to meet the requirements of the PepsiCo Global Control Standard and Sarbanes Oxley. Also, served as SME for IT controls for the implementation of new Service Manager Process and for audit remediation and readiness. IT Audit Manager North America region - Richardson, TX October 2008 to September 2011 Vertex Business Services - Richardson, Texas, October 2008 - September 2011  IT Audit Manager: Performed as the IT Audit Manager for the North America region. Managed the SAS70 (SSAE16) program for the completion of the SAS70 (SSAE16) Audit Report. Also, created and implemented yearly risk based audit plan and acted as a team member for the review and completion of PCI-DSS. Information Technology Controls Lead Flowserve Corporation - Irving, TX February 2006 to October 2008 Managed, designed and implemented the IT SOX Program in coordination with IT to help reduce the number of reported deficiencies in comparison to previous years. IT Senior Auditor XL Capital - Stamford, CT January 2004 to May 2005 Performed internal information technology reviews and focusing on internal information systems controls as it relates to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as audits that were within the yearly audit plan. IT Senior Auditor Consolidated Edison Company of New York - New York, NY June 2002 to January 2004 Performed internal information technology reviews, focusing on Microsoft Windows networks, mainframe, and other internal application. IT Senior Auditor E&Y, New York, New York & Raleigh, North Carolina - New York, NY November 1999 to June 2002 Performed internal/external IT and operational reviews specializing in Sarbanes Oxley, General Control Reviews, and Application Control Reviews. Performed reviews of UNIX, Windows and AS400 operating systems to determine security vulnerabilities and reviewed disaster recovery plans, change management systems, ERP package security, etc. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology Skills PAYMENT CARD INDUSTRY (4 years), PCI (4 years), Sarbanes Oxley. (7 years), SARBANES-OXLEY (SOX) (8 years), SOX (3 years), Risk Management, Compliance, Governance Certifications/Licenses Cisa Additional Information Skills:  • 16 years of experience in IT Controls/Risks, IT SOX, SOC Reports  • CISA and CISSP  • Experience with Big4, Banking, IT Service Providers, Manufacturing & Utility  • Knowledge and understanding of COBIT, ISO27002, PCI-DSS, SSAE18/SOC1, SOC2