Analyst /Data Center Facilities Mgmt <span class="hl">Analyst</span> /Data Center Facilities Mgmt Business Analyst, Technical Writer, UI Designer Princeton, NJ Lead Business Analyst and Technical Writer with over 15 years' experience in multiple verticals. Extensive experience in gathering, analyzing, documenting and validating the needs of business stakeholders. Creative skills around visual representation of technical solutions. Understanding of UI design concepts, and experience creating prototypes.    Production of full System Development Lifecycle (SDLC) deliverables for business-critical systems including: Process Analyses, Project Plans, Project Charters, User/Business Requirements, Functional Specifications, Wireframes, Use Cases, System Design and Configuration documents. Authoring of Pharmaceutical Validation documentation.    CONTACT  PHONE:  609-664-2436    EMAIL:  cajoseph3@yahoo.com    CORE COMPETENTCIES  • Business Analysis/Elicitation  • User Requirements  • Functional Specifications  • Wireframes  • Process Models, Gap Analysis  • Workflow Analysis  • Validation Documentation  • Regulatory & Audit Documentation  • JAD Facilitation & Interviewing  • Agile/Waterfall Methodologies  • Graphics - Visio/Axure/Snagit Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Analyst /Data Center Facilities Mgmt JPMorgan Chase & Co December 2018 to January 2019 Responsible for re-architecting a Confluence-based legacy portfolio (circa 2000) of IT infrastructure procedural documents.    ? Analyzed, edited and rewrote historical content and remediated graphic illustrations, Visio diagrams and screenshots. Authored a Managed Service Provider (MSP) Vendor Directory, IT Security and Access SOPs, Break Glass procedures and Server Room Maintenance documentation. Process Analyst /Data Center Services Sanofi Pharmaceuticals June 2018 to September 2018 For the Sanofi (Americas) Infrastructure team provided documentation services to Information Technology Management.  ? Created business, data, process, and workflow models and collaborated on the creation of a common framework for data center security reporting and access management tool upgrades.  ? Edited and revised SOPs and process flows on Data Center Qualification, Environmental Monitoring, Data Center Access, Offsite Media Handling and Corporate Records destruction. Process Analyst/Technical Writer Federal Farm Credit Banking System / Audit Remediation December 2017 to March 2018 12/2017 - 3/2018  Solely responsible for the reorganization and rewrite of the Funding Corporation's entire portfolio of Information Systems policies and procedures.    ? Spearheaded, created and managed the project plan for a controlled deconstruction of all corporate legacy material. Successfully re-architected that material into a modern documentation library.  ? Performed investigative research into multiple ITIL subject areas synthesized, organized, rewrote, refined, formatted and edited the conclusions into appropriately pre-defined categories.    WORK EXPERIENCE CONTINUED MedAvante, Business Analyst /eCOA MedAvante July 2017 to November 2017 Authored business process specifications and client customizations for the company's Virgil® family of products (Portal and Tablet) - a proprietary eSource platform for recording digital clinical trial outcome assessments (eCOA).    ? Elicited, captured and analyzed Virgil's business requirements, translating them into user stories, detailed functional specifications, user interface specifications, and general system requirements.  ? Collaborated with various stakeholders (Product Owners, Scrum Masters, Product Designers, Technical Leads and their development teams) to create and maintain on-line help systems, User Guides, Release Notes, Product Support documents. BA-Writer /Product Operations S&P Global Market October 2016 to March 2017 Responsible for analyzing and documenting critical internal processes for the three major groups which comprised S&P Global Market Intelligence - RatingsDirect products, RatingsXpress products and Business Operations.    ? Developed a customized research approach and interviewed product managers on current/future business processes in order to finalize process maps (flowcharts).  ? Authored specific documentation - SOPs, Work Instructions and templates, checklists, to satisfy Audit requirements. Completed the preparation of complex sketches, design layouts, truth tables, as well as spreadsheets with graphs, charts, tables and text. Business Analyst /Bioanalytical Science Bristol, Myers, Squibb November 2015 to July 2016 Solely responsible for creation of the Business Requirements documents, Functional Specifications and User Interfaces for a Next Generation Stability reporting system.    ? Upgraded and modernized existing Stability reports. to assist scientists with internal data review and edited FDA, EU and ROW Health Authority filings.  ? Utilized interviews, document analysis, requirements workshops, surveys, process modeling and site visits as well as task and workflow analysis to elicit business, data and security requirements from multiple work streams.  ? Developed system wireframes, navigation mockups and page prototypes delivering production-ready assets to development. Business Analyst /Data Migration-Wealth Mgmt Bank of America June 2015 to August 2015 Collaborated with corporate managers in planning the data migration strategy and pre-screening analysis. Partnered with project teams to assess and evaluate migration pre-requisites.    ? Modeled the Virtual-to-Virtual (VM) migration process from candidate identification, technical validation, and migration events through planning and provisioning, application install and subsequent server decommissioning.    ? Performed data analysis in order to validate migrated data counts, ensure data integrity summarizing findings in written and verbal reports to key stakeholders.    WORK EXPERIENCE CONTINUED Business Analyst-Writer/Database Security & Audit Controls TIAA-CREF April 2014 to December 2014 Analyzed and documented centralized authentication processes, database monitoring processes, Identity management processes and privileged user access management controls for TIAA infrastructure.  ? Interfaced with Oracle, Teradata and Sybase DBA Management and Security PMs and recorded the methods of centralized access to applications, system files and corporate databases.  ? Subject areas addressed included: Database Access and Provisioning, Backups, Termination of IDs, Entitlement Review, Password Reset, Security Configuration Reviews, Database Monitoring, Permit-to-Operate procedures and Change Management. Business Analyst /Risk, Security & Compliance AIG April 2013 to December 2013 Documented internal controls, policies and procedures for IT systems and infrastructure for the "Fed Readiness" project. Fed Readiness was a set of internal control activities related to the ongoing federal supervision resulting from the post-2008 federal bailout. The intent was to provide Federal auditors with evidence demonstrating adequate control over IT infrastructure activities. Business Analyst /Electronic Trading Bank of America April 2012 to October 2012 For the Electronic Trading support group, interviewed Subject Matter experts and identified, captured, defined and defined trading system workflows, business functionality and infrastructure support protocols. Developed, designed and wrote Standard Operating Procedures related to these process analyses to resolve Audit, Risk and Compliance issues.  ? Subject areas addressed were: Systems Administration standards, Change Control procedures and Systems Security. identified and documented processes and workflow for Release Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Periodic Review of Entitlements and Performance and Capacity Management. Business Analyst / IT Shared Services Johnson & Johnson October 2011 to February 2012 Designed, wrote and edited functional/configuration specifications and design documents for the IRIS system, a Software as a Service (SaaS) COTS application for key ITIL service support. IRIS used a customized version of ServiceNow to track the Incident, manage the Service Request, monitor the Problem's status and produce relevant service cycle metrics.  ? Analyzed high level business requirements and translated them into lower level functional and technical requirements. This included design documentation, system requirement specifications, user interface specifications, screen mock-ups, process and navigational flows. Business Analyst/New Drug Applications-PharmSci Schering-Plough June 2004 to December 2010 Authored the Requirements Document and Functional Specifications for the Pharmaceutical Sciences Data Management and Reporting System - a data warehouse application designed to provide data for the Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls (CMC) section of the New Drug Application (NDA).  ? Activities included formulating extraction criteria, development of transformation and consolidation rules and creation of FDA submission and scientific report formats. Education BA in Political Science Hunter College, City University of NY Associate in International Economics London School of Economics - London Skills Business Analysis, Technical Writing, UI Design, Requirements Analysis, Functional Specifications, Process Modeling, Validation Documentation, Regulatory & Audit Compliance Documentation, JAD Facilitation, Agile & Waterfall Methodologies, Creative Grapics