AVP of Information Technology and Security AVP of Information Technology and <span class="hl">Security</span> Information Technology and Security - Bridgewater Credit Union Whitman, MA Work Experience AVP of Information Technology and Security Bridgewater Credit Union - Bridgewater, MA April 2018 to Present I joined Bridgewater Credit Union with the exciting opportunity to modernize Bridgewater's data centers, security, infrastructure, virtualization, Active Directory, Policies, and Procedures. I positioned the Credit Union to achieve passing scores with new policies, procedures for internal and external audits as well as State Banking Audit. I am also a member of Bridgewater Credit Unions executive team.  • IT lead for State Examination.  • IT lead for Wolf external auditing and compliance.  • IT lead for Fiserv Spectrum core banking system  • Build and support security infrastructure and systems.  • Work with all Credit Union departments in their technology requirements.  • Rebuilt primary and DR data center networks and firewalls.  • Build and support server 2008, 2012, and Server 2016.  • Solarwinds enterprise monitoring.  • Manage Credit Union budget.  • Build and support new VMware vCenter / vSphere  • Support Dell Secureworks IPS / IDS.  • Managed internal and external security vulnerability scanning and remediation.  • Support Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, Cisco ASA Firewall, and Cisco IPS Firepower.  • IIS WEB, SMTP, SPAM appliance.  • Support, and Manage Microsoft Exchange 2010  • Manage the help desk team. Senior Systems Administrator / Systems Engineer DST Systems - Quincy, MA September 2017 to March 2018 • Build and support server 2008, 2012, and Server 2016.  • Solarwinds enterprise monitoring.  • Build and support VMware vCenter / vSphere 6.0  • Support Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, Cisco ASA Firewall, and Cisco IPS Firepower.  • Enterprise Storage support with EMC CX4 and VNX2 in a multi-site environment.  • IIS WEB, SMTP, SPAM appliance.  • Support, and Manage Microsoft Exchange 2010  • Support Citrix Netscaler GSLB Load Balancer  • Install and support SQL 2014 SQL Always On  • Mcafee Antivirus IT Manager / Systems Engineer Sentient Jet a Directional Aviation Company - Braintree, MA July 2012 to August 2017 Manager and Senior Systems Engineer. Sentient Jet Site Lead with direct hands on project management, design, manager of the Help Desk and Systems Admins. Managed and engineered implementations of Sentient Jet major initiatives.  • Manage and Support Rackspace and Amazon AWS cloud infrastructure.  • Team yearly reviews.  • IT hiring Manager. Managed annual Capital and Operational budgets.  • Built AWS infrastructure for corporate Disaster Recovery systems.  • Manage and Support Cloud Office 365  • Build and support server 2008, 2012, and Server 2016.  • Support new implementation of Cisco UCS Unified Server technology.  • Solarwinds enterprise monitoring and Symantec Endpoint Management.  • Implemented Mimecast SMTP SPAM and Email Malware protection.  • Build and support Citrix XenApp  • Build and support VMware vCenter / vSphere 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, and 6.5  • Cisco and Mitel VoIP, Cisco Switches, Cisco ASA Firewall, and Cisco IPS Firepower.  • Build and support HP Rack servers and IBM Blade Centers.  • Manage Braintree and Boston Markley Data Center.  • Upgrade two Data Centers from legacy systems to industry leading infrastructure.  • Enterprise Storage support with EMC CX4 and VNX2 in a multi-site environment.  • Migrate 99% of physical server to virtual VMware.  • Implement EMC Recoverpoint and Veeam Backup solution for Sentient Jet corporate data backup.  • Disaster Recovery / Business Continuity Plan technology lead.  • Barracuda WEB, SMTP, SPAM appliance.  • Lead for Build, Support, and Manage Microsoft Exchange 2007, 2013 and Office 365  • Lead for PCI DSS and Security Audits.  • Implemented highly secure information Security using Alert Logic IDS, threat and WAF management. Senior Technology Engineer South Shore Hospital - South Weymouth, MA November 2011 to July 2012 Senior Technology Architect with direct hands on project management, design, implementations of South Shore Hospital major initiatives.  • Lead Technology Engineer lead SSH team implementing Mcafee IPS/IDS/Vulnerability Manager/ePolicy manager  • Lead Technology Engineer with SSH virtual desktops initiative, evaluating, demonstrating, and building labs for VMware View as well as Citrix Xen desktops solution bake off.  • Upgrade SSH VMWare infrastructure from 4.1 vCenter/ESX to 5.0 vCenter/vSphere production environment.  • Partnered with SSH Security Officer bringing security compliance and policies to SSH.  • Lead Technology team moving 220 remote users to new facility including new Technology Infrastructure.  • Implement backup solution for Meditech platform and corporate data backup.  • Disaster Recovery / Business Continuity Plan member / technology lead. IT Manager / Systems Engineer Diagenix Corp - Norwell, MA January 2011 to November 2011 Manager with direct hands on technology for Diagenix Corporation. Supporting Digenix external and internal customers as well as corporate infrastructures hardware and software.  • Department of Defense (DoD) Security Clearance/Access  • Support and Build Server 2003 and 2008 for internal and external customers.  • Microsoft Exchange Email, VMWare, Firewalls and VPN, backup and disaster recovery.  • Centralized Mcafee and Symantec antivirus, Desktop Engineering and support,  • Cisco and HP LAN / Switches / Router support for internal and external customers  • Building custom labs for Cisco UCCX Cisco Unified Communications, and Unity version 7 and 8. VoIP installations.  • Build and support of Diagenix office Unified Communications Manager, Voice Gateways.  • Build and configure HP/IBM/Dell Windows Servers.  • Build custom telephony server for Diagenix partner Envisions Technology for IP/TDM recording platform.  • Provided for pre sales and post-sales support for Diagenix premier partner Nuance Enterprise Voice applications. Products include Text-to-Speech, Speech Recognition, and MRCP integration with Cisco UCCX. IT Manager / Systems Engineer ADP Corporation - Hingham, MA 2001 to 2011 Manager with direct hands on technology for Broadridge Financials Mutual Funds Proxy site. Directly responsible for supporting the Mutual Funds Proxy Contact Center, LAN, WAN, Help Desk, Server Farms, Telco, Cisco IPT, Cisco IPCC. Supporting 340 plus users including 220 Cisco Contact Center users. Site Senior Systems Administrator.  • Supporting 110 Windows 2003 / 2008 servers including FTP, Citrix, WEB servers, Microsoft Exchange Messaging, Office Servers, Production Applications Servers, VoIP Network, WAN, and LAN, Telecommunications. VMWare ESX / ESXi.  • Supporting Cisco Contact Center Applications including all technologies involved i.e. support Cisco Contact Center Servers, Cisco VoIP servers and hardware, Cisco Call Manager (CUCM), Cisco IPCC (Cisco UCCE), monitoring.  • Support for Windows 2003 / 2008 Servers loading application and software / windows patches. Run performance and fine tuning utilities; etc.  • Experience with Active Directory, MS Exchange 2007, MS SharePoint, SQL 2000/2005.  • Administer and configure Checkpoint firewall, Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, HP Procurve Switches. Administering and installing Check Point firewall rules sets.  • Building and configuring HP Proliant, IBM xSeries, and HP Blade servers.  • Responsible for designing and managing systems backup, disaster recovery, and business continuity plan. Experience with Backup Exec.  • Analyzes server, network activity, and maintains performance monitoring systems as well as other software programs i.e. intrusion detection, virus scanning applications, production applications etc.  • Procure, configure, and install MacAfee anti-virus EPolicy Orchestrator. Using EPO, create weekly reports to verify corporate virus protection is up to date. Create reports to track virus out breaks and their trail. Desktop patching using Microsoft WSUS.  • Responsible for support contracts from contractors, servers, computer, hardware, software, cabling, and communication vendor products.  • Manage and participates in On-call and after-hours 24X7X365 days a year support Server Support, LAN, and Cisco Contact Center. MIS Network Analyst New England Sinai Hospital - Stoughton, MA 1999 to 2001 • Network Administrator for 150 NT / Windows platform users and laser printers.  • Support and service internal network topology including WAN connections to satellite remote users.  • Experience with Firewalls, VPN's and Intrusion Detection software.  • Responsible for all NT 4.0/ 2000 Servers, NT Terminal Servers, Citrix Metaframe Servers using Winterm terminals.  • Experience with Cisco Routers and Cisco Switches. Build, install and administrate NT File, Print and Mail Servers.  • Project leader for all Network, Computer and Telecommunications projects.  • Responsible for researching and investigating new technologies that apply to the Hospitals Information System.  • Coordinate with Vendors, Consultants and Contractors. Education Advanced Technology Services Cisco Contact Center - Hingham, MA Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer Clark University, Computer Career Institute - Braintree, MA