Temporarily Retired Temporarily Retired Ready to re-enter workforce after temporary retirement - do not miss this experience & wisdom Rogers, AR Retirement is a pause to relax a while:  ~ I was a highly accomplished, results-oriented retailer, then enterprise consultant with an extensive background in strategic management and projects for large scale organizations before retirement.   ~ My extensive history was highlighted by my successfully guiding organizations in their efforts to manage significant change and process improvement.   ~ My keen understanding of retailing and retail merchandising comes as a result of decades of direct experience in retailing as well as a wide-ranging retail consulting practice.   ~ I am an expert, proficient communicator as demonstrated whenever facilitating client process optimization brainstorming.   ~ As manager and consultant, I have consistently proven ability to assess situations, devise action plans and follow-through to maximize performance while leading diverse groups.   ~ I exhibit strong background in Management, Leadership, and Strategic Consulting.    COMPLETE PROFESSIONAL HISTORY    • ACNW / Allied-Universal, Concierge/ Security Officer, ACNW, August 2017 to the Present (current);  • Retired., Then re-entered workforce, April 2016 to August 2017;  • UST-Global Inc., Advisory Consultant, SME: Retail, Feb 2010 to April 2016; (Retired)  • IBM Global Business Services, Senior Retail Consultant, Jan 2007 to Apr 2009 (2 yrs);  • BJ's Wholesale Club, Sr. Retail IT BSI Business Analyst, Dec 2004 to Dec 2006 (2 yrs);  • JDA Software, Senior Retail Consultant, Jul 1998 to Nov 2004 (6 yrs);  • Borders Books & Music, Senior Retail IT Business Analyst, Feb 1997 to Jul 1998 (1 ½ yrs);  • Michaels Crafts, Dir. Mdse. Replenishment, Mar 1994 to Feb 1997 (3 yrs);  • Bombay Company, Mdse Planning + Control Mgr., Apr 1990 to Mar 1994 (4 yrs);  • WORKplace, Mdse. Controller, Sep 1988 to Apr 1990 (1 ½ yrs);  • Scandinavian Design, Dir. Mdse. Planning + Control, Oct 1987 to Sep 1988 (1 yr);  • Morse Shoe, Div. Dir. Planning + Distribution, Nov 1985 to Oct 1987 (2 yrs);  • Filenes Basement, Sr. Mdse. Planner, Dec 1983 to Nov 1985 (2 yrs);  • Marshalls, Div. Mdse. Planner, Jan 1982 to Dec 1983 (2 yrs);  • Zayre Corp., Buyer, Head Mdsr., Jun 1972 to Jan 1982 (10 yrs); Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Temporarily Retired Dwight Matthew Lee - Rogers, AR 2019 to Present • Retired 2nd time, then determined I was happier benefiting employers with my experience, while enjoying the business environment – determining I was not yet ready to ‘go on the shelf’ just yet. Available now.  Concierge/ Security Officer ACNW / Allied-Universal - Springdale, AR August 2010 to 2019 • Currently handle all flow of traffic through front entrance to ACNW, a busy childrens hospital  • Control movement of all visitors via observation as well as Green Security badging program.  • Graciously guide and direct all visitors who have an appointment for services, are visiting an in-house patient, making delivery, meeting with staff, taking tour, interviewing, getting tests or results with occupational nurse, support teams arriving from Little Rock, impromptu job hunters, vendors or contractors with a business purpose, or anyone else entering the building  • Keep vigilant 360-degree view of entrance / admissions area to protect children from harm and secure building  • Patrol all around entrance area regularly, to assure safety, to be certain no one is left alone without being moved along to their appointment, and to watch for hazards.  • Provide ideas and innovations to improve operation of the area. Advisory Consultant UST-Global Inc - Bentonville, AR February 2010 to April 2016 • Currently an advisory consultant, subject matter expert in Retail, Merchandising, Mobility, Innovation  • Lead in Mobility Practice, member Industry Thought Leadership and Strategic Initiatives Group (ITL-SIG)  • Working extensively with Merchandising, Health + Wellness, and Transportation groups  • Extensive knowledge of merchandise planning, assortment planning, automated replenishment, demand and supply forecasting and supply chain.  • Work extensively with retailers, consumer products manufacturers, and third-party consultants. Senior Retail Consultant IBM Global Business Services January 2007 to April 2009 • Clients while with IBM: Family Dollar Stores, Wal*Mart/Sams, Novartis (Switzerland), Musgrave (Ireland)  • Worked with Wal*Mart/Sams on Space Planning, Assortment Planning, Category Management, CRM, and BI, using SAM's by-customer by-location data, and Wal*Mart's by-location data.  • Worked with Family Dollar Stores on Space Planning, Assortment Planning, Category Management, Risk Management, CRM, and BI, using by-location data as available.  • Key player in software analysis, comparison and selection processes (contenders: SAP, JDA, Oracle, Nielsen)  • Specialties include:  ? CRM / BI  ? Enterprise Planning  ? Space planning  ? Assortment planning  ? Category management  ? Systems Integration / software installation  ? Retail Supply Chain  ? Automated Replenishment / Forecasting  ? Business Process Analysis / Refinement / Optimization Sr. Retail IT BSI Analyst BJ's Wholesale Club December 2004 to December 2006 Position combined both the project manager and business analyst roles  • Directed two high-profile twelve-month retail I.T. system design and installation projects:  ? Vastly improved custom Competitive Pricing module project  ? Significantly improved Hazardous Materials Control and training project (HAZMAT)  • Steered and shepherded every project task from configuring parameters to developing training materials. Senior Retail Consultant JDA Software - Singapore July 1998 to November 2004 JDA Software Jul 1998 to Nov 2004 (6 yrs)  Senior Retail Consultant  Clients while with JDA: Cost Plus, Brooks Brothers, Casual Corner, Casual Male, CRIS Group (China), Dollar Tree, Garden Ridge, Hancock Fabrics, Hannaford Bros, Henry Schein, Johnson's (Chile), Leslie's Poolmart, Lifeway Christian Stores, Mac Tools, Meijer, Metro Stores (Singapore), Michael's Stores, Monro Muffler, Morgan Tire, Newfoundland Liquor (Canada), Ocean State Job Lot, Princess Auto (Canada), Spencer Gift, The Art Store, Estee Lauder, Kitchen Collection, Vitamin Shoppe, Wal-Mart (HP)  • Familiar with MMS, EP/Arthur, E3, PMM, Intactix, Manugistics  • Involved with every facet of product installation:  ? Evaluated and appraised production environment:  * Hardware/Software  * Communications/Capacity issues  * Readying client for implementation  ? Prepared divisions involved in implementations:  * Advance pre-training  * Moved installation from development to test  * Implemented production components successfully:  • New and existing hardware  • Databases/Program code  ? Audited conversion of data from one format to another after implementation  ? Tested production solutions to ensure solutions operated as required Senior Retail IT Business Analyst Borders Books & Music February 1997 to July 1998 • Led numerous projects and performed business analysis in support of merchandising goals  • Overhauled merchandising plans, assortment plans, and financial plans for both Borders and Waldenbooks:  ? Plan sales, inventory, IMU, purchases, shortage, turnover, markdowns, returns, margin, freight, vendor discounts, incentives/reimbursements  • Developed new tools for pricing, exchange rate, and procedures for new trial overseas stores  • Revamped General & Administrative Expense Budgets resulting in compliance to tighter budgets Education BA in English Literature Northeastern University - Boston, MA Skills Organizational Skills, Customer Service, Stocking, Word, Security Certifications/Licenses The Dale Carnegie Course in Public Speaking & Human Relations September 1990 to Present The Dale Carnegie Course in Public Speaking & Human Relations Security Guard Class D Security License