Network Support Specialist Network Support Specialist Network Support Specialist - Network Data Security Experts Richmond, VA Work Experience Network Support Specialist Network Data Security Experts December 2018 to Present • Provide PC and workstation computer support to staff: software and hardware installations; assist users in troubleshooting software and hardware problems related to passwords, security, operating systems, applications, and any other problems related to VPN and other remote connectivity solutions.  • Active Directory Administration - Removing and adding of users to and from groups and OUs in Active Directory, Password Resets, Account Unlocks and Re-enabling of user account as necessary.  • Provide support for network printers and local printers.  • Experience with Cisco Meraki firewalls, switches and Wireless Access Points.  • Open, update and maintain tickets in the ConnectWise ticketing system.  • Use of Continuum and ScreenConnect for Remote Support purposes.  • Some experience with SentinelOne and WebRoot softwares. Remote IT Support Engineer Tessellate July 2017 to August 2018 • Coordinate, communicate, and maintain a professional relationship with providers and IT staff to set up EMR remote access.  • Install new EMR access for new facilities and test employee access to such systems.  • Maintain and administer system access logs and employee access authorization.  • Implement, troubleshoot and maintain VPN and other remote connectivity solutions to external client EMR systems. Diagnose and resolve network, hardware, and software problems related to external client systems; implement, install, reconfigure, and/or replace hardware and software.  • Provide PC and workstation computer support to staff: software and hardware installations; assist users in troubleshooting software and hardware problems related to passwords, security, operating systems, applications, and any other problems related to VPN and other remote connectivity solutions; provide software and hardware guidance and familiarization to users as necessary related to client EMR Systems.  • LAN & WAN network topologies, security concepts and a strong working knowledge of data communications (TCP/IP, switches, routers, firewalls, VPN's).  • Provide support to all Company employees for full utilization of clients (physicians and hospitals and insurance company) software systems.  • Analyze, troubleshoot and correct network problems remotely and on-site.  • Have a strong understanding of remote access, gateway connections, routing, monitoring and network systems.  • Must exercise personal initiative to identify other tasks that are needed to effectively carry out responsibilities and other duties as assigned. Systems Application Analyst Army Ordnance School June 2016 to July 2017 • Position responsibilities include system administration and automated information data management; implementation, maintenance, and monitoring of office network systems and providing technical assistance.  • Making recommendations or modifications on system design and configuration; develop and coordinate changes or modification to system; and represent supported organizations on installation automation councils.  • Open, Maintain and update tickets in the Remedy Ticketing system.  • Ensuring functionality and availability of network rescues including; file services, printers, and file retrieval and storage systems.  • SCCM/NPS Training for reimaging of systems via PXE Server.  • Worked with NEC personnel on the 64-Bit Imaging project using SCCM to re-image over 8000 machines from 32-Bit to 64-Bit.  • Currently working on TIGER Team responsible for life cycling permanent part machines across CASCOM. Contractor(Robert Half) Systems Adminstrator - Caldwell and Gregory March 2016 to June 2016 • Configuring, repairing and testing of computer software and hardware.  • Active Directory Administration - Removing and adding of users to and from groups and OUs in Active Directory, Password Resets, Account Unlocks and Re-enabling of user account as necessary.  • Supporting users on multiple software platforms including, but not limited to the Microsoft Office Suite, Great Plains and Verizon Tablets via QuickSupport.  • Providing networking support for the office including setting up a switch for phone and Ethernet.  • Project Manager for Verizon Tablet Integration for field Technicians Desktop Support Administrator Magellan Health Systems October 2015 to December 2015 • Position responsibilities include implementation, maintenance, and monitoring of office network systems; providing technical assistance.  • Open, Maintain and update tickets in the GetIt ticketing system.  • Active Directory Administration - Removing and adding of users to and from groups and OUs in Active Directory, Password Resets, Account Unlocks and Re-enabling of user account as necessary.  • Re-imaging Laptop and Desktop systems via PXE Server supplied images.  • Coordinated and scheduled moves and new desk setups on site.  • Supporting users on multiple software platforms including, but not limited to the Microsoft Office Suite, SAP, FirsTrax, Outlook, Cisco AnyConnect(VPN), Adobe Acrobat, Windows 7 and Avaya QM. Desktop Support Technician Defense Supply Center of Richmond June 2013 to October 2015 • Position responsibilities include system administration and automated information data management; implementation, maintenance, and monitoring of office network systems; providing technical assistance; serving as functional point of contact for implementation of office automation and information management; and providing analysis on program operation or subsystem integration within network.  • Configuring and testing of computer software and hardware.  • Implementing, maintaining and monitoring a LAN/NIPRNET system.  • Open, Maintain and update tickets in the Remedy Ticketing system.  • Active Directory Administration - Removing and adding of users to and from groups in Active Directory, Password Resets, Account Unlocks and Re-enabling of user account as necessary.  • Used SCCM and Window Remote Desktop client for remote support of users.  • Supporting users on multiple software platforms including, but not limited to the Microsoft Office Suite, SAP, Citrix, Outlook, Juniper(VPN), Adobe Acrobat, Windows 7 and Avaya Softphone. Security Analyst Federal Reserve Bank(FRIT) June 2012 to December 2012 • Scanning servers for vulnerabilities and reporting all findings in JIRA Ticketing system. This involved using the Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager, Symantec Critical System Protection, Remedy, Big Fix(web based vulnerability scanning tool), IP360 and Victor(Specialized scanning service used by Federal Reserve).  • Used Remedy Action Request System to complete tickets and move tasks on to various groups internally. IT Specialist(SysAdmin) Army Network Enterprise Center - Fort Lee, VA January 2011 to May 2012 • Position responsibilities include system administration and automated information data management; implementation, maintenance, and monitoring of office network systems; providing technical assistance; serving as functional point of contact for implementation of office automation and information management; and providing analysis on program operation or subsystem integration within network.  • Assisting with the installation of new software and hardware, versions and updates.  • Configuring and testing of computer software and hardware.  • Making recommendations or modifications on system design and configuration; develop and coordinate changes or modification to system; and represent supported organizations on installation automation councils.  • Implementing, maintaining and monitoring a LAN/NIPRNET system.  • Open, Maintain and update tickets in the Remedy Ticketing system.  • Ensuring functionality and availability of network rescues including; file services, printers, and file retrieval and storage systems.  • Team Coordinator duties included managing a team of 11 employees onsite at Fort Lee NEC for offsite contracting company. Gathering bi-weekly timesheets, reviewing the timesheets then submitting them to the home office. Gathering and compiling weekly reports from employees for submission to onsite Government Liaison.    Tier 1 Help Desk Agent - Defense Supply Center of Richmond(DoD) Contractor HP Enterprise Services - Richmond, VA June 2010 to December 2010 • Tier 1 Swing Shift support to employees of the Defense Logistics Agency on a day to day basis. Including, but not limited to, Blackberry, Microsoft Office 2007, Outlook 2007, Windows XP, Active Directory, VPN, SAP, Citrix and AMPS(Account Management and Provisioning System)  • Creating and managing trouble tickets via Magic.  • Used SCCM and Window Remote Desktop client for remote support of users.  • Responsible for managing the Help Desk Email Inbox, Voicemails and Tier 1 ticket management during my shift. Helpline Remote Support Agent Dominion, VA May 2008 to April 2010 Richmond, VA  • Tier 1 Technical Support to inside employees of Dominion Power on a day to day basis. Including, but not limited to, phone, Blackberry, Microsoft Office 2003, Windows XP, Active Directory, Lotus Notes, VPN, Citrix, 3270 Mainframe and SAP.  • Creating and servicing trouble tickets via Unicenter Service Desk ticketing system.  • Used SMS Remote and Windows XP Remote Assistance. Remote Services Analyst SunTrust Bank - Richmond, VA August 2007 to May 2008 • Tier 2 Technical Support for internal SunTrust Bank employees nationwide. Including, but not limited to, phone, BlackBerry, Microsoft Office 2000 & 2003, Windows XP and Windows 2000, Verizon AirCard services, Active Directory and Novell Networks.  • Creating and servicing trouble tickets via Unicenter Service Desk ticketing system.  • Used Altiris Carbon Copy and VNC to remotely resolve PC related issues. Education Benedictine Military Academy - Richmond, VA 1993 to 1995 Skills Office 365, Router Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification