Senior Cybersecurity Analyst Senior Cybersecurity <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Senior Cybersecurity Analyst - Raytheon Garland, TX A CISSP certified, experienced Information Security professional, experienced in the installation and management of a variety of Routers, Firewalls and Intrusion Detection devices. Has a very good understanding of application development security issues. A methodical troubleshooter experienced in analyzing and resolving security, network, OS, and application issues. As a mentor developed security awareness, provided support and guidance to team and other staff members as needed. Work Experience Senior Cybersecurity Analyst Raytheon - Richardson, TX May 2017 to Present - Conduct cybersecurity risk assessment of suppliers to gauge their cybersecurity posture.  - Build awareness of effective cybersecurity practices to address current and emerging threats.  - Provide relevant guidance and advice for prioritization of investment and governance efforts.  - Stay informed of current and emerging threat information and incidents.  - Participate in security forums and industry working groups. Senior Security Analyst/Architect Solera Holdings - Addison, TX October 2015 to May 2017 - Review progress and implementation of ISO 27001/27002 policies and controls by external vendor.  - Analyze and take steps to improve the security posture of the organization.  - Identify security gaps, evaluate and select tools to mitigate the weakness.  - Collaborate ideas and efforts with Network and System members of global team by leveraging expertise and technology across multiple locations.  - Generate periodic communication on various Information Security topics to increase awareness in the organization.  - Manage penetration testing efforts, performed by external vendor, for various application environments.  - Stay vigilant and aware of current Cyber Security threats to attend to urgent and long term needs. Senior Computer Technologist/ IT Security Architect/Assistant IT Manager Raytheon - Jeddah, SA October 2012 to September 2015 Saudi Arabia  - Create security awareness in company staff by periodically sending emails/newsletters regarding current threats, security incidents and events.  - Review IT policies for relevance with current issues, as well as, for consistency with corporate polices, and make changes as appropriate.  - Stay vigilant for any policy and/or cyber security violations and send awareness and/or policy reminders with mention of the consequences of such actions.  - Generate quarterly compliance reports and take appropriate actions to resolve any gaps.  - Design and conduct annual Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery exercise.  - Review lessons learned and points of improvements from Disaster Recovery exercises.  - Present best practice ideas for using IT resources to leadership team and other staff members.  - Manage the security and control access of PII data.  - Monitor data leakage issues using Identity finder and resolve any reported issues accordingly.  - Monitor IT infrastructure for compliance with corporate policies.  - Manage upgrade and improvement projects involving multiple teams across different time zones.  - Mentor junior and new team members in technical and business matters.  - Discuss and make advises on requirements and budget needs to IT Manager and leadership team.  - Manage and maintain File server, Backup server, DNS/DHCP server and network devices  - Raytheon Six Sigma project lead: Completed project for IT Inventory Management. Security Architect Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan - Detroit, MI October 2011 to October 2012 Michigan  - As a direct report to the CISO, develop and document organization's security posture based on the TOGAF framework and develop policies and guidance for its support.  - Review Business Continuity plans designed to have a secondary data center, its most feasible role, located in another part of the state, load balanced with F5 appliances.  - Provide project support, oversee security issues.  - Coordinate with vendors and resellers to evaluate and develop proof-of-concept for new technologies.  - Provide security guidance, training, and support to departments and users periodically and in response to incidents. Ford Motor Company - Dearborn, MI August 2010 to June 2011 - Review applications developed by suppliers for issues against security standards specified by Ford, based on COBIT and ISO 27000 standards.  - Use SCRP process to Identify, in ACR and ICR, security and documentation gaps in supplier developed applications.  - Discuss issues and gaps with Ford ICC, Suppliers and Business owners.  - Provide advice and assistance to supplier personnel in removing gaps or placing compensating controls. Firewall / Security Support Engineer Level III Chrysler Group LLC - Auburn Hills, MI December 2004 to June 2010 - Install, upgrade, and maintain device and rulebase for Checkpoint, Juniper/Netscreen, Sidewinder, Fortinet, and Cisco ASA firewalls, and Netcache web proxies.  - Support issues related to Juniper SSL VPN for employee web portal.  - Troubleshoot and resolve firewall related routing, security, rulebase issues.  - Evaluate, architect, design, and implement new firewall installations.  - IT Security Lead for application development projects Intrusion Detection Service Shift Lead / Firewall Implementation Engineer IBM Internet Security System - Southfield, MI December 2000 to December 2004 - Install, monitor, and upgrade Real Secure intrusion detection engines and consoles.  - Fine tune IDS policy as needed.  - Analyze intrusion/attack attempts against customer networks and escalate accordingly.  - Cater to customer's requests for firewall rule changes for their Checkpoint, Cisco PIX, or Netscreen/Juniper firewalls.  - As Shift Lead, review incidents with customers and coordinate tasks with shift members.  - Troubleshoot, escalate to vendor, and resolve outages for IDSes and firewalls.  - Perform packet capture and analysis using tcpdump and Wireshark.  - Analyze and resolve network monitoring, connectivity and reporting issues. System Analyst / Administrator / Consultant Universal Solutions, Inc - Southfield, MI March 1998 to May 2000 - Provide onsite consulting service and support for installation of LAN, Network Servers, Print Servers, Document Scanners and Document Imaging Systems.  - Provide onsite and remote management support for LAN and Document Imaging Solutions. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Lawrence Technological University - Southfield, MI August 1999 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Wayne State University - Detroit, MI August 1995 Skills Microsoft Office, Powerpoint, Security