Security Officer <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Problem Solver Redding, CA I am a semi-retired individual with an extensive background as a manager and developer in the high tech industry. I am currently enjoying the prospect of working in a totally new field and giving back to the community. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Officer Allied Univeral Security - Redding, CA July 2018 to Present Keep the Mt. Shasta Mall property, employees and visitors safe and secure by actively:  • Patrolling entire property on foot and in company vehicles  • Assisting patrons and tenants with various questions and requests  • Enforcing code of conduct and mall policies  • Arresting, detaining and banning of alleged shoplifters and offenders  • Preparing detailed reports for each activity / incident  • Working with local law enforcement to identify, apprehend and prevent unlawful activity IT / R&D Manager Emerald Kingdom Greenhouse - Redding, CA April 2015 to December 2016 Product development, optimization, validation, and implementation through bench, pilot and manufacturing scale.  • Utilize hands-on working knowledge of engineering along with methods of manufacture in completing projects  • Lead technical resource on project teams utilizing science and engineering principles  • Remain current in emerging global science and technology trends  • Provide leadership and instruction to technicians and professionals assigned to assist on a project Senior IT / Business Analyst Cisco - San Jose, CA September 2007 to October 2014 Business / IT liaison for large and complex enterprise-scale releases.  • Agile (Rally) project management for CRM / Knowledge Management systems  • Executive metrics analysis / automation (Excel macro expertise)  • Reports and Dashboard design  • Streamline critical processes to increase team productivity  • Cisco WebEx Social platform innovator and maven  • Team mentor and tool training / support  • #1 Collaborator of the Year (2010), authoring over 3500 Atlassian Confluence Wiki pages IT Manager / System Administrator Spec-West Concrete Systems - Sacramento, CA April 2004 to June 2006 Configure, secure, administer and manage Windows application and database servers.  • Microsoft 2003 Small Business Server with SQL Server and Exchange mail  • Microsoft 2003 Server with Terminal Services  • Microsoft 2000 Server with Web Services (Knowledge Management Server)  • Forms design and maintenance (Adobe Output Designer) Chief Engineering Officer ListingView.com - West Sacramento, CA December 2001 to February 2004 Design, create and maintain the ListingView.com business and website. Build and Release management of software. Design automated tests for load and usability. Operate high-tech digital cameras and lenses; edit photos (crop, size, brightness, contrast, special effects and stitching of virtual immerse images). Photoshop guru (web color theory) and professional photographer. Release Engineering Manager IntelliCorp, Inc - Mountain View, CA April 2000 to May 2001 Responsible for nightly builds of IntelliCorp's award winning web based SAP software. Design and maintain automated build and install scripts to build Java, CGI and ASP scenarios. Creation of Gold Master CDs for final duplication, certification and release.  • VSS administrator and developer support  • Build automation using PERL, VB, Java Script and most legacy tools  • InstallShield expert including Package for the Web  • Liaison to Engineering and Quality Assurance Senior Software and Build Engineer Acumen Enterprises - San Rafael, CA February 1998 to April 2000 Design and maintain build scripts for a variety of development environments. Extend and maintain database aware CGI, Java and Windows executables. Enhance and maintain source code written in VC++ and Java. Specification design and ownership.  • Code merge of 4 products to one code stream  • VB Script macros and InstallShield scripts utilizing ODBC Project Manager II Alps Electric - San Jose, CA May 1995 to February 1998 Develop world class Windows 3.1/9x/NT GUIs and drivers for retail and OEM products. Lead teams of developers (Japan, Israel and domestic) from design to deployment. Ensure deliverables meet or exceed all guidelines, specifications, procedures and schedules. Communicate and coordinate project plans with clients and team members. Work closely with Marketing to define project scope and design requirements. Build and Release management of all source code, including InstallShield, Wise and Acme installers.  • Touchpad (relative/absolute) and Mouse device drivers supporting 14 languages  • Enhanced Keyboards, printers and gaming devices Senior Technical Specialist P-CAD Group at IBM - San Jose, CA April 1993 to May 1995 Develop "protected mode" 256 color graphics drivers for PCAD (CAD schematic capture). Streamline algorithms to greatly increase drawing speed. Work closely with customer support to solve application, driver and hardware issues. Work jointly with engineers in Germany to develop display list drivers.  • 80386 assembly and C, C++  • High-speed circle, line and polygon drawing algorithms  • Pre-VESA compliant video driver maintenance  • Customer recognition for outstanding company representation and diplomacy Education None in Calculus, Chemistry Lenoir-Rhyne University - Hickory, NC May 1973 to September 1974 High school or equivalent in Physics, Chemistry, Algebra Hickory High School - Hickory, NC 1970 to 1973 Skills customer service (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Knowledge Management (9 years), process flow (10+ years), Project Management, Assembly, Word, Java, MS Office Additional Information Specialties: Research and development, Excel macro development, knowledge management, software development, process flow automation, system analytics, excellent customer service and satisfaction.