IT Manager, Infrastructure and Security <span class="hl">IT</span> Manager, Infrastructure and <span class="hl">Security</span> IT Manager, Infrastructure and Security Bellflower, CA Work Experience IT Manager, Infrastructure and Security AMPLIFON AMERICAS - Plymouth, MN August 2012 to May 2019 Oversee a staff of 6 employees, delegating responsibilities and monitoring performance. Manage support for over 1,400 Franchise and Flagship locations. Develop and optimize network and server infrastructure, data telecommunications, end-user desktop standardization, and Support and Service Desk operations. Direct Infrastructure and IT Operation, including the disaster recovery tactical plan, data retention, and data compliance policies. Optimize costs and best practices to leverage resources and processes, meeting business goals. Ensure effective security risk management and implementing security best practices.  Achievements:  ? Upgrade Infrastructure to Hyper-Converged technology eliminating tape backups, additional SAN storage, and legacy network devices to provide a cost saving of over $45,000 a year.  ? Implement a new Print Management Solution for HQ with a cost saving of $80,000 a year.  ? Responsible for the upgrade of PBX phone system to new Cisco UCS VOIP system with emphasis on Call Manager, Cisco Jabber, Cisco Phones, and E-mail/Voicemail integration with MS Exchange.  ? Responsible for the creation of and implementation of the DRP/BCP program. Global IT Manager, Client Infrastructure AMERICAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS - Minnetonka, MN 2008 to 2012 Direct a staff of 10 direct and indirect reports, ensuring efficient work performance. Support over 2,500 users in 6 global locations, providing any needed technical solutions. Manage the global desktop and client infrastructure team, standardizing processes efficiently. Oversaw enterprise-related services including licensing, system patching, imaging, Antivirus HIPS system, and application deployment. Coordinate with Infrastructure team on LAN, WAN, voice and data network, server, application, and client environment management. Maintain effective information security program and security controls around client devices.  Achievements:  ? Standardized the global desktop/laptop imaging solution with a cost saving of over $100,000 a year.  ? Consolidate software licensing and purchases with a cost saving of $80,000 a year.  ? Proposed and implemented new technology solutions related to infrastructure and client devices to improve business function and streamline processes.  ? Served as an Enterprise Change Advisory Board member, establishing a structured change review process for technology changes affecting production systems.  ? Established and instituted policies, procedures, and technologies to mitigate corporate security risks. Senior Technical Lead, Network Admin, Technical Support Analyst MIRACLE-EAR - Plymouth, MN 2000 to 2008 Analyzed user problems and requirements, and developed cost-effective network system solutions. Communicate with management regarding solution needs, options, and consequences. Designed, installed, and maintained LAN, WAN, and telecommunication hardware and software. Reduce expenses for inventory, application pricing, and licensing through effective standardization of applications, desktop computers, and networking systems. Enhanced network administration and security through patches and improved configuration.  Achievements:  ? Responsible for the selection of new desktop/laptop, phones, and tablets for Corporate HQ.  ? Monitor and maintain servers, firewalls, switches and network availability to meet a 99.98% uptime.  ? Received recognition as employee of the year. Education MBA HERBERGER SCHOOL OF BUSINESS December 2019 Certificate of content specialist INFOSEC INSTITUTE 2014 Business Leadership ASHRIDGE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 2013 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology MINNESOTA SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 2011 HARVARD SCHOOL OF BUSINESS - Business Leadership Online Program 2010 Advanced Leadership Program UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 2009 Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional January 2000 to Present Additional Information ® Experienced Management Professional offering a 18-year IT career distinguished by commended performance and proven results.  ® Extensive background in Infrastructure and IT Operation, including experience in the management of staff, applications, technologies, network infrastructure, DRP/BCP, system security, and service desk environments.   ® Demonstrated success in providing solutions and increasing efficiency, designing and developing infrastructure solution and telecommunications systems, streamlining processes, and troubleshooting problems.