Digital Systems Support Coordinator Digital Systems Support Coordinator Digital Systems Support Coordinator - University of Arkansas at Little Rock Bryant, AR Work Experience Digital Systems Support Coordinator University of Arkansas at Little Rock - Little Rock, AR September 2017 to Present Supervise staff that provides daily technical support to Ottenheimer, Center for Arkansas History and Culture, and Sequoyah Research Center. Manage daily IT operations for each department. Responsible  for all server support and application support; also specific library software and hardware support.  Manage special projects and technology initiatives for each department. Call Center Manager hCentive, INC - Little Rock, AR March 2015 to August 2017 Required Knowledge: HIPAA Compliance, Healthcare, Carrier Plan Management, Financial, ACA, Call  Center technology, SHOP, State Exchange Marketplace.  • Hired to manage the first Arkansas SHOP Insurance contact center in Little Arkansas under Arkansas Health Insurance Marketplace. Managed budget for proposed 3-year contract.  • Conduct all hiring, training, coaching/mentoring, performance reviews and termination.  • Determined call center operational strategies by conducting needs assessments, performance  reviews, capacity planning, and cost/benefit analyses; identifying and evaluating state-of-the-art  technologies.  • Assisted client and carrier with reconciliation and discrepancy report.  • Provide operational support to the client Arkansas Health Insurance Marketplace.  • Implemented and maintain all call center technology (Five9 and Zendesk)  • Configured Five9 IVR for inbound/outbound calls  • Configured Zendesk ticketing system and chat for ticket handling.  • Conducted User acceptance testing for contact center solutions.  • Developed use cases for product development, FAQs, and SOP documentation.  • Developed reporting requirements to show required contact center metrics and SLAs.  • Created call center workflows and processes for call center.  • Escalate and assist with some triaging on product issues with the product team.  • Responsible for financial system and providing accuracy with invoicing/billing, payments, and handled delinquency and reinstatement activity. Also familiar with 820 and 834 files.  • Handles all escalated issues and concerns from customers and clients.  • Help provide daily support to customers (Brokers, Employers and Employees) regarding enrollment,  eligibility, financial, health plans, tech support, renewals, and change in circumstances.  • Participated in broker user conferences to help establish expectations and gather feedback for process improvements.  • Ensure that all activities comply with the companies' standards and government regulations.  • Develop and established complaint management and escalation process.  • Managed the efforts for ramping up to handle new clients and application support for Brokers/Agencies. IT Site Supervisor SERCO - Rogers, AR March 2015 to May 2015 Managed small IT group that supported 3,000 seat call center. Cyber Defense Engineer ( Security Analyst) Walmart ISD June 2014 to March 2015 HP Vendor/Contractor)  • Utilized HP ArcSight SIEM to investigate security events, identifying threats and resolving  vulnerabilities. Assist in the management of SIEM alerts and the investigation of suspected incidents.  • Analyzed and assessed vulnerabilities in the infrastructure (software, hardware, networks),  investigated available tools and countermeasures to remedy the detected vulnerabilities.  • Remediated malware issues using McAfee software solutions (ePO, Tanium, McAfee Web Gateway,  VirusScan).  • Notified users of suspected malware infections, and that remediation would take place immediately or at a scheduled time. Senior Systems Administration/ IT Consultant Entergy - Enterprise Data Center - Pine Bluff, AR August 2007 to June 2014 Senior System Administration (2007 – 2014) KEY PROJECTS & ACCOMPLISHMENTS • Upgraded from Microsoft Windows 2003 domain controller and DNS environment to Microsoft Windows 2008 R2. • Recognized as High Contributor at Entergy Corporation • Security+CE certification • ITIL • Supported several remote data centers of 1000+ Windows/Linux rack mounted servers. • Demonstrated experience with IT audit skills, IT controls, security and related industry regulatory issues to ensure strict compliance with government regulatory requirements (SOX, FERC, NERC CIP. Education M.A. in Computer Resource and Information Systems Management Webster Computer Science University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff - Pine Bluff, AR 1998 Skills Inventory, Excel, Microsoft Office, Team Building, Call Center Management (10+ years), Supervisor (10+ years), Technical Support (10+ years), Project Management (7 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/fretarogersmason