Senior Cyber Security Project Manager, Senior Integrated Controls and Compliance Specialist Senior Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Project Manager, Senior Integrated Controls and Compliance Specialist Senior IT Integrated Controls and Compliance Specialist - Abbott Laboratories Trevor, WI Motivated, results-oriented professional with 21-years of proven success in supporting information technology systems technically, establishing policies and procedures, performing vulnerability risk management, information technology ( IT) audit, business continuity, disaster recovery and alignment with  compliance to regulatory laws to include, but not limited to, EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Sarbanes Oxley (SOX), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS). Proven leadership, knowledge and skills have also been exceptionally demonstrated while leading infrastructure teams towards implementing global technical solutions, and also as a CISCO Certified Academy Instructor. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Cyber Security Project Manager, Senior Integrated Controls and Compliance Specialist Abbott Laboratories - Waukegan, IL November 2017 to Present Senior Cyber Security Project Manager  Senior Integrated Controls and Compliance Specialist    • Led the Integrated Controls and Compliance (ICC) team in a project resulting in the implementation of a global government framework solution.  • Proposed and demonstrated the use of RSA Archer as an automated governance tool that maps ICC framework control objectives to organization policy requirements and authoritative sources such as, but not limited to, GDPR, NIST, COBIT, HIPAA, CCPA, and SOX.  • Lead team in performing gap analysis for ICC framework control objectives while mapping to policy requirements and various regulatory requirements.  • Introduced metrics to our team taking a qualitative risk impact analysis (RIA) approach using variables to include the likelihood of occurrence, the value of an asset, the percent a threat is remediated, and other uncertainties.  • Lead infrastructure teams in gathering sufficient evidence requested by Corporate Internal Audit (CIA), PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), and Ernst and Young (EY) and guided them with recommendations towards technical solutions to remediate findings/deficiencies.  • Created the process for communication and escalation to leadership to ensure subject matter experts (SME) submit evidence by audit due dates.  • Guide control owners/manager in annual SOX control testing.  • Worked with a team towards building a data privacy management program.  • Led project to identify and mitigate risk on servers in the top 15 revenue producing countries.  •Created process to enrich vulnerability scan data results for more simplistic remediation efforts.   • Established a repeatable, organized process for identifying host assets, updating asset groups, authentication records, and tagging hierarchy based on business needs.  • Led application interface development team in project to integrate their central management database into Qualys, resulting in producing metrics to executive leadership based on scanned coverage data. IT Security Analyst Northwest Community Hospital - Arlington Heights, IL January 2017 to October 2017 Facilitated building the organizations vulnerability management policy to aid in determining risk acceptance or mitigation with a documented vulnerability exception approval or denial process.  • Facilitated patch management process with designed swim lane diagrams resulting in security metric reporting.  • Configured and ongoing administration of Cylance threat protection management to mitigate risk against malware exploits. This includes implementing appropriate memory and/or script control blocks  that also consider file, process or script control exceptions as to not disrupt device processes.  • Monitored devices for potential threats based on Cylance threat model confidence scoring levels and then made determination to safelist or quarantine identified threats.  • Investigate incidents reported by our managed security service provider.  • Created an incident response process for the investigation of potential breaches.  • Gathered product cost and feature comparison for procurement of end user security awareness training and phishing simulation that offers a metric reporting solution.  • Review and interpret business associate agreements (BAA) to distinguish between covered entity (CE and the BAA contractual obligatory requirements in implementing IT technical, administrative and physical safeguards pertaining to HIPAA.  • Identify risks in our environment to communicate to appropriate teams for remediation.  • Provided infrastructure teams with Qualys vulnerability scan reports for remediation of all category 4 and 5 data.  • Developed a security vulnerability exception request process based on Qualys vulnerability scan report data for teams unable to remediate vulnerabilities. IT Auditor University of Illinois Chicago - Chicago, IL September 2015 to November 2016 Planned, implemented, and executed the IT audit processes to include defining audit scope, and testing to ensure adherence to established controls aligned to industry frameworks and standards such as NIST, COBIT, PCI and HIPAA specifically.  • Ensured findings of unmitigated risks and/or control deficiencies are adequately communicated to be understood and remediated by system owners.  • Documented risks and mitigating controls, evaluated control design and effectiveness to ensure key risks are properly controlled and monitored.  • Gathered and researching information to help identify non-compliance to the organizations ITSecurity Program Guidelines program.   • Established cross-functional relationships with key stakeholder (Infosec committee) to discuss and identify risk to the organization when reviewing IT programs. Project Consultant Interactive Business Systems, Inc - Chicago, IL June 2015 to September 2015 Developed training materials to support security awareness and education training to business units for compliance to HIPAA, SOX, and PCI as they pertained to each specific job role. Responsibilities entailed defining project scope, deliverables, requirements and implementation timeline to successfully deploy this internal training program to promote security awareness throughout the organization. IT Essentials Instructor CISCO - Various August 2006 to June 2015 CISCO Academy and Network Security teaching assignments in between IT contract work include organizations; City Colleges of Chicago, Gateway Technical College, DeVry University, Genesys Works, Sage Group, Lake County Technology Campus    • Managed DUAL high school credit faculty members for the City of Chicago public high school's science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) program.  • Facilitated curriculum development for newly accredited Security Analyst Associates degree program to include training materials offering hands-on lesson plans in Intrusion Detection Systems, Security Laws and Policy, Mobile Security, Network Security, CCNA Security Design, Scripting, Virtual Technologies, VoIP and What's in the Cloud.  • Facilitated classroom training of computer hardware and software theory aligning to CompTIA's A+ exam objectives.  • Procured MaaS360 for classroom mobile device management with implementation of custom security policies.  • Created projects designed for students to provide security assessments utilizing various technical tools to local area community businesses as part of a service learning initiative that focused on federal, state or local industry compliance to HIPAA, PCI, Sox, GLBA, or any relevant laws pertaining to a specific business. Integration of aligning NIST, ISO and STIG policies was the key learning objective outcome.  • Promoted in-depth knowledge of CISCO router and switch configurations to include all functionality of CISCO's Internetwork Operating System (IOS). Information Technology Specialist Chickasaw Nation Industries / U.S. Department of Defense - North Chicago, IL April 2008 to November 2008 Performed risk and vulnerability assessments for compliance to Defense Information Security Agency Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGS) United States (U.S.) Army compliance.  • Implemented security controls mitigating risk of unauthorized access to information technology ( IT) systems, networks and servers.  • Adhered to incident tracking process, which focused on change management methodology relating to ITIL framework.  • Created standard operating procedures as knowledge base resource. Universal Technical Support Representative at CCC Information Services, Senior Staff Analyst at Exacta Corporation - Itasca, IL March 1998 to April 2008 IT Job Roles March 1998 to April 2008  Assignments; Universal Technical Support Representative at CCC Information Services, Senior Staff Analyst at Exacta Corporation/Northwestern Mutual Insurance, Network Administrator at Kenosha News, IT Corporate Support Technician at CDW Corporation, Account Payable Resolution Analyst at CDW Corporation, and Systems Administrator/Office Manager at Chicago Transmission Parts, Co. LTD    • Faciliated policy and process for certifying system images and patch deployment.   • Monitored router and firewall logs for rogue traffic patterns.  • Managed traffic routes on CISCO routers, switches and ASA devices.  • Implemented and monitored PURE Message SPAM monitoring software and MailMarshal secure email gateway.  • Procurement and implementation of endpoint security solutions; Symantec, Trend Micro, Sophos and McAfee products.  • Implemented the installation and configuration of access control systems to include controller and proximity reader installation, Magi card printers and photo ID badges.  • Hardened of baseline workstation images.  • Built policy and process for IT asset management. Education Master of Network and Communications Management in Information Security, and Project Management Keller Graduate School of Management - Gurnee, IL March 2009 Bachelor of Science in Technical Management in Technical Management, Information Security, and Project Management DeVry University - Chicago, IL March 2007 Skills Sales, PowerPoint, Typing, Microsoft Office, Marketing, Management, MS Office, Quickbooks, Microsoft Excel, Data Analysis, Data Entry, Receptionist, Financial Analysis