IT Support Specialist <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Specialist Desktop and Network Support Specialist Norwich, NY Obtain a challenging role in support of desktop and network systems that will benefit from my training and experience in both Customer Service and Computer Technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Specialist Chobani - South Edmeston, NY June 2019 to Present Temporary assignment to provide first level support to end users during greenfield SAP implementation project.    Document and relate systematic issues to development team. Owner/Engineer/Videographer ATS Recording Studio - Norwich, NY December 2014 to December 2018 Owner of a commercial audio and video recording facility producing music and video for artists and businesses    Maintain the daily business of the studio including scheduling, advertising and accounting. Helpdesk Support/Desktop Support Technician/Assist IT Security Analyst NBT Bancorp - Norwich, NY July 2011 to December 2014 Norwich, NY  Desktop Support Technician/Assistant IT Security Analyst    Provided competent and timely phone and deskside support for users of computer systems at all levels, from tellers to Bank President.    Created security hardened, software images for computer systems in keeping with best practices and company policy.    Maintained, installed and supported computer systems and peripherals at branches in 5 states as well as the Corporate Headquarters.    Studied trends, monitored and reported on network activity significant from a security standpoint.    Helped develop hardening procedures, disaster recovery plans and procedures, and performed routine penetration tests. Computer Systems Assistant, Norwich City Schools Broome/Tioga BOCES - Norwich, NY 1999 to 2011 Maintained hundreds of desktop and laptop PC's and peripherals throughout 5 school    buildings providing hardware/software support and user training where necessary in a  multi-platform environment.    Installed and modified local and wide area networks which included mail servers, web cache  servers, file storage servers, routers, TSU's and switches.    Worked closely with vendors and end users to implement new technologies such as network  infrastructure, laser printed checks, integrated check folder and Transportation routing  software.    Researched and submitted proposals for new hardware and software based on the requirements and technical demands of the district, and compared vendors to find the best  available pricing.    S PECIALISED TRAINING/CERTIFICATIONS Education Associate of Arts in Social Sciences State University of New York, College at Morrisville - Morrisville, NY 1990 to 1993 Skills Mac OS X (5 years), Video Production Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Microsoft Technology Associate HDI Desktop Support Technician