Computer Specialist II Computer Specialist II Desktop Support - Intuit/TSheets Boise, ID Work Experience Computer Specialist II Veterans Affairs - Boise, ID June 2019 to Present • Tech Support.  • Active Directory.  • MS Office 365  • Migration and deployment. Desktop Support Intuit/TSheets February 2018 to Present • Install, Image, maintain and configure company Macbooks.  • Training new hires using multimedia visual aids, computer tutorials and reference works.  • Ability to work and optimize solutions. Systemic thinker who works across boundaries.  • Strong communicator. Communicates equally well with senior leaders and front-line employees. IT Service Desk Analyst Perkins Coie LLP - Boise, ID May 2017 to February 2018 • Quickly resolve end-user issues by phone or in person.  • Training users to optimize their software abilities.  • Troubleshoot Cisco phones with Cisco Unity software. IT Security Systems Administrator Blue Cross of Idaho - Meridian, ID August 2016 to September 2016 2 months contract position)  • Managed IT Systems Security.  • Management authorization for these same user privileges, and for ensuring that activities are promptly  addressed regarding updating access control records so that workers have only the access to systems, applications, and data needed to perform their jobs. Install Technician St. Luke's Hospital - Boise, ID July 2016 to July 2016 1 -month contract position)  • Assist with hardware and software migration. Image all computers and laptops using SCCM Imaging  Software.  • Extensive use of Active Directory for adding new computers and laptops. sabbatical 2016 to 2016 Senior Systems Administrator/ Desktop Support K&L Gates, LLP - San Francisco, CA March 2007 to September 2015 • Training teams of attorneys, secretaries and support staff and develop training curriculum.  • Maintain and support desktops, laptops, Macbooks, iPhones and HP printers.  • Troubleshoot and resolve LAN/WAN performance, connectivity and related network issues.  • In charge of video conferencing including scheduling. Setting up Polycoms and mics.  University of Phoenix, Phoenix, AZ  Hunter College, New York, NY Education Associate Skills Desktop Support, SCCM Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/anthonycolantonio Additional Information Proficient in Training | Active Directory | Strong Customer Service skills | MS Office | Windows 10