Senior IT Service Desk Analyst Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> Service Desk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Senior IT Service Desk Analyst Martinsburg, WV Certifiably geeky and highly experienced, customer driven technical support guru with over 19 years of progressive  and practical hands-on experience troubleshooting an endless variety of complex IT and customer facing technical  support incidents. I am certified by CompTIA in Security+, A +. I'm a Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) with  Microsoft Windows Enterprise Desktop Support Technician certification as well as a Certified Professional Ethical  Hacker (CEH) by the American Business & Technology University. I am a former Federal employee with DHHS/NIH, I  am currently medically retired (disability annuitant) with full Federal reinstatement rights and I qualify for Competitive  Service under Schedule "A" Federal hiring authority. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior IT Service Desk Analyst The Reinforced Earth Company - Reston, VA January 2018 to June 2019 Served as the only Senior Service Desk Analyst, I was tasked with all aspects of troubleshoot all varieties of complex  IT issues for all 17 (approx. 1200+ users) Vinci Construction subsidiaries within SFIT North America while based at the Reinforced Earth Corporate Offices. My Primary focus was escalated level 2 and 3 incidents and services while  working with the North America Network Infrastructure Team. Tracked incidents, service, software and hardware  requests via EasyVista ticket tracking system and escalate as needed various teams (network, messaging) and or to SFIT Teams globally. Created, configured Active Directory accounts, security groups, permissions and file and server  access. Troubleshoot SCCM, Managed licenses for Adobe, REVU and other software products. Troubleshoot  network connectivity issues (VPN, DNS, IP, etc.) Remote Desktop and network printers and company WiFi. Handle  Tier 1 incidents as needed. Mitigate compromised user accounts, password resets, data recovery, data migration.  Provide on-boarding of new employees - Recovered and preserve data of departing employees. Manage Exchange  email (for on premise servers) and Office 365 accounts. Setup and deploy Skype for Business, MS Team and configure telephone extensions & and set up Polycom desk phones. Configure OneDrive (our workstation backup  option) and create, troubleshoot user Windows profiles and configure and install any new user software. Maintaining  inventory tracking of IT assets. Image and install Corporate software and deploy on HP laptops and desktops  (Windows 10) and administer all needed updates via SCCM or other means. Administer Windows LAPs (Local Admin  Password Security) for users as needed or requested. Install and setup Blue Jeans video conference software on end  user machine as well as in video conference rooms as needed. Installed and configure company specific AutoCAD, MathCAD and Oracle software on engineering workstations. Manage whitelisting of approved website URL's on both  USA and Canadian PaloAlto Firewalls as well and mitigate compromised accounts per policy and procedures..  Provided access to share network resources and printers via Active Directory Management servers using security  groups and other means. Manage mobile devices within the Office 365 Administration portal and assist with configuring email/wifi access to Vinci resources (Outlook, email setup, etc) on iPhone, iPad, Android OS based  mobile devices. Managed distribution lists and shared mailboxes within Office 365. Assisted in writing "How-To"  documentation for end users. Documented procedures and workflow for fellow team members regarding incidents and problem solutions. Traveled and provided IT assistance to Vinci-Construction companies while at Corporate  events around the USA. Served as the single point of contact for MacPro, MacOS Server equipment as needed. SME Technical Support Engineer www.sandboxie.com June 2015 to April 2017 Invincea, Inc cybersecurity  Company Closed - Bought out by Sophos & took buy out Fairfax, VA  Technical Support Engineer for one of Washington DC's fastest growing venture backed Cybersecurity start-ups.  Sole Provider of tier 1-4 Technical Support and liaison directly with Invincea developers & engineers regarding the Sandboxie Isolation Container product which has over 4 million registered users and has been an industry leader for  over 13 years. Served as the Subject-Matter-Expert (SME) regarding Sandboxie Technical Support, Beta testing, Engineering assistance, crash debugging and complex technical problem solving. Maintained Sandboxie.com phpbb  website, administer the Sandboxie forum (over 24,000 active users) and handle all matters of sales related to Sandboxie. Draft & issue DMCA Take Down notices on behalf of Sandboxie Holdings for copyright infringements and  API hacks and exploits that are publicized online. Recreate and simulate highly complex technically challenging  product related issues involving Windows Operating Systems and how it integrates and co-exists with the Sandboxie  Product. Coordinated crowd sourcing of bug, security and failures by using a cash bounty system to identify and reconcile potential security breaches, exploits. Maintained, tracked and logged license key activation server in MS-  SQL & PHPBB. Monitored websites that deal with compromised product activation license keys and investigate  possible breaches and blacklist licenses as required. Documented and reproduced reported issues using VMWare  Workstation to maintain, build and update Windows XP, 7, 8 and Window 10 32 and 64 bit VMs and Microsoft Fast  Ring Dev Builds of Windows 10 and test Sandboxie Beta builds with these VMs. Documented Invincea products and procedures & created user friendly "how to" documents for the Sandboxie platform. Sandboxie was named  LifeHacker #1 Utility and LifeHacker UK #1 Utility of Top-10 "Software to Have On Hand.". Bechtel Executive Global Security Coordination Center Information Systems & Technology - Reston, VA January 2013 to May 2015 Reston, VA    Provided technical on-site, telephone, IM chat support to senior Bechtel Corporation management, stakeholders, VIPs and guests in the Reston Corporate office as well as various locations in the US and Globally. Maintained on  call 24/7 IT executive assistance to senior Bechtel management as well as our Dulles Jet Center aircraft operations  office. Served as the central point of contact for the 365/24/7 Bechtel Executive Global Security Coordination Center  (SCC) for all IS&T issues on a critical, urgent basis for potential internationally sensitive issues impacting Bechtel and it's contract sites. Supported and assisted with mobile devices (iPhone, iPad, Microsoft Surface, Blackberry, and  Android) for device installs, upgrade and troubleshooting & email/data encryption. Troubleshooted advanced  technical issues with Apple OSx / Mac products such as Apple MacBook, MacPro running OSx Lion, Mountain Lion, Yosemite and El Capitan. Managed, maintained and distributed SafeNet Hybrid and OTP Security Two-Factor  Authentication Tokens. Supported senior level executives & stakeholders with many different and complex technical  challenges. Set-up and support large business meeting conferences with various Bechtel Business Units, external  clients and customers. Coordinated and setup video teleconference meetings with Bechtel senior management with remote Bechtel locations and troubleshoot any issues. Supported PolyCom based audio and video conferencing over  IP bridge and point-to-point connections. Setup users IS&T equipment for on-boarding. Provide training. Maintained, added, edit & managed Active Directory and Exchange email accounts. Performed confidential data collection for the  Security Operations Center (SOC). Installed Cat 5/6 cabling and switches and WAPs as well as redundant power  units. Imaging on new Bechtel hardware. Maintained accurate IT inventory levels within Bechtel Corporate. Primary  deskside support for 450+ Corporate employees. Configure email security encryption and certificates as well as Wi-Fi  encryption certificates for iOS, Android & other mobile platforms.  Desk Side Support Analyst Contractor Bechtel Power Corporation - Frederick, MD August 2012 to January 2013 Troubleshoot complex desk side IT (Tier 1-3) related issues for Bechtel Corporate customers (approx. 2200 users at Bechtel Park in Frederick, MD.) Setup and configured new HP Desktops & HP and Toshiba laptop computer  systems. Managed, maintained and distribute RSA Security Two-Factor Authentication Tokens. Created, managed, updated and deployed client "images" via Symantec Ghost and Image X. Migrated user data and profiles from XP technical support Winchester, VA May 2011 to May 2012 Winchester, VA May 2011 - May 2012    Maintained client and local Government computer and network systems via around the clock remote and desk-side  technical support. Troubleshoot complex workstation, server and networking issues. Build, installed and configured  Windows Server 2003, 2008 and Small Business Server for clients. Deployed Windows OS patches, Anti-virus  updates, Anti-malware and other critical patches of via remote patch management or onsite as needed. Installed, configured firewalls, routers and switches (SonicWALL, PIX)  Maintained Active Directory and Exchange email accounts (2003, 2007, 2010) Troubleshoot all Windows OS  Systems (XP, 2000, 2003, 2008 and Windows 7) desktop computers and servers. Configured, Built and deploy  VMWare ESXi Virtual Machines and Windows servers in a virtual environment. Created and maintained system  backups with Windows NT Backup, Mozy Pro online, Carbonite and Amazon Experience with HP Proliant and Dell  Servers as well as all Dell desktop PCs and laptops.  Facility IT Specialist MicroTek Computer Labs - Herndon, VA February 2010 to April 2011 Herndon, VA Feb 2010 - Apr 2011    Ensured that all computers/network setups were (hardware and software) operating consistently for customer events  and training. Installed, maintained, and troubleshoot computer hardware and all related peripheral components in each classroom. Installed, maintained and troubleshoot network switches, routers, firewalls and VLANs & VOIP  devices. Troubleshoot and configured DHCP, static, and wireless configurations and related network protocols  Troubleshoot, repaired, replaced PC and networking components as needed. Extensive experience in troubleshooting, upgrading and repairing Dell Optiplex 260,280,620,745,755 computer systems. Troubleshoot  Microsoft Operating Systems Win XP, 7, 32/64 bit systems as well as different distributions of Linux operating  systems as needed along with custom customer configurations and installations. Created, maintained and deployed  client and corporate software images using Symantec Ghost Solution Suite. Configured, updated and managed  patches and hot fixes to all software, anti-virus and firewall, switches and wireless routers and related hardware.  Experience with Windows PE,PXE and TFPT boot environments. Maintained and monitored network bandwidth and configure resource policies as needed via hardware firewalls and network switches. Maintained inventory of all  MicroTek equipment and software. Certified testing proctor for Microsoft Prometric, Castle, Camoria as well as Dept. of Homeland Security/TSA, U.S. Postal Services, FBI and related testing exams.  IT/RS Inventory Control Specialist IT Inventory Management Specialist United States Pharmacopoeia - Rockville, MD 2007 to February 2010 Rockville, MD 2007- Feb 2010    Served as the inventory control central-point-of-contact for all Reference Standards for the USP as well as all IT  related hardware and software.  IT Inventory Management Specialist Medical Disability Retirement  Federal Government of the United States Systems Engineer 2003 to 2007 based machines to Windows 7 Enterprise desktops. Troubleshoot and configured Microsoft Bit-Locker drives and USB devices. Maintained Active Directory and Exchange Email accounts (2003, 2007, 2010) Remediated malware and viruses on infected IT devices. Maintained accurate IT inventory and audits.    Systems Engineer  Global Technology Services, LLC (GTS)  Company Closed - Dissolved IT Inventory Management Specialist DHHS/NIH/NHLBI/IAMB - Bethesda, MD 1999 to November 2004 Medically retired from Federal Service in 2004 under Medical Disability Retirement Annuitant at the GS-2010-11/3  grade level with full Merit Status and Reinstatement Rights. Executive IT / VIP Deskside Support Bechtel Corporate Headquarters Education AA in Computer Information Systems Penn Foster College - Scranton, PA 2015 to 2016 American Business & Technology University - Saint Joseph, MI 2015 to 2016 Skills Help Desk, Active Directory, Desktop Support, MAC, Service Desk, DNS (10+ years), SCCM (2 years), Troubleshooting (10+ years), TCP/IP (10+ years), IOS (8 years), Android (8 years), Servers (10+ years), Windows 7 (10+ years), Mac OS X (9 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/cbelldina Awards Bechtel Corporate Leader+ Superior Service Awards [Numerous 2001 NHLBI Directors Award US Federal Government Sustained Superior Service Award [U.S. Federal Government] Invincea Employee of the Quarter [2015] Federal Government Outstanding performance rating [4 consecutive years 200-2004] Employee of the Quarter [MicroTek 2010] Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present Essentials & Core COMP001005848395 CompTIA Security+ Present COMP001020212990 Linux+ Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Present Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) Present American Business And Technology University MCITP Present MCP Additional Information   • Microsoft Windows [MCITP]  • MacOS Server, Sierra, High Sierra, Mojave & iOS and Android OS  • Microsoft Surface Device Deployment  • Lync Communications [Strategy & Technical Support]  • Office 365 Troubleshooting  • Windows 10 Update for IT Pros  • Configuring Outlook for Office 365  • Raspberry Pi Setup and Configuration  • Certified Professional Ethical Hacker [CEH]  • Introduction to Windows PowerShell