Deputy Information Security Officer Deputy Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Rotterdam, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Deputy Information Security Officer New York State Medicaid Data Warehouse - Albany, NY May 2015 to Present Security Analyst- IT Security & Compliance Department MVP Health Care - Schenectady, NY January 2013 to Present Administration of Enterprise Vulnerability Management system  • Identify and test Vulnerabilities as well as conducts research in areas of Information system and Network Security  • Manage quarterly Enterprise Pen Testing  • Administer Risk Assessments  • Perform Forensic Investigations utilizing investigative and analytical techniques  • Developed Litigation Hold and investigation process and procedures to meet state and federal regulations  • Implemented IT Security Framework Design  • Implementation of Sailpoint for Identity Governance and Administration  • Account Life Cycle Management  • Investigate and approve Enterprise Firewall requests to maintain the security and integrity of the Organization  • Develop Enterprise Standards of Procedure of Security for Access, Development, Applications, BYOD, Vendors  • Monitor and Manage Blue Coat to include implementing Reporting for monthly and quarterly audits  • Experience in achieving security compliance with Health Care and other related industry regulations including HIPAA, PCI, SOX, HITECH, COBIT, ISO 2700  • Configure and utilize Enterprise Security Event and Information Management (SEIM) system Qradar to detect and provide proper alerting based on defined security event correlations and thresholds  • Analyze security events to present actionable items for mitigation of risks within security controls  • Hands-on knowledge of firewalls, intrusion detection systems, anti-virus software, data encryption, and other industry-standard security techniques Sr. Security Analyst - IT Security Department Albany Medical Center - Albany, NY April 2009 to January 2013 Audit Clinical Applications acquisition, usage, and medical record access for the Enterprise Organization.  • Support and develop enterprise applications, along with facilitating the integration of systems tools with business procedures.  • Devise and design large-scale, multi-system computer system requirements for the solution of complex business needs.  • Project management in the development and implementation of business systems while providing direction to less experienced members of the team.  • Investigate and Research of all Cisco Mars alerts and vulnerabilities of the Enterprise Organization to facilitate Reconciliation.  • Implementation and administration of Qualys vulnerability management system  • Technical lead on Varonis implementation and Enterprise Data Security and scanning.  • Investigate and approve Enterprise Firewall requests to maintain the security and integrity of the Organization.  • Perform Forensic Investigations utilizing investigative and analytical techniques to identify, collect, examine and preserve information.  • Administration of Fair Warning Monitoring working with Clinical Applications; Soarian, Allscripts for Patient Privacy  • Administration of Nessus Perimeter and vulnerability scanning for Reconciliation.  • Implementation of HIXNY monitoring and including investigations of all Break Glass events.  • Monitor and Manage Blue Coat to include implementing Reporting for monthly and quarterly audits.  • Implement terminations of all Network accounts, email and Clinical Applications per Human Recourses requests  • Technical Lead in File Migration Project for the Enterprise Organization.  • Assist with software product evaluation including installation, testing and technical support.  • Maintains and oversees the maintenance of system profiles and tables.  • Analyze information and workflow requirements and needs, identify problems and ensure efficient computer systems utilization.  • Analyze data and develop logical solutions to problems, monitor system utilization and recommend appropriate revisions to process, procedures and operations.  • Develop Enterprise Standards of Procedure of Security for Applications, Access, Development, Implementation from Digital Media to Technology Tools Internet Technician St. Peter's Health Care Services - Albany, NY September 2002 to April 2009 Provide Windows Server Administration to include DHCP, DNS, WINS, implementation, testing, maintenance, troubleshooting and support for high availability HP servers.  ? Provide expert Active Directory Administration to include Access Management, Group Policy, OU management and Schema Administration.  ? Provide Intrusion Detection and Prevention Administration to include monitoring enterprise traffic, creation of filters and policies, tracking of attempted intrusion using Tipping Point appliance.  ? Provide Web Administration to include creating and troubleshooting IIS, Apache and Microsoft Share Point web servers and Portals.  ? Defined, developed and Implemented Security technology and policies to access all Public Enterprise web servers with HIPPA Compliance.  ? Implemented and Maintained RSA security authentication, accessing the Enterprise network, utilizing Identity Management with IP validation, tokens, smartcards, PDA's and other wireless devices.  ? Planned and Implemented the Enterprise Portal access utilizing identity management tied into RSA security authentication, processing thru the Juniper Web VPN appliances.  ? Implement and Maintain Enterprise Certificate Authorities utilizing Verizon, Thawte and Corporate PKI solutions.  ? Provide Microsoft Internet Security Acceleration Server 2000, 2004 and 2006 firewall administration including creating and modifying access rules, ports, security management, as well as troubleshooting complex Internet access issues.  ? Provide Patch Management for Windows 2000\2003 Servers, Cisco, Juniper VPN, Juniper Email Filter System, and Fatpipe router clustering Technology.  ? Implement and Maintain Barracuda Email Filter system providing virus and spam blocking for the Organization.  ? Provide Blackberry Enterprise Administration to include desktop and blackberry phone implementation and troubleshooting.  ? Administered Cisco Pix Firewall enabling access to the DMZ and internal network resources.  ? Implement and Maintain Fortinet Firewall system for Enterprise Wireless Network.  ? Provide Administration to Organization for Computer Associates ETRUST Antivirus system  ? Maintain and monitor Avamar Backup System including resolving all backup issues on all DMZ and Web servers.  ? Provide Application server support for applications such as Citrix, Microsoft Office, A2K, OBGYN, Radiology, Siemens Cardiology, Computer Associates Etrust Antivirus, Avamar Backup System, Blackberry, Heat, Altiris, etc  ? Develop detailed technical procedures and documentation for the installation, customization, testing and maintenance of systems software.  ? Provide training to a wide range of departments and levels of management including documentation, support procedures and technical assistance. Education St. Peter's - Albany, NY September 2002 to April 2009 Additional Information ? Provide expert knowledge and experience in Information Technology field focusing on Enterprise Security.  ? Results-driven IT professional with an in-depth technical background and a strong desire and ability to maintain proficiency in the information technology field.  ? Organized, take-charge IT professional with exceptional follow-through abilities and detail orientation, able to oversee projects from concept to successful conclusion  ? Skilled at determining company and end-user requirements and implementing cost-effective solutions that meet or exceed those requirements.  ? Strong communication skills include ability to interpret technical concepts and translate them to non-technical users.