Network Systems Administrator Network Systems Administrator IT Management / Systems Administrator Palm Bay, FL A stimulating and rewarding computer systems position actively involved with the management and integration of information systems,  specifically embracing opportunities that:  • Encourage creativity and growth.  • Utilize diverse skills on multi-discipline projects.  • Promotes communication and organization within departments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Systems Administrator Treasure Coast Community Health - Vero Beach, FL December 2016 to Present • Domain and Network design and administration consisting of 8 offices in 3 cities in Indian River county.  • Management of network utilizing Cisco, HP, and Fortinet equipment including Fortinet Manager and Analyzer.  • Microsoft Hyper-V creation and administration for over 40 Virtual Servers consisting of both Windows and Linux.  • Data Center management utilizing Dell Servers and IP KVM tool for remote physical access.  • Fortinet and SonicWall administration with multiple IPsec tunnels and client SSL-VPNs.  • Administration of Corporate WiFi through Meraki and Fortinet Access Points.  • Architect and administrator for Microsoft RDS Server farm with 12 Session Hosts.  • Active Directory design and administration for over 500 objects.  • Management and patching for Windows server 2012R2 and 2016 servers.  • Windstream Enterprise VOIP solution administrator. Design of all groups, menus, and auto attendants with custom recording.  • SOP and technical writer for all IT forms, documentation, and user guides.  • Responsible for IT asset inventory tracking and management. Systems Administrator Community Health Solutions of America - Clearwater, FL December 2015 to December 2016 • Forest and Domain administration of more than 5 domains.  • Windows Server administration both physical and virtual running on Dell Servers and Cisco UCS.  • Technical Wiki administrator for policies, procedure, and documentation.  • Corporate Wireless administration utilizing Ubiquiti, Cisco, and Meraki.  • Responsible for server maintenance, patching, etc.  • IT Security POC for CHS infrastructure.  • Primary User Access Control using proximity cards.  • Office 365 Administrator responsible for 3 Office 365 environments.  • Skype for Business / Telecom Administrator working daily with Lync Server, Intelepeer SIP, and eFax Corporate.  • MDT Administrator utilizing PXE and Windows PE create and manage Windows images for end user deployments.  • New technologies evaluator and test environment administrator.  • Manage corporate McAfee ePO and transition to BitDefender Gravity Zone.  • Main Tier III support for Help Desk.  • MDM Engineer and Administrator for MS surfaces, iOS devices, Windows Desktops and Laptops using SOTI MobiControl. Help Desk Manager SCI Distribution, LLC - Clearwater, FL August 2014 to October 2015 • Manage technical division resources and personnel.  • Manage Help Desk support cases using CRM system.  • Coordinate scheduling of installations and supply of necessary inventory to facilitate technical operation.  • Manage and facilitate employee schedules and resource purchasing and allocation.  • Coordinate resolutions for issues in hardware or software.  • Judge support necessary to resolve client issue between remote support, parts, or on-site service call.  • Train personnel and clients in use of the fuel system, back end software, and troubleshooting techniques.  • Perform higher level program and hardware analysis for all equipment.  • Provide level 3 support for help desk operations.  • Create technical documents, policies, and training plans to assist both client and staff in understanding procedures.  • Assist client IT with installation and maintenance of servers and SQL in relation to the fuel management software.  • Facilitate company product development and approve any defective returned products. Security Analyst Harris Corporation - Melbourne, FL June 2013 to April 2014 • Security Analyst for Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) mission critical and operational networks.  • Performed daily Cisco device hardening on routers and switches.  • Daily interaction with other devices, Cyclades, GDC modems, and various proprietary devices from a posturing standpoint.  • Worked with various devices running Linux and Unix doing account auditing and system hardening.  • Performed maintenance and IPSec tunneling configuration on devices running Cisco IOS, Linux and Unix.  • Familiar with ArcSight for security event analysis.  • Daily usage of RSA versions 6 & 7 setups and troubleshooting.  • Familiar with Wireshark and Narus packet capture reviewing.  • Extensive auditing to ensure various programs and users have appropriate access to network devices  • Ran daily reports using Tripwire documenting all changes made on secure network servers.  • Well versed in user account management and troubleshooting including, but to limited to Active Directory, RSA, LDAP, ACS, and other various custom programs.  • Daily use, creation, and management of Excel spreadsheets for various purposes for the FAA network including manipulation of CSV as well as XML files. IT Support Technician CMIT Solutions of South Brevard - Rockledge, FL August 2011 to December 2011 • 3rd party MSP for multiple clients ranging from individual user to large scale companies.  • Took inbound calls, tickets, and emails from clients and annotated as such for criticality and fault type.  • Spoke with end users and remote controlled user computers in order to solve a wide range of issues from Passwords to total  system failures.  • Extensive experience on Zero Day viruses and system repair from crashes.  • Monitored and assisted in BDR implementation along with back end NOC support.  • Maximized customer relationships from technology consulting to contract management for services.  • Fluent in help desk ticketing system, AutoTask. Windows Administrator Lighting Science Group Corporation - Satellite Beach, FL April 2010 to February 2011 • Implemented changes and rebuilds on new and existing PC's and Servers.  • Managed multiple Windows servers of all purposes including virtual servers running off Hyper-V and VMware on ESXi.  • Troubleshot various network, server, user PC and peripheral problems for users domestic and abroad.  • Setup and configured new employee accounts and various network access resources.  • Setup and constructed PC systems and networks to specification for use by various personnel in various areas.  • Worked with various company contractors to ensure smooth and reliable information technology support.  • Administered company cellular usage, accounts and devices on multiple carriers.  • Created and managed purchasing requests for new systems and equipment needs.  • Created and Managed SQL databases and well as file services on multiple servers at varying locations.  • Forefront of new projects, system cost analysis, and various IT technology changes.  • Created and used batch and VBScripts to automate tasks for user login, drive mapping, printer mapping, printer changes, etc.  • Wrote and utilized PowerShell scripts for creation of user accounts, email permissions, and various other tasks used with  Microsoft BPOS, the predecessor to Office 365.  • Worked with data backup using Robocopy and Acronis Backup.  Largo, FL 33771 • (321) 634-2114 • brad.moutoux@outlook.com • https://www.linkedin.com/in/bmoutoux Quality Assurance Manager / Lead Diagnostic IT SCI Distribution, LLC - Clearwater, FL November 2007 to March 2009 11/18/2007 to 3/10/2009  • Performed advanced diagnosis on Fuel Management system as well as hardware failures on pumps themselves.  • Processed over 50 calls and tickets per week pertaining to custom software built for use with said system.  • Worked on various Wireless communication types including GSM, GPRS, RF, RJ45 Ethernet, Wi-Fi WEP/WPA/WPA2 TKIP and  AES  • Tested new software updates for use in computer systems from Windows 2000 to Windows Vista 64 bit.  • Installed and Maintained Fuel Control Systems on Fuel Sites working with multiple dispenser types.  • Security Management - Controlled Access to various computer systems throughout the company whether local access or remote login.  • Troubleshot Technician computers in and out of the office in from Windows Installation to setting up email and Fuel  Management programs.  • Headed up maintenance and development of computer technical website working on ASP .Net platform running Dot Net Nuke.  • Developed Training plans for customers and technicians as well as creating portals on technical website for use by technicians for ease of software and support access in the field. Aviation Electronics Technician United States Navy - Virginia Beach, VA May 1998 to November 2007 • Extensive knowledge of aviation electronics systems on multiple aircraft  • Input all information into the NALCOMIS (Naval Aviation Logistics Command Management Information System) management  system; a computerized database used to track, query, report, and facilitate day to day maintenance of aviation equipment. In  addition to extensive skills in the operation of NALCOMIS.  • Trained personnel in the use and advanced operation of the NALCOMIS program.  • AIMD (Aircraft Intermediate Maintenance Department) TASO (Terminal Automated Systems Officer); computer systems  specialist charged with tracking and management of all computer systems and maintaining authorized users accounts onboard  • Electrical Conductors, Wiring Techniques, and Schematic Reading Education AS in Information Technology Keiser University - Melbourne, FL June 2014 Skills Windows (10+ years), System Administration (6 years), System Admin, Active Directory (9 years), System Administrator, Exchange Server (6 years), Group Policy (7 years), Vmware, Linux Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bmoutoux Military Service Branch: US Navy Service Country: United States Rank: AT2/E5 May 1998 to November 2007 Aviation Electronics Technician Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mshqmbql-advbmen Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qzklsxewyxrzvjpe Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kpzt3yi3gktrrgo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.