Network Analyst Network <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Network Administrator/ System Engineer Murfreesboro, TN Resourceful senior system and network professional with 17 years experience. I consistently improve system performance to remove IT obstacles for staff at all levels. SME in balancing multiple priorities and conveying complex technical concepts and applications to end users. Proactive problem solver. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Analyst A.C.E.S - Nashville, TN May 2008 to Present IT Contractor (My side business. This is a part time position, for when I'm waiting on another contract)  • Develop and maintain 2008/2012 domain structure using Active Directory for easy management and administration.  • Disaster recovery solutions are developed using various backup solutions. Installation and management is performed using different library systems or SANS/ NAS solutions. All configuration depends on the client requirements.  • Security administrator for 1000 node environment. Designed and managed McAfee ePO software delivering continuous detection of and response to advanced security threats to help monitor security posture, improve threat detection, and expand incident response capabilities through forward-looking discovery, detailed analysis, forensic investigation, comprehensive reporting, and prioritized alerts and actions.  • Installed and tested Ethernet cable runs for entire networks. Have a firm understanding of fiber installations, to include fiber to switches, routers and servers.  • Consult with different vendors to provide the fastest broadband solution. Vendors are consulted to ensure connectivity issues and unforeseen problems would be addressed in a timely manner.  • Conducting site surveys to ensure the best possible Small Business Solution using Microsoft 2008 server and Cisco environments IT Security Engineer Tennessee Education Lottery - Nashville, TN March 2017 to May 2017 • Architected and Integrated back-end and network infrastructure with an emphasis on scalability, availability, security and manageability  • Firewall and router configuration changes as per the business requirement  • Implementing security policies using ACL, Firewall, IPSEC, SSL, VPN, IPS/IDS, AAA  • Management and administration of Palo Alto and Cisco ASA firewalls, with attention on all aspects of anti-virus, malware, security  • Developed and documented network diagrams and procedures. Supervisor Center Plate - Nashville, TN March 2016 to April 2017 Manages fifteen plus individuals in a highly stressful and fast pace environment. Guided and supervised the assigned team as per the company rules and regulations.    • Trained and educated the workforce regarding proper work completion and adherence to company standards. Monitored the timely performance of the employees in the workforce and motivated them to accomplish their job tasks.  • Assigned duties/shifts to different employees as per their areas of expertise. Coordinated with human resources department in hiring the appropriate individuals for the workforce and assisted the performance and wellbeing of each member of the staff.  • Maintained and documented work completed on a daily basis, performance evaluations and attendance; presented the report to the management. IT Contractor P.E.D. Investments - Union City, TN November 2015 to February 2016 Developed and tested storage strategies and disaster-recovery plan for real estate company operational database, delivering solution that guaranteed recovery performance and high availability.  • Enhanced end users' understanding of database systems by conducting pre-implementation workshops, delivering individual training sessions and creating user-friendly training materials.  • Manage Microsoft SQL database administration assignments for real estate industry clients. Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, handle performance tuning and conduct regular system backups. Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements. IT Manager/Contractor Williams Sausage Corporation - Union City, TN July 2015 to October 2015 • Maintained 2008/2012 domain structure using Active Directory for management and administration. Ensured Microsoft servers are built for different capabilities.  • Orchestrate the design, configuration and installation of a McAfee ePO system environment. Successful migration and confirmed administration to all nodes on the LAN/WAN enterprise.  • Implemented several resolutions to maintain the effectiveness of the IT department. Developed disaster recovery procedures, applied network security measures, implemented weekly network maintenance procedures and customer services techniques.  • Instituted security measures to ensure the domain and information was secure. Research and designed security solutions and security appliances to provide a sensible effective measure of disaster recovery. Built-in a deterrence method with IDS and firewall solutions.  • Created cost-benefit analyses and ROI assessments that were used as the basis for decision-making on proposed IT implementation projects.  • Managed and built a SharePoint environment to enhance productivity. The environment allowed users access to company documents on a web-based platform. Security enhanced to allows for a need to know access for corporate security. This SharePoint environment allowed the practice of protecting business employees, physical property and information systems. Computer Engineer Department of the Treasury IRS - Martinsburg, WV September 2011 to March 2013 • Analyzes and evaluates requirements for computer processing by identifying work flow and sequence equipment and capacity requirements, and job interrelationships.  • Reviews system reports and logs to identify scheduling conflicts, processing problems, or job failures and determines corrective action. Ensures correct restoration of data files and databases at the proper restart.  • Receives program additions, deletions and changes from programmers and various external sources. Evaluates systems change requests to determine modifications to existing set-ups, schedules, run streams, and dependencies with other systems and programs  • Knowledge of a wide range of analytical and diagnostic methods, procedures and principles to identify required actions and implement decisions. As well as knowledge of data content and output options used in coding, developing control streams and schedules for independent and interdependent programs IT Consultant New Horizons IT Solutions - Jacksonville, FL October 2010 to December 2010 • Assisted the IT manager on operational maintenance and procedures for the computers, servers, and infrastructure at New Horizons  • Worked as the military liaison for all military commands helping assist veterans and spouses toward a successful transition to civilian life.  • Conducted detailed career paths for veterans and spouses to follow to ensure they reached their goals in a timely manner.  • Inform veterans and their spouses on educational benefits and assistance programs for positive transition to civilian status. IT Contractor NASA - Greenbelt, MD August 2010 to October 2010 • Developed and Managed a VMware environment to enhanced operation integrity.  • Trained personnel on the system administration of the VMware environment and MS Windows environments and certain aspects on how to keep a solid Network environment.  • Built and maintained Microsoft 2008 servers ensuring special attention to security, include maintaining critical updates and security patches.  • Responsible for all aspects of the network environment to include advising on advance systems upgrade to include Microsoft servers and Cisco environments. IT Specialist Veteran Affairs - Baltimore, MD December 2009 to May 2010 Managed security solutions and optimized the company-wide computer network (10000+ nodes). Supervised the maintenance, periodic upgrades of all network and computer equipment provided the highest-level of software and hardware troubleshooting support.    • Responsibility for providing advice and assistance to internal and external customers. Consistently providing a professional and courteous manner to the customers. Sensitive and confidential matters are treated in tactful manner with the appropriate urgency.  • Monitors all servers, Cisco and MS Windows equipment for updates, security patches, and deploy all critical patches and upgrades as they arise  • Conducts through fact gathering, research, provides accurate and responsive advice. Ensures service to customers and supervisors are the utmost importance. Information provided in response to inquiries consistent, including identification of appropriate alternatives.  • Manages and maintains all disaster recovery systems backup capabilities. Follows strict government guidelines for backing up mission critical data. Responsible for the accountability of inventory of tapes and their security.  • Conducted systems analysis on the networks, servers, and workstations. Installed and configured new hardware and software into existing networks. Conducted a full range of testing and analysis of the compatibility of new and old components, configurations, functionality, and expandability. Education Dyersburg Community College - Dyersburg, TN September 2013 to June 2015 Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Management University of Maryland University College January 2001 to May 2006 Skills MCSE, CCNA, IT Project Management (10+ years), Cisco, NOC, Router, Switch, Cissp, Ccna, Network Security, MAC, Active Directory, Service Desk, Help Desk, Desktop Support Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 April 1986 to August 1995 Intelligence Analyst ( Special Operations) Commendations: Air Medal, Air Force Aerial Achievement Medal, Joint Service Commendation Medal, Air Force Achievement Medal, Combat Readiness Medal, Nuclear Arms Medal, Joint Services Expedition Medal, Good Conduct Medal    Air Crew Wings, Senior Intelligence Badge, Combat Readiness Badge Certifications/Licenses MCSE, CCNA, CCNA Security, IT Project Management June 2006 to Present Working on my CISSP Certification Additional Information Currently working on my CCNA Security