Systems Administrator Systems Administrator Systems Administrator Darlington, MD A position within Systems Administration support while obtaining various IT certifications. Currently holding a DoD Top Secret Clearance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Insight Global - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD 2019 to Present • Currently in training  • Working in the JSEC Control Lab  • Applying STIGs to PCs, switches, routers and servers Tier 3 Technician ARS Aleut Services, LLC - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD 2017 to 2019 • Responsible for daily maintenance, troubleshooting, upgrading of network servers, computer hardware, software, peripheral equipment and business/laboratory applications.  • Ensure security of networked systems; make recommendations regarding hardware and software acquisitions  • Draft and/or update IT procedures and prepare IT-related documentation.  • Review and install various applications from Microsoft SCCM.  • Manage and troubleshoot printers from the designated print server. Cyber Security Analyst/Systems Administrator Parsons Corporation - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD 2015 to 2017 • Apply Antivirus DAT updates to the classified linux PCs.  • Assisted with various Active Directory support such as computer, user and group support.  • Experience within VMware V-Sphere environments  • Assisted with SolarWinds Orion daily and weekly maintenance  • Performed File and Print Servers maintenance issues.  • Responsible for building, updating and maintaining Windows Server 2012 environments.  • Assisted in building the Windows 10 image used by our customer PCs.  • Responsible for creating and packing each software install and update to be pushed through WSUS. IT Technician Lead Catapult Technology - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD 2011 to 2015 • Handled incoming work orders, emails and phone calls for a customer base of over 1500.  • Setup and troubleshoot various printers, scanners and other peripherals.  • Completed laptop VPN configuration and support using Cisco products.  • Maintained systems to meet or exceed client security requirements.  • Gained experience working with Windows Imaging File Format(WIM).  • Trained to work in the classified PC environment as well as server administration.  • Trained as backup manager and assisting to compile data for weekly reports.. Computer Support Associate Computer Sciences Corporation - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD 2008 to 2011 • Imaged and prepared computers for delivery.  • Delivered computers to various customers on Aberdeen Proving Ground Edgewood and Aberdeen Area.  • Performed data backups as well as taking down old PCs and installing their new one in its place.  • Installed various programs that the customer requires.  • Helped with inventory management within the warehouse.  • Assisted in creating new images for base deployment. Worked with remote control tools, SMS (Systems Management Software)/SCCM (System Center Configuration Manager) software reports, Active Directory and other various programs on a daily basis. Help Desk Analyst MedStar Health December 2006 to April 2008 Assisted customers via telephone, email, fax and voicemail to resolve any IT related issues they may encounter. Also assisted with doing management type tasks for my supervisors such as submitted Virtual Private Network (VPN) requests, printing and submitted lateness reports as well as call abandoned/call wait reports, I also led in the disaster recovery training. I learned knowledge in applications such as lotus notes, altiris and numerous medical applications. Education High school in Computer Programming C. Milton Wright High School None in Computer Information Sciences Strayer University Skills Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin, Linux Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ June 2012 Microsoft Technology Specialist June 2011 CompTIA Security+ June 2012 Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS) Operator and Supervisor Course 4.6.2 November 2015 ITIL October 2012 DISA HBSS 201 Admin ePOS5.1 December 2015