Response Center Advocate Response Center Advocate Response Center Advocate - Sengistix Saint Paul, MN To obtain a challenging and rewarding position in the information technology or business administration fields. Work Experience Response Center Advocate Sengistix June 2019 to Present • My core job function is to supervise individuals with disabilities and age-related needs through video monitoring and by monitoring sensors. My duties include responding to alerts and making calls promptly to house staff, management and local authorities and assisted with creating an action plans to resolve and address issues.  • Communicate and provide customer service to the persons served to ensure that their health and welfare is secure.  • Make use of the Genetec Security Center solution for monitoring and IP camera support.  • HealthSense sensor and monitor support through remote patient monitoring products.  • Manage client CRM data and incident management through Salesforce.  • Respond to issues with sensors, systems, monitors and help maintain call lists.  • Assist with customer and account coordination.  • Worked on special projects to help support response center operations. Lyft Driver Lyft March 2019 to Present Drive passengers to their requested destination with a focus and an emphasis on providing exceptional customer service. IS Engineer Par Systems October 2018 to January 2019 • My core functions in my role at Par Systems were comprised of providing first and second level technical support for the Oakdale and Shoreview, Minnesota offices.  • Imaging, configuring, and supporting of personal computers, printers, servers, and other LAN hardware.  • End users that I had supported consisted of engineers, quality control, executive management, human resources, finance, techs, and document control personnel.  • The operating systems in the Par Systems environment that I supported were Windows 10, Windows 7, and Windows Server 2008, 2012 R2, and 2016.  • My core responsibilities included building new and replacement PC's to end user requirements including laptop, docking station, monitor, phone, and desktop setup.  • Made use of Lansweeper for information gathering to support asset management function and to aid in directing software loads.  • PDQ software distribution.  • Break / fix support through the ITSM Epicor ticketing system.  • Active Directory support, group policy, drive mapping, batch file support, Azure cloud support and VMWare support.  • Microsoft Office and Outlook email support.  • Monthly Microsoft server patching and WSUS server cleanup.  • Office capacity planning, VoIP phone setup, on boarding new employees in various ERP, repository, and design systems.  • Updating operating systems to Windows 10 and Server 2012 or 2016 to address Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 end of life support.  • Implementation and support of best practices of information systems processes in a LAN/WAN environment.  • Provided after hours support for emergencies as required.  • Hands on computer operations included scheduling backups, preventative maintenance, and data security initiatives.  • Supported infrastructure releases and testing as part of operational change management and supported and implemented IS initiatives for systems and process improvements.  • Support and testing of disaster recovery plans, ITIL service support, and information security enforcement, and advertising and communication to ensure support and compliance of the company information systems usage policy.  • Aided in contribution to information technology design, architecture decisions and special projects. I recently lead an office space capacity planning and cabling project including patch panel, switch and vlan identification and mapping to address growth and office space constraints. Full Time Student Metropolitan State University September 2017 to May 2018 Studied courses relating to my business administration major. Sr. IT Support Business Analyst / Supplier Analyst US Bank April 2015 to September 2017 • The core functions for my position in the SVS Vendor Analytics department have been rooted in the disciplines of contract management and vendor management.  • I have served the bank through support, coordination, and leadership roles for Technology Operation Services.  • In the contract management role, I have supported the entire TOS organization with business change support, triaging and oversight for contract requests, and packing and routing contracts for execution to the Chief Technology Officer or signing authorities within US Bank.  • Assisted contract negotiators and with being a liaison between the negotiator, business lines, and vendors to keep contracts moving as a contract oversight function.  • My responsibilities had also consisted of adding vendors to the bank's various vendor programs to establish them as a managed vendor to mitigate risk for the bank.  • The agreement types that I had processed consisted of establishing master agreements, NDAs, evaluation agreements, SOWs, renewals, amendments, licenses, addendums, schedules, and terminations.  • Through the vendor management role, I had facilitated monthly, quarterly, and biannual business reviews. This included conducting attestation surveys and scoring the vendor's performance with various internal and external stakeholders, and documenting adverse action strategies for the vendor when applicable. On a monthly basis, I created and compiled performance metrics and reporting for business line and operational analysis.  • Provided support and analysis to senior management and executive management for highly visible projects and initiatives and have managed small projects as well. SOC Systems Support / Global Security Integration Specialist TekSystems, Inc November 2009 to March 2015 • My role was best described as the application co-owner for the enterprise access control system and camera system for SJM.  • In representing SJM Global Security, my primary function was to expand and support the Genetec Security Center enterprise along with HID and Axis equipment through implementation and steady state support efforts.  • Front end Genetec application support for the entire enterprise application servers. Back end support included several different versions of SQL.  • Server and client support for current Windows operating systems.  • Ensured enterprise wide scalability and performance through proactive capacity planning, performance monitoring and tuning, analyzing and reporting system performance.  • Developed standards, guidelines, best practices and gathered metrics as directed for Global Security.  • I was the SharePoint administrator for two Global Security department sites.  • Planning and upgrade efforts included the testing of packaged software and deployment using SCCM, and provided training for Global Security users for SJM Global Security.  • The operational support of day-to-day responsibilities involved interaction with facilities managers, Security Operations Center analysts, project management, guard staff, badge administrators, third party vendors, and internal SJM IT support staff.  • Provided operational support through Remedy incident management and escalations. Lead and assisted with special projects and implementations to support Global Security. 3rd Level Support Technician Target Corporation September 2002 to November 2009 • Provided production support, created installation documentation, assisted in hardware and software updates, and worked on special projects for AP Development.  • My duties included service delivery for Target Digital Video, IP cameras, analog cameras, DVRs, encoders, workstation, and server software deployments for the Genetec Omnicast application and Loronix applications and hardware.  • My responsibilities included managing 3rd tier manager escalations, working HPSD problem tickets, end user support, partnering with investigators, training team members including first, second and third level support groups and vendors on the software and hardware configurations for the Target Digital Video platform.    Installation Services - Rollout Room Team Lead  • As a team lead I had assisted with many rollouts and several projects for Target Corporation. I had worked on special projects and implementations for new stores, remodels, and retrofits.  • The rollouts that I had managed involved deploying software, configuration, service pack updates, and validation of installations. Special projects included handheld device upgrades, POS upgrades on registers, Target Digital Video, IP cameras, time clock, server, workstation, and kiosk builds and installations.  • My team lead responsibilities included managing a team of 10 to 15 people, reporting for the current project, and serving as a technical lead for my team. I supported Dell hardware with mostly Win2K and NT images, which included servers and workstations.  • Projects consisted of supporting all three operating companies, which included Target, Marshall Fields, and Mervyns. The role gave me exposure to working with team members, programmers, information security, second and third level support groups, and project coordinators. Education BS degree in Business Administration in Business Administration Metropolitan State University - Saint Paul, MN April 2018 AAS Associate in Arts degree Inver Hills Community College - Inver Grove Heights, MN May 2015 AAS in Computer Technology Academy Education Center - Bloomington, MN March 1999 Skills COBIT, ITIL, NETWORKING, REMEDY, SHAREPOINT, IMAGING, ACCESS CONTROL, SERVER SUPPORT, TECHNICAL SUPPORT, MS OFFICE, BMC, APPLICATION SUPPORT, CLIENT SUPPORT, VENDOR MANAGEMENT, AUDITING, CONTRACT MANAGEMENT, GOVERNANCE, PROCESS IMPROVEMENT Additional Information SKILLS  • Technical Support • Windows OS Support • Networking  • Application Support  • SharePoint Admin  • Access Control    • Server Support  • MS Office  • Req. Gathering    • Client Support  • AD Support / GP  • Project Management    • Vendor Management • Contract Management • Imaging  • BMC Remedy / HPSD  • Governance Functions    • Implementations  • ITIL / Cobit Auditing    • Technical Writing  • Process Improvement