Short-Term Contractor Short-Term Contractor Short-Term Contractor Rockwall, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Short-Term Contractor Artech June 2018 to February 2019 remote)  Qualys vulnerability report, scanning, Ad-hoc scanning and assessment. Re-format Qualys reports and identify the Risk Category. Work with Asset Tagging. Assists with anything that is needed for the team. Infrastructure Cyber Security Analyst PepsiCo June 2017 to June 2018 Plano office)  Responsible for Infrastructure vulnerability Qualys scanning and assessments of Windows and Unix servers, and provide analysis and recommend remediation against vulnerabilities. Research and identify trending vulnerabilities and organize a remediation plan with key stakeholders affected by the vulnerability. Perform analysis of Tripwire scanning for duplication and efficiency in current and future reports. Apply risk rating to vulnerabilities using NIST and MITRE guidance, and identify, rate potential threats for vulnerabilities. Evaluate new technologies within PepsiCo for integration into scanning and security review, such as SAP HANA, and new Operating Systems and versions. Tech Consulting/Tripwire Administrator HP Enterprise Security Services May 2012 to February 2017 Tripwire Enterprise Services, 4 years. Tripwire performs centralized Host Intrusion Detection and File Integrity Monitoring. Responsible for Alcatel-Lucent SOX Compliance with Tripwire application, and worked with SOX Program Management Office, Security Governance/Compliance, and SA teams on SOX audits and Server Risk & Compliance audits. Implementation and configuration of Tripwire. Responsible for all Tripwire processes and documentation. Worked closely with Intellitactics (SIEM) on monitoring and ticketing automation. Migration and upgrade of Tripwire Enterprise 8.0, including enhanced monitoring and improved automation. Work closely with server engineers for tripwire configuration and installation, and directly with the client to determine use of features, deployment and integrations with other deployed products as appropriate. Provide reporting to the customer for compliance, migration review, and system status. Coordinate Vulnerability Scanning and review. Strong relationship with numerous HP organizations, including: HP global data centers and network teams, TPC Firewall Review and approval for the Security Compliance Team. Tech Consulting & Support HP Enterprise Security Services May 2012 to May 2012 In addition to the job functions described in the L3 - OPS Security Services position listed below at the bank, these additional functions have been added: Change Management Process for Firewall, including coordinating and managing third-party vendors; Incident Management process; Initial response to high severity issues dealing with security devices, including troubleshooting break/fix issues and coordinating engineering resources.  Design and implement secure connectivity to/from the Bank and external customers. This includes diagnosing and using such tools as Provider-1, BlueCoat Proxy, F5 Load Balancers, SiteMinder SSO, BMC ProactiveNet.  I provided L3 SS Operation Production Support for SSO, Firewall, High Availability/Load Balancing (aka 3-DNS/BigIP) Proxy and LDAP. Work proactively both in teams and individually to monitor alerts, and engage in on-call issues impacting the LOB driving them to resolution. Update SharePoint Site. Prepare Incident Management Report. Exercises judgment in methods, techniques and evaluate criteria for results. Engaged in ECS/MOD meetings and implement change plan. Security Analyst Bank of America Internet January 2009 to October 2011 Provide consulting on several internal projects/efforts pertaining to proxy services including corporate security and technology standards. Assist in implementation of configuration changes within the proxy infrastructure to support connectivity requirements. Provide technical consulting/design-engineering role followed by the execution of said design. Migration of FTP, HTTP services from NetCache and Squid to Blue Coat Proxy. Review Ad-Hoc reports and troubleshoot connection and account lockout issues. Provide day to day and troubleshooting support, identify the source of the issues and recommend solutions. Tech Consulting & System Installation LA FITNESS April 2006 to October 2008 Formulated and executed IT Project Management for new and existing sites for fitness and health club chain. Collaborated with Construction Project Management to determine timeframes for hands-on New Build and installations ensured adherence to standard quality practices, completely documented processes, and executed test plans and procedures for acceptance testing of new or modified applications/systems in an environment with diverse platforms. Work closely with business partners to define strategies for technical solutions, determine requirements, and develop functional designs Practiced change management processes and recommended/approved changes during the implementation phase of the deployments. Managed and scheduled vendors. Identified risks and proposed contingency plans for completion of projects, and potential security issues. Assist with internal and external audits of the above processes. Worked closely with business partners to define strategies for technical solutions, determined requirements, and developed functional design s based on the analysis of line-of-business needs objectives and existing systems infrastructure. Provided assistance with Active Directory password changes and user account management. Monitoring and patching of systems. Day-to-day troubleshooting of a variety of systems. Acts as liaison between business unit and software, hardware developers and vendor management  Major Contributions: • Successfully opened 3 clubs in the Dallas, Texas area.  • Lowered reliance on third-party vendors for IT related issues. Installations at new clubs included VOIP Softphones, Software/Hardware, Cisco switch and router configuration, problem solving and troubleshooting.  • Managed multiple complex projects running concurrently.  • End-user technical support for 10 clubs and regional HQ, comprising approx 200 workstations and 30 servers.  • Recommended security enhancements to the existing infrastructure for network and host-based security. IT Tech Support (Plano, Office) MCAFEE INC November 2005 to September 2006 Technical support for McAfee products including: GroupShield, WebShield, WebShield SMTP, SCM, SCM-SIG, Quarantine Manager, E-Business Server, and EPO. Experience troubleshooting customer issues to resolution. Provided configuration and installation assistance, documentation of customer issues and resolutions using CRM. Interaction with upper levels of support and development to resolve customer issues.  Major Contributions and Highlights: • Developed efficient processes for escalating between support teams and upper level support teams.  • Established a standardized lab configuration for testing customer environments and replication of issues. Sr. Consultant & Systems Engineer Bank of America Internet 1997 to 2004 Assisted with Microsoft installation, configuration and problem management. Consulted with technology managers for systems resolution issues. Resolved application problems and communicated with project teams and lines of business. Facilitated multi-functional teams to identify products and/or service requirements, help define quality, delivery and performance standards for subcontracts. Working with project team, identifies risks and propose contingency plans. Proactively monitored application logs and performance metrics taking corrective actions as required. Responsible for Domain Name Management including approval/implementation of URL-Redirects, domain name transfers, register/renewal of Domains. Managed WebTrends reports on Web traffic/trending, server performance, and response times Participated in a logging and reporting infrastructure project migration from UNIX to Windows. Designed and engineered B2B infrastructure implementation. Configured Check Point FireWall-1 rules for connectivity. Monitored servers using Performance Monitor and snoop protocol analyzer. Configured B Proxy servers including operating system migration. Analysis of authentication logs (from domain controllers). Gathered requirements, coordinated testing, and managed and implemented accepted projects for the B2B. Documented all projects, requests and problems in internal tracking system. Migrating Webtrends infrastructure and testing of SQL database. Responsible for gathering technology estimates and providing project status to Senior Management.  Major Contributions and Highlights: • Performed installation and configuration of B2B proxy servers and configuration of Intranet connectivity.  • Evaluated security software as the technical decision maker for purchase decisions.  • Administered Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Project running in UNIX environment.  • Project lead including overseeing national projects; assisted with IT support initiatives and strategy.  • Procurement of Hardware and peripherals, and performed cost negotiations with vendors.  • Scheduled, coordinated, and lead project teams for deployments/upgrades. Vendor Relationships.    Awards and Acknowledgements  Type of Award / Award Description • President Quality Award for ALU Account for successful turnaround for the account in 2014 • Medallion Leadership Award - Bank of America - Performance Award - Bank of America (2X) Education Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer Dallas Baptist University Active Directory and Architecture Infrastructure Richland College Skills deployment (4 years), Project management (7 years), Security (10+ years), Tripwire (5 years), Unix (9 years) Groups ISACA January 2019 to Present Additional Information Skills Summary  Technology specialist with over 15 years leveraging IT resources for efficiency, working with Windows & Unix environments, Network Design for Enterprise Solution and security, and achieving business goals. Experience with analytic tools such as NetIQ, Compliance Tools: Qualys, Archer, Tripwire Enterprise, and Bit9. Provide evaluation and deployment endpoint tools, and develop processes. Provide planning and design support for the development of solution architectures. Engage the Line of Business to design and implement new reporting, access, deployment, and architecture for core systems. Assist in determining End-to End design requirements for projects involving software and hardware and working with Vendors. Enterprise infrastructure problem triage management, production issue resolution, escalations, and on-call responsibilities. Provide leadership and mentor associates to the new process and procedures as well as technical.  McAfee Security Products • Customer Needs Analysis • Project Management• Leadership • Cost Control • Systems Architecture • Presentations • Vulnerability Assessment • Troubleshooting • Problem Solving • Best Practices • IT Infrastructure Implementation • Tripwire Enterprise Certified - Qualys Certification. CISA (currently studying) Member of ISAAC