Service Operations - Field Security Support Service Operations - Field <span class="hl">Security</span> Support IT Specialist - Service Operations - Field Security Support Fayetteville, AR Work Experience Service Operations - Field Security Support Dept. of Veterans Affairs - Fayetteville, AR June 2014 to Present Most current responsibilities included serving as member of the Enterprise Service Line (ESL) FY17 Swarm Team. The team was tasked with assisting facilities prepare for upcoming scheduled OIG FISMA/FISCAM Audits. My duties included working with the team and facility staff in the review and documentation of implementation details and supporting evidence for the facility level privacy controls in Agiliance RiskVision. While this assignment required weekly travel for site visits, providing leadership and guidance as each control was reviewed, reworked, and documented for control compliance; a portion of the preparation was completed virtually prior to the site visit and required strong organizational skills as well as effective oral and written communication.  Prior to the ongoing OI&T MyVA transition, my duties included assisting the Region 2 Security Management Division Chief establish, document, and monitor regional IT assets. These duties continue as I work closely with ESL ITIL teams in developing documentation and aiding in enforcing management of processes and accountability. I worked closely with VHA facilities, VISN staff, Regional Service Lines, and National VA project teams on all matters relating to IT asset management initiatives. As the transition moves forward, these duties are translated to a more enterprise level support, working across the nation. Providing administrative and Subject Matter Expert (SME) level support on security planning for all current and future regional/divisional projects is a crucial part of this transition and a responsibility that I have embraced. Further responsibilities include work on projects to insure security of the environment is integrated into all new and existing systems. I assist with the day ·to day oversight of enterprise security operations. The team I currently serve works directly with controls and select security applications as well as reporting and visibility to other systems managed by the ESL I commonly assist the Division Chief in all aspects of enterprise change control and configuration management. When necessary, I work closely with the Integration and Reporting Management Team to help other operational teams as they integrate change and incident events into coherent After Action Reports (AAR) and reportable events to district and national IT leadership.   I work closely with facility and activity staff across the enterprise and national VA project teams on all matters relating to configuration management initiatives. When needed, I provide support, implement, and recommend improvement to enterprise policies and procedures.   When given the opportunity, I utilize experience, discretion, judgment and knowledge in the assisting in the planning, execution, operation and maintenance of IT systems and infrastructure. I routinely participate as a team member with others in a virtual environment accountable to a Division Chief, Service Line Manager, or Project Lead as we assist in the creation and maintenance of documentation on IT systems and infrastructure to include configuration standards, as-built diagrams and historical and trending information.   Additional responsibilities include aiding local sites in exercising their contingency plans and emergency planning, as well as making recommendations to leadership. I also assist in the preparation of summarized results for team or site contingency/emergency readiness. Serve as SME for the development and maintenance of emergency and contingency documentation. IT Analyst - Security Management Division GS-11 Dept. of Veterans Affairs - Fayetteville, AR June 2013 to June 2014 IT Asset Management Helps Division Chief establish, document, and monitoring regional IT assets. Works closely with national ITIL teams when developing documentation and assists in enforcing management of processes and accountability. Works closely with other facilities, VISN's, Regional Service Lines, and national VA project teams on all matters relating to IT asset management initiatives. Security Management Provides support in security planning on all current and future regional projects. Division is up-front on projects making sure security of the environment is integrated into new and existing systems. Assists with the day •to day oversight of regional security operations. Division directly controls select security applications and has reporting and visibility into other systems that other service line teams manage. Facilities Management Installs, operates, and maintains the documentation and systems at the regional data centers allowing remote access or remote hands work. This includes the data center contingency network equipment, IP PDU's in each rack, and the IP KVM system at each data center. Participates in planning, coordinating, and installing all physical racking, cabling, and hardware at the data centers. Monitors established enforcement procedures related to data center cabling and labeling standards even when assisted by other regional installation teams. Personnel are within close proximity of each regional data center to do this work and to respond to incidents where remote hands operations cannot resolve infrastructure or systems issues. Change Control & Configuration Management Assists Division Chief in controlling all aspects of regional change control and configuration management.    Works very closely with the Integration and Reporting Management Team to help other operational team's tie many change and incident events into coherent AAR's and reportable events to regional and national IT leadership. Assists in enforcing and helping to support regional change control processes. Works closely with other facilities, VISN's, Regional Service Lines, and national VA project teams on all matters relating to configuration management initiatives. Support, implement, and recommend improvement to regional policies and procedures. Utilizes experience, discretion, judgment and knowledge in the assisting in the planning, execution, operation and maintenance of IT systems and infrastructure. Participates as a team member with others in a virtual environment accountable to the division chief. Assists in the creation and maintenance of documentation on IT systems and infrastructure to include configuration standards, as-built diagrams and historical and trending information. Emergency Preparedness Assists regional teams, VISN's and local sites with exercising their contingency plans and emergency planning. Makes recommendations to Division Chief and assists in preparing summarized results of team/site contingency/emergency readiness. Assists Division Chief with the development and maintenance of emergency and contingency documentation. Assists other regional, VISN, and local sites with helping document these processes. IT Specialist Dept. of Veterans Affairs - Fayetteville, AR January 2011 to June 2013 Customer Support) Grade Level: GS 09    Served as first line point of contact for a wide variety of customers contacting the VISN 16 ITS Help Desk. Duties include Help Desk phone support, desk-side technical support, and PC / computer repairs. The primary function of this position is to resolve customer related technical problems following established VA policies and procedures.    Currently responsible for diagnosing and/or resolving computer related problems in response to customer reported incidents via Service Desk tickets, and escalating any problems to specialized areas as required. Duties include installing VA approved software on end user computers, assist customers with complex technical problems, review customer issues related to new technologies, products, pricing, availability, and documenting these items as required. Routinely follow VA security policies relating to de-commissioning equipment and completing required paperwork. Provide a wide variety of customer support assistance to computer related technical services essential to the efficiency and viability of VA IT systems. This includes participating in the planning and delivery of technical support services, to include troubleshooting, installation, removals, moves, customer assistance, and training in response to customer requirements. Served as member of Region 2 Security Management Team. Assisted with various documentation and accreditation reviews using the SMART database to include, but not limited to, Privacy Impact Assessments (PIA's). As member of the Security Management Team I assisted various VA facilities throughout Region 2 with PIA Validation Letters. Member of VISN 16 VSAT Team 10. Field Security Liaison Equivalent to Grade 2011 to 2012 level: GS-11/12    Serves as the acting Information Security Officer when the Information Security Officer is unavailable / vacant for the Veterans Health Care System of the Ozarks (VHCSO). As the Field Security Liaison for VHSO, responsibilities included active participation in network and systems design to ensure implementation of viable systems security policies and procedures.    Developed procedures and policies to ensure secure information systems reliability and accessibility, as well as to safeguard and prevent against unauthorized access to automated information systems, networks, and data.    Investigating and reporting all information security breaches to the National Security Operations Center (NSOC), the Privacy Officer, as well as the Director's Office.  Receive, review, and process various computer access requests including local network access, E-Pas requests from other VA's, Common Security Services User Access Requests, and access to various task codes, profiles, web servers, Unix accounts, or other databases via the Customer User Provisioning System (CUPS).    Serves as PKI LRA which includes processing all new PKI requests and trouble-shooting PKI problems or issues. Responsible for presenting the initial Information/Cyber Security training for all new employees, contractors, and volunteers. Create VPN accounts for local users and contractors. Responsible for sensitive record access reviews, inactive account reviews, review failed access attempts, and Vista security key audits. Serve as team member for the Information Technology Contingency Plan Assessment initiative. Conduct unannounced Information Security Rounds / Environment of Care inspections for the VHCSO. Conducted system security evaluations, audits, and reviews. Developed Automated Information Systems (AIS) security contingency plans and disaster recovery procedures, as an active part of the local business continuity team. Conducted vulnerability analysis and risk assessment studies of planned installed information systems to assure that local AIS security policies and plans are adequate for protection needs and are incompliance as required by VA policies, rules, and regulations. Field Security Liaison Dept. of Veterans Affairs - Fayetteville, AR June 2008 to February 2010 formerly known as Alternate ISO) Lead Archivist / HIMS Specialist Dept. of Veterans Affairs - Fayetteville, AR March 2008 to February 2010 Grade Level: GS 05    Serves as the Lead Health Information Management Section (HIMS) Archivist for the Fayetteville, AR VA Medical Center. As the Lead for this department, responsibilities include monitoring and functioning as the work leader for the patient record archiving process and analysis of patient records for incomplete record tracking and compliance. Responsible for delineating workflow among nine GS-0305-4 Archivists to maintain even distribution, adjusting work assignments as needed to cover peak periods, leave, and vacancies. Prioritizing work to assure completion of scanning within specified time limits is crucial.    Must ensure work is disseminated appropriately and notify Manager of HIMS of any backlogs or problems as well as suggesting solutions for either.  Identify and recommend needs regarding future staffing, equipment, or space. Maintain workload and productivity reports for HIMS and perform monthly spot checks on work performance and productivity of Archivists; report any and all finding to the Chief, HIMS. Conduct follow-up activities to ensure all questions / concerns from customers regarding scanning and archiving are answered accurately.  Identify and suggest solutions to problems with document scanning and/or archiving. Perform quantitative analysis of medical records to ensure that all component parts are present, accurate, and will meet the established requirements and standards of Joint Commission, HCFA, and VA Headquarters, as well as staff bylaws. Assess the Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS) for completeness and note deficiencies in the Medical Record Deficiency (MEDREC) software package. Provide administrative support to HIMS functions as deemed appropriate by Chief, HIMS. Serve as acting Chief, Health Information Management in the absence of Chief or Assistant Chief, HIMS. Also named Facility Security Liaison which serves as Alternate Information Security Officer. Lead Archivist / HIMS Specialist Dept. of Veterans Affairs - Fayetteville, AR April 2000 to March 2008 Grade Level: GS 03/04    Performs duties related to the receipt, intake, scanning, archiving, destruction, transfer, and release of health and administrative patient information. Process requests for health/administrative information when requested in person, by mail, fax, telephone, or via email. Interface with personal computer applications as well as numerous VISTA and CPRS applications. Directly responsible for pulling and retrieving medical records for other indirect patient care activities i.e., research, quality management, external peer reviews, utilization reviews, etc. Provide clerical support to staff which includes: filing medical and administrative documents, requesting other VA records as well as other special projects deemed appropriate by the Chief of HIMS. Directly responsible for protecting data from unauthorized release or from loss, alteration, or unauthorized deletion; and following applicable laws and instructions regarding access to computerized files, access codes, etc. Detailed knowledge of security procedures, processes, and rules governing computer access authorizations.  Fully protects the confidentiality of customer information, access to computer files and release of access codes, according to established policy. Performs filing / retrieval and clerical duties associated with the retention, maintenance, disposition, guardianship, and control of administrative and medical records in a terminal digit filing system. Routinely purges records of patients not rendered medical care within a three year period. Maintain historical file for those that are forwarded to the Federal Record Center. Process charts going to permanent off station storage using guidelines published by the VA. Makes appropriate changes in VISTA record tracking package to appropriately identify current location of paper records. Utilizing the VISTA Medical Records Tracking Program, prepares requests for transfer and/or notice of transfer of Veterans records and ships requested records to other VAMCs. Checks and assembles records prior to their transfer and consolidates records that are received from other VA facilities.  Ensures that all necessary health/administrative information is integrated into CPRS through PC scanning hardware and software as well as indexing this information using PC/CPRS application bridges. Scan medical / administrative documentation into CPRS using the VISTA Imaging software package as well as quality control of scanned documentation.   Graduate of EAGLE Class 2006A. Lead Archivist / HIMS Specialist Dept. of Veterans Affairs 2004 to 2005 Temporary reassignment Dept. of Veterans Affairs 2003 to 2004 Provided administrative and clerical support to existing Fee Basis staff which included preparing authorized claims for payment, payment processing using RBRVS(Relative Base Resource Value Schedule), preparing certified documentation for auditing, opening mail, distributing workloads for Fee Basis staff, maintain active computerized filing system to ensure proper processing of claims and federal fund controls, process all outgoing correspondence to patients, vendors, and management. Education Information Technology University of Phoenix Axia College - Phoenix, AZ May 2010 Judson High School - Converse, TX May 1994