Contract Network Infrastructure and Security Engineer Contract Network Infrastructure and <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Nework Engineer & IT Security Manager Keene, NH Experienced Information Technologist, focused on IT security for the past 20 years. A 40+year career including experience in many areas of IT with the goal of a positive end user experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contract Network Infrastructure and Security Engineer Keene State College - Keene, NH August 2018 to Present Part time network/ security engineer. Maintained current network infrastructure and security posture. Upgraded current DNS/DHCP infrastructure to Infoblox appliances. Manage SSL certificate creation and renewal. Certificates were install on Windows and Linux servers utilizing the JAVA, IIS, Tomcat and Catalina software platforms.  Managed, maintained and upgraded hardware and software for Palo Alto firewalls and Pulse Secure VPN. Assisted in moving wireless infrastructure to Aruba ClearPass Secure Network Access Control platform. System/Nework Engineer & IT Security Manager Keene State College - Keene, NH June 1997 to February 2018 • manage and maintain hardware and software running network services: DNS, DHCP, SMTP  • migration UNIX based email client to Microsoft Outlook  • migration from local computer based authenticate to Microsoft Active Directory  • network maintenance and support  • implement, manage and maintain internal/external firewalls, Palo Alto, Checkpoint, Fortinet, Cisco  • implement, manage and maintain VPN appliance, Juniper/Pulse Secure  • PCI compliance  Develop IT procedures and policy  Implement PCI compliant network  Training  • Email security Independent consultant Frontier Systems Consulting - North Andover, MA 1997 to June 1997 Software engineering and development consultant. Principal Software Engineer Digital Equipment Corporation - Littleton, MA June 1991 to December 1996 Develop and maintain Dec Athena, a multi-vendor Distributed Computing environment supporting DEC Ultrix, Silicone Graphics, Sun, IBM, HP, Apollo computers System analyst and engineer Wang Laboratories - Lowell, MA January 1981 to June 1991 - Design, implement and maintain solutions for a manufacturing environment.  - Technical support for application development  - Customer support for Wang OS and application  - OS development and maintenance (Wang OS and SCO Unix) Education BA in Mathematics Lycoming College 1974 Skills IT infrastructure; network, DNS, DHCP, email, Identity Management (10+ years), Network and system maintenance (10+ years), IT Security; Firewall and VPN deployment and maintenance (10+ years), Script writing: Perl, JavaScript, Linux shell, some Powershell (10+ years), Information Security, Cyber Security, Network Security, Palo Alto, Nessus, It Security, PCI Additional Information Work skills  • effectively function as a member of a team or individually  • effectively communicate with individuals at all levels of technological experience and knowledge; and  at all levels of the organization  • adapt quickly the dynamic nature of technology and IT demands  • motivated to learn and apply new skills  • design, analysis, development, implementation, maintenance and support experience    Philosophy  Introducing technology to an environment should enhance the effectiveness of its users. Security and  ease of use are always difficult to balance. It is the technologists' responsibility to constantly analyze  and adjust the technologies to maintain a secure and compliant IT infrastructure while maintaining  maximum usability.