Systems Engineer Systems Engineer Systems Engineer - Kobie Marketing Inc Saint Petersburg, FL The less hardware and systems to manage, the more time you can focus on your products and services you provide. The world wants to move towards a server-less/IAAS direction for their business with the least amount of tech overhead possible. I am a Systems Engineer showcasing Cloud Architecture, IAAS, Cloud Services, Networking, and Cloud Migrations to assist companies to get back to focusing on their product, eliminating the need to manage and worry over their technical infrastructure. Work Experience Systems Engineer Kobie Marketing Inc - Saint Petersburg, FL November 2017 to Present • Migrating current production clients and prod environment to Oracle Cloud.  • Heading project to minimize and consolidate datacenter hardware footprint.  • Provide infrastructure, networking, firewall, storage (SAN), and vmware production support.  • Managing and designing the architecture for future IT projects.  • Migrating production application OS from Windows Server to. Systems Administrator Shaw Systems Associates - Richmond, VA November 2014 to August 2017 • Provide IT support between both Houston and Richmond offices.  • Configure and administer Cisco ASA Firewall, Cisco stacked switches.  • Manage and administer 100+ internal server environments in both Vsphere clusters, standalone Vsphere, and standalone servers.  • Manage and administer hosted cloud servers.  • Hardware fixes and maintenance on all workstations, server equipment, switches, routers, phone systems, etc.  • Configure and administer Salesforce site. Systems Administrator Summit Business Associates - Richmond, VA January 2014 to November 2014 • Provided IT support for small to midsize businesses throughout the Richmond and North folk area.  • Manage and Administration of Summit's Windows domain infrastructure.  • Client and in house desktop support.  • Onsite support technician for clients.  • Desktop, Server, Firewall, Router, Mobile device, etc.  • On call support and administration Active Directory Migration technician - Contractor, Wells Fargo. Windows Migration Associate - Contractor Wells Fargo - Richmond, VA September 2013 to January 2014 • Assist in the migration of all desktop end points on Wells Fargo domain from XP - Windows 7.  • Assist in migration of all Windows Servers on Wells Fargo domain from Server 2003 - Server 2008.  • Work with Active Directory domain and Power Shell scripts to migrate users into respective OU's and domains. UNIX Security Analyst - Contractor Wells Fargo - Richmond, VA July 2013 to September 2013 • Identifying users that do not meet security requirements.  • Developing scripts to verify users on servers.  • Identify and assign owners of servers for compliance and ownership.  • Responsible for resolving over 14,000 compliance errors. IT Consultant Assistant Intuitive Solutions - Richmond, VA March 2008 to April 2013 • Ad-hoc assistance and consultant work in between School semesters.  • Set up user security, software configurations, and network credentials for desktop/laptop computers.  • Assisted Senior Network Administrator with Server installation and configuration.  • Relocation of servers, routers, switches, UPS, and other hardware as needed.  • Creating and installing network cables from server room to offices in specified building. Education B.S in Information and Computer Technology East Carolina University January 2009 to January 2013 Skills AWS, Oracle Cloud, IAAS, Datacenter Consolidation, Data Center to Cloud Migration, Vmware, Networking, Storage (SAN), Dev Ops Culture, Linux Administration, Windows Administration, Firewalls Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/brandon-lowry-6744586b Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associates July 2019 to July 2022 Credential ID: PRLZVCQCGF14QK5K