Vice President, Chief Information Security Officer Vice President, Chief Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Vice President, Chief Information Security Officer - Elevations Credit Union Denver, CO Work Experience Vice President, Chief Information Security Officer Elevations Credit Union - Boulder, CO August 2018 to Present Serve and advise the CIO and CEO Council on all matters regarding information security while promoting best in class industry practices. Direct a team of direct reports to develop strategies and operating models, conduct IT risk assessments, deliver program updates, and prepare reports. Manage all crises and security incidents, facilitate remediation as well as identify strategies to mitigate future incidents. Create, update, enforce, and uphold all information security policies and procedures. Oversee the development of business continuity and disaster recovery plans, audit, vendor management, and regulatory compliance practices to identify and mitigate risks. Ensure that all information security is in 100% compliance with Federal and State laws, regulations, and the Bank Secrecy Act.  • Provide instrumental support, thought leadership, and change agent ideas through recommendations in the analysis and discussion of security policies and standards and practices.  • Spearhead the development of and lead the organization's employee information security education and awareness programs.  • Successfully converted IT Risk with regard to PII data to an annual loss expectancy and real dollars lost as well as tied to enterprise risk areas of loss.  • Orchestrated the development of an information security department. Vice President, Chief Information Security Officer Chemical Bank - Troy, MI September 2015 to August 2018 Oversaw the development of strategy and the execution of all the bank's information security and compliance programs. Directed the information security governance processes. Managed the development and implementation of annual and long-range security and compliance goals as well as developed metrics and reporting procedures. Identified risks and opportunities for improvement and implemented maturity models and a roadmap for program improvements. Created and integrated policies and procedures related to security measures and data safety. Managed the Security Incident Response Team and all incidents and crises as they arose. Ensured compliance with all Federal and State laws and regulations.  Vice President, Chief Information Security Officer  Key Contributions:  • Significantly reduced regulatory and internal audit findings within acceptable risk appetite for the organization.  • Established an information security program as well as project priorities to govern the company's compliance program.  • Created a vulnerability management team and key risk indicators to determine performance; identifying, protecting, detecting, responding, and recovering from cyber threats and vulnerability tools Vice President, Senior IT Audit Supervisor Bank of America - Charlotte, NC March 2015 to September 2015 Advised on business practices and lead several projects and teams. Collaborated with senior business managers and cross-functional teams. Led the development and balancing of strategy with appropriate risk management controls. Collaborated and liaised with regulatory agencies, external consultants and other internal risk management groups.  Key Contributions:  • Developed and integrated a new audit strategy designed to apply risk-based practices by defining audit scope, audit program, review and test procedures.  • Remediated open audit findings and self-identified audit issues. Manager, IT Governance, Risk, and Compliance First Tennessee Bank - Memphis, TN February 2014 to March 2015 Collaborated with the CISO to develop and implement the IT Risk and Information Security Management policy standards, compliance procedure updates, ongoing IT risk assessments, and cybersecurity assessments. Managed the development and execution of the internal IT compliance testing program. Directed third party information technology vendor program. Managed the IT SOX framework key controls aligning business activities with SOX objectives. Ensured compliance with all regulatory requirements, and developed policies and standards to enforce compliance. Conducted thorough internal and external risk assessments for Enterprise Technology Interface with Vendor Management to remain within Enterprise guidelines and managed Enterprise Technology compliance.  Key Contributions:  • Orchestrated the development and implementation of global security policy, standards, guidelines, and procedures; ensured the ongoing maintenance of security and employee education and awareness.  • Collaborated with technology and business teams and Enterprise Risk Management group to maximize the quality, integration, and effectiveness of the risk management program.  Professional Training Manager, IT Governance and Compliance Program Dell - Austin, TX March 2013 to February 2014 Senior Specialist, IT Governance and Compliance Electronic Arts - Austin, TX April 2011 to February 2013 Project Manager, IT Governance, Compliance Flagstar Bank - Troy, MI March 2007 to May 2007 Project Manager, IT System Analyst Ford Motor Company - Dearborn, MI February 2002 to March 2007 Education PhD in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity Capella University Master's Degree in Management Information Systems in Business Walsh College - Troy, MI Links http://linkedin.com/in/cmandelaris Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) Driver's License