Asst. Director, Risk and Policy Management Asst. Director, Risk and Policy Management Asst. Director, Risk and Policy Management - Sony Corporation of America Fairfax, VA Work Experience Asst. Director, Risk and Policy Management Sony Corporation of America - Herndon, VA January 2013 to Present • Lead centralized policy and risk management for all Sony Group Companies globally.  • Conduct end to end information security risk assessment of third parties, applications, networks, projects and business processes.  • Establish and support risk management and governance strategy and processes to ensure internal and third party risks  are identified and managed within Sony Group Companies in a consistent manner.  • Work with legal teams to approve security requirements in contracts.  • Revise and update i nformation security policies and standards to drive standardized governance structure across Sony  Group Companies (document policies and standards such as Vulnerability Management, Secure Software  Development, Incident Management, IT related security controls, Information Security Management system).  • Document and maintain mapping of policies to industry standards such as PCI, SANS, ISO 27001 and CSF.  • Track compliance to policies and standards and report on policy exceptions to Senior Management.  • Lead implementation of GRC tool by defining business requirements, documenting questionnaires, testing and performing data migration.  • Conduct training on risk assessments, ISMS and policies for risk assessors, business, IT, legal and other stakeholders.  • Consolidate and report on information security risk and ISMS metrics to Senior Management to facilitate well  informed business decisions.  • Conduct ISO 27001 internal audits and assist Sony Group Companies with ISMS implementation and identification of critical assets. Information Security Risk Analyst MODIS October 2011 to January 2013 • Developed, documented and maintained the third party risk management program.  • Conducted information security risk assessment of third parties and participated in contract reviews.  • Worked with technology and business teams to facilitate ISO 27001 assessments.  • Documented annual World Bank risk report to provide Senior Management visibility into existing and emerging risks.  • Documented and maintained risk register to provide consistency in risk reporting. IT Operational Risk Analyst II, Technology Risk Office Fannie Mae - Reston, VA May 2010 to October 2011 Led and conducted IT risk assessments for applications, end user computing systems and business processes.    1  • Implemented BWise for risk assessments by defining business requirements, testing and partnering with Enterprise  Risk Management (ERM) in rollout of the tool.  • Consolidated risk data for metrics and trending and presented the metrics to relevant stakeholders.  • Managed and maintained risk profile/control framework alignment to industry standards (including COBIT, COSO, ITIL  and ISO27001) and internal IT policies.  • Participated in working groups to document IT policies and procedures. IT Operations Risk and Compliance - Technology Risk Lead Fannie Mae - Herndon, VA November 2009 to May 2010 • Led and conducted RCSA-T (Risk Control Self Assessment-Technology) of applications for HCD (Housing and Community Development) department.  • Worked as a liaison between audit/SOX teams and IT teams to ensure closure of audit findings in a timely manner.  • Generated and produced ad hoc reports related to risk and compliance for relevant stakeholders. IT Operations Risk and Controls Associate J.P.Morgan Chase - Mumbai, Maharashtra February 2007 to July 2009 Co-ordinated and conducted end to end SOX testing i n Global Finance Technology team. Role required planning, testing, documenting, communicating, tracking and closing noncompliance for all in -scope SOX applications across J.P.  Morgan Chase globally.  • Ensured that compliance gaps within the Global Finance Technology team are being appropriately identified and investigated by conducting Control Self Assessments and reviewing adequacy of compensating controls.  • Acted as a single GRC point of contact for a team of 150 plus to ensure effective interpretation and uniform  implementation of IT standards by the teams.  • Generated, analyzed, reported and presented on metrics and trending on risks, control gaps, vulnerabilities, change  and incident management. Software Programmer and Project Leader Tata Consultancy Services - Mumbai, Maharashtra October 2002 to February 2007 Managed end to end development and deployment of business solutions on technology platforms such as Oracle, Business Objects, SQL, DB2, Lotus Scripts for Financial Services companies as below:  o Swiss Re Insurance, India;  o Genworth Financial, Ireland;  o Genworth Mortgage Insurance, India ; and o Clearing Corporation of India Limited (CCIL), India  • Performed project management related activities and implemented all phases of SDLC from planning through implementation and post-implementation.  • Performed GRC function such as metrics, internal audits, and business continuity plans and policy/procedures  documentation. Education Bachelor's Skills Risk Management, Governance, Compliance