IT SECURITY AUDIT/ COMPLIANCE ANALYST <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> AUDIT/ COMPLIANCE <span class="hl">ANALYST</span> IT SECURITY AUDIT/ COMPLIANCE ANALYST - X-CELLENTSOFT SOLUTIONS CORP Fayetteville, NC Looking for a satisfying and challenging positions that will enable me build on the considerable skills I have already developed to meet customers' needs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT SECURITY AUDIT/ COMPLIANCE ANALYST X-CELLENTSOFT SOLUTIONS CORP March 2019 to Present • Demonstrate good judgment in evaluating the results of audits and in developing and presenting remediation solutions where control weaknesses and root cause have been identified.  • Review internal security and compliance IT security policies / ensure compliance with scheduled testing, reviews, re-testing and corrections.  • Manage the productions Servers/databases Access control testing and remediation  • Assess risks and internal controls by identifying areas of non-compliance, evaluating manual and automated processes, identifying process weaknesses and inefficiencies.  • Using ACL to pull data for audit  • Pull data from MSSQL Server, Test/ audit data/ platform. For privileged users/ Terminations/ New hire certification process/ Configurations/ Provisioning/ compliance etc  • Maintain current inventory of IT equipment/ Infrastructure, IT data architecture diagrams, work flows and data mapping.  • Test servers for build compliance and regulations( Updates/ compatibilities)  • Create tracker to track changes request and remediation  • Create Identity Access governance Process & workbook for audit requirement.  • Prepare documents for IAM governance (Application -Process)  • Test Controls in accordance with risk control matrix (RCM)  • Ensures compliance with regulations and controls / examining and analyzing records, reports, operating practices, and documentation;  • Design and interpret audit matrix/ document findings/ respond to queries  • Maintain and monitor all security logs in accordance with policies and procedures and take appropriate actions for reporting and follow-up.  • Review vulnerability and penetration scans; document follow-up activities with respect to identified vulnerabilities, maintaining proper reports and logs of resolution. IT AUDITOR/ COMPLIANCE ANALYST METLIFE - Cary, NC April 2018 to January 2019 • Test compliance with regulations and Access control  • Perform general controls oversight and review to verify compliance with SOX provisions and professional standards.  • Ensure audit tasks are completed accurately and within established timeframes  • Working with vendors to determine remediation plan  • Demonstrate good judgment in evaluating the results of audits and in developing and presenting remediation solutions where control weaknesses and root cause have been identified.  • Manage the productions Servers/databases Access control testing and remediation  • Conduct complex risk-based internal audits consistent with auditing standards and professional practices.  • Produce a high quality end-product that clearly documents the audit work performed, which meets or exceeds the division standards while adhering to schedules and deadlines.  • Assess risks and internal controls by identifying areas of non-compliance, evaluating manual and automated processes, identifying process weaknesses and inefficiencies.  • Using ACL to pull data for audit  • Pull data from MSSQL Server, Test/ audit data/ platform. For privileged users/ Terminations/ New hire certification process/ Configurations/ Provisioning/ compliance etc  • Random sampling for Active Directory user accounts certification and re certification  • Sending findings to stake holders/ raise change request and escalate where necessary  • Create tracker to track changes request and remediation  • Create Identity Access governance Process & workbook for audit requirement.  • Prepare documents for IAM governance (Application -Process)  • Test Controls in accordance with risk control matrix (RCM)  • Communicates audit progress and findings. Ensures compliance with regulations and controls / examining and analyzing records, reports, operating practices, and documentation; recommending opportunities to strengthen the internal control structure  • Design and interpret audit matrix/ document findings/ respond to queries    Work Experience:. IT AUDITOR/ COMPLIANCE ANALYST X-CELLENTSOFT SOLUTIONS CORP May 2016 to March 2018 • Test compliance with regulations and Access control  • Debugging and scanning software, test data  • Perform general controls oversight and review to verify compliance with SOX provisions and professional standards.  • Liaise between in-house managers/ IT department  • Ensure audit tasks are completed accurately and within established timeframes  • Demonstrate good judgment in evaluating the results of audits and in developing and presenting remediation solutions where control weaknesses and root cause have been identified.  • Manage the productions databases including performance tuning, SQL Server clustering, database security configuration, and SSIS packages.  • Conduct complex risk-based internal audits consistent with auditing standards and professional practices.  • Produce a high quality end-product that clearly documents the audit work performed, which meets or exceeds the division standards while adhering to schedules and deadlines.  • Assess risks and internal controls by identifying areas of non-compliance, evaluating manual and automated processes, identifying process weaknesses and inefficiencies.  • Work collaboratively and independently on special assignments  • Review the appropriateness of internal control design.  • Determine compliance with regulatory requirements, auditing standards and Company's policies and procedures  • Verbally communicates findings to senior management and draft comprehensive and complete report of audit area.  • Comply with Company, Division and Professional ethical standards.  • Install, configure and implement SQL Server 2008r2-2012-2014; databases for mission-critical business  • Troubleshoot databases and custom application issues  • Create stored procedures, triggers, views, indexes, and functions for databases.  • Work with end users to define, implement, and maintain their reporting requirements.  • Jobs scheduling ; using SQL Server Agent  • SQL Server Audit and Actual Execution plan  • Perform DBA duties including: database backups, restores, performance tuning, and capacity analysis  • Install, Migrate, databases from 2008r2-2012-2014  • Manage the productions databases including performance tuning, SQL Server clustering, database security configuration, and SSIS packages. SQL SERVER DBA / IT AUDITOR TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES March 2012 to 2016 • Use SQL Profiler for troubleshooting, monitoring, optimization of SQL Server and SQL  • Manage Transactional ( Drop/ Create/ reinitialize) Using Replication  • SQL Server Audit and Actual Execution plan  • Perform DBA duties including: database backups, restores, performance tuning, and capacity analysis  • Install, Migrate, databases from 2000- 2005- 2008r2-2012-2014  • Develop, modify, and optimize stored procedures, triggers to handle business rules and history data  Manage the products and development databases including performance tuning, SQL Server clustering, database security configuration, and SSIS packages.  • Install, configure and implement SQL Server 2005/ 2008r2-2012-2014; databases for mission-critical business  • Troubleshoot databases and custom application issues  • Create stored procedures, triggers, views, indexes, and functions for databases.  • Work with end users to define, implement, and maintain their reporting requirements.  • Participate in the creation, modification and maintenance of database structures.  • Jobs scheduling ; using SQL Server Agent  • Manage database users and security: Assigning users to data bases and determining the proper security level for each use; also assign permission to the various database objects such as, Tables, Views, and stored procedures  • Have Knowledge of "CLOUD" computing, IT Security and QA  • Third party tools Tivoli {TDP Backup ); TSM, SCOM; Remedy; Service Now; Sales Force  • Internal IT Auditor: working with server build team as QA and internal controls auditor.  • Test compliance with regulations and Access control  • Performed general controls oversight and review to verify compliance with SOX provisions and professional standards.  • Liaised between in-house managers/ IT department/ Sever build team.  • Participated in and provides technical support for application reviews of company automated systems  • Coordinated with IT department and external auditors during SOX IT testing.  • Ensured audit tasks are completed accurately and within established timeframes. SUPERVALU - Boise, ID March 2012 to 2016 DEX MEDIA DALLAS TEXAS SQL SERVER DBA TARGET - Minneapolis, MN February 2010 to March 2012 • Use SQL Profiler for troubleshooting, monitoring, optimization of SQL Server and SQL code  • SQL Server Audit and Actual Execution plan  • Perform DBA duties including: database backups, restores, performance tuning, and capacity analysis  • Generate the weekly, monthly, and quarterly report by using SQL Reporting Services  • Develop, modify, and optimize stored procedures, triggers to handle business rules and history data  Manage the products and development databases including performance tuning, capacity planning, SQL Server clustering, database security configuration, and SSIS packages.  • Design and implement SQL Server 2005 databases for mission-critical business  • Troubleshoot databases and custom application issues  • Work with end users to define, implement, and maintain their reporting requirements.  • Participate in the creation, modification and maintenance of database structures.  • Write, evaluate , stored procedures and scripts for maintenance and reporting purposes  • Manage database users and security: Assigning users to data bases and determining the proper security level for each use; also assign permission to the various database objects such as, Tables, Views, and stored procedures  • Demonstrate an understanding of database Objects and application database components (e.g. triggers, functions, packages)    Set point consultancy, 02/2009 - 01/2010  SQL Server DBA  • Configure the physical design of the database by implementing OFA compliance that suites both OLTP and Data warehouse applications.  • Work with a team of 5 other Database Administrators, 4 developers and 2 application vendor consultants to ensure quality deliverables to our clients.  • Manage database users and security: Assigning users to data bases and determining the proper security level for each use; also assign permission to the various database objects such as, Tables, Views, and stored procedures.  • I have successfully engaged in various DR (Disaster Recover) efforts for my customers.  • Configured various logical database structures such as table spaces to store application objects and rollback segments for transaction processing..  • Transferring Data: Importing and exporting to and from SQL Server; Managing and setting up replication.  • Designed the backups and recovery strategies for SQL SERVER databases to meet our customer SLA requirements.  • Managed the entire database environment visibility and accountable for every database decision made to upper level management. SQL Server DBA February 2009 to January 2010 • Configure the physical design of the database by implementing OFA compliance that suites both OLTP and Data warehouse applications.  • Work with a team of 5 other Database Administrators, 4 developers and 2 application vendor consultants to ensure quality deliverables to our clients.  • Manage database users and security: Assigning users to data bases and determining the proper security level for each use; also assign permission to the various database objects such as, Tables, Views, and stored procedures.  • I have successfully engaged in various DR (Disaster Recover) efforts for my customers.  • Configured various logical database structures such as table spaces to store application objects and rollback segments for transaction processing..  • Transferring Data: Importing and exporting to and from SQL Server; Managing and setting up replication.  • Designed the backups and recovery strategies for SQL SERVER databases to meet our customer SLA requirements.  • Managed the entire database environment visibility and accountable for every database decision made to upper level management. Education Diploma in MARKETING KANO STATE POLYTECNIC Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, SQL, STORED PROCEDURES, Active Directory, Security, testing, Microsoft Office, Sharepoint Additional Information Skills Summary:  • IT Audit: Internal controls in-house auditor for Windows Environment/ Unix/ LENOX  • Member of IAM Governance program  • Ensures adherence to IAM policies, and proper management of access controls in order to improve enterprise integrity  • Supports and coordinates compliance activities in partnership with audit  • Govern provisioning and de-provisioning, certification processes  • Proactively identify and remediate policy violations  • Educate business on proper adherence of IAM policy  • Test, Change Management/ Access control/ IT Operations  • Perform Walkthrough and detailed testing  • Writing, debugging, and tuning Transactional SQL, ETL and stored procedures  • SQL Server database physical model creation and implementation (data type, indexing, table design)  • Setting up and administering SQL Server Database Security environments using Profiles, database Privileges and Roles.  • Database maintenance, Automatic failover cluster/ Mirroring/ Always On High Availability  • System database migrations and maintenance  • Database administration including installation, configuration, upgrades, capacity planning, performance tuning, backup and recovery in managing clusters of SQL servers    Operating systems: Windows Server /2003/2008/2012/2014/2016/ UNIX/ LENOX  Audit Software: IDEA, ACL, Quest change auditor, Symantec, Guardium/Salepoint(Access Central); Service now, IDM, CPAM, CyberArk, Excel, One drive, Box