Sr. Mgr., Lead Info. Security Mgr. - Cyber Risk Sr. Mgr., Lead Info. <span class="hl">Security</span> Mgr. - Cyber Risk Sr. Mgr., Lead Info. Security Mgr. - Cyber Risk - TIAA Charlotte, NC Work Experience Sr. Mgr., Lead Info. Security Mgr. - Cyber Risk TIAA - Charlotte, NC March 2018 to Present Responsible for leading and creating a complex matrix GRC team responsible for the oversight of the IT Policy and Standards, Authoritative Source Mapping, Issue Management, Cybersecurity Governance, and Cyber Risk Management Quantification for IT to provide return-on-investment analysis to reduce risk and close vulnerabilities. The cybersecurity model is built upon FAIR, NIST CSF, and CIS Top 20 Controls. In addition to leading a first line of defense team for enterprise technology, I am directly responsible for program oversight of the IT Risk Register within RSA Archer, and leading the annual Risk and Compliance Self-Assessment for each business area within technology in coordination with Enterprise Risk Management. Program oversight of IT Risk Catalog and causal taxonomy, identifying control inventory and key controls supported by authoritative sources as well as industry best practices. Report to executive leadership on risk appetite, control environment valuation, various KRIs/KPIs/KCIs, and act as a subject matter expertise on committees related to operation risk, model risk management, risk assessments, cloud security, and innovative technologies. Engage various business segments to align strategic risk decisions for strategic planning, identity and access management, 3rd party management, compliance, threat and vulnerability management, and data privacy.  ? Oversaw the development of agent based data model using FAIR to simulate virtual penetration testing.  ? Enhanced control, security, and risk programs specific to FFIEC, NIST CSF, FAIR, CIS Top 20/RAM, ISO2700x.  ? Developed enterprise control and risk frameworks based on cybersecurity/ IT governance frameworks such as NYDFS, FFIEC, GDPR, GLBA, SOX, NIST, SANS, ISO, etc.  ? Manage matrix teams of Managers, FTEs, CWs, and International resources team responsible for supporting Cyber Risk Governance and Management. IT Governance Manager American International Group (AIG) - Charlotte, NC August 2016 to March 2018 Responsible for IT Enterprise Governance program oversight, risk assessments and audit/regulatory examination engagements. Led internal audit and regulatory (State & Federal, EMEA, APAC/Japan), and SOX/SOC1/2 examinations for Technology and Information Security Offices. Developed relationships with international compliance stakeholders resulting in an expansion of regulatory and data privacy (GDPR) oversight for EMEA, and APAC/Japan within Q4 2016. Developed information security risk assessments, control testing programs, and management action plans to remediate findings in order to ensure proper alignment with strategy. Successfully led program to bring firm into compliance with NYDFS in Q2 2017 as well as led compliance programs focused on enterprise IT Business Continuity, information / cybersecurity action plans resulting from MRAs, UK Cyber Essentials Plus, and SEC/OCIE cybersecurity guidelines.  ? Program Management and Development of AIG's IT Resolution and Recovery ("Living Will") Business Continuity Plan to be compliant with Dodd Frank.  ? Developed control and risks mappings based on cybersecurity/ IT governance frameworks such as NYDFS, FFIEC, GDPR, GLBA, SOX, NIST, SANS, ISO, etc.  ? Co-Developed an information security threat assessment strategy with a focus on mitigating enterprise cyber threats and developing a compensating controls framework.  ? Spearheaded Programs/Projects in excess of $10MM up to $25MM.  ? Established an enterprise-level governance forum across all Operational/Technology Risk functions, Legal & Compliance, Information Security, and Operational COO's.  ? Manage a team of 4 FTEs responsible for supporting the GRC function. Operational Risk Consultant - Enterprise Information Technology Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC July 2015 to August 2016 Management of multiple engagements in an agile environment for assessing the IT control environment, assessing compliance with IT COSO (SOX/SOC) policies for IT controls related to financial reporting. Managed multiple simultaneous horizontal IT and Operational regulatory review engagements. Expert in the use of data models for audit engagements specific to data integrity / security, information security, and IT application assessments. Create corrective action plans targeting governance around IT compliance, and control testing of IT infrastructure.  ? Accountable for process improvement through the use of data models to identify and implement application testing automation.  ? Developed continuous monitoring programs for SOX/SOC reporting, IT control programs, and automation of data integrity testing. DA Audit Leader Internal Audit / Wholesale June 2013 to July 2015 Experienced lead auditor of complex financial, information technology, and operational internal audit engagements on Wells Fargo Wholesale Capital Markets and Treasury operations. Areas of subject matter expertise in data privacy, data analytics, regulatory governance and compliance, and industry best practices based on ISO 2700X, COBIT, and COSO. Applied project leadership, in an agile environment, through training of staff, tracking deliverables, and budget management.  ? Direct experience with regulatory coverage specific to Basel, BSA/AML Dodd-Frank, FINRA, SEC, SOX/SOC1/SOC2, and Volcker Act.  ? Provided analytical training to staff for ACL, SQL. Financial Investigator Department of Justice - Charlotte, NC May 2011 to June 2013 Lead investigator in state/federal civil / criminal white-collar crimes specific to BSA/AML, Identity Theft, Healthcare Fraud, Money Laundering, and Tax Evasion fraud resulting in a 100% conviction rate. Testified as an expert prosecution witness in US Federal and NC State grand jury's, and jury trials for both criminal and civil prosecutions. Regulatory expertise specific to HIPAA, BSA/AML, IRS / Tax Evasion, False Claims Act, Anti-Kickback, and Off-Label Marketing.  ? Expertise in forensic accounting, and cyber forensics (i.e. EnCase).  ? Extensively trained by the North Carolina and US Department of Justice in interview and interrogation techniques, forensic analysis, and evidentiary discovery. Auditor Wilkinson Insurance Services - Charlotte, NC October 2009 to May 2011 Conduct financial audits of Small to Medium size business across the southeast. Report findings, operational changes, insurance claim information, and changes in risk exposure to carrier.  ? Report compliance with NAIC/AIA and ensure alignment to GAAP. Credit Analyst Auto Now Acceptance Co - Portsmouth, NC May 2006 to August 2008 Responsible for the interpreting, processing and review of financial statements for asset backed consumer lending. Developed portfolio trending analysis for forecasting based on 30/60/90 days for delinquent accounts, and offer products to consumers to address delinquency. Collaborate with legal and marketing teams to develop various KPIs and drive portfolio strategy.  ? Consistently exceeded sales and lending goals through communications.  ? Maintain compliance with KYC.  ? Responsible for processing legal documentation on repossessed collateral on 180+ day delinquent accounts. Education Master of Professional Science in Information Science Penn State University Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Shawnee State University Skills Cobit, Information security, Iso, Itil, Nist, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Rsa, Vba, Sas, Tableau, Factor analysis, Audit, Strategic planning, Accounting, Program management, Collection, Quantitative, Risk assessments, Network Security, Siem, Cyber Security, It Security, Cybersecurity, Information Assurance, Cissp, Risk Management Certifications/Licenses Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE) Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) Additional Information Core Competencies    GRC Expertise IT Risk Assessments Cyber Risk  Regulatory Compliance Quantitative Risk Modeling Issue Management  Fiscal Management Program Management Strategic Planning    Skills and Expertise  ? Analytical Models - ACL, VBA/Excel, Access, Tableau, MySQL, SQL Server, and SAS  ? GRC Expertise in RSA Archer.  ? Value-at-Risk Models - Factor Analysis of Information Risk (FAIR), CyberVAR, PCAR  ? IT Risk Assessments - Factor Analysis of Information Risk (FAIR), MITRE ATT&CK, MITRE Threat Assessment & Remediation Analysis (TARA), OCTAVE, NIST CSF, and CIS.  ? Expertise in forensic accounting, eDiscovery /evidence collection, and computer forensics.  ? Expertise in continuous audit monitoring models, and audit program creation.  ? Expertise in information security frameworks such as ISO, NIST, CIS/SANS Top 20, COBIT, ITIL.