Senior IT Security Governance Analyst Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Governance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Senior IT Security Governance Analyst - WellCare Pinellas Park, FL Senior IT Professional with a background in Information security, governance, risk, and compliance. Work Experience Senior IT Security Governance Analyst WellCare - Tampa, FL February 2016 to Present • Serve as subject matter expert in the development, implementation and maintenance of information technology Security Governance related projects and IT controls that are required to safeguard and manage.  • Project manager responsibilities including managing business owners to ensure security risk assessments, Questionnaires, and deliverables are submitted on time.  • Create, maintain, and manage IT operation governance guidelines. Procedures and IT frameworks.  • Manage the development of key operational strategies for information Security and Management Action plans.  • Evaluate, design, implement and monitor IT Security operational projects and controls including SOX, NIST framework, PCI Controls, and HIPAA Hi-Tech controls.  • Ensure operational compliance with all applicable laws and regulations impacting the company.  • Collect and correlate security metrics from various operational IT programs  • Perform and investigate database activity monitoring by identifying excessive failed logins.  • Third party vendor Risk Assessments and Audit and experienced in examining the SOC1, SOC2 - Type 2 Report, SSAE 16 Audit report.  • Used SailPoint for Identity Management and also user integrations with LDAP like Active Directory  • Vendor risk assessments validating IT controls as per Industry standards, 3rd party and internal audits.  • Participates in the compliance monitoring of all third-party vendors and assist in answering privacy and security related inquiries from clients.  • Act as a liaison & SME for internal departments & vendors to successfully manage third party risk Assessments (HIPAA One, EQRO, IPRO, ISCAT, IT Exams, Security interviews/questionaries')  • Manage the implementation of IT Infrastructure's corrective management action plans, (Attack & Pen testing, Information security, IAM, Oracle Database, Patch Management, & IT Cloud Exposure)  • Manage external audits by coordinating the development strategies to efficiently and effectively mitigate risks identified.  • Facilitate the identification and assessment of technology risks to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of operational IT internal controls Auditor II Patriot National, Inc May 2015 to April 2016 • Ensured the proper risk classification and exposure basis identification.  • Communicated results to Insurance carrier in a timely manner make classification recommendations and notify of any underwriting alerts.  • Examined financial records such as payroll registers, quarterly 941's/SUTA's, General Ledgers, Sales ledgers  • Discussed issues and problems with the insured to ensure understanding of the change in premium.  • Managed assigned geographical territory.  • Performed DME Medicare supplier onsite inspections on behalf of; Palmetto GBA, National Clearing house, and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) IT Security Business Analyst UnitedHealth Group - Oldsmar, FL October 2015 to February 2016 • Identify and assess risk associated with third party vendor relationships  • Communicate identified risks to key stakeholders to drive/initiate risk remediation  • Assist with third party audits  • Ensure information security compliance with external regulations  • Worked concurrently on several projects, each with specific instructions from project to project  • Performed report analysis, review, and compile data regarding IRS filing data  • Perform network vulnerability scans and security assessments. Regulatory Compliance Manager TMG - Metro - Atlanta, GA February 2014 to April 2015 • Managed internal and external schedules for all regulatory compliance requirements per NCQA, HEDIS, CMS and, other regulatory agencies.  • Responsible for communicating to regulatory agencies and ensuring on-time submissions.  • Coordinated with relevant departments and staff to perform required regulatory tasks.  • Wrote, reviewed, and audited Standard operating procedures for multiple business units  • Performed internal process audits and prepared/reviewed corrective action plans associated with Quality & Compliance audits.  • Ensured internal operations are compliant with all regulatory product line requirements.  • Responsible for establishing guidelines and procedures to ensure regulatory compliance.  • Responsible for preparation and facilitation of annual HIPAA and FWA training.  • Provided employee training on compliance related topics, policies, or procedures.  • Responsible for managing the breach process  • Communicated compliance requirements and sent security reminders to staff and initiate annual policy reviews  • Responsible for timely and accurate regulatory reports and documentation. Program Integrity Audit Specialist Northstar Healthcare Consulting - Alpharetta, GA June 2012 to January 2014 • Conducted onsite audits on behalf of GA Department of community health ensuring compliance with HIPAA, federal and state regulations and guidelines, CMS and other third party payer billing rules, and OIG compliance standards.  • Planned and directed audits to evaluate the adequacy and accuracy of documentation in support of services billed, including ICD-9/HCPCS, medical necessity of services, reimbursement overpayments and underpayments, and compliance, coding and billing standards.  • Analyzed patient claims data reports to identify fraud and abuse.  • Ran claims data through proprietary queries to find patterns, anomalies, errors, and potential fraudulent activity. Provide processes to monitor, review, report, and resolve potential fraud and abuse situations identified.  • Assisted pharmacy director within OIG's Special investigation unit by identifying further opportunities found during the audit process including provider education, policy review, and potential suggested system revision.  • Served as an institutional subject matter expert and authoritative resource on interpretation and application of Policy and procedures on detected compliance deficiencies.  • Provided recommendations and updates approved for GA DCH policy and procedures manual for durable Medical equipment.  • Assisted program compliance director with pharmacy onsite and desk audits review of requested documentations and upload data to FTP site.  • Provided support for clinical services, managed care, and pharmacy departments.  • Produced and mail monthly surveys to randomly identified members to validate receipt of medications whose claims have been submitted by retail pharmacies through Medicaid pharmacy network.  • Assisted clinical services by gathering and ensuring accuracy of data used in utilization review. Assign prior authorizations for review.  • Conducted administrative appeal reviews as part of the administrative review committee and report findings to the appropriate party. Field Premium Auditor Overland Solutions, Inc - Lawrenceville, GA January 2009 to April 2012 Visited insured's locations to audit relevant records (payroll, A/R, A/P, sales, & Vehicles) tour facilities and create description of operations, job site, and procedures.  Reviewed insured's business operations including examining, verifying and recording pertinent data specific to the insured's business.  Ensured the proper risk classification and exposure basis identification.  Communicated results to Insurance carrier in a timely manner make classification recommendations and notify of any underwriting alerts.  Examined financial records such as payroll registers, quarterly 941's/SUTA's, General Ledgers, Sales ledgers  Discussed issues and problems with the insured to ensure understanding of the change in premium.  Managed assigned geographical territory.  Performed DME Medicare supplier onsite inspections on behalf of; Palmetto GBA, National Clearing house, and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). Compliance Specialist Builders Insurance Group - Atlanta, GA June 2006 to January 2009 Maintained credit incentive factor for quality data reporting while company experienced system issues.  Generated queries daily to obtain policy and monthly unit stat reports via SQL Server and AS/400 to upload policy and unit stat data to NCCI via DCA.  Monitored and reported NCCI & ISO updates state regulatory, and statute changes.  Served as liaison and advisor for all internal departments in research and training in compliance related matters.  Reported and corrected policy, claim, and unit statistical data to NCCI (via DCA) and various State Bureaus.  Retrieved data from SQL Server and AS400 to create different financial reports used in FCOL reporting.  Evaluated statutory requirements for new states in which the company may conduct business.  Point of contact to resolve Department of Insurance disputes.  Facilitated compliance training for new hires and existing staff.  Conducted interviews for new hires within the compliance department.  Provided "best practice" recommendations to support the business that meet regulatory, ISO and NCCI guidelines.  Provided advice and guidance to ensure appropriate operating procedures and controls are in place  Submitted state rate and form filings electronically through SERFF  Coordinated state rate filings, conducted monthly file audits on underwriting and premium audit files, generated monthly rate filing reports, assisted with special projects and legal research as needed by General Counsel and Commercial Lines Departments. Education Master's in Management Information Systems NSU August 2018 to Present Bachelor of Science Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL Skills Audit, It audit, Information security, Security, Risk management, Active Directory, testing, Hipaa, HiTrust, Governance, GRC, Compliance