Incident Manager Incident Manager Incident Manager Littleton, CO • IT Army Veteran with proven civilian enterprise IT experience.  • 8 years of experience at National Geospatial Agency (NGA)  ? Technical team lead for project of 12 FTE  • Knowledgeable IT systems manager with 20+ years of overall IT experience and 14 years of experience designing, deploying, integrating, and maintaining 24/7 secure enterprise class solutions.  • Wide range of experience: System Administrator, Technical Team Lead, Control Account Manager, and Sr Cyber Security Analyst. Work Experience Incident Manager Comcast - Denver, CO March 2019 to May 2019 Brooksource, contract to Comcast  • Provide national response to outages and incidents for internet and television services. This includes streaming live TV and On Demand services.  • Dealing from VIP individual home units up to and including the three divisions within the Continental US.  • Clarify incidents, and troubleshoot to resolve issue Sr. Cyber Security Analyst Threat & Vulnerability Management Directorate (TVMD) - Denver, CO May 2018 to November 2018 Cyberworx, contract to Staples  • Technical Action Officer (AO) for Threat & Vulnerability Management Directorate (TVMD)  • Coordinated TVMD Director top five objectives, and followed up with all parts of the TVMD team to mitigate any roadblocks to projects or Directors objectives  • Provide outside perspective on Staples IT security posture and the TVMD direct projects (Splunk planning, overview of SSL-VPN, Incident response) System Administrator / IT Technician C Squared Computer Consultants - Denver, CO November 2015 to May 2018 • 75+ clients ranging from 1-30 systems, small business network, firewalls, and servers  • Regular maintenance of all client's networks and operations, tier 1-3 ticket handling  • Firewall requirement planning, sales, configuration, implementation, and maintenance  • Make recommendations and quotes for all appropriate improvements  • SharePoint consulting Computer Sales / Geek Squad Consultant Best Buy - Denver, CO 2014 to November 2015 • Consult with clients about their IT problems and provide solutions  • Intake, setup, repair, and return of Windows and Apple laptops System Admin / Team Lead SAIC - Springfield, VA 2006 to 2014 Control Account ManagerScience Applications International Corporation (SAIC) - contracts to National Geospatial Agency (NGA)  • Systems Integration Task Lead and Control Account Manager (CAM) on two control accounts (average of $2.5M labor and $3-5M material) for NGA Airborne contract ($15-25M annual), supervising fifteen team members.  • Lead a team of system engineers, software engineers, and system admins through the first successful Capability Maturity Model level 3 pilot implementation rollout within this SAIC Group.  • System administrator for live stream 100% ingest of Predator drone video into IT library and storage  • Oversaw and presented two data storage trade studies to NGA /Acquisition lead executive providing recommendation for specific system data storage solution that was accepted.  • Requested by name by NGA Airborne Program Manager to replace contract position leading all new airborne Wide Area Persistent Surveillance integration efforts into the legacy airborne data libraries and to plan and lead the replacement of those legacy systems.  • Identified new approach for high latency data transfers through vender contacts that increased our satellite data throughput by 50%.This approach was later adopted for similar situations in Iraq and Afghanistan by NGA Enterprise Engineering. Information System Manager US ARMY, 3rd Infantry Division, G6 Division Automation Management Office - Fort Stewart, GA 2000 to 2006 • Lead night shift tech support for the mobile Division Main Operation Center during Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) which included morning briefing to leadership of all levels up to Division Commander.  • Invited to represent the Army to work closely with Army contractors in designing, testing, and implementing the Army's first modular 2003 Domain with Exchange. Total time from concept to first fielding was ten weeks. This modular Division/Brigade design for 2003 Server was the first of its kind for deployment in field operations and was adopted as the new Army Standard for deploying units to OIF.  • Based on past performance and ability to deliver results unsupervised, chosen from 16 candidates to deploy four weeks in advance of the Division to setup and maintain a backup "hot" site for the 3rd Infantry Division's Secure Internet Protocol Routing Network (SIPRNET) in support of OIF (third rotation). This single Forest, single Domain, multi-site structure housed over 5,000 users. Skills Cyber security, Firewall, Siem, Splunk, Security, Life cycle, Sdlc, System engineering, Router, Vm, Configuration management, System integration, Systems development, Hyper-v, Red hat, Evm, Account management, Metrics, Risk assessment, Quality control Additional Information Skills    • Project Management, Cyber Security, Risk Assessment, Earned Value Metrics, Redundancy Planning, Quality Control Management, Configuration Management, Requirements Development and Tracking, Cost Benefits Analysis, IT System Engineering, System Integration, Cyber Security, and Control Account Management  • Control Account Scheduling, yearly and short term  • Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • 2 years Earned Value Management (EVM)  • WAN/LAN design and implementation of on premise, local client - Cloud processing and storage on demand as well as Cloud based Security as a Service  • Troubleshooting in a wide range of environments and job roles  • Plan and implement the transition of two legacy SIEM systems into Splunk  • Plan and implement Server VM baselines (Red Hat, Windows) (Hyper-V)  • Router/ Firewall configuration and baseline for security