Information Technology ( IT) Specialist, GS 13 Information Technology (<span class="hl">IT</span>) Specialist, GS 13 A detailed, dependable and organized IT professional with good interpersonal and customer serve skills and revels in problem solving and critical thinking. Hagerstown, MD Information Technology ( IT) professional with more than 7 years of experience in security access management/control, managing secure information systems, serving as an administrator for various IT information systems and SharePoint applications, serving as the alternate Information System Security Officer (ISSO), serving as the alternate OM Webmaster and SharePoint Site Owner and providing computer technical assistance. SharePoint 2010 and 2013 experience, strong oral and written communication skills.    A detailed, dependable and organized IT professional with good interpersonal and customer serve skills and revels in problem solving and critical thinking. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Technology ( IT) Specialist, GS 13 Department of Education - Washington, DC July 2012 to November 2017 Serve as the Office of Management (OM) SharePoint Enterprise Business Collaboration (EBC) Site Owner and as the OM SharePoint EBC Champion. Experience with SharePoint 2010 and 2013. The point of contact regarding the OM SharePoint site. The first line of communication between OM and OCIO (Office of the Chief Information Officer) for any SharePoint requests or issues.  ? Maintains SharePoint sites/sub-sites such as adding or removing users, controls user permissions within the site collection; stop the inheritance of permissions associated with users or groups from the top-level site to subsites.  ? Develop and manage the OM SharePoint site governance and serve as a security administrator; manage SharePoint user groups and access rights; demo teams sites created for teams and offices; assist and give direction to OM sub-site administrators; provide SharePoint support, training and coaching.  ? Provides SharePoint consultative support by participating in requirements gathering/analysis and development of out-of-the-box solutions for SharePoint sites. SharePoint Designer 2010 and 2013 experience and experience with creating custom workflows using SharePoint Designer, Visio Premium, etc.  ? Manage several IT development projects; designed, developed, and tested automated business processes using the SharePoint environment, including the ExchangED, ParkShare Program and the Executive Office's Travel Approval applications.  ? Perform SharePoint integration with other Microsoft Office applications, including MS Access Services, MS InfoPath Forms Services and Windows SharePoint Services integration.  ? Serves as the alternate Project Manager for the IT Investment, OM Employee Services Portal (OMESP), which resides on the SharePoint platform. Currently, five (5) Agency-wide SharePoint workflows reside on the Portal, including Exit Clearance, Telework, Tuition Reimbursement, Excellence in Government (EIG) Program and the Pathways to Leadership (PTL) Program. Assists the primary Project Manager with overseeing overall cost, schedule and performances of plans, technical criteria, and system technical requirements.    ? As a SharePoint Administrator and OMESP Administrator, identifies problems with the existing workflows using sound judgment and makes recommendations.  ? Serves as the COR on the Operations and Management (O&M) IT contract that supports the OM Employee Services (OMESP) Portal. Works with the respective Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) for each workflow to identify and document issues. Assigns, tracks and documents all work done by the vendor for all workflows.  ? As a COR, I have reviewed vendors PWS and IGCE; evaluated and rated vendor proposals; coordinated the kickoff meeting; performed administrative tasks by reviewing contractor resumes and submitting contractor security paperwork in order to clear a contractor; paying vendor invoices; and managing the budget.  ? Webmaster Team Lead - Experience with the Office of Management's (OM) content posting control flow process (connectED/Wiki) for Webmasters; experience with the review and approval of all enterprise and sub-site level content and overall administration to ensure adherence to the Department's connectED governance, Department policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines, including Section 508 Accessibility for Webmasters. Experience using TeamSite, the connect management system for ed.gov, to edit ed.gov web pages. Experience with HTML and Dreamweaver.  ? Develop surveys using the Survey Monkey platform, testing the surveys to ensure any logic was applied accurately, making the surveys 508 compliant by working with OCIO's Accessibility Center and creating survey reports at the request of the user.  ? Serve as the alternate Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO) for the Office of Management (OM); Ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information stored in the Department's OM information systems and ensure the information systems are in compliance with the information security policy, as an Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO); familiar with the phases of the Certification and Accreditation/ Security Authorization process; familiar with system life cycle phases and C&A documentation (for example, the Data Sensitivity Worksheet, the Risk Assessment, the System Security Plan, the Contingency Plan, etc.); ensure employees have completed all required IT Security training each fiscal year.  ? Makes recommendations and provide advice to the Assistant Secretary for Management (ASM) about effective use of innovative IT investments within OM which support the Department's overall mission.  ? Plan and implement IT investment management collaboratively between OCIO and across OM service areas. Management & Program Analyst Department of Education - Washington, DC April 2010 to July 2012 Member of the Office of Management's (OM) Information Technology and Investment Management Team (ITIM)  ? Ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information stored in the Department's Office of Management (OM) information systems and that the information systems are in compliance with the information security policy, as a back-up Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO). Ensure employees complete all required IT Security training.  ? Make recommendations and provide advice to the Assistant Secretary for Management (ASM) about effective use of innovative IT investments within OM which support the Department's overall mission.  ? Served as the Office of Management (OM) SharePoint Enterprise Business Collaboration (EBC) Site Owner and also serve as the OM SharePoint EBC Champion. As the OM EBC Champion, I am the main point of contact regarding the OM EBC site. I am the first line of communication between OM and OCIO for any SharePoint EBC requests or issues. As the OM EBC Site Owner, develop the SharePoint EBC governance, serve as a security administrator. Responsible for setting up and maintaining groups and permissions. Meet with and collect requirements (i.e., business needs, business processes and workflows) for sites. Demo sites created for teams and offices. Assist and give direction to OM sub-site owners/contributors. Plan and implement IT investment management collaboratively between OCIO and across OM service areas.  ? Supported Human Capital and Client Services (HCCS), the Human Capital and Information Services (HCIS) division by serving as an FPPS (Federal Personnel and Payroll System) system administrator and Security Point of Contact (SPOC) for FPPS and other HCIS information systems. Duties include set up new user accounts, reset passwords, troubleshoot user problems by working with the Department of Interior (DOI)/National Business Center (NBC), maintain current FPPS route paths, establish and maintain offices in FPPS, remove users accounts from FPPS, send out bi-weekly and monthly Datamart reports and respond to all customers and users in a timely manner. Also served as the lead for the FPPS User Access FY2011 revalidation project by collecting forms, organizing forms accordingly, and ensuring current users met all requirements to continue to have access to HCCS information systems, for example, FPPS, WTTS, EDHIRES, and eOPF. This required working with Department Executive Officers, HCCS, Personnel Security and current Department system users. The FPPS User Access revalidation project/effort also    provided evidence for the "A123 Internal Controls - OM Corrective Action Plan (CAP)" where evidence was submitted to OM's Chief of Staff where all controls were satisfied.  ? Supported and worked closely with the Project Manager with the implementing an Electronic Records Management System (ERMS) for the Department by attending all project meetings, creating a schedule of project deliverables and creating the proof of concept plan/pilot utilizing Microsoft Project and ensuring deliverables were completed in a timely manner by the contractors/vendors.  ? Supported the Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO), Information Assurance division for several months (Detail) by successfully entering, tracking and processing POA&Ms (Plan of Actions and Milestones). Ensured all POA&Ms were up to date in OVMS and assisted CSO's and Information System Owners in processing audit actions when needed. Met the requirements of Title III of the E-Government Act of 2002, the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), P.L. 107-347 in accordance with FY2011 OCIO which supports the Departments' Organizational Assessment Physical Security Specialist ADP - Washington, DC February 2006 to April 2010 System administrator over the Department's Physical Access Control system (PACS), which includes but is not limited to, access administration and account management.  ? Assure compliance to HSPD-12 requirement and all processes completed according to both Physical Security and Personnel Security standards prior to issuing Federal ID cards.  ? Member of the Department's identification transition team with direct input into the transition from the present ID/Access card to the new NIST SP 800-76/FIPS-201 compliant Federal Identification card.  ? Participate as a member of the Federal Computer Security Program Managers' Forum sponsored by NIST.  ? Experience with the management of identity information, credentials and securing access to buildings, networks, and IT systems  ? Maintain the Physical Access Control system's servers (4) and local workstations (6) and troubleshooting.  ? Ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information stored in the Departments' Physical Access Control system and that information systems are in compliance with the information security policy, as a Certified Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO).  ? Approve the granting or suspending of access to Department facilities and controlled spaces, certify current employment and maintain the DSX database system.  ? Validate current identification documentation, conduct fingerprint checks and assist Department of Justice (DOJ) with background investigations by means of electronic file transfer validating identification of applicants  ? Manage the system design, database and systems security, security policies, and the certification and accreditation (C&A) of the Departments Physical Access Control system.  ? Manage the Physical Access Control and support internal investigators, Office of the Inspector General, State and local law enforcement with criminal, civil, and administrative investigations by providing access and history reports, photographs, and digitally recorded CCTV. IT Specialist/Access Control Officer, GS Department of Education - Washington, DC February 2004 to February 2006 Managed the Department's Physical Access Control system, including systems design, physical operations, implementation of new systems, and preventative maintenance. Maintained the ID/Access Control system database, granting or suspending access to Department facilities and controlled spaces, and certifying current employment Participated in the design, development, and implementation of reporting on access control systems and managed the reporting procedures and processes of the Physical Access Control system, designing, scheduling, and providing  ? access reports for key Department personnel on critical and controlled access areas. Ran access and history reports utilizing the Physical Access Control System to meet the needs of the customer and security policy.  ? Member of the Department's identification transition team with direct input into the transition from the present ID/Access card to the new NIST SP 800-76/FIPS-201 compliant Federal Identification card.  ? Served as an Agency Technical Representative (ATR) assistant for Visitor Services at the Department, developed responsibilities, scheduled VIP visits, expedited entry procedures for group visits, VIP visitors, congressional members, and Dignitaries.  ? Assisted the Agency Technical Representatives (ATR) with visitor services activities; established and maintained continuous liaison with the Contracting Officer, Contracting Officer's Representative, and other FPS elements and building managers.    ? Asset Manager for Security Services, responsible for the stewardship, use, and control of all accountable property in accordance with departmental directives. Systems Analyst I Quasars, Inc - Washington, DC August 2002 to February 2004 Provided support to the Office of Management Security Services office at the Department of Education (ED)  ? Issued Departmental Identification cards to Education personnel, and contributed to the implementation of the new Department Identification card system within a three (3) month period to-approximately 6,000 employees and contractors, ensuring both security and access.  ? Controlled access to ED facilities utilizing the Physical Access Control system.  ? Ran access and history reports using the Physical Access Control system. Regression Tester, Summer Intern Verizon - Arlington, VA June 2001 to August 2001 Tested scripts, through automation and manual entry, to execute and validate all major functions within the Service Express Graphical User Interface (GUI) to ensure that new and existing functionality responded according to design requirements.  ? Utilized the Verizon Automated Testing Tool (VATT) for the purpose of testing scripts using automation, contributing to the team's completion of all testing deadlines. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bowie State University - Bowie, MD August 2002