IT Security & Privacy Consultant <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> &amp; Privacy Consultant IT Security & Privacy Consultant - IBM Denver, CO Work Experience IT Security & Privacy Consultant IBM - Boulder, CO April 2014 to Present Risk Management)  • Currently Identifying key security and privacy issues, risks, exposures and vulnerabilities within IBM and architecting secure solutions to mitigate those risks.  • Working with Program Managers and Architects across multiple teams, using an agile approach, to continuously refresh IBM's cybersecurity strategy.  • Managing cross-functional and cross-organizational risk assessment teams across multiple continents.  • Project manager of three different projects aimed at mitigating IBM's risk from social engineering attack,  managing a risk-aware culture, and presenting risk metrics to the board of directors.  • Created data model that tracked metrics of key risk indicators within IBM. Used pivots and models to report  key risks to executive team. Selected to give this presentation to C-level executives at IBM.  • Subject matter expert on risk created by employee behavior. Business Analyst IBM - Boulder, CO June 2012 to April 2014 Responsible for authoring requirements and test cases for all IBM Education project iterations.  • Authored IBM's training on agile project execution.  • Chosen as member of IBM's web design team actioned to revitalize a major internal website.  • Operate as team lead for achieving IBM's education content objectives and am held accountable that the resulting solutions are in compliance with IBM corporate strategy.  • Selected by Division Manager to present project portfolio progress to Directors. Research Associate National Valuation Consultants - Centennial, CO November 2010 to September 2011 Authored economic analysis reports relevant to commercial real estate appraisal/valuation.  • Completed 300+ research projects, helping lead to a doubling in client base.  • Publically recognized by COO for developing new process of data storage and retrieval.  • Requested by three clients that I personally conduct their research. Management Assistant Enterprise Rent-A-Car - Denver, CO September 2009 to November 2010 Ranked #1 Employee in Colorado for two consecutive months based on sales and customer service  performance.  • Managed night crew of 15 people who outsold the day shift by 30% due to my management techniques.  • As a result of consistent sales performance, earned opportunity to lead weekly training in "Sales School" for peers struggling to meet sales goals.  • Earned two promotions in first year with the company.  • Asked to manage Eagle Airport operation after 13 months with the company. The promotion would have made  me the second youngest manager in the area's history. Education Master of Business Administration in Accounting University of Denver, Daniels College of Business - Denver, CO September 2011 to August 2013 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/sethtempleton