Network/Operations Technical Support III - Event Manager Network/Operations Technical Support III - Event Manager Network/Operations Technical Support III - Event Manager - Capital One Bank Vienna, VA I have a strong personable character with a personality devoted to problem solving. With more than twenty years of IT work experience with roots in Systems Administration, and coursework in the computer sciences I can solve complex problems, and I provide 1st class service to customers while resolving varied levels of IT issues.    With a history of bringing high quality service to IT departments my most valuable assets are my drive to succeed, my ability to bring a positive attitude to any situation, my core ethic of working hard to achieve success, and my dedication to being attentive to the needs my customer.    I believe there is always room to grow excellence in service by learning the process that works best within organizations. I also believe in learning new methods along the way that save time, energy, and money while providing the best quality work possible Work Experience Network/Operations Technical Support III - Event Manager Capital One Bank - McLean, VA August 2018 to Present • I provide management for the support, availability, operation, and recoverability of production systems for Capital One Branch and Cafés. Responsibilities Include production control, problem management, event management, second and third level application production support.    • I provide specific event management duties and support of impactful events. Managing events and reporting on their status. I report on and I coordinate efforts when interruptions occur for Capital One Branch and Café locations.    • I work closely with technology teams to track events and ensure appropriate IT parties are involved, and that issues are resolved. I lead Branch and Café Teams towards a resolution goal by advising and making planned decisions involving the mitigation of customer impacts due to an event occurring. I track events by. reporting impacts, reporting resolutions, and date and time. I provide management reporting in clear concise communications with the project team and mid-level management. Tier 2 Service Desk Technician Ntiva - McLean, VA May 2017 to May 2018 • As a member of the service desk team provide escalation level technical support to hundreds of Ntiva clientele with a multitude of IT environments specific to each client with primary duties that include but that are not limited to answering incoming telephone calls to the Service Desk then creating Event tickets from those calls while simultaneously monitoring the Ntiva service board to make outgoing calls in response to escalated second tier support requests to resolve technical issues utilizing skills in the area of Windows Systems Administration, Local Area Network Administration, Wireless Network Administration, Email Administration, Computer Hardware Support, Software and Application Support, and deliver overall excellence in customer service and IT support.    • Duties include using skills to support Active Directory, Microsoft 2008-2012-2016 Servers, the Administration of Microsoft Office 365, Microsoft SharePoint, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Remote Desktop Servers, VMware vSphere VDI , Microsoft Hyper-V, Microsoft Windows 7-8-10 Operating Systems, Microsoft Office 2010-2013-2016 products, WatchGuard and SonicWALL firewalls, AppRiver Hosted email, AppRiver Spam Filter, Apple Mac computers, iPhone and Android mobile devices, DUO Administration for Dual Factor Authentication, and Profit Bricks hosted environments. Security & Systems Engineering Help Desk Specialist The Select Group - McLean, VA January 2017 to March 2017 • Contractor at beacon Roofing Supply and responsible for using LANDesk 2016 to patch computers across 360 branch locations throughout the United States. Create distribution groups and scheduled tasks for patch installs.  • Call and schedule installation of missing patches during days and times most convenient for the users  • Install Trend Micro end-point protection software on remote computers throughout network. IT Service Desk Representative April 2016 to August 2016 • Provide Tier I/II support at Customer Service Desk supporting HMS host systems throughout US and Canada.  • Promptly answer 50 inbound IT support calls from end-users daily, and minimize delays to reduce abandoned call rates  • Install, configure, modify, and repair hardware and software, and resolve technical issues using various diagnostic tools.  • Setup mobile devices and PC desktops and laptops.  • Manage call flow and respond to end-users' technical support needs; prioritize and document work using ticketing system Host HMS - Bethesda, MD April 2014 to August 2016 Infrastructure Systems Support Specialist April 2014 to August 2015 • Delivered direct client and call center support during HMS host exchange email migration project, including configuring and troubleshooting end-user accounts in Outlook 2010 from Exchange 2013, setting up user and group policies.  • Identified issues relating to Exchange migration using Cherwell, expeditiously resolved escalated tickets.  • Coordinating file transfers from field domain controllers to new server build outs, and monthly server system patching.  • Developed and implemented standard operating procedures for field server domain controller replacements.  • Incorporated PCI regulations compliance for VMware and server hardening  • Installed and secured Windows 2009 embedded POS on Micros Tablets for point of sales (POS) systems  • Managed VMware ESXi5.1 host builds to replace legacy field domain controllers throughout US and Canada.  • Built 40 servers using hardware upgrades and installed VMWare ESXi5.1, and corresponding virtual servers.  • Configured server DHCP scopes, DNS records and aliases for uninterrupted DC replacement, installed and configured IIS  • Created and modified Active Directory and Exchange user accounts. created and maintained existing distribution lists and shared mailboxes IT Support Fluid Management Systems, Inc - Watertown, MA June 2013 to April 2014 • Provided remote and onsite support to end-users on systems including Windows XP/7/8 and MS Office suite 2010/2013  • Implemented Team Viewer to remotely support end-user operating system and application issues.  • Set up firewall and router, VPN and client-to-gateway, firewall DHCP settings, Windows Server 2012 R2, and; managed networking digital video recorders using firewalled network.  • Established one-to-one NAT for external facing and internal non-routable IP addresses Hardware Help Desk Supervisor Affinity Network Solutions - Rockville, MD January 2012 to June 2013 • Manage Hardware Helpdesk team for all deskside IT related issues stemming from 1st Tier, 2nd Tier problem tickets.  • Create accounts in Active Directory and Exchange 2010 Server mailboxes.  • Administer Blackberry Server. Create accounts, distribute smart phones, and resolve Blackberry smart phone related issues  • Troubleshoot and resolve Windows XP and Outlook 2007 system performance related issues.  • Support Windows 7, Outlook 2010 Operating system.  • Participate in Firm computer refresh of end user computer system replacing XP with Windows 7. Help Desk Administrator CROfessionals - Warrenton, VA February 2011 to January 2012 • Manage IT Help Desk. Responsible for the maintenance of all IT and infrastructure related services  • Responsible for the setup, deployment, and administration of computer  • Administer Exchange 2010, SharePoint 3.0, and Blackberry Enterprise servers  • Create user accounts on Windows Exchange 2010 server  • Provide help desk for users in a Windows 7 Environment  • Setup and deployment and troubleshooting of smart phones and Blackberry's. Senior Systems Administrator Covance Laboratories - Vienna, VA February 2006 to January 2011 • Maintained problem ticket and Event management system for issues reported by end-users, vendors, and corporate IT departments.  • Resolved end user technical support incidents and acted as escalation point for the help desk team and senior IT Lead supervising that team.  • Administered Exchange servers and Active Directory, and supporting server infrastructure  • Adhered to change control and documentation procedures, and developed systematic instructions, back-out procedures, pre- and post-testing, technical details, and business impact of IT changes.  • Singlehandedly provided on-call Tier III/IV support on critical incidents in 24/7/365 -monitored environment supporting Infrastructure, network, and servers.  • Directed installation, repair, and maintenance strategy for Data Center, electrical power, backup generator power, AC units, and IT infrastructure-related projects.  • Worked with WAN and LAN engineers to install, troubleshoot, and repair routers, firewalls, switches, and compression appliances throughout the campus  • Controlled access to and maintained Data Center and IT infrastructure by monitoring and maintaining server systems, network core switches, routers, firewalls, and host client switches.  • Reduced IT footprint 25% through participation in IT Clean Sweep; achieved server reduction goals, and reduced  severity-one tickets for Northern Virginia offices.  • Outlined and documented process, and planned, coordinated, and implemented the retirement and migration strategy of multiple Novell file servers to Windows 2003 NAS storage server.  • Participated in Global Corporate Server remediation for two northern Virginia offices; planned, scheduled, and executed sever remediation by install monthly security patches, updates, and configured advanced SNMP hardware monitoring agents for uptime monitoring. Senior Technical Analyst III BRTRC - Fairfax, VA July 2000 to December 2006 • Responsible for the installation of servers, and allocation of existing servers for new web sites  • Created sites and databases on both IIS and SQL Servers. Closely worked with application and database programmers on maintaining and updating sites.  • Designed and administered the tape backup solution and disaster recovery strategy for 40 Windows servers. Solved daily backup errors and data recovery requests.  • Installed and administered security servers responsible for patch testing and anti-virus compliance.  • Patched servers and workstations weekly. Scheduled system patching and associated web and database server down time with contract managers, programmers, and user community  • Help desk coordinator responsible for overseeing the purchasing and installing of Windows workstation systems and providing support to end users, designers, and programmers.  • Made decisions on computing technology needs. Established payment terms with various vendors for corporate purchases of computer and technology equipment.  • Resolved computer, software, and network related issues for users.  • Introduced a plan to replace outdated analog phone system. Researched various phone systems and selected one capable of providing traditional PBX switch functions and future IP Telephony expansion. Negotiated a 35 % corporate discount.  • Oversaw the installation of phone system, cabling, phones, and PRI line.  Participated in the installation and migration to a Windows 2000 Active Directory from an NT domain  • Responsible for the group login policy creation, domain printer setup and installation, and rollover of user profiles from an NT domain to Windows 2000 domain. IT Support Analyst Synectics for Management Decisions June 1998 to September 2000 • Administrator Novell 4.11 Windows NT 4.0 & Windows 2000 Servers for the corporate office.  • Designed and installed Ethernet and Voice network and cabling for the Synectics corporate relocation.  • Provided Windows end user support to programmers, developers, statisticians and employees  • IT Contract project lead to the Developmental Schools Foundation for administration of a Novell and Windows Network. Included Ethernet Cabling installation, purchasing decisions, and user training and support for the Developmental Schools Foundation teachers, staff, and students.  • Participated in Contract project as Help Desk Analyst for the Department of Health and Human Services Y2K Sector help desk answering questions and distributing government contact information for Y2K related concerns. Computer Test Engineer International Data Products Inc January 1998 to June 1998 • Maintained test lab notebook and desktop assembly.  • Installed computer operating systems, software application and tested hardware compatibility.  • Documented work instructions to comply with ISO 9001 standards.  • Performed onsite personal computer hardware technical support for IDP customers. International Data Products Inc - Gaithersburg, MD July 1996 to June 1998 Quality Control Analyst International Data Products Inc July 1996 to January 1998 • Responsible for production line inspection to ensure quality of manufacturing process.  • Maintained final check inspection of personal computers, notebooks, and servers. Wrote technical reports on the performance of each unit. Education Computer Science Studies Southeastern University - Washington, DC Northern Virginia Community College - Sterling, VA