SENIOR IT SECURITY ANALYST SENIOR <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> <span class="hl">ANALYST</span> Charlotte, NC About Me  I am a professional who has worked in the IT business for over twenty years. For more than ten years, I worked in an enterprise environment, working in the cyber security organization for Duke Energy. I have a great understanding of cyber security standards, procedures and practices. I take immense pride in contributing to the resolution of complex IT issues in addition to cyber security issues and incidents. I’m always a team player and really enjoy contributing to solutions of the most critical IT problems.   While I have recently taken some time away from IT work, I am ready to return to the business and continue my career. Since leaving Duke Energy I have been working for myself renovating homes for friends and family. I enjoy fixing up homes, but the work is not steady enough to sustain the income I am used to. So, it’s time for me to get back to work in the IT industry. I really miss working in a team environment, learning new technologies and keeping my IT skills up to date. I look forward to getting back to what I do best.  IT Certifications  · Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer - MCSE – Windows NT - December 2000  · Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer - MCSE – Windows 2000 - January 2002  · Microsoft Certified Professional - MCP - August 2000  · Microsoft Certified Professional + Internet – MCP+I – December 2000  · Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator – MCSA – January 2002  · Microsoft MCP on Windows Applications with Visual Basic.Net – June 2003  · CompTIA A+ - May 2001  · CompTIA Network+ - March 2001  · CompTIA iNet+ - April 2001  · CompTIA Security+ - October 2003  · Cisco Certified Network Associate – CCNA – March 2001 (Currently Expired)  · Cisco Certified Design Associate – CCDA – June 2001 (Currently Expired)  · Cisco Certified Network Professional – CCNP – October 2001 (Currently Expired) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SENIOR IT SECURITY ANALYST DUKE ENERGY October 2005 to September 2017 • Provided tier three support for a complex enterprise Active Directory environment consisting of multiple forests, domains and trusts.  • Implemented AD delegations, tested and implemented GPOs, built dev/QA/test domains to mimic production environments, applied schema extensions, consulted on LDAP for various application teams,  • Worked on security related projects for legal day one planning and implementation for mergers of Duke Energy with Cinergy and Progress Energy.  • Consulted on security related topics during LD1 planning and implementation for the acquisition of Piedmont Natural Gas.  • Migrated users, groups, workstations and servers after mergers with Cinergy and Progress Energy.  • Participated in divesting cyber assets of DCP Spectra, Duke Energy International, DukeNet and several Midwest power generation assets.  • Provided substantial input on a successful three-year project to replace eleven in-house developed IAM tools with SailPoint Identity IQ.  • Provided tier three support for various Identity and Access Management tools and technologies.  • Served as the primary SME for RSA SecurID and all multi-factor authentication products including Azure MFA.  • Served as the primary SME for Total Privilege Access Manager (TPAM).  • Provided tier three support for the PKI infrastructure including all aspects of managing Microsoft Certificate Services, issuing, replacing and managing certificates across various platforms and applications.  • Provided tier three support for Single Sign-On technologies including AD FS and OKTA.  • Managed Centrify to log on to Unix and Linux servers using AD credentials.  • Had experience using Quest Migration Manager, Active Directory Migration Tool (ADMT) for various mergers, acquisitions and divestitures.  • Administered Microsoft Identity Integration Server (MIIS), later branded as FIM and MIM.  • Worked on projects moving to cloud services such as Azure, Office 365 and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Managed Group Policy Objects across multiple forests and domains.  • Supported and automated Windows, Linux, and Unix file system security.  • Administered several in-house developed tools used for IAM activities.  • Worked on a 24/7 on call rotation and frequently assisted with resolution of service disruption events and responded to cyber security incidents.  • Attended RSA Conference in San Francisco in 2013 and 2015. I returned and gave presentations to senior leadership around current cyber security trends and innovations.  • Provided usage and configuration reports to internal and external audit teams to ensure compliance with SOX, PCI-DSS, HIPAA, FERC and NERC CIP.  • Participated in yearly disaster recovery and BCP drills.  • Performed quarterly backup media testing for the apps my team supported.  • Evaluated and installed security patches every month for the apps my team supported.  • Created scripts using PowerShell and VBScript to perform bulk admin work. DIRECTORY SUPPORT ANALYST MICROSOFT 2004 to 2005 • Provided tier three support to Microsoft Premier Support customers.  • Resolved complex problems related to Active Directory in several large-scale enterprise environments.  • Provided troubleshooting and support for various directory services technologies such as replication, terminal services, PKI, lockouts, secure channel, SPNs, delegations, schemas, site configurations, more SENIOR IT MENTOR TECHSKILLS 2000 to 2004 • Mentored and coached over 600 students who have earned multiple IT industry certifications.  • Developed and implemented curriculum and lab activities for Cisco and Microsoft courses.  • Managed a team of 4 other mentor's day-to-day activities and scheduled their ongoing projects.  • Answered student's technical questions and resolved a wide variety of technical issues related to the student's hands-on networking and programming labs on a daily basis.  • Developed the branch processes and procedures for enrolling and educating students.  • Administered and documented the 600+ user LAN with 100% uptime for four years.  • Implemented and documented all group policies and security procedures within the LAN. OWNER /OPERATOR SELF EMPLOYED 1999 to 2000 • Started a part-time freelance computer repair business while going to school for my MCSE.  • Performed computer repairs, upgrades and networking jobs for several friends and referrals.  • Installed structured wiring in homes, including CAT5, Low-Voltage, Intercom, Cable, Speaker tech support contracts and network installations IT TECH 1996 to 1999 1996 - 1999  • Designed and built 300+ custom PCs and 30+ Windows NT based LANs for local businesses.  • Increased sales of new equipment, tech support contracts and network installations by 300%.  • Maintained all equipment inventories that were sold from this small computer repair shop.  • Provided customer service, repairs and tech support for PC, Apple and LAN equipment. MANUFACTURING TECH III DAY INTERNATIONAL 1990 to 1996 • Served on Safety Committee for 3 years, conducted audits and investigations in our manufacturing facility. Achieved a company record for no lost time due to an accident.  • Served on New Product Development Team for 2 years. Developed printing blankets for presses that are still the most durable with the best quality to this day.  • Led Quality Assurance Team in the most critical final area of production for 5 years.  • Assisted in developing and implementing new equipment to make manufacturing processes more efficient and provide the best possible quality. Education High school or equivalent Skills Active Directory (10+ years), RSA SecurID (10+ years), TCP/IP (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), AD FS (5 years), Okta (3 years), Windows Server - From NT to 2016 (10+ years), Windows Workstation - From 3.0 to Windows 10 (10+ years), Office 365 (4 years), MIIS (7 years), MIM / FIM (3 years), SailPoint IIQ (4 years), PKI (8 years), Quest Migration Manager (7 years), TPAM (8 years), VBScript (10+ years), Powershell (4 years), Group Policy Objects - GPO (10+ years), SOX Compliance (10+ years), FERC Compliance (10+ years), PCI Compliance (10+ years), NERC - CIP Compliance (4 years), security, testing, access, HTML, training Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer - MCSE – Windows NT December 2000 to Present Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer - MCSE – Windows 2000 January 2002 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional - MCP August 2000 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional + Internet – MCP+I December 2000 to Present Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator – MCSA January 2002 to Present Microsoft MCP on Windows Applications with Visual Basic.Net June 2003 to Present CompTIA A+ May 2001 to Present CompTIA Network+ March 2001 to Present CompTIA iNet+ April 2001 to Present CompTIA Security+ October 2003 to Present Assessments First Aid — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to identify treatments for common medical emergencies. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sbmsyniga68xsl9t Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/m8vxpry3p4th0aow Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient July 2019 Speaking clearly, correctly, and concisely. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dhoojxm0hgrhctxw Teamwork: Interpersonal Skills — Proficient July 2019 Resolving disputes, solving team problems, and understanding nonverbal cues. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yvofl9ugbxfwofqh Problem Solving — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fbl6tn0oxtjjpyqs Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.