Manager's Internal Controls Program Support Manager's Internal Controls Program Support Work Experience Manager's Internal Controls Program Support Arbola, Inc January 2019 to June 2019 * Performed duties related to the day-to-day operations of the Department of Navy MICP.  * Developed an understanding of correctly functioning General and BPAC controls.  * Evaluated/Audited controls at the TOD and TOE levels to ensure that they were operating as designed.  * Assisted in the planning and execution of a MICP to sustain FISCAM control Compliance.  * Conducted Validation Testing on the General Controls. Risk Advisory Senior Associate TWM Associates, Inc February 2018 to December 2018 * Assisted the Risk Advisory Staff Associate team with creating and writing FISCAM work papers.  * Reviewed and addressed the test results ready for review.  * Met with the audit team to review the audit findings.  * Worked with the audit team to achieve departmental goals.  * Performed audit work with department and professional standards, and complete assignments in an efficient manner.  * Assisted in developing processes, tools, and techniques to enhance the performance of audits. Auditor FISCAM June 2017 to October 2017 APEX Inc.  * In a subcontractor role to CACI International, served as a FISCAM Auditor at the Department of Navy, supervised the FIAR program and methodology, auditing, accounting/internal controls, business process analysis, IT controls, strategic communications, and FIAR sustainment.  * Designed FISCAM controls with the ability to assist the Department of Navy with IT audit assessments and audit readiness activities.  * Developed audit responses and audit remediations resulting from Financial Information System audits by Independent Public Accountants (IPAs).  * Identified key service provider relationships and reliance (e.g., SSAE-16/18 reports) and relevant complimentary user entity controls (CUECs) within the purview of the Department of Navy.  * Suggested testing procedures for assessing the design and operating effectiveness of these controls to consider data assertions over the completeness, accuracy/validity, and timeliness of control outputs.  * Provided input to BPAC and CUEC assessment strategy.  * Provided IT audit readiness support, IT control testing and finding remediation. Auditor Red Gate Group May 2015 to March 2017 * In a subcontractor role to KForce Government Solutions, served as an Auditor at the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), supervises the FIAR program and methodology, auditing, accounting/internal controls, business process analysis, IT controls, strategic communications, FIAR sustainment, audit remediation, and audit response.  * Identified key automated business process application controls (BPACs), (2) system-generated reports, (3) interfaces, and the systems that support each of these  * Identified key service provider relationships and reliance (e.g., SSAE-16 reports) and relevant complimentary user entity controls (CUECs) within the purview of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency  * Suggested testing procedures for assessing the design and operating effectiveness of these controls to consider data assertions over the completeness, accuracy/validity, and timeliness of control outputs  * Provided input to BPAC and CUEC assessment strategy  * Provided IT audit readiness support, IT control testing and finding remediation  * Experience with FIAR, NIST, FISCAM, USSGL, OMB A-123, OMB A-127 and GAGAS  * Experience with linking GITC's to BPAC's during a Financial statement audit  * Familiar with federal accounting and financial accounting systems  * Strong presentation development and writing skills (e.g., proficient in MS PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Visio) IT Senior Analyst TWM Associates, Inc March 2009 to September 2014 For Department of Homeland Security (DHS) OIG (Contractor for TWM Associates, Inc.)  * Served as a Senior Analyst in support of the DHS OIG, conducted reviews of certification and accreditation (C&A) packages to determine compliance with the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA), Federal Information System Controls Audit Manual (FISCAM), Complementary User Entity Controls (CUECs), and applicable NIST guidance. Each review included detailed analysis of the organization's system security plan (SSP); risk assessment (RA); security categorization under Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 199; plan of actions and milestones (POA&M); and other documentation.  * Used approved automated and proprietary tools to evaluate security configurations on organizational information systems. For each evaluated component system, documented all findings, evaluated residual risk, and assisted in the development of formal reports on the demonstrated security posture to DHS OIG.  * Reviewed and tested application controls and reviewed continuous monitoring scanning and enterprise monitoring results to determine compliance with NIST standards. Accountant/Information Security Analyst TWM Associates, Inc October 2001 to September 2014 * Responsible as an Information Security Analyst for monitoring, evaluating, and maintaining systems and procedures to protect networks, systems, and data from unauthorized uses. In addition, identified potential threats and responded to reported security violations, determined causes of security violations and recommended corrective actions to ensure data security. Also researched, recommended, and implemented changes to procedures and systems to enhance data systems security, and assists in communicating security procedures to users. The matrix organization in which the Security Analyst usually reports indirectly to a first line manager from a program standpoint but will report directly to and will need to possess and apply a comprehensive knowledge of the principles, practices, and procedures related to information security, risk management, privacy, and IT governance to the completion of meaningful and challenging assignments.  * Maintained the budget, assisted project managers on reconciliation of hours by labor category and job, and distributed funds. Processed payroll on a biweekly basis accurately and on time. Submitted on a timely basis all employee 401K and Roth IRA contributions. Overseen the accounting operations for the company and reported directly to the CFO on accounting matters.  * Supervised the administrative assistant/accounting clerk and reviewed all accounting tasks, included reviewing general ledger entries and ensured that data was accurate; reviewed invoicing to ensure accuracy; reviewed expense reports to ensure accuracy; and troubleshooted complex accounting problems or issues as they occurred in QuickBooks.  * Served as the ISO 27001:2005 and 9001:2008 Quality Manager; overseen TWM quality audits and developed recommendations for improvement of internal processes. Education M.B.A. in Accounting Southeastern University B.A. in Marketing University of the District of Columbia Certifications/Licenses Certified Internal Control Auditor