Corporate IT Director - Cardiovascular Service Line Corporate <span class="hl">IT</span> Director - Cardiovascular Service Line Corporate IT Director - Cardiovascular Service Line - Baptist Health Lexington, KY A proven and effective IT leader with over twenty three years of healthcare experience, including oversight of clinical and business applications, development and implementation of strategic initiatives, and engagement of senior executive leadership. Work Experience Corporate IT Director - Cardiovascular Service Line Baptist Health - Louisville, KY August 2016 to Present • Provides input to cardiovascular departments within Baptist Health with regard to physician workflow, BMHG operational concerns, hospital functions, as well as revenue cycle concerns.  • Coordinate System Cardiovascular Service Line Order Set Sub-Committee Meetings of physicians to review requested changes to current Epic order sets and or proposed order sets for BHS.  • Directs content design and standardization for clinical strategy across the nine Baptist Health facilities and related business units.  • Business Plan Development/Presenting for new initiatives initiated from the Cardiovascular Service Line or BHS Cardiology Practices. As well as liaison for vendor and contract management for Cardiology Services.  • Supports the needs of the business by providing effective application support, administration and vendor management for all applications.  • Standardizing system solutions across the organization to ensure operational and business needs are met, to ensure patient care is not impacted  • Serve as a liaison to the Cardiovascular Service Line for IT and Operation needs. Provide data and input on cardiovascular charges. Speak to MD concerns regarding WRVu's, productivity, inpatient/ambulatory, denials, LOS, missing charges, etc. Utilize Qlik, Epic and other BHS data sources for data. Analyze and provide back to administration/providers in a meaningful and informative layout.  • Epic - Cupid training/workflow standardization across organization for both Ambulatory and Acute  • Manage budget activities, forecasting, yearly and multi-year projections and oversight of departmental spending. Corporate IT Director - Third Party Applications - Epic Implementation Baptist Health - Louisville, KY August 2015 to August 2016 • Directs content design and standardization for clinical strategy across the nine Baptist Health facilities and related business units.  • Supports the needs of the business by providing effective application support, administration and vendor management for all applications.  • Uses comprehensive healthcare background and operational knowledge to analyze, develop and direct clinical solutions.  • Uses cross functional knowledge and interpersonal skills to build strong working relationships with multiple departments.  • Accountable for all HR functions of management with applications teams and project management.  • Vendor and contract management for all ancillary applications outside of Epic  • Manage budget activities, forecasting, yearly and multi-year projections and oversight of departmental spending. Corporate IT Security Officer Baptist Health - Louisville, KY November 2014 to August 2015 • Coordinate and conduct meaningful use security risk assessment and analysis, develop risk management and safeguard implementation plans, coordinate annual safeguard implementation plans.  • Ensure that access control, disaster recovery, business continuity, incident response, and risk management needs for physician practice and other non-hospital managed entities are properly addressed.  • Lead IT security forensic processes and ensures preservation of evidence for all IT security incidents.  • Represent corporate IT security in corporate compliance meetings.  • Lead information security awareness and training initiatives for physician practice and other non-hospital managed entities to educate workforce about information security risks.  • to assist in support of Allscripts application as needed. Business Systems Analyst - Lead Baptist Health - Louisville, KY October 2012 to November 2014 • Identified ways to streamline physician office operations through proper use and deployment of software applications and technology infrastructure.  • Primary focus is to formulate and define project and system scope and objectives based on applications specifications and user defined needs during physician practice affiliation, acquisition and migration with Baptist Health Lexington.  • Assess current practice workflow process prior to being acquired and adapts them to Baptist Health Lexington workflow requirements, policies and procedures. Oversees and works with staff, vendors, and users to find the best technological means to meet business needs.  • Assist corporate compliance with audits in the areas of security, compliance, coding etc. with regards to CMS.  • Provide mentoring and training to colleagues in the area of compliance and coding to assist in meeting Meaningful Use requirements for physicians for both ambulatory and inpatient needs.  • Extract data from applications on a regular basis when requested from departments/administration. SQL for Allscripts data and data extracts for McKesson data that was provided. Merge and compare data accordingly for inpatient/outpatient comparison for provider productivity.  • Coordinate, train and educate end users on system functionality and capabilities.  • Project Lead Cardiology Practice Conversion of Legacy Data to Allscripts EHR.  • Project Lead for 22 provider Cardiology practice successfully going live on Allscripts EHR.  • Provide leadership to other analysts on ambulatory team supporting Allscripts PM and EHR.  • LEAN Methodologies Application Analyst II Catholic Health Initiatives - Denver, CO December 2011 to October 2012 • Assisted with a regional implementation of the Allscripts PM application and provided on-site support for practices assigned to.  • Provided input to team on processes and procedures that affected our business criteria that guided solution design decisions.  • Acted as a liaison between technical staff and business subject matter experts in creating and refining business requirements for all of CHI markets that Allscripts PM is currently implemented in or that were expanding.  • Troubleshoots and resolves reported system and application problems in the test and production environments.  • Documents and describes complex processes and procedures relating to current and future system environments relating to Allscripts PM and Allscripts EHR for the KY market.  • Provided mentoring and training to colleagues in the area of acquisitions which encompassed practice build, system analysis and design, specification development and documentation, end user training and CHI workflow, policies and procedures.  • Coordinated, trained and educated end users on system functionality and capabilities, as well as reviewed CHI policies and procedures for the KY market.  • Conducted higher level system functionality training for Practice Managers as well as Super Users for the KY market.  • Wrote Allscripts reports for end users for: insurance billing, collections, provider productivity all by specialty Clinical Technical Administrator I University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY September 2006 to April 2008 • Participated as part of a team which provided implementation, functionality and programming support for clinical information systems.  • Responsible for administration, upgrades, troubleshooting and resolution of four pharmacy servers and seven medical records servers.  • Troubleshoot HL7 interfaces with pharmacy systems with UK systems for ADT for the following: hospital lab, radiology, pathology and patient management system.  • Develop, test and implement solutions to avoid reoccurrence of reported issues.  • Develop reports utilizing Info Maker with data sets created with SQL queries and directly connecting to application database.  • Maintain user security database, create security privileges for end users.  • Reconciliation Pharmacy Billing  • Project Lead Pharmacy Application  • Interface Testing Ancillary Systems TASC Assessment Analyst University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY August 2003 to September 2006 Institutional Assessment Analyst    • Provide essential technical and administrative support to define and measure the effectiveness of TASC-sponsored activities, especially the impact on teaching and learning.  • Work closely with the Office of Institutional Research and the Office of Assessment, and report part time to the Vice President for Institutional Research, Planning and Effectiveness.  • Design, maintenance and continuous improvement of a relational database for all TASC projects utilizing FileMaker Pro.  • Critically assess outcome measures (e.g., student performance, teaching effectiveness, client satisfaction) that relate to TASC strategic goals and objectives utilizing statistical analysis tools and the university systems.  • Work independently to collect and refine data, perform advanced statistical analysis, and prepare formal reports.  • Supervise work study students in the Office of Assessment. Serve as a member of the management team.  • Promote teamwork, leadership skills of staff and team moral.  • Provide data to the Graduate Units of UK utilizing data extracted from the UK Data Warehouse via SQL queries.  • Oversee periodic program reviews of individual graduate programs.  • Respond to external survey requests for information related to graduate education at UK. IS Tech Support Specialist I University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY October 2001 to August 2003 • Serve as liaison and provide technical support to Mental Health Facilities across the country regarding data submission to meet national project requirements for their JCAHO Accreditation requirement.  • Maintain data validity by conducting data integrity reviews for facilities participating in national performance measurement system.  • Develop reports utilizing Crystal Reports.  • SQL query development, utilized for data validity.  • Update custom software utilizing Visual Basic as needed.  • Provide on-site training to mental health facilities for JCAHO Core Measure requirements. IS Tech Support Specialist, Assistant University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY September 2000 to October 2001 • Installed, troubleshoot and maintained software recommended by Information Services/Office of Vice President for Research.  • Designed and maintained departmental web page.  • Oriented new employees of the research community regarding computer support and location of files/folders on network environment.  • Assigned user access utilizing Novell and web for network and database security. System Administrator Eastern State Hospital - Lexington, KY September 1996 to September 2000 • Project lead for the implementation of the pharmacy computer system- PDS - Pharmacy Data System.  • Project Lead for designing, implementing and maintaining extensive database for tracking, storing and analyzing pharmacy data such as budget expenditures, drug quantities and inventories for 15 Community Mental Health Centers.  • Created detailed spreadsheets from data, submitted monthly to hospital management and Commonwealth of Kentucky Department of Mental Health Mental Retardation.  • Serve as liaison for hospital between pharmacy and software vendor.  • Designed and implemented training manual regarding pharmacy software procedures.  • Coordinated monthly and quarterly meetings of state pharmacy committees. Education University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY April 2008 to December 2011 Skills Customer Service, Strategic Planning