Information Assurance Analyst Information Assurance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Gwynn Oak, MD Work Experience Information Assurance Analyst True I.A - Chantilly, VA June 2016 to Present • Schedule kick off meetings with Stakeholders to help identify assessment scope, system boundary, information types.  • Develop the Plan of Action & Milestones (POA&M) document in order to take corrective actions  resulting from System Test & Evaluation (ST&E) and lead the POA&M team to remediate established  vulnerabilities providers for low, moderate and high impact systems.  • Prepare and review Authorization to operate (ATO) packages including the Security Assessment Report  and the Security Assessment Plan.  • Utilized NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 4 and NIST SP 800-53A Rev. 4 in conducting security control  assessments  • Interface with the clients related to the overall security control assessment (SCA) program and all SCA  activities. Information Security Analyst Foreground Security - Washington, DC October 2013 to May 2016 Performed IT risk assessment and documented the system security keys controls in the Security  Assessment Report.  • Assisted System Owners and ISSO in preparing certification and Accreditation package for the company's IT systems; making sure that management, operational and technical security controls adhere  to a formal and well-established security requirement authorized by NIST SP 800-53 R4.  • Performed Vulnerability Assessment and ensured all risks were assessed, evaluated and proper actions  were put in place to eliminate or limit their impact on the Information and Information Systems.  • Involved in the security awareness and training of staff on FISMA/FEDRAMP.  • Designed and Conducted walkthroughs, formulated test plans, tested results and developed remediation  plans for each area of the testing. Operations and Compliance Supervisor First capital Plus Bank June 2010 to May 2013 * Conducted periodic internal reviews / audits to ensure that compliance procedures were adhered to.  * Prepared the branches in the eastern district for external audit by pre- auditing them.  * Filed appropriate compliance reports with regulatory agencies.  * Ensured all software technology and systems were in place to adequately provide oversight and monitoring in all required areas.  * Kept informed regarding pending industry changes, trends, and best practices and assess the potential  impact of these changes on organizational processes.  * Designed /implemented improvements in communication, monitoring and enforcement of compliance  standards.  * Ensured security controls were put in place. (Opening procedure, cash exposure, keys and combo and customers information were protected at all times.(PII adherence)  * Evaluated the adequacy of internal controls and compliance with company policies and procedures by conducting interviews with all levels of personnel, examining transactions, documents, records, reports  and observing procedures. IT support / Help Desk Ghana Insurance College March 2009 to May 2010 • Monitored and maintained technology to ensure maximum access  • Responsible for receiving, resolving, escalating and monitoring user issues/requests.  • Maintained log and/or list of required repairs and maintenance  • Provided immediate assistance and problem resolution as needed for service inquiries concerning utilization and information regarding all client computer system application, telephone, personal computers  and mobile devices.  • Provided network accounts and passwords as required.  • Monitored security of all technology Education Diploma in International Business & Property Insurance in International Business & Property Insurance Ghana Insurance College August 2008 to May 2010 Bachelor of Arts in Economics and Information Studies University of Ghana August 2002 to August 2006 Skills INFORMATION SECURITY, NESSUS, NIST, SECURITY, SHAREPOINT, DRP, FISMA, VISIO, MS OFFICE, QUANTITATIVE, EXCEL, OUTLOOK, WORD, PUBLISHER, CONFIDENT, Quality Assurance Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification