InfoSec Manager -Identity and Access Management InfoSec Manager -Identity and Access Management Perth Amboy, NJ Work Experience InfoSec Manager -Identity and Access Management Santander US - Holmdel, NJ 2017 to Present • Provide support for applications in InfoSec program, Certification, remediation and terminations campaign in SOX, GLBA and High Elevated applications across the organization.  • Maintain settings for the applications.  • Log cases requiring higher support level with vendors • Assists with other Internal and External initiatives as needed, PowerShell Scripting to Audit Active Directory.  • Assists in internal, external audit request.  • Managed teams of 4 for information operation support for InfoSec IdentityIQ Sailpoint. Security Analyst - Identity and Access Management Coordinator Produban US - Boston, MA 2015 to 2017 - Cybersecurity • Active Directory cleanup of obsoletes groups or duplicates accounts in a multiple trust relation domain in order to create Functional roles based of bank policies, using PowerShell scripting to gather the users and groups and organize the information into Splunk server in order to maintain a database of users based groups for easy access to managers.  • Create interactive dashboards using power pivot and slicers with excel.  • Administer user system and data entitlements, across multiple platforms and applications.  • Ensure system access requests are processed with high quality and accuracy.  • Strong understanding of Identity Management Cyber Security Risks.  • Implement and modify user entitlements, as it relates to the rollout of new applications and evaluate impact on RBAC for related business units.  • Participate in special projects as assigned Skills Used, Metaesploit, Kali and Vulnerability Reports with Rapid7.  • Coordinate with local security coordinators and application data owners to ensure access to programs and applications are processed and verified, within the most current standards and requirements.  • Provide security analytic support to new system entitlement standards, modifications and projects.  • Data cleansing and data integration using Pentaho. Infrastructure & Security Analyst TriServe Tech Data Center 2015 to November 2015 • Selected for leadership capacity and expertise in server infrastructure to manage projects, maintain network security, and administer virtual servers (Windows Server 2012 Hyper-V) for datacenter including server hardware, VMware (ESX 5+) environment, DNS, DHCP and Radius resources, data storage, switching and routing, email, firewall (Checkpoint/Fortigate/Cisco PIX and ASA), VoIP systems, networking, and Microsoft (Active Directory) technologies across the family of companies to improve efficiency, security, and service.  • Advanced strategic security solutions, focusing on threats and vulnerabilities, and improved the security of critical network services in physical, virtual, and cloud environments.  • Data Loss Prevention (Symantec DLP) and file encryption program protecting sensitive information.  • Currently heading complex migration of root domain to child domain successfully migrating Triple S Advantage infrastructure.  • Get Information from Active Directory, Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle for SOX internal audits. Senior System Engineer Triple 2013 to 2015 • First to hold newly created post to oversee all IT infrastructure projects, manage the availability, scalability and maintain security, integrity controls for mobile devices distributed among 600+ workforce.  • Project managed physical-to-virtual server migration eliminating the need of 50 servers with limited downtime.  • Oracle Linux administration.  • Administer Avaya PBX, basic administration such as add extension, add announcement, create agents logins ids with splits and skills, programing ACD vectors, vdn for customer service, Tele Sales and IT Department for Triple S Advantage, administer QFinity Software for record the calls of the customer service department, assign DID numbers for right fax users.  • Basic Administration of CMS supervisor version 13, add agents, VDN and trunks.  • Researched and selected Symantec Data Loss Protection, for file encryption program protecting sensitive information.  • Led team of five in the organization and streamlining of cabling system.  • Managed four-person team migrating MS Exchange 2010 to TSM Child Domain for >700 users across Sales, Customer Service, Claims, High Touch, Beneficiary Relations, Finance and Executive Offices.  • Managed teams of 6 for Infrastructure operations Triple 2006 to 2015 System Administrator Triple 2006 to 2013 • Assumed interim IT Director position for over 3 months.  • Assumed broad role as MS Exchange 2010 Administrator, Avaya PBX Administrator, and Windows Hyper V Administrator installing, configuring and enforcing wireless network security infrastructure for American Health Medicare using security policies with Enterasys Switch, Windows Radius 802.1x and Net sight.  • Implemented virtual environment used to upgrade and migrate electronic mail infrastructure from Microsoft Exchange 2003 to 2010, thereby consolidating several underutilized servers.  • Jumpstarted delayed CRM 4.0 to Microsoft Dynamics CRM 2011 migration project after uncovering quality assurance deficiencies of previous project manager.  • Migrated all servers from Windows Server 2003 to a Windows Server 2008 R2.  • Achieved on-schedule (46-hour) installation of PBX call center operation during move to new facilities.  • Secured all company emails utilizing Symantec Brightmail. Infrastructure IT Consultant Metro IT 2005 to 2006 System administrators during major integration of 13 remote customer service offices to central office via VoIP.  • Setup domain controllers and created user accounts in Exchange Server 2003 for upwards of 200 users.  • Replaced obsolete equipment for Cisco routers, improving remote efficiency and scalability.  • Designed Active Directory of users and computers, configured DHCP, DNS, email and Blackberry messaging Help Desk Technician Abbott Pharmaceuticals 2003 to 2005 • Troubleshot approximately 30 second-level calls per day in regards to application and peripheral support, remote LAN access, Internet access, LAN troubleshooting, and operating system support.  • Installed, configured and upgraded operating systems and software such as Windows 95/2000 & XP, Lotus Notes, Office 2000, Extra Personal Client. IT Infrastructure & System Administrator / Instructor Atenas College 2000 to 2003 Led procurement, installation, and configuration, validation and licensing of 25 PCs, Windows 2003 Server, and Microsoft applications to support faculty and student body. Implemented security policies and reacted quickly to all system problems. Education MBA in IT Security Management Strayer University - Perth Amboy, NJ Present Certified Information Systems Security Professional ISC May 2018 Technology MIT ProfessionalX - Boston, MA 2015 BS in Computer Engineering Polytechnic University of Puerto Rico - San Juan, PR 2011 AS in Electronic Engineering Technology Puerto Rico Institute of Technology - Manati, PR, US 2000 Skills Exchange (10+ years), MS Exchange (9 years), R2. (7 years), Security (10+ years), Symantec (9 years), Active Directory, Identity Management Additional Information TECHNICAL STRENGTHS    ? Linux  ? Server Security Configuration  ? TCP/IP  ? IIS & Web Services  ? Hardware & Software Configuration  ? Router and Server Configuration  ? Firewall Configuration / Security  ? Virtual Private Networks (VPN)  ? Network Design & Installation  ? MS Exchange 2000/2003/2007/2010/2013  ? Office 365 Configuration & Installation  ? Content Management  ? WANS & LANS  ? AWS Cloud Infrastructure  ? Data Loss Prevention  ? Group Policy controls  ? VoIP  ? Network and Infrastructure Architecture  ? Firewall Administration  ? User/Technical Support  ? Active Directory  Domain  ? Cyber-Lead Business Analyst  ? Identity and Access Management  Software: Visual Basic, Share Point, Word Press, Joomla, Amazon AWS, AZURE, Office 365, MS Office, Splunk, Excel Power Pivot  Security: Data Loss Prevention, Symantec Endpoint Protection  Platforms: Windows Server 2003 / 2012 Hyper-V / 2012 R2, Linux, Kali Linux / Raspberry PI / Penetration Testing / Metasploit  Programming: Python, PowerShell, Pentaho (Data Integration), Microsoft Visual Studio 2010, C ++, MathLab, C Sharp, Xilinx