IT Operations Manager <span class="hl">IT</span> Operations Manager IT Operations Manager - Keane Unclaimed Property Phoenixville, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Operations Manager Keane Unclaimed Property - King of Prussia, PA November 2018 to Present Responsible for the direction of all Keane's IT infrastructure and managing a team of three.  ? Manage proactive maintenance of equipment, including firmware, patch/software management lifecycles, and hardware life cycles.  ? Server 2008 to 2019 migrations, including automation of server builds, using PowerShell.  ? Deployment of new Juniper core switches, and built Dell PowerEdge R820 and deployed into vSphere cluster.  ? Redesigned iSCSI storage to conform with best practices.  ? Vendor management, contract and license renewal. Worked with the Finance Department to work on CapEx spends. Technology and Security Consultant Anexinet - Blue Bell, PA April 2016 to November 2018 Responsible for projects, security, infrastructure, and policy for both Anexinet and its clients.  ? Built and supported Azure tenants and Office 365 users. Built out Azure environments using automation, PowerShell  ? Took ownership of projects relating to upgrades to networking, power, and backup equipment, Cloud migrations, and internet change overs, Active Directory Best Practices/Clean up, using PowerShell  ? Technical manager for Cisco ISR Routers, 3000, and Nexus Switches, and ASA 5510 firewalls.  ? Technical manager for security vulnerability management, from discovery to remediation.  ? Technical manager Active Directory, DFS, Group Policy, Server 2012-2016, Exchange 2013, O365, and VMWare 6.7. Network Security Administrator Keane Unclaimed Property - King of Prussia, PA September 2014 to April 2016 Responsible for bridging the technical gap between security and network administration. This includes security and network projects relating to firewalls, servers and network implementations.  ? Technical manager of firewalls, both Cisco ASA, Sonicwall E Series and SRA VPN.  ? KACE asset inventory including software security updates and software deployment.  ? SIEM and security vulnerability remediation.  ? Web proxy hardening with ZScaler.  ? Juniper configuration and traffic shaping and network segregation. Ingress and Egress monitoring.  ? Managing and implementing Server 2008 R2 - Server 2012 R2, ESXi 5.5.  ? Active Directory management, WSUS, Group Policy, DFS and File Server Management, PowerShell. Microsoft System Engineer Information Strategy Design - Mesa, AZ January 2008 to September 2014 Lead technical account manager for 5 businesses; Supporting 100+ small to medium sized businesses. Each business having up to 100 Physical/Virtual servers and supporting up to 150 PCs/users. Single site, multi-site/state and hosted environments.  ? Took client requirements and turned them into successful technology implementations.  ? Maintained and expanded business relationships with business owners, management and IT Staff.  ? Identified and create standards, Policies and Procedures for various IT related functions.  ? Assisted with training new employees.  ? Hardware: diagnosed and identified hardware/firmware updates and remediated them.  ? Dell PowerEdge, OpenManage and iDrac; HP Proliant with ILO.  ? Dell PowerVault SAN, PowerConnect, Sonicwall Firewall and SRA VPN devices, Cisco ASA and switches.  ? Supported Vertical Wave phone systems. Analog, Digital and VOIP.  ? Server Virtualization: Implementation Experience; Maintaining/Performance, Patching, Disaster Recovery.  ? Server Operating System: Implementation Experience; Performance; Patching; Best Practices; disaster recovery  ? Microsoft Server 2000, Server 2003, Server 2003 R2, Server 2008 R2, Server 2012 R2.  ? Active directory, Group policy, scripting, DNS (Public and Private, MX records).  ? Exchange Server 2003 - 2013: Policies, excepted domains, OWA, certificates, permissions, SPAM.  ? Microsoft SQL 2005 - 2012, permissions, jobs, performance.  ? IIS 6 and 7: General setup, DMZ, Permissions, SSL.  ? Proactive Maintenance: Monitoring of mission critical services, performance. System Support Analyst II (Lead Tech) Countrywide Financial Corporation - Chandler, AZ December 2003 to January 2008 Developed batch files to maintain and update laptops and PCs: remotely update and install drivers, printers, software, registry fixes and TCP/IP settings. These batch files were adopted and used by the division.  ? Administered, configured, and installed Windows 2k and XP notebooks. Administered Windows 200 Servers.  ? Diagnose satellite locations: Firewall, LAN and VPN related issues and acted as a liaison with internet providers.  ? Lotus Notes user setup, diagnose client installation and mail migration issues.  ? Install and setup wireless, broadband cards, Blackberry devices, and Smart phones. contractor Conoco-Phillips - Phoenix, AZ September 2003 to November 2003 Administered Windows XP and Windows 2000 including local and domain administration, and registry fixes.  ? Supported the connectivity of satellite stores across the country using VPN, satellite, dialup and T1.  ? Learned and supported 5 different fueling systems, and cross-trained on manager's functions, including bookkeeping, accounting, inventory, diagnose register and gas pump issues. Helpdesk Manager/Network Administrator U.S. Marine Corp - Camp Pendleton, CA 1999 to 2003 Anticipated trends; developed and facilitated key training classes relating to the unit's computer systems.  ? Redefined and developed the flow of the Help Desk, developed tasks to maintain stability.  ? Administered Exchange 5.5, Microsoft Office, Windows Server 2000, Windows 95, 98, NT and XP.  ? Responsible for domain administration for the unit and diagnosing hardware, application, and network problems.  ? Upgraded the unit's 150 workstations for from Windows 95/98 to Windows XP.  ? Administered a diverse variety of military based programs, including C4I systems, C2PC, IOS, JWARN.  ? Web Master.  ? Navy and Marine Corp Achievement Medal for expertise in diverse computer skills.  ? Letter of Appreciation for helping the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force Command Element migrate its Secret Internet Protocol Routed Network to a new location. Education Associates of Science in Computer Science Montgomery County Community College - Blue Bell, PA 2019 Trade School in Information Systems & Management Marine Corp Basic Computer School - 29 Palms, CA 1999 to 2000 Skills EXCHANGE (10+ years), VPN (10+ years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (10+ years), CISCO (10+ years), CISCO ASA (8 years), R2 (8 years), SAP (8 years), DISASTER RECOVERY (6 years), DNS (6 years), IIS (6 years), INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES (6 years), SERVER VIRTUALIZATION (6 years), VIRTUALIZATION (6 years), DFS (4 years), FIREWALLS (4 years), REMEDIATION (4 years), SECURITY (4 years), LAN (4 years), NETWORKING (2 years), VMWARE (2 years), ADMINISTRATIVE TASKS (Less than 1 year), DHCP (Less than 1 year), DISASTER RECOVERY PLANNING (Less than 1 year), FTP (Less than 1 year), MPLS (Less than 1 year), RECOVERY PLANNING (Less than 1 year), SEGMENTATION (Less than 1 year), SYMANTEC (Less than 1 year), VLAN (Less than 1 year), COMPTIA (Less than 1 year), MCP (Less than 1 year), Strategic Planning, Network Administration Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sargent Additional Information SKILLS  ? Ability to learn quickly and breakdown complex technical problems.  ? Microsoft Certified Desktop Technician, MCP and CompTia A+ Certified 2005  ? Server Hardware: Dell PowerEdge, HP ProLiant.  ? Server Virtualization: VMware ESXi 5.5 - 6.7, Microsoft Azure.  ? Microsoft technologies: Windows Server 2019 through 2008 R2; Windows 10 - 7.  ? Active Directory, Group Policy, Exchange 2016, O365, WSUS, IIS/FTP, DHCP, DNS, and DFS.  ? Firewalls and security - SonicWall E class, Cisco ASA, Security Remediation.  ? Networking - Network Segmentation, VLAN, LAN, WAN, VPN, MPLS, NAT, routing  ? Disaster recovery planning - Symantec, Asigra, Rapid Recovery, Azure Recovery Services Vault APC batteries.  ? Automation of Administrative Tasks and server build outs using PowerShell.