Technical Support and Integration Specialist Technical Support and Integration Specialist Technical Support and Integration Specialist - American Association of Airport Executives Alexandria, VA 10+ Years of experience in the Information Technology field. Extensive background in providing remote, over the phone and in-person support in a corporate and military environment. Skilled and trained in network, system, and desktop administration. Experience includes system repairs, Network hardware maintenance, running differential/incremental back-ups, equipment diagnostics, telecommunications, value engineering, software upgrades, Point of sale and Tier 1-3 help desk. Performed and implemented IT security procedures in order to ensure network integrity. Work Experience Technical Support and Integration Specialist American Association of Airport Executives - Alexandria, VA February 2018 to Present Tier 3)  • Implemented Propriety Software to 93 Airports and 32 Amtrak Stations across the US working with 93 different IT infrastructures.  • Integration included standing up database servers, web servers and deploying on-site. Asset management of all in-house devices/deployed workstations, servers, and printers using "Smartsheets." Worked with the local companies to provide COD of all old hard drives after upgrading.  • Coordinated with Airport Managers to purchase and locally build images on their workstation of choice. Performed installation of up to 40 workstations at a time for airports across the US. After installations, we provided mandatory on-site training of our platform to all management.  • Tier 3 troubleshooting included meeting strict SLA's that could be fined allowance hours if not met of all of hardware/software on-site. Worked with Windows 10 to XP operating systems. Hardware and software fix for all computer brands. Provided IPad and Surface pro support as well.  • Monitored Airport systems and ensured proper courseware functionality daily while integrating contingency plans to ensure the best performance of all system types.  • Assisted with course development such as changing .xml files to customize the request of each induvial airports. Some examples are removing/adding button features, changing text, and adding pass/fail formula to meet FAA testing regulations. Installation of different Java versions to match the operating system compatibility.  • Supported customer issues using a variety of systems tools such as LogMeIn, Remote desktop, VPN Tunnels, Dropbox, Notepad++, encrypting files to keep our software secured. IT Security Analyst/Tier 2 Help Desk Southeastern Grocers Headquarters - Jacksonville, FL June 2013 to January 2018 • Implemented and enforced security guidelines for local area networks (LANs), wide area networks (WANs), virtual private networks (VPNs), routers, firewalls, UNIX and Windows-based servers as well as any related security and network devices.  • Administrator in Active Directory managing over 6000 employees. Executed password resets, adding/deleting end-users from servers, distributing domain and group access, satisfying compliance audits.  • Distributed and audited the use of over 400 hardware and mobile RSA token roll-outs. Provided at home troubleshooting for remote users after implementation.  • Support AIX, UNIX, Windows NT Server 4.0, Windows NT Workstation 4.0 OS to Administrate standards and policies for end-user accounts.  • Utilize Remote Desktop protocols (Telnet, FTP, SSH, VNC, and RDP) in order to remotely troubleshoot all store equipment from remotely.  • Provided technical assistance to the IBM and CompuCom field support teams during new store hardware installs with customizations and hard drive LDR CD and USB rebuilds.  • Monitored daily WDP, server, printer, and point of sale (POS) equipment switch port activity and wireless bandwidth usage statuses.  • Create and distribute manuals/user guides for training the Tier I support Team  • Walk end users in resolving hardware issues such as bypassing APC back-up  Batteries, Motorola wireless handhelds maintenance, IBM registers, indoor access points, troubleshooting routers/switches, HP workstation, and KVM switch installation.  • Operate software delivery systems daily for batch distribution updates to retail  Systems. Ensure all updates follow proper testing and piloting procedures.  • Ensure all department SLAs were met or finished prior through the Service Now/ IBM Process Portal and Remedy ticketing system. Resolved over 9,000 store-related hardware issues and 2500 End-user issues. PC/ID Deployment Technician IBM - San Diego, CA February 2013 to June 2013 • Responsible for the lease roll out of 800 CPU's, with 1600 dual monitor set-up for AT&T.  • Installed all hardware, VoIP software, and added AT&T software onto a Microsoft XP/7 OS.  • Added AT&T call-center software using the Clone-Zilla disk imaging program.  • Troubleshooting included software installation errors and network connectivity issues which involved renewal and release of IP's through MS-DOS.  • Provided COD of old hard-drives and managed the inventory of all PC's after completion of setup. I.T. Technician Charlotte Russe Headquarters - San Diego, CA October 2012 to January 2013 • Seasonal Contract for Charlotte Russe headquarters. Provided over the phone assistance for 480 Stores located nationwide. Successfully handled a call volume of 100+ calls per shift. Trained five contract employees on the operation and procedures of a Tier 1 Help Desk Technician.  • Managed the privileges and access to Microsoft Outlook and payroll software that was linked through Active Directory and I.T Process Automation software for over 20,000 users.  • Troubleshooting involved the imaging, shipping, and installation of Hard Drives for IBM Registers (4800-E42 Computers with a Windows Embedded Point of Sale operating system). Administrated Network Connectivity and Maintenance for a small CAT-5 based infrastructure that included a 16-port Linksys switch, 802.11G WLAN router, and a NETGEAR DSL Modem located in each store.  • Provided technical support for Hardware such as touch-screens, keyboards, mouse, networked multi-functional laser printers, and wireless handheld devices. Petty Officer 3rd Class (IT3) USS Nimitz January 2007 to October 2011 • Four years of progressive service including war-time deployment aboard the USS Nimitz.  • Administrated Microsoft Exchange Management and Active Directory User for over 2500 users ensuring integration with existing network systems  • Installed hardware which included re-imaging and installing Hard Drives, CD-ROM, Printers, Media Converters, keyboards, and mice.  • Created Back-Ups with Windows Server using removable media to recover applications and application data for over 2500 Profiles weekly.  • Performed preventive and corrective maintenance on 16 Blade Servers, Four Domain Controllers, Four Exchange Servers, Six File Servers, and 32 Edge Switches. During that maintenance performed reseeding and inspecting cables for corrosion in order to establish and maintain a connection between 1300 PC's onboard including the maintenance of firewalls.  • Over 15,000 FT. of CAT-5 and FIBER OPTIC Cabling experience. During the reconstruction of a United States, Air Craft carrier was directly responsible for rerouting 10,000 FT of CAT-5 and 5,000 ft. of fiber optic cable to 450 CPU's onboard the USS Nimitz.  • Oversaw the daily performance of 1300 computer systems ensuring internet connection stability, Microsoft Outlook outgoing, and incoming e-mail configuration, and software installation errors. Education Information Technology Advanced School February 2007 to July 2007 Skills Microsoft Virtual E-Learning Curriculum (1 year)