IT Consultant <span class="hl">IT</span> Consultant IT Support Professional San Antonio, TX With over 20 years of high-level technical support and management experience, my refined troubleshooting, prioritization skills and thorough documentation have enabled me to provide the best possible customer experience, to resolve all issues as quickly as possible to ensure minimal downtime.    I have served as the escalation point for mission-critical systems and emerging technologies at each workplace listed below, as well as research, experimentation and design. Supervisory responsibilities including hiring, scheduling, training, mentoring and counseling were also entrusted, even in non-supervisory roles, as my recommendations were highly regarded by my superiors with whom I worked closely. In addition to providing the best solution in the least amount of time possible, customer service and end-user satisfaction have been ingrained as priorities throughout my career and are now naturally part of any resolution. I am accustomed to setting a level of expectation so there is no confusion as to what will be accomplished and when. Work Experience IT Consultant Various local businesses - El Campo, TX April 2010 to Present Currently during off-peak hours)  Local business (primarily local doctor and lawyer offices) IT support; PCs, servers, LAN, security compliance, etc. Security Analyst Becton Dickinson, Select Source - San Antonio, TX February 2018 to December 2018 contract expiration)  Member of Device Security Team investigating, troubleshooting and maintaining hundreds of thousands of worldwide medical devices for security patching and update compliance. Deskside Technician Marathon Oil, Apex Systems - Kenedy, TX March 2017 to January 2018 Configured and maintained: Laptops, iPhones & iPads, office peripherals and building-wide network equipment. Supported 400+ field and office high-availability users, with over 800 local devices. Manager & Technical Supervisor STI Communications - Edna, TX October 2012 to January 2018 Managed statewide crew of 10 field technicians performing installation of satellite internet, wired and wireless networking, PCs and peripherals, VoIP, cameras and intercoms for oilfield drilling operations. Also maintained workshop inventory for deployment as nearly all work was performed on demand, around the clock, with usually little advance notice. On a daily basis handled technical issues, hiring and employee matters, scheduling and dispatching technicians including coordinating overnight accommodations, fleet vehicle maintenance and building customer relations. Personally created a wireless intercom solution saving approximately 54 man-hours per drilling rig installation and removal. IT Specialist StarTek USA - Victoria, TX November 2009 to April 2010 Single on-site technician for 500+ workstations in a call center environment. Systems Administrator II Rackspace - San Antonio, TX November 2006 to August 2009 Windows Server support, IIS, remote troubleshooting, served as team's SSL SME. Lead Desktop Technician General Dynamics Network Systems, Brooks AFB - San Antonio, TX December 2002 to October 2006 Oversaw seven desktop support technicians maintaining 400+ workstations. PC cloning SME. Help Desk Technician Consultis Information Technology - San Antonio, TX June 2002 to November 2002 Massive desktop PC installation during new building roll-out. Systems Analyst II Stephens Computer Center, Inc., Naval Air Station HQ - Corpus Christi, TX November 1997 to April 2002 Novell & Windows network and email server administration, 250+ workstations. Education High school or equivalent Skills 70 wpm (Less than 1 year), Android (Less than 1 year), Customer Service (Less than 1 year), LAN (8 years), Security (9 years), Microsoft Office, training, Active Directory Additional Information Skills  Windows Desktop (All versions: 3.11 to 10)  Windows Server (All versions: NT to 2016)  MS-DOS 6.22, any CLI  Apple OS 9 & OS X  Apple iOS 10 - 12  Android (All versions)  Microsoft Office (All versions: 95 to 365)  LAN/WAN/Wi-Fi support  Client Security  End User Support including Training  PC, Server & Peripheral hardware & software  Disaster Recovery/Prevention  Customer Service focused  Typing: 70 wpm