Security Response Center SR Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> Response Center SR <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Response Center SR Analyst - Wells Fargo Charlotte, NC Excellent communication skills, with proven ability to maintain and develop relationships with customers by identifying, presenting product solutions to meet the needs of customers solid technical skills, with proven ability to learn and effectively utilize and inform others of new technical devices, equipment, databases and systems. Work Experience Security Response Center SR Analyst Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC September 2014 to Present Position Summary: Analyze data pertaining to alarms of Wells Fargo branches and offsite buildings. Works with alarm vendors to facilitate the resolution of problem calls relating to the alarm systems. Gather important documentation pertaining to any case matter dealing with escalated issues onsite or technical calls with direct customer or employee issues. Participating in the evaluation, development, and implementation of security standards, procedures, and guidelines for multiple platforms and diverse systems.    • Perform security event monitoring and incident detection tasks within the organization.   • Develop, implement, and carry out the appropriate activities to detect and identify the occurrence of security events, investigate security notifications, and analyze detected events.  • Identifying emerging alarms and evaluating associated risks and threats.  • Developing specifications for complex network security.  • Analyze data in order to reach a decision by identifying any risky accounts and take appropriate action to prevent loss.  • Perform in depth research to gather information regarding alarms and incoming technical calls.  • Present case information regarding any threats, damages, or harmful matters dealing with branches. Phone Banker II/Banker Coach Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC January 2013 to September 2014 Position Summary: Coach and mentor newly hired phone bankers throughout the onboarding process in order to bring their performance up to set standards. Serve as floor support during leadership absence. Identifying and recommending areas of opportunity to increase production and performance level. Handling escalated and unresolved calls at a high volume pace. Responsible for maintaining high individual performance in sales, customer service and productivity in addition to coaching duties. Build relationships with partners, leaders, peers and new hires through effective communication as a part of the coaching queue.    • Promoted in less than 6 months to a banker coach.  • Serve as Productivity Champion for Coaching Queue.  • Completed coaching basics course designed to train effective coaching techniques.  • Proficient in various systems including CIV, Hogan, NICE, STS Tracker, ESP and Microsoft Office. IT Technician Representative Connextions - Concord, NC June 2011 to January 2013 • Inbound/outbound Call Center  • Supported Vonage Landline Services  • Helped customers with installation and any other questions about landline phone modems  • Cross-sold additional products and services that Vonage had to offer customers.  • Assisted with any other troubleshooting questions and customer issues regarding Vonage equipment. Customer Service Representative Convergys - Charlotte, NC May 2010 to June 2011 • Technical Troubleshooting for new and existing Comcast Cable customer equipment.  • Resolved billing and credit issues on customers' monthly statements.  • Performing negotiation and up selling skills on companies products.  • Customer Service in and out bound calls. Pharmacy Technician Consultant Rite Aid Pharmacy - Charlotte, NC June 2007 to September 2010 • Consulted clients on medicine prescriptions and over the counter medicine and explained side effects of the medications.  • Established and maintain customer oriented relationships with our clients.  • Resolved customers concerns and answered questions.  • Provided efficient courteous customer service to all my clients.  • Customer service phone skills with in and out bound calls. Education West Charlotte High School - Charlotte, NC Associate in Business Central Piedmont Community College - Charlotte, NC Skills CUSTOMER SERVICE (7 years), BILLING (4 years), ORGANIZATIONAL SKILLS (5 years), TIME MANAGEMENT (7 years), security, training, Microsoft Office, Crystal Reports (4 years), Sharepoint Additional Information Core Competencies    • Over 7 years Customer Service experience  • 5 years IT Troubleshooting technician  • Over 5 years Call center experience and resolving billing issues  • Over 4 years Negotiation and persuasive Cross-selling experience  • Strong Quality analytical skills, with oral and written communication  • Excellent interpersonal skills  • Consistent High performer  • Strong time management and organizational skills