Security Analyst Tier 1 <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Tier 1 Security Analyst at Brier & Thorn Mexico Tijuana Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Security Analyst Tier 1 Brier & Thorn Mexico - Tijuana, B.C. October 2016 to Present -Provided MSSP services to a several number of clients everything according to SLA  standards and compliance.  -Monitor the security of critical systems (e.g., database server, authentication servers,  AWS instances, etc) and changes to sensitive security controls to verify system  administrative actions, investigate, document and report any irregularities.  -Conduct vulnerability assessments via multiple tools to evaluate system vulnerabilities,  verify that reliability of the results and if applicable develop and implement remediation  plans.  -Identify emerging technology capabilities to evaluate technology enhancements.  -Perform phishing exercises as a way to educate users and create phishing awareness.  -Developed improvements to security management policies and procedures.  -Provide recommendations of IDS tools for each client to suit their business needs.  -Utilize Security Information and Event Management (SIEM), Intrusion Detection &  Prevention Systems (IDS / IPS), File Integrity Monitoring (FiM), Malware Analysis tools  and Forensic Investigations.  -Categorize support problems and respond with the appropriate level of urgency.  -Implement policies when false positives are confirmed to avoid noise in the network and  attrition in the platform.  -Rotating shift schedule: morning, afternoon and night if required. Structured cable technician Grupo Aranea July 2016 to October 2016 • Perform network cabling (UTP, Fibre Optics) and punched the ends in and outside of town.  • Installation and configuration of Huawei modems. IT support Kyocera Mexicana January 2016 to July 2016 • Perform network cabling (UTP, ) and punched the ends in and outside of town.  • Provided IT, helpdesk support to end users.  • Researched multiple uses for Raspberry Pi such as an automated remotely accessible  video player.  • Managed the intranet web systems  • Corrective and preventive maintenance  • Perform backups restored them  • Configure workstations for end users installing required software including OWA and  Active Directory configuration.  • Documented manuals for successors interns  • Trained new interns for daily activities Education Bachelor of Computer Systems Engineer in Tijuana Instituto Tecnologico de Tijuana Skills SPLUNK (Less than 1 year), CISCO (Less than 1 year), QUALYS (Less than 1 year), BASH (Less than 1 year), HTML (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Splunk Certified User March 2018 to Present Additional Information Skills and technologies    Linux, Windows, AlienVault, Splunk, QRadar, HTML, PHP, Ruby on Rails, OpenVAS, Beyond  Insight, OSSEC, Dark Trace, Qualys Vulnerability Scanner, NX Logs, Cisco SourceFire, Cisco  FirePower, Wireshark, Phishing Frenzy. Bash Scripting, Exposure to agile methodologies,  MYSQL.