Security Officer <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Information Technology Technician & Security Professional Milwaukee, WI To obtain career advancing employment that will allow me to use my experience and skill set to help contribute to increased company productivity, service and business growth. Work Experience Security Officer HLSA Security and Investigations - Chicago, IL July 2019 to Present Personal Care Worker Celestial Care - Milwaukee, WI June 2019 to Present IT Deployment Technician Barbeau Enterprises - Milwaukee, WI April 2019 to Present IT Service Technician Go2IT Group - Milwaukee, WI November 2016 to Present Technical Systems Analyst Children's Hospital of Wisconsin - Milwaukee, WI November 2017 to January 2019 In my role with CHW, I utilized my experience to coordinate with the Technical Infrastructure Team to ensure proper implementation of all IS operations for providing high level user information and support for PC hardware applications throughout the company. My responsibilities also included but were not limited too; building, imaging, upgrades changes, de-installations, configuration and deployment of PC and Apple, laptops and computers, as well as all integral peripheral devices, printers and user accounts for the CHW network and its remote users and locations. Active Directory, Innotas and various other proprietary applications were some of the tools that I've used to properly monitor, troubleshoots, and responds to technical computer hardware and software problems. I build and maintain quality service and provide desk side, remote and telephone support of the systems and equipment. Follow-up, update, and escalate user-reported problems using our trouble tracking system, VFire, now called Service Now. I also provide second level problem resolution, status reports, project plan reports, and problem summaries as required. Driver Quicksilver Express Courier Services - Milwaukee, WI January 2017 to September 2017 In my role with Quick Silver I am responsible for making pick-ups and deliveries of packages and materials to many different vendors and working with shipping/receiving departments to various locations in the state of WI, driving to and from many different locations. I was responsible for keeping track of deliveries, invoices, mileage, fuel consumption, travel times, trip planning, fleet vehicle maintenance and various other related items. IT Support Technician ABB - Milwaukee, WI November 2016 to January 2017 In my technical role with ABB I performed password resets, application maintenance using SCCM software, I performed PC replacements, specialized application imaging, deployment and follow up support, remote and deskside, and I also maintained active directory files, resolved various technical issues and resolved problems using a variety of proprietary ticketing systems, utilizing the company knowledge base and my support team for additional assistance. In addition, I was able to use my hardware and software knowledge to service other department issues as needed. Enterprise Service Desk Analyst Apex - Milwaukee, WI July 2016 to October 2016 In my desk side support role with Northwestern Mutual Life I was able to perform password resets, create and modify Active Directory permissions and user accounts. I supported company database and knowledge base calls in their Enterprise and Support Technical call center. In addition, I was able to use my hardware and software knowledge to also get calls completed, service second level requests and escalate to other departments as needed. Desk side Support Technician Modis - Milwaukee, WI October 2015 to June 2016 In my Tier II level desk side support role with Johnson Controls I was able to configure web-based applications, service tools and database maintenance. I also provided break/fix repair service on all PC equipment, technical equipment and POS devices. I operated and verified applications for various business divisions. I imaged, installed software and deployed machines using SCCM. I mapped network printers and drives. I replaced and installed peripherals and drivers. I provided end-user technical support. I customized Dell and HP PC's and laptops BIOS settings while also performing end user system backup, data migration and configuration restoration. Help Desk/ Configuration Support Technician Apex - Milwaukee, WI August 2015 to October 2015 As Tier II level Help Desk/ Configuration Support technician, I was responsible for the setup, configuration and repair of anything related to new user and device deployment, as well as end-user support. I operated and verified applications for various business divisions while imaging machines using SCCM. I mapped network printers and drives, replaced and installed peripherals and drivers. I provided end-user technical support, remotely and as a deskside support technician. I also customized Dell and HP PC's and laptops BIOS settings and performed end user system backup, data migration and configuration restoration. IT Support Technician Randstad - Milwaukee, WI July 2014 to July 2015 As an IT Support Technician, I supported various operational unit business processes.  I verified needed repairs based on visual and physical inspection and online/paper ticketing systems. I imaged machines via an intra-network connection. I deployed machines to our local companies, retail stores as well as providing shipping and receiving of technical equipment for service and repair. I replaced and installed peripherals and specialized software drivers. I provided end-user technical support, equipment (hand scanners, bar code readers, printers/laser/inkjet/ribbon) trouble shooting via specialized training and experience. I also provided a vast array of "break/Fix" support for all equipment utilized in the company's corporate and retail environments. I provided technical support for issues of low to medium complexity; including installation, setup, maintaining, cabling and replacing of all standard PC/LAN systems.    MSB (Marshall & Swift/Boeckh), Technical Helpdesk (Self Employed) IT Service Technician Jaylaws Systems - Chicago, IL May 2008 to July 2014 Responsibilities included billing, data entry, administrative and strategic operations of the company. My responsibilities included computer repairs, upgrades and maintenance of all kinds, PC and MAC, web design and development services, application support of various software packages while also providing media services including videography, photography filming and complete production services. I provided support for diagnostic tools which includes computers, software, hard drives, Memory, Displays, Touch screens, PCMCIA, SD, CD/DVD ROM, Bar Code Reader, Printers, USB, NICs, Wireless (Wi-Fi and Bluetooth), Multi-meters, and Vehicle Communication Interface devices and cables. I also have performed computer and IOS imaging , deployment and follow-up support. I also was readily available to identify and remedy Network/Internet connectivity and configuration issues. Online Banking Helpdesk Technician Sentinel Technologies /BMO Harris Bank - Milwaukee, WI April 2013 to February 2014 Milwaukee, WI (April 2013 - February 2014)  As a technical help desk technician, I was responsible for responding to requests for technical assistance via telephone support. With the diagnostic support that I was able to provide, claim adjusters and underwriting consultants were able to understand processes and resolve software, hardware and functionality issues. I used remote application services to troubleshoot, install and provide training to various skill levels of end users. I researched questions, found solutions and provided feedback based on acquired information and industry resources to advise end users on the appropriate actions to take.    Sentinel Technologies /BMO Harris Bank, Online Banking Helpdesk Technician CSR 1 FIS, Fidelity Information Systems - Milwaukee, WI January 2012 to July 2012 As a CSR 1, my job was to assist customers with various issues related to their pre-paid debit card accounts. I took incoming calls and looked up customer information. I performed maintenance from address changes, activating debit cards, closing accounts, providing balance and account information while always maintaining adherence to the phone support schedule. Bar Porter McCormick Place/Chicago Restaurant Partners - Chicago, IL February 2011 to November 2011 As a bar porter, my job duties include bar setup and maintaining sufficient stocks of liquor, beverages, ice, fruits and other necessary items such as glassware, napkins and beer mats. I am required to collect and transport stock deliveries to the bar then store wines, beers and other alcoholic beverages in the correct conditions, I also maintain cleanliness of the bar, warehouse, setup kitchen and stock areas, mop floors, take out waste and bus tables. Media Director Village Ministries Inc - Milwaukee, WI May 2008 to October 2010 As Media Director, my responsibilities included engaging customers in person, by phone, email and internet with information and suggestions for new media products and services. Identify and remedy a variety of hardware and software issues. Responsible for word processing, filming services, special events, and purchasing media equipment as needed. I also managed the preparation, distribution, packaging and sales of all media materials for the organization. I also performed IT and general office duties including software support, computerized tracking of media inventory, faxing, organizing mailings, paper and electronic files as well as scheduling appointments, identifying and remedying Network/Internet connectivity and configuration issues: Wired and Wi-Fi. Customer Service Associate Twice & Nice Thrift - Milwaukee, WI February 2008 to May 2008 Responsibilities included ensuring that each customer received outstanding service by providing a friendly environment, greeting and acknowledging every customer and maintaining solid product knowledge and an awareness of all promotions and advertisements. I also assisted in floor moves, merchandising, display maintenance, and housekeeping. Processed and replenished merchandise and monitoring floor stock, aided customers in locating merchandise, communicated customer requests to management, assisted in completing price changes within the store and I participated in year-end inventory and cycle counts. Service Technician Time Warner Cable - Milwaukee, WI August 2006 to December 2007 As a service technician, I installed and serviced all digital services including HD, digital cable, digital phone & Road Runner setup. I provided in-house customer service, and equipment education. Prepped inventory & performed quality control checks on equipment. Scheduled company vehicle and equipment maintenance and trained new installation technicians on procedures and customer service policies. Serviced all TWC outdoor equipment from the outside utility service site down to the customer premises. Education Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Milwaukee, WI 2003 to 2004 Computer Programming University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee, WI 1998 to 1999 Washington High School - Milwaukee, WI 1991 to 1995 Skills Customer Service, Cash Handling, Excel, Organizational Skills, Stocking, Word, Security Additional Information I have over 20 years of relevant information systems experience working with various hardware, software equipment, tools and other products. I have strong communication skills, written and verbal. I'm exceptionally organized and very attentive to detail. I'm an active listener with interpersonal skills to effectively communicate with varying levels of end user and IT personnel. I have working experience with Active Directory, Remedy, and various call center/ help desk ticketing systems, thorough knowledge of PC and system software skills utilizing Windows, virus scanning utilities, and desktop PC management tools for Apple and IBM compatible PCs and peripherals. I also have applied knowledge in Apple and PC hardware break/fix and support. Software & peripheral device installation & repair. I'm industry educated in help desk and customer service support within the telecommunications, educational, insurance, retail and financial industries. I am skilled in the use of search engines and web browsers. I also have current knowledge of local area network (LAN) architecture, data processing and programming concepts. I can also configure, maintain and troubleshooting wired and wireless networks.