Independent Consultant Independent Consultant Project/Program Manager independent consultant Austin, TX Sr Program/Project Manager and Process Lead with proven experience on complex initiatives such as M&A, systems deployments and upgrades. Track record delivering on time, under budget projects that generate multi-million-dollar annual savings and improve the operations. Known for energetic work attitude, adaptability, focus on customer service and continuous improvement. Excel at leading global multi-functional/multi-cultural teams. Successfully delivered 15+ projects through the entire lifecycle. Foster environment of trust, inclusiveness, and accountability. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Independent Consultant Salazar Strategic Partners - Austin, TX May 2018 to Present Assisting companies and organizations to achieve their strategic goals, improving business processes and decreasing costs, utilizing Project Management Methodologies and processes.   ·       Led System upgrade for Church Mutual Insurance.  ·       Product deployment process improvement for CMD Corporation  ·       Cybersecurity, MFA and CyberArk Deployment Project Manager.  IT Manager - Customer Solutions BEMIS Company Inc July 2013 to Present Collaborates with business areas to engineer sustainable, scalable and quality strategic global solutions. Maximizes efficiency by providing timely support for business process. Directs a team of IT business analysts and developers to create and deliver systems and applications tasked with customer solutions.  > Boosted revenue by +$10MM for the next 5 years through the utilization of SAP PMM (Vendavo) to provide technical solutions for a Global Pricing Initiative.  > Spearheaded the Electronic commerce redesign initiative to create a single point of contact for customers, developing a positive customer experience and customer retention.  . IT Manager - Operational Procurement Systems WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION December 2007 to July 2013 Performed the duties of a global manager in the timely acquisition of resources for development, implementation, and support of the applications tasked with direct and indirect procurement business processes. Analyzed the needs and requirements for the operations of applications that support the purchasing business processes before determining the software and hardware needed. Ensured the success of the Business areas and AMS organization by providing comprehensive support and consultation regarding systems’ capabilities and enhancements.  > Levered prior experience in the leadership of a project tasked with SAP Implementation in Manufacturing on Procurement (SAP-MM) and Intercompany (SAP-SD). Ensured a smooth delivery through dress rehearsals and effective systems landscape architecture.  > Effectively led a team which delivered a system tasked with providing the enterprise with a global, standardized Engineering and Procurement process. This system slashed commodity risks and acquired a savings of USD$244MM within 3 years. IS Manager Finance and Service January 2006 to December 2007 Oversaw resources and scope related to project planning, tracking, and issue resolution. Ensured projects were delivered in a timely manner through excellent time management skills. Assessed the needs for both the department and Global Finance Programs before developing budget overviews and project charters. Slashed any unnecessary catch up time by providing effective change management.   > Led a project tasked with consolidating systems between Maytag and Whirlpool for Service Parts business. Oversaw a team of 22 IT personnel and 80 more staff from business areas. Generated a savings of 30% in annual operative costs.  > Ensured the timely completion of a “Trailing Credit Automation” project through the utilization of excellent project management skills and the implementation of a solution based in SAP-BW.  > Acquired USD $1.5MM annual in savings by leading a team of 6 IT professionals in a project to remove Obsolete Materials which slashed the amount of payment to trade partners. IT Project Manager WHIRLPOOL MEXICO / US December 2003 to January 2006 Provided project management for Mexico and Global IT Solutions utilizing ISD Methodology. Oversaw the IT department’s internal and external resources, including staff and budgets. Directed the SOX auditing process and ensured the security of all systems. Created the project and cut over plan as the project director for SAP implementation. Ensured smooth transitions through effective change management and open communication. Developed change management plan and comprehensive training for more than 1,000 users.  > Implemented a Global Procurement tool to drive efficiency for business data analysis for vendor’s evaluation, contract management, and material price variance processes. Systems Analyst Sr. for Customer Service and Demand Chain Areas WHIRLPOOL MEXICO October 2000 to December 2003 Responsibilities:  • Business process consulting, for customer service, sales and distribution processes.  • IT resource management including Whirlpool Mexico and Outsourcing people.  • Specialized support in applications based in SAP, Siebel, Oracle, Lotus Notes and Web Platforms.  Accomplishments:  ? First SAP-BW implemented in North America.  ? IT strategy defined for customer relationship management (Siebel CRM).  ? Business continuity plan (BCP) and disaster recovery plan implemented.  ? Co-leader for eBusiness strategy implementation, using Siebel CRM as a technical solution including Call Center, eChannel, eService, eSales and eCustomer modules, that allowed the interaction with:  • Trade and Service Partners: using internet for publishing information about sales orders, account statements, product catalog, technical information, creation and management of service orders.  • Consumers: using internet to publish information about product catalog, consumer service manuals, authorized service partners, product registration, and service order creation.  • Employees: intranet purchasing capabilities in addition to product catalog, electronic approval, and service functionalities. End User's Support & Security Lead VITRO May 1995 to October 2000 Responsibilities:  ? Help Desk and User's support Manager including desktop and client-server applications.  ? Computer room Management.  ? Technical support based in Midrange servers, Voice services, Telecommunications and Network Services.  ? Design and monitoring of service level agreements.  ? Midrange platform specialist (AS400 and RS600 servers)  Accomplishments:  ? Project coordination for "year two thousand" transition, including the design and execution of the cut-over plan.  ? IT Support Metrics implemented for Infrastructure and Network.  ? Service level agreement implemented for infrastructure and applications.  ? Global reporting tool deployed for Mexico Manufacturing plants, working with a North America team.  ? Technical desktop lead for WMCS/coreport implementations in Mexico.  ? End Users Systems security procedures and policies implementation lead. Education MBA Systems Administration / Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo Leon B.S. in Spanish Control & Computer Engineering / Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León Additional Information EDUCATION    Six Sigma Black Belt, completed all training on techniques and tools.    Internal Instructor, certification    Project Management, PMI certification training coursework completed    ADDITIONAL SKILLS    SAP: Processes in Procurement (SAP-MM-PUR), Suppliers Relationship Management (SAP-SRM), Sales and Distribution, MM Purchasing, Sales & Distribution, Materials Management, and Finance; ASAP, ISD, and WDM methodologies, Data Warehousing SAP-BW and Business process simulation (BPS)    eBusiness: Siebel Scripting with eScript (Siebel-CRM), Siebel Web Based Applications (Siebel – CRM), Sibel eBusiness Essentials (Siebel – CRM)    Data Base: Oracle data base basic configuration, and DB2    Servers: Midrange servers security and performance (AS400 and RS6000)