Professional Locksmith and Owner Professional Locksmith and Owner Looking for an IT Security Analyst or Network Support Position Winter Springs, FL After working in different roles in the IT industry, one of the things I love is putting a smile on somebody's face after I have fixed their security, network, or computer issue. That alone is priceless. I also love anything related to security; that is why I am also a Certified Locksmith. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Professional Locksmith and Owner PITA Locks and Keys - Winter Springs, FL March 2017 to Present • Installs and repairs of entry locks, pin tumbler locks, mortise and rim cylinder locks, deadbolts,  tubular locks, cam locks for cabinets, pushbutton locks etc.  • Keys cutting, by code, by duplication or by impressioning and re-keying cylinders as required.  • Residential, commercial and automotive lockouts, key extractions, locks picking, forced entries  and drilling out when necessary.  • Master Keying new or existing systems.  • Installs and repairs panic exit devices (push bars) and panic exit alarms.  • Automotive keys cutting, by code and by duplication for standard or high security keys.  • Automotive keys programming or cloning for transponders, remotes and fobiks.  • Conduct and identify physical security risk surveys.  • Strong interpersonal skills to effectively communicate with all business contacts of diverse  backgrounds.  • 100% satisfaction guarantee to ensure proper closing of each transaction between locksmith  and customer.  • Professional and respectful attitude toward all customers and a neat, well-groomed  appearance. IT Security Analyst II FIS US SIEM - Orlando, FL August 2016 to March 2017 • The FIS US SIEM engineer group's primary task was to protect, secure, detect, analyze, and investigate system logs for all external or internal intrusions to the FIS network environment. The group also collaborated with other FIS security groups that used security tools such as FireEye, EnCase, Web Application Firewall (WAF), and Bit9 to accomplish the same goals.  • Supported the installation, configuration, and troubleshooting of all LogRhythm Windows and Linux servers in the four remote data centers that included the following LogRhythm hardware: Platform Managers (PM), Data Processors (DP), Data Collectors (DC), Advanced Intelligence Engines (AIE), Data Indexers (DX), LogRhythm Web Console, and LogRhythm DAS Storage.  • Supported the LogRhythm system upgrades and fixes for the entire LogRhythm SIEM environment.  • Administered user accounts in the RSA Security Analytics and LogRhythm systems.  • Coordinated LogRhythm onboarding activities with FIS system owners.  • Onboarded and configured new system logs into the LogRhythm SIEM environment.  • Performed investigations against all system logs collected in the RSA Security Analytics and the LogRhythm systems.  • Supported the FIS system owners with onboarding and investigation activity issues using the internal  ticket system [Case Management System (CMS)].  • Performed daily system health checkup of the RSA Security Analytics and the LogRhythm SIEM  environments.  • Coordinated the open LogRhythm ticket issues with the LogRhythm support helpdesk.  • Collaborated with FIS internal groups to resolve issues related to security, firewalls, routers, active directory, bit9 blocks, McAfee file exceptions, and server builds.  • Coordinated service vendor visits and their attendance inside the four data centers.  • Shared a 24-hour rotation schedule for on-call support with others SIEM engineers every two months.  The entire US SIEM group was hands-on-deck when we had intrusions notifications. Technical Support Representative Senior FIS Desktop Services - Orlando, FL February 2011 to August 2016 • Single point of contact for delivering Level II technical support world-wide to about 55,000 employees.  • Administrated and supported new and existing PCs and peripherals physically in one building and over the phone in a remote capability to other employees world-wide.  • Installed, troubleshoot, diagnosed, and resolved hardware and software issues while adhering to the defined internal escalation process using the ticketing system [Case Management System (CMS)].  • Collaborated with the following groups to revolve network issues: security, network, activate directory,  servers, and internal development.  • Worked on special projects assigned by management.  • Coordinated service vendor visits and their attendance inside the entire building.  • Shared a 24-hour rotation schedule for on-call support with others Tier II technicians twice a year. Network Administrator Metavante Corporation - Orlando, FL January 2008 to July 2010 Metavante Corporation was acquired by FIS.    • Supported and maintained the company network.  • Responsible for Microsoft Windows, Citrix, and VMware servers, as well as the MOVEIT DMZ server (a corporate file transfer system).  • Managed user accounts, verified system security, and maintained the backup jobs for all servers.  • Administered and supported new and existing PCs and peripherals physically in one building and over the phone in a remote capability to other employees.  • Installed, troubleshoot, diagnosed, and resolved hardware and software issues.  • Managed the setup and support of the customers' conference twice a year.  • Worked on special projects assigned by management.  • Coordinated service vendor visits and their attendance inside the data center.  • Shared a 24-hour rotation schedule for on-call support with other network administrators every six weeks. Network Analyst III Bankway Corporation - Orlando, FL February 2000 to January 2008 Kirchman | Bankway Corporation was acquired by Metavante Corporation.    • Implemented new banks and support pre-existing banks to use the Bankway application.  • Assisted banks with networking issues, troubleshooting application issues, and coordinating projects for new banks converting to the Bankway application.  • Traveled to client sites to implement or troubleshoot Bankway application issues upon client request.  • Worked on special projects assigned by management.  • Shared a 24-hour rotation schedule for on-call support with others Network Analysts every six weeks. Programmer Analyst Walt Disney World Company - Lake Buena Vista, FL February 1999 to January 2000 Verified the Walt Disney World Automated Ticketing System (ATS) data backup jobs, the ATS servers,  network logs, managed user accounts, maintained hard drive space, and verified system security logs.  • Upgraded server hardware and software, as well as the capacity server planning.  • Supported a Windows network to accommodate a FTP system.  • Supported 10 Compaq 6500R servers and DLT tape backup units.  • Tested the ATS system, Compaq Novell servers, and Microsoft Windows servers for Y2K compliance.  • Coordinated service vendor visits and their attendance inside the data center. System Engineer Inacom Information Systems - Orlando, FL June 1997 to February 1999 • Managed installation team at Inacom and WDW employee's property-wide.  • Performed troubleshooting support for the token Ring and Ethernet backbone in WDW network.  • Installed, configured, and troubleshoot support for all new micro-computers and printers on a property- wide basis.  • Performed backup functions for all new PC installations.  • Administered tasks for all network servers.  • Installed and configured network applications.  • End-user support on a property-wide basis. LAN/Desktop/Server Specialist The Professional Group (TPG) - Rio Piedras, PR November 1995 to April 1997 Performed troubleshooting support for the Token Ring, Ethernet, and FDDI backbone including new  drops installation.  • Supported the disaster recovery plan and contingency plan activities on the data center.  • Supported standalone and LAN backup functions on a plant-wide basis.  • Installed and configured new network equipment, new NetWare servers, and new network applications.  • Administered tasks for all network servers.  • Installed, configured, and troubleshoot support for all network printers on a plant-wide basis.  • Administered tasks for Lotus Notes server (creating users and configuring workstations).  • Supported the local help desk functions on a plant-wide basis.  • Provided end-user support to the entire plant for 600+ users.  • Reset terminals and printers for mainframe systems.  • Coordinated service vendor visits and their attendance inside the entire plant. LAN/Desktop/Server Specialist Puerto Rico Treasury Department - San Juan, PR June 1995 to November 1995 • Administered tasks for all network servers.  • Supported LAN backup functions in all of the servers.  • Upgraded, repaired, and troubleshoot microcomputers.  • Assisted end users and maintained the local LAN in a Novell and Windows environment.  • Installed, configured, and troubleshoot all LAN network printers.  • Reset terminals and printers for mainframe systems.  • Coordinated service vendor visits and their attendance inside the entire building. Education Diploma in Technology Southern Technical College - Sanford, FL May 2018 Bachelor Degree in Computer Information Systems in Business Administration Andrews University - Berrien Springs, MI June 1995 Skills Security, Active Directory Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jose-a-santos-378bb5b1 Additional Information •   Fluent in two languages - English and Spanish (read, write and speak).  • Dependability and persistent.   • Adhering to strict deadlines.  • Working as a team member.  • Doing what needs to be done to get the job done right.  • Meticulous attention to detail, organized, and structured with excellent analytical skills      and problems solving.  • Strong experience in end-user support, disaster recovery, security systems, routers,      switches, servers, storage devices, desktops, laptops and printers.  •   Strong experience in WAN, LAN and WLAN networks.