IT Security and System Admin <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> and System Admin IT System Security Administrator Everett, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security and System Admin Access Laser - Everett, WA June 2016 to Present IT Admin Systems Security  Focus on developing strong IT backbone with the emphasis of security, to promote best practices.   Key responsibilities to include the following:  • Handling of Licenses(Server Cals, User Cals, Software)  • Printer Deployment via group policy’s   • Responsible for all IT contracts (Service Agreements)  • Knowledge and understanding of FTP, DNS, DHCP, Firewalls, Remote Desktops, VPN, Site-Site VPN, LDAP, Active Directory, SQL Databases, IIS  • Maintain License setup for Engineering application( Solidworks, Solidworks PDM, Altium, MatLab, MathCAD, Tortoise SVN, PADS, Solidwork CAM)  • Off-site Backups using third party service  • In charge of VoIP communications  • Setup Converged and Non-Converged Networks  • Influence management with business decisions  • Security Systems Analyst  • Help-desk ticketing system development   • Standardized all IT Hardware  • Patching of client machines and servers  • Setup Server with Virtual Machines using Hyper-V  • Setup 2FA for VPN    Analyzes, defines, and documents system and software requirements. Conduct Gap Analysis on current and future state business processes. Investigates and responds to customer software inquiries regarding errors and problems.  • EPICOR: Maintain ERP system to enhance performance and create reports:  • Data Analysis  • Customer Inquiries  • Customer Calls  • Enter Sales Orders  • Enter RMA's  • Documentation of Processes and Procedures  • Write BAQ  • Create customizations to customer needs and requirements  • Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)  • Implementation of new modules Product Support Analyst Jamco-America - Everett, WA November 2014 to June 2016 Analyzes, defines, and documents system and software requirements. Conduct Gap Analysis on current and future state business processes. Investigates and responds to customer software inquiries regarding errors and problems.  • EPICOR: Maintain ERP system to enhance performance and create reports:  • Data Analysis  • Customer Inquiries  • Customer Calls  • Enter Sales Orders  • Enter RMA's  • Documentation of Processes and Procedures  • Write BAQ  • Create customizations to customer needs and requirements  • Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)  • Implementation of new modules ERP Specialist Jamco-America - Everett, WA July 2013 to November 2014 Analyzes, defines, and documents system and software requirements. Conduct Gap Analysis on current and future state business processes. Investigates and responds to customer software inquiries regarding errors and problems.    • EPICOR: Maintain ERP system to enhance performance and create reports:  • Develop SQL 2008 queries to customer requirements.  • Create data/method directives to ensure users input correct values.  • Documentation of Processes and Procedures  • Write BAQ  • Create customizations to customer needs and requirements  • Help Desk Tickets Full-Time Student ITT-Tech - Everett, WA December 2009 to September 2013 Quality Control Inspector Jamco-America - Everett, WA January 2012 to July 2013 Quality Control, January 2012-July2013  • Experience performing in-process and final inspections on electronic, machined parts, assemblies, and sub-assemblies. Experience to read and interpret engineering drawings and purchase orders. Experience using various mechanical inspection tools, such as micrometers and calipers. Experience performing First Article Inspections (FAIs) in accordance to the AS9102 standard and knowledge of applicable industry standards like AS9100.    • Quality Control Inspector: Planned as primary support for metal fab, assembly and machining.  • Microsoft Word/Excel  • Forklift  • Receiving  • Used inspection instruments (Calipers, Micrometers, Rulers, Tapes)  • Interpret engineering drawings Quality Inspector Triumph Structures - Everett, WA January 2008 to December 2009 • Experience performing in-process and final inspections on electronic, machined parts, assemblies, and sub-assemblies. Experience to read and interpret engineering drawings and purchase orders. Experience using various mechanical inspection tools, such as micrometers and calipers. Experience performing First Article Inspections (FAIs) in accordance to the AS9102 standard and knowledge of applicable industry standards like AS9100.    • Quality Control Inspector: Planned as primary support for metal fab, assembly and machining.  • Microsoft Word/Excel  • Forklift  • Receiving  • Used inspection instruments (Calipers, Micrometers, Rulers, Tapes)  • Shipping  • Interpret engineering drawings Line Captain when mooring ship United States Navy - Everett, WA September 2003 to September 2007 USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN72) Everett, WA  Operate, service and repair internal combustion engines used to power some of the Navy's ships and onboard rescue boats. Work with diesel engines, cleaning, lubricating, adjusting, testing and performing other preventive maintenance on diesel engines, reduction gears, air compressors, hydraulic or pneumatic clutches, steering engines and controllable pitch propeller systems; Successfully lead a team of 8 on projects in order to meet deadline and pass inspections.    • Engineman 3rd Class: Supported Deck Department and operated rescue boats, winches, and capstans. Maintained regular PMS on all equipment related to Deck Department. Successfully finished seamanship and leadership training.  • Line Captain when mooring ship  • Wrote Watch Bills  • Petty Officer of the Deck (Oversee enlisted personal to board ship)  • Stood Lookout  • Space Supervisor Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems and Cybersecurity ITT-Technical Institute - Everett, WA September 2013 Associate of Applied Science in Computer Network Systems ITT-Technical Institute - Everett, WA December 2011 Certification in Electronics National Institute of Technology - San Antonio, TX December 1999 Skills Microsoft (10+ years), System Administrator, Vmware, Linux, Active Directory Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E4