Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Analyst - SpearTip Ballwin, MO CompTIA CySA+, Security+, and Network+ Certified Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst SpearTip - St. Louis, MO August 2018 to Present · Validate alerts from Enterprise Detection and Response tools and SIEM.  · Administrator for SIEM log management software. Responsible for on-boarding new partners.  · Conduct external and internal security assessments utilizing vulnerability assessment software.  · Acquire forensic images of systems and perform analysis for any useful forensic artifacts.  · Perform investigation and analysis of business email compromise cases.  · Conduct threat intelligence research based on metadata from alerts to associate a threat with known campaigns or threat actors.  · Assist in Incident Response Practice.  · Write technical reports explaining security incidents, technical analysis, and findings.  · Communicate with Spear Tip clients regarding suspicious/malicious activity detected within the environment. Network Security Administrator Stockell Consulting - Maryland Heights, MO October 2017 to July 2018 · Provided information system access to Edward Jones employees while ensuring that appropriate security controls were maintained.  · Assisted in the protection of information system resources and associated assets against accidental or unauthorized modification, destruction, or disclosure.  · Provided troubleshooting and analysis support for the firm.  · Created user IDs, such as group mailboxes, privileged user IDs, and secondary user IDs.  · Granted/revoked access to AD groups, LDAP groups, Oracle roles, group mailboxes, and various standalone systems. Network Security Specialist Charter Communications - Des Peres, MO February 2017 to August 2017 · Worked on site at Charter Communications in the Network Security team.  · Alerted customers with known external vulnerable services running on their local area network and provide remediation steps.  · Alerted customers when their IP address had been identified as violating the Acceptable Use Policy.  · Handled incoming and outgoing network security related customer calls. IT Analyst Maritz - Fenton, MO February 2016 to August 2016 · Provided help desk support to the 6000+ Maritz employees around the world.   · Remotely handled troubleshooting for various Layer 7 application issues on employee endpoints.  · Administered and solved issues related to virtualized infrastructure.  · Participated in an effort to educate end-users on how to spot phishing emails.  · Analyzed systems logs to pinpoint causes of software issues.  · Manually installed various software products for end-users.  · Handled troubleshooting for network connection issues caused by port-based security/firewalls.  · Participated in a company-wide migration to Office 2016 and educated users on its features.  · Rebuilt laptops and thin clients as needed.  · Handled profile issues and password changes for Active Directory and Cisco accounts.   · Set up accounts and handled issues with the multi-factor authentication system. IT Admin Assistant HDIS Inc - Olivette, MO October 2014 to February 2016 · Provided on-site help desk support for the 300+ employees in a Windows environment.  · Administrator for call-recording software and servers.  · Took apart and swapped out parts for PCs as needed.  · Converted all workstation from Windows XP to Windows 7.  · Handled the intake and logging of software enhancement requests.   · Tested software enhancements for quality assurance.   · Served as the assistant to the I.T. Director.  · Set up and managed both local and network printers.   · Set up workstations for new users.  · Managed network permissions and added users to security/email groups in Active Directory.  · Created email accounts and email groups in Microsoft Exchange.  · Created new accounts, and managed permissions for the proprietary software program.  · Assisted with upgrades to the company data center. Education Certificate in Cybersecurity Maryville University - St. Louis, MO December 2016 Bachelor's in Communication University of Missouri-St Louis - St. Louis, MO December 2007 Skills Active Directory Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ March 2018 to January 2022 CompTIA Security+ February 2017 to January 2022 CompTIA CySA+ January 2019 to January 2022