Service Delivery Manager Service Delivery Manager Service Delivery Manager Renton, WA Work Experience Service Delivery Manager CompuCom Systems, Inc February 2017 to June 2019 Core, SDI, EC, NBS  • Responsible for operational rigor for Intel account including America as well as parts of Canada and Central America.  • Monthly travel to meet with our local leads and Intel's managers for collaboration and improvement opportunities.  • Analyze data points from ISMP to identify improvement opportunities and develop a plan for corrective action.  • Execute monthly 1:1 meetings with the 5 direct report Ops Leads for cohesion and process improvements.  • Managed the delivery and update of our process documentation to Intel for 3 lines of business.  • Participate in critical escalations requiring in depth analysis and delivery of a comprehensive corrective action plan.  • Procure, organize and deliver bi-weekly metrics to our server support SDI Intel counterparts to drive process and delivery improvements.  • Nearly 15 years experience within corporate IT with 4 years experience managing people and vendor relationships.  • Deliver on various projects such as untracked time, bi-weekly metrics, process documentation and others.  • Responsible for providing KPI and summary write-ups for our monthly review with Intel.  • Create, validate and produce weekly reporting via ISMP data to monitor performance and adherence to our SLAs. Tier 3 Support Lead CompuCom Systems, Inc May 2016 to December 2016 Cloud & Infrastructure Solutions  • Mentored and guided a team of 15 engineers based on performance and customer engagement.  • Raised our leading indicator of customer satisfaction based off percentage from the 30s to the 70s and 80s.  • Analyzed data, identified opportunities for improvement, developed and executed performance improvement plans.  • Elevated our KPIs to a high-level producing metrics that enabled us to outperform the competing vendor.  • Accustom with a technical support environment, terminology, and enterprise IT environments.  • Skilled at interacting and engaging with Enterprise and Executive level customers including building action plans.  • Delivered world class support while providing a global presence 24/7/365.  • Performed daily/weekly case reviews of all engineers looking for triggers that indicated poor performance.  • Effectively monitored, controlled and reported team's performance to ensure agreed levels of customer satisfaction.  • Participated in technical triages with senior engineers and Microsoft FTEs to understand any trending issues.  • Updated and presented a weekly business review presentation that shows trending metrics, opportunities for improvement and action plans. C+E Security Project Manager & Response Microsoft, MSRC Microsoft Security Response Center October 2013 to October 2015 Cloud and Enterprise  • Analyzed projects and identify key dependencies including gaps and implement risk mitigations.  • Assisted with the launch, testing, troubleshooting and implementation of Microsoft Dynamics CRM as our primary customer relationship management tool.  • Evaluated all new technologies into daily workflow and either implement changes or provide alternatives.  • Created procedural documents which assist in training all new employees.  • Modified drop downs within Excel reports to match desired outcome for partner reporting.  • Managed project and guided the implementation of PGP encryption software for team usage.  • Ability to effectively prioritize and execute tasks in a high-pressure environment.  • Exported raw data from SSMS into Excel for telemetry reporting.  • Worked weekly with and adjust reports that utilize concatenate functionality for partner reporting.  • Tracked monthly release cycles, provide deliverables, and incident management of all issues.  • Utilized multiple pivot tables to produce KPIs for upper management consumption. Retail Stores – IT Ops / Services Microsoft RTG Platform Engineering Retail August 2013 to September 2013 • Worked proactively with business partners to gather requirements and drive the delivery on the requirements including continuous availability of the service.  • Analyzed projects and identified key dependencies including gaps and implement risk mitigations.  • Captured all requirements to ensure a successful implementation of all new capabilities.  • Tracked tasks, deliverables and risks to ensure they are documented and updated in a timely manner.  • Ensured project documents and lessons learned are complete, correctly documented, and stored appropriately.  • Captured or gathered all support processes from new store build out to support ticketing. LSGOI-SME / XOC Analyst 2 / XOC Associate Microsoft Xbox Operations Center - XOC October 2008 to July 2013 • Assisted with driving a team-oriented professional culture, establishing policies and procedures that provide flexibility in a changing environment.  • Took ownership of major incidents to ensure coordination of resolving parties, effective communication to stakeholders and post-incident review.  • Monitored project risks and scope creep to identify potential problems and proactively identifying solutions to address them in advance.  • Performed Shift Lead duties on rotation or whenever Shift Lead was absent which included entire shifts.  • Troubleshot and mitigated hardware, OS, network, database, and LIVE Services issues by following established TSG; and if necessary, perform escalation and triage with other T3/T4 support.  • Provided in-depth and root cause analysis, crash debugging, network troubleshooting, tape backup operations, AD implementation, basic SQL queries and PowerShell script execution.  • Problem tracking in an ITIL based ticketing system and trending analysis.  • Provided on-the-job training, technical leadership and guidance to junior engineers. Telecomm Engineer 3 Wachovia May 2006 to October 2008 • Performed expert problem resolution for applications, servers, and related business services in the distributed systems, UNIX, and Intel environments.  • Lead major problem management and recovery activities involving corporate communication.  • Drove process improvements to ensure monitoring, recovery, and reporting processes reduced customer downtime and eliminated problems from the environment.  • Ensured key business and IT stakeholder satisfaction by providing comprehensive and consistent reporting of key outages and technical issues. Education Bachelor of Arts in Communication Western Washington University Bellevue Community College Skills Tcp/ip, Lan/wan, Tcp, Ethernet, Ftp