Lead Information Security Analyst Lead Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Work Experience Lead Information Security Analyst Cincinnati, OH September 2017 to Present Responsible for the daily review and investigation of data loss prevention (DLP) activities, review of daily SIEM logs, tracking of security training compliance, account provisioning to 84.51 & Kroger applications, systems and buildings and auditing of accounts with elevated access to HIPAA and PII related data.  Risk analysis of 3rd party software or hardware to identify potential risks.  - Automation and maintenance of identity access management (IAM) system.  - Project manager for quarterly penetration tests and vulnerability remediation.  - Managed risk register findings to resolve or mitigate risks to an acceptable level.  - Implement Microsoft Intune, mobile application management, to protect 84.51 accounts and data on personal mobile devices.  - Collaboration with Kroger security team for cross domain application access. System Administrator FTJ Fundchoice - Hebron, KY July 2016 to September 2017 Management of Active Directory, group policy, Exchange, network monitoring software, firewall maintenance, patch  management, data loss prevention and Avaya VOIP software.  - Migrated fourteen servers to a clustered virtual environment to provide high availability and failover  services in the event of an outage.  - Implemented endpoint security software to provide real-time security protection and response  capabilities.  - Implemented anti-phishing software to identify and mitigate potential phishing attacks.  - Documented information security policies and guidelines.  - Supported incident response during non-regular hours and emergency situations. IT Security Administrator Cheviot Savings Bank - Cincinnati, OH May 2013 to July 2016 Administration of Active Directory, group policy, data backups, network support, mobile device management, endpoint encryption, firewall maintenance, patch management and vulnerability assessment and remediation.  - Migrated all Windows Server 2003 servers to Windows Server 2012.  - Implemented mobile device management to administer all corporate and BYOD devices.  - Developed, maintained, and annually tested the business continuity plan.  - Researched, interacted, and coordinated with vendors to identify and implement the best software  solutions per our technology requirements. Lead Information Security Analyst Citi Group Inc - Blue Ash, OH August 2011 to May 2013 Performed compliance analysis by coordinating between multiple project teams and businesses to ensure all  applications, databases and infrastructure systems comply with Citi information security policies.  - Ensured compliance with federal & state auditing regulations in an effort to pass all audits with a satisfactory rating.  - Transitioned and reviewed security audit trails for over 200+ various internal and external applications, databases, and infrastructure systems, including LDAP, SQL, Oracle, Wintel, RACF, Sybase and Active  Directory systems.  - Escalated issues and organized resources to allow correction of security vulnerabilities in applications that  contained high financial information, privacy information and SOX critical data.  - Performed maintenance on an Access database that contained over 30,000+ records. Information Security Analyst Citi Group Inc - Blue Ash, OH December 2009 to August 2011 Conducted daily reconciliation of incident and event management audit reports, remediated unauthorized security  events, provided daily notification of missing tickets, introduced new procedures and gathered statistics for metrics.  - Supplied audit reports, evidence, and training documentation to internal auditors in support of external  (KPMG) audits & OCC reviews.  - Created training manuals to provide detailed documentation on audit log reconciliation processes for applications and databases.  - Reconciliation of UNIX, SQL & Oracle daily audit reports. Desktop Technician University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH June 2008 to December 2009 Supported Active Directory, deployment of desktop images, configuration and maintenance of virtual images, system maintenance and user support.  - Successfully maintained 150+ Apple and Windows desktops in an 8 server and 2 domain environment  utilizing virtualization to improve productivity and reduce cost. Desktop Technician Advantage IQ - Cincinnati, OH March 2008 to June 2008 Performed daily system backups, deployment of desktop images, system maintenance, server upgrades and user  support. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Technology University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH December 2009 Associate Degree in Media Productions Cincinnati State Technical and Community College - Cincinnati, OH June 2005 Skills Css, Dns, Iis, Security, Backups, Data loss prevention, Nessus, Vpn, Active directory, Firewalls, Networking, Tcp/ip, Virtualization, Dhcp, Network monitoring, Network troubleshooting, Tcp, Vmware, Sql, Html Additional Information S K IL LS  Networking Active Directory, Data storage, Desktop imaging, DHCP, DNS, Firewalls, FTP, Group Policy,  IIS, LAN, Mobile Application Management (MAM), Network troubleshooting, SMTP, System backups,  TCP/IP, Virtualization, VPN and WAN.  Systems Windows, Windows Server, OS X, Linux, Android & iOS.  Software Adobe Creative Suite, Carbon Black Endpoint Security, Dell Kace Management Appliance,  Forcepoint Data Loss Prevention, LogRhythm, MaaS360, Microsoft Office 365, Microsoft Visio, Mimecast,  Netfort LanGuardian Network Monitoring, Service Now, Symantec Data Loss Prevention, Tenable Nessus,  VMware ESXi  Languages HTML, CSS, XML and SQL.  Other Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Project management, Ability to handle an  aggressive workload, User training, Vendor management, Audit & Compliance.