Business Unit Security Officer (BUSO) Business Unit <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer (BUSO) Business Unit Security Officer (BUSO) - John Hancock Shrewsbury, MA An experienced and transformative cybersecurity manager with vast knowledge in leading information security, vendor management and compliance initiative. Adept at directing multi-national teams and valued for creativity, technical acumen and business-positive approach to information technology risk management. Able to translate complex security concepts into 'take homes' for non-technical audiences.    Signature Achievements:  • Led and influenced the modernization of a struggling risk management team into a forward looking and agile minded advisory team.  • Significantly reduce the cost of PCI compliance assessment by 40% through an integrated compliance approach. Work Experience Business Unit Security Officer (BUSO) John Hancock - Boston, MA June 2016 to Present • Lead and manage business units' cybersecurity, resilience and governance initiatives as part of Sr management 2nd line Assurance functions (COSO Framework).  • Develop business case justifications and cost/benefit analysis for technology spending and initiatives.  • Led the implementation of a new cybersecurity framework based on the COSO framework into agile value streams,  • Lead significant initiatives (ApigeeRobotic Process Automation, Big Data, DevOps, Blockchain, SOA-to- Microservices) and product risk assessments from a technical security and information risk management perspective (includes risk identification based on information criticality through to control implementation and management of risk acceptance by product owners and business areas.  • Identify enterprise trends, synergies, and opportunities to strategically provide management assurance.  • Serves as cybersecurity advisor and partner to IT, product owners, release train engineers and scrum teams.  • Oversee the secure design and development of security features, solutions and products for insurance value streams.  • Provide security assessment on security architecture and requirements related to web applications, cloud integration and migration.  • Provide coaching, mentoring and security expertise for development teams.  • Develop an information security risk portfolio for the squads, initiatives and value streams.  • Support operational security activities including oversight of ongoing divisional security processes (e.g., incident response, ad hoc queries, periodic access reviews, and vulnerability management).  • Elicits and translates business requirements to systems specifications for securing complex business systems.  • Ensuring security specifications align with Global information security policies and standards.  • Review existing architecture and makes recommendations on security controls.  • Incorporate secure design principles and architecture level security concepts.  • Provide security guidance to business units migrating workloads to Azure, AWS, and Google cloud services.  • Assist architects in developing an aligning architecture framework with business requirements. Sr Consultant Controls Assessments and Monitoring CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI May 2015 to June 2016 • Successfully completed "Report on Compliance" for PCI DSS level 1 certification for 2019 and received our "Attestation of Compliance" from the bank.  • Manage, facilitate, prioritize and ensure completion of information systems assessments.  • Interact with management to determine the scope and content of audit compliance review, consistent with department goals.  • Develop, identify and review organization PCI assessment scope.  • Track and identify PCI DSS changes that could impact the organization.  • Identify and review PCI assets classification and inventory.  • Review any significant changes to processes, applications, systems, network, technologies and its impact on PCI compliance.  • Review compensating controls from previous assessments.  • Manage and track external PCI web application (Qualys) scans.  • Developed a holistic Arcsight log review process in compliance with PCI DSS.  • Manage and complete ad-hoc reviews and departmental initiatives as requested by management.  • Create, track and review GRC Archer assessment requests and evidence for PCI assessment and controls monitoring.  • Identify risks and assess existing/proposed controls associated with information system strategy.  • Review PCI vendors risk profiles.  • Assist in the implementation of a firewall review process.  • Determine corrective action(s) by soliciting client recommendations and responses to the issue.  • Review and update security policies, procedures, and standards. Glenn Burnie, MD (Contract) Motor Vehicle Administration July 2014 to April 2015 Sr/Lead IT Security Specialist  • Lead motor vehicle administration PCI and state compliance program.  • Coordinate external and internal penetration test with vendors.  • Lead and track remediation of penetration test findings.  • Created a PCI log review procedure.  • Developed threat and vulnerability management procedure and standard.  • Track vulnerability profile of the MVA.  • Manage and track PCI safeguard implementation guide (SIP) register.  • Review MVA standards, procedures and policies.  • Conduct internal audit of MVA servers.  • Provide information security guidance and counsel to the CISO, PMs, and IT director.  • Lead and manage MVA security incidents and events from Qradar SIEM.  • Implement and lead MVA McAfee data loss prevention (DLP) project.  • Review data loss prevention incidents with stakeholders.  • Train MVA employees on the functionality of McAfee DLP.  • Lead the implementation of Tripwire file integrity monitoring. IT Risk Manager (Threat &Vulnerability Management) JP Morgan Chase, Delaware December 2012 to May 2014 • Manage, and revamped threat vulnerability management process.  • Provide support throughout the lifecycle of various audits.  • Provide control consulting on emerging risks and key initiatives (Cyber and IAM)  • Supports CIO to ensure they are addressing current and emerging risks.  • Collaborate with enterprise architecture to reduce cyber security risk of the business units.  • Responsible for providing Risk Management support across the CCB lines of business.  • Provide risk guidance in the remediation of issues and action plans.  • Work with global operations management to promote risk awareness and compliance across lines of business.  • Manage and conduct adhoc audit, compliance assessment and any audit related projects. Sr Information Security Analyst Jos A. Banks - Hampstead, MD April 2009 to December 2012 • Conduct and develop remediation process for PCI audits with Plan of Action and Milestone process.  • Documentation of enterprise daily logs as required for compliance with PCI DSS.  • Assess enterprise information systems internal controls as required by PCI DSS.  • Conduct SOX quarterly user audit.  • Managed and perform organization wide quarterly users and systems audit.  • Audit enterprise application using IBM BigFix reports.  • Review and update security policy, procedures, standards and guidelines.  • Monitor, research, and document Dell Secureworks IDS network alerts/logs.  • Monitor and respond to McAfee SIEMS alert.  • Monitor and review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator malware alerts.  • Educate staff and organization about new threats and breaches through emails and newsletters.  • Research and identify security risks, threats and vulnerabilities of networks, systems, applications and new technology initiatives. Security Engineer McAfee Suite Department of Commerce - Silver Spring, MD January 2008 to April 2009 • Maintain FIPS compliance systems using McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator 5.0.  • Assisted the agency in meeting Cyberscope goals by encrypting 1500+ machines using McAfee endpoint encryption.  • Automate, create and deploy antivirus DAT files to systems using ePO server.  • Create weekly patch and vulnerability reports.  • Learn and Experience. Systems Administrator Xerox - Columbia, MD February 2005 to January 2008 • Automate the deployment of encrypt to systems using McAfee ePo.  • Deploy enterprise windows updates, patches and critical security application using SCCM package manager.  • Manage and deployed system images using tools such as SCCM, Norton ghost.  • Developed mitigation strategies to harden offsite systems.  • Audit and remove unapproved software from environment. Education Bachelor's in Bus IT Management WGU - Salt Lake City, UT January 2018 to Present