IT Security Risk & Governance Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Risk &amp; Governance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Risk & Governance Analyst Palm Harbor, FL Technical Service Manager with over 20 years of major telecommunications experience for Top Fortune industry leaders. Recognized for understanding complex client network topologies and developing solutions to business challenges; effective at working well under pressure and in meeting deadlines, while maintaining positive attitude. Successful network design, integration, repair, maintenance, troubleshooting, and testing expertise. Proven track record of contributing to increased sales of domestic and international MPLS, VoIP, Wireless, and Internet services. Dedicated and results-driven leader; committed to building diverse and efficient, goal-oriented teams. Areas of Expertise:    • Project Management  • Process Improvement  • Network Optimization  • Large Account and Client Support  • Staff Management  • Cross-Functional Team Leadership  • Management Reporting Development  • Training Development/Delivery Work Experience IT Security Risk & Governance Analyst AMERICAN EXPRESS/SERVE - Saint Petersburg, FL 2013 to 2015 Technical Service Manager (Consultant) AMERICAN EXPRESS/SERVE 2013 to 2014 Recruited to support all functions of IT Operations Security Risk and Governance and serve as a technical lead in obtaining critical statistical information and controls regarding the compliance of the pre-paid credit card platform. Report and analyze information to develop and enforce policies and procedures and continuous process improvement.  • Assist Internal/External Auditors with the planning and execution of IT Platform audits and provide all information needed to ensure compliance with American Express standards.  • Provide detailed application vulnerability reporting using TrustWave application scans to improve applications.  • Serve as technical liaison to application owners to help manage system exceptions to be closed in order to comply with American Express compliance standards.  • Provide high level trend reporting for Non-Compliant Solution Architect Reviews, Exceptions Management, and Application Inventory Data Quality Index violations.  • Assist with the planning, development and implementation strategies of IT Service Management best practices.  • Perform project management of IT Operations initiatives.  • Lead problem management and Root Cause Analysis (RCA) processes.  • Manage product/service releases and production readiness process by combining process management and industry best practices into a standard approach that enables the organization to deliver quality IT services to meet business needs and adhere to Service Level Agreements (SLA).  • Building and maintaining of Service Catalogues, assisting with the development of SLA's and reporting performance against defined SLA's Technical Program Manager/Project Manager WorldCom/MCI - Temple Terrace, FL 2005 to 2012 Recruited back to Verizon to serve as key technical lead role in managing and implementing a large 1000 node network for a new $25 million client. Developed risk management strategies and proactive service improvement plans relative to service continuity for specific client base.  • Served as lead technical resource to field engineers to implement 1000 node Cisco network with 2 Wireless Access Points in each of 1100 stores. The project was completed in 1 year according to contract, which was to have 1000 stores done. Verizon was then given the contract to install the rest of the 1500 stores to install to generate over $32 million in revenue over 5 years.  • Increased weekly dispatch productivity for new WAN client, from 5 installs per week to 145 installs per week. Recognized with Outstanding Achievement Award for new WAN project in 2006.  • Produced proactive network diversity assessments and network hardening strategies to over 20 clients with over 1000 sites each to improve optimization; ensuring service levels were achieved based on contractual terms and that service center activities achieved desired business outcomes.  • Created custom monthly reports for customer networks to identify sites with chronic issues and failing to meet SLG requirements. Developed service improvement plans, ensuring network availability of service running at least 99.9% of time.  • Performed analysis to document client components inclusive of critical locations, circuits and design nuances; resulting in improved serviceability of critical sites.  • Created customer communication for notification of customer impacting events driven by grooms and maintenance activities. Senior Project Manager, Telecommunications Data Network NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH - Oldsmar, FL 2002 to 2004 Recruited to oversee the installation of the entire network components of new campus for $500M company (Nielsen Media Research). Managed 11 Sr. Network Engineers (hired 3 and promoted 3); and also managed data communication operating budget of $10.5M.  • Managed the design and implementation of new 500K sq. ft. campus Cisco Network, including 25K sq. ft. data center. Project delivered on time and under budget.  • Saved the company over $1.5M, implementing new remote dial/VPN-access method. Consistently reduced field office connectivity costs by providing lower cost VPN connectivity to headquarters.  • Managed all new projects from development groups needing network connectivity to any of 700 servers. Technical Performance Consultant WORLDCOM 1998 to 2002 Provided pre/post-sales technical support and training to Account Managers to assist in closing both domestic and international sales of WorldCom products and services. Collaborated in pricing of products and services.  • Served as technical advisor for sales account team that grew account revenue by 300% against a $50M run rate. Awarded Honors to WorldCom's Inner-Circle Club in 1999.  • Partnered with Account Management teams to develop detailed RFP (Request for Proposal); securing up to 4 new projects, representing over $100 million in new business for WorldCom.  • Resolved complex communication issues, serving as liaison between clients help desk and WorldCom Service Center; provided training to help desks to obtain optimum service from WorldCom Service Center. Technical Project Manager WORLDCOM - Tampa, FL 1988 to 2002 Education A.S. in Electronics Technology Electronics Institute - Tampa, FL Skills Project Management (10+ years), Process Improvement (10+ years), Cross-Functional Team Leadership (10+ years), Management Reporting Development (10+ years), Training Development/Delivery (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS AND CERTIFICATIONS    Networks: MPLS (PIP), Cloud Technology, WAN, Wireless, VoIP, ATM, and Frame Relay    Test Equipment: Firebird Testers, Internet Advisors, LAN/WAN Probes, and Wire Shark packet captures    CCDA (Cisco Certified Design Associate); CCNA (Cisco Certified Network Associate); ITIL v3