Contractor Contractor Contractor - NORTH CAROLINA STATE OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICE Mebane, NC • Energetic goal oriented outgoing professional with a can do attitude.  • 30 years cumulative Business and Office Administration, IT Consulting, Customer Service, Marketing, Consumer and Sales Production Support and Information Systems and Technology and Application Infrastructure and Security Administrator Support  • 20 years working Help Desk, Systems Analyst and Production Support Tier Levels I, II, and III  • 18 years working Desktop, Hardware, Software, Installation, COTS Application and Proprietary support  • 18 years Application installation Server and Client support and administration DOS, WIN2K, WIN2003, WINXP WIN2008, WIN2012, WINNT, WIN7 SP2, WIN8.0, WIN10 Client and server configuration, IIS install and configuration for proprietary software, technical testing and documenting and vendor/user support and software maintenance  • PRODUCTION, UAT, TEST, SIT AND DEVELOPMENT, PROD NON PROD environment infrastructure support.  • Vendor, End User, Stakeholder, Infrastructure and Technical on-site and Field support professional Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contractor NORTH CAROLINA STATE OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICE - Durham, NC January 2019 to Present County Support Liaison State of North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services NC FAST Project P4. Durham, North Carolina 27709 1/2019 to Present - Contractor  • County Support Resource for NC FAST Child Welfare program. RTP Durham. Support for 100 Counties of the State of North Carolina providing onsite, deskside and hands on functionality and user support for the NC FAST DHHS web-based application portal. Duties entails extensive travel throughout the state of North Carolina providing user, administrative, functionality and navigation support to non Technical Users of application. Serve as a POC and liaison between county offices and Project and Program Management and Support Staff.  Technologies include NC FAST application (proprietary software) Child Welfare Services DSS Intake, Assessment, OnGoing, Adoption, Foster Care, Licensing, Financials, Mobile App, DataCap for NCFAST, MS Office 2010 Enterprise Edition, 365 Office, SharePoint, Skype for departmental communication. IT SPECIALIST GS Office of Disaster Assistance Field Office Center East Disaster - Florence, 15698, IT October 2018 to December 2018 15698 State of South Carolina -Hurricane Florence, Cheraw, Bennettesville, Darlington, Florence and Dillon Counties of South Carolina (Temporary Federal Employee Assignment) 10/2018 to 12/2018  • On Assignment in South Carolina until end of Hurricane Florence Presidential Declaration scheduled for December 5, 2018. Program ended 12/2018. PIV Card and GCC Holder - Federal Government Employee Grade GS-09 Temporary Employee Assignment for Office of Disaster Assistance.  • Served as an IT Field Technician And Specialist supporting SBA Staff assigned to assist Survivors of Hurricane Florence. Counties of South Carolina covered included Florence, Darlington, Chesterfield, Dillon and Marlboro.  • Rovered to remote federal work sites and provided desk side on site support for all IT Equipment-laptops, desktop, printers, scanners, Verizon and AT&T Jet Packs(HotSpots), mobile phones and responsible for shipping and receiving and inventory of all IT Equipment installed on site. Supported all SBA Staff assigned to site for Desktop Software, User Access and troubleshooting of all instances of issues as they may arise on site. Required to respond to emergency calls for on-call support. Help Desk Tracking software utilized CA Service Desk, AT&T Network Client for VPN connectivity to SBA's network and all propriety software installed on assigned assets to CSRs and Team Leads laptops and computers. Responsible for all setup, movements, modification and closure of Disaster Recovery Centers, Mobile Disaster Recovery Centers and Business Recovery Centers. Worked closely with Field Office Officers to field planning and change requests as it related to the general operations and functions of all Centers. Resolved all incoming trouble tickets and impromptu service requests within 4 hours of assignment. Fielded all requests with a closure rate of 100% resolution within 8 hours of notification. Served as an IT Specialist in Tier II and Tier III analyst capacity. Service tickets and issue was my responsibility until resolution. IT TECHNICIAN Election Day IT Technician ELECTIONS OF BREVARD COUNTY FLORIDA - Melbourne, FL October 2018 to October 2018 - Melbourne Florida TEMPORARY CONTRACTOR FOR AUE STAFFING MELBOURNE, FL 10/2018 to 10/2018 6 week assignment for Election Day Activities Melbourne, FL 32935  • Hired as on Temporary Assignment to the Supervisors of Elections for Brevard County Florida to support Election Day and Early Voting Election Day activities and functions. Responsible for testing of all machines, proprietary Software and IT Equipment utilized for Election Day activities. Information Technology Specialist GS Office of Disaster Assistance Field Office Center East Disaster - Saint Croix, VI October 2017 to July 2018 • Information Technology Specialist GS 2210-09 Agency -Small Business Administration - Office of Disaster Assistance Field Office Center East Disaster 15320 U.S. Virgin Islands - Hurricane Maria St. Croix US Virgin Islands (Temporary Federal Employee Assignment) 10/2017 to 7/2018  • Responsible for developing, implementing, operating and maintaining Information Technology equipment and systems, and supporting the staff in a service oriented environment.  • Customer Support - troubleshoot problems, provides support in a manner that minimizes interruption in customer's ability to carry out critical business activities. Support the Office of Disaster Assistance field response remotely and within the Disaster Recovery or Business Recovery Centers. Establish the remote location communications, user remote access, laptop configuration, and system troubleshooting and resolution. Use knowledge of remote security policies and procedures to ensure the data and network integrity of the SBA network (assist with PIV card logins).  • Maintain center IT inventory of systems and related technology equipment, ensuring Center is able to effectively respond to disaster activity. Researches and recommends new and additional technology, excesses outdated and damaged equipment, and provide management with current and accurate equipment availability.  • Document all work in conformance with accepted SBA standards. Train and support end-users in the user of ODA applications.  • Security - Implement and coordinate activities designed to protect and restore IT systems, services and capabilities. Assist with monitoring and evaluating systems' compliance with IT security requirements.  • Operating Systems - make appropriate systems tuning adjustments to optimize performance and correct and prevent problems. Determine and configure systems components such as printers, scanners and other peripherals used to support the operating environment at the Disaster Recovery Centers.  • Troubleshoot problems and implement changes. Diagnose system failures to isolate problem source between equipment, system software, and application programs.  • CA Service Desk application utilized for Service Request and Incident Tracking Office Coordinator Part Time American Cancer Society Sunny Isles - Saint Croix, VI March 2017 to August 2017 Operations closed on St. Croix  • Responsible for the USVI-St. Croix office operations.  • Handles all aspects of patient walk-in and phone requests, entering data into Siebel and tracks patient financial assistants timely and accurately.  • Receives incoming calls and provides professional assistance to callers, greeting visitors and provide assistance as needed, ensuring office is covered for opening and closures.  • Uses office support software, websites and programs (Siebel, Cancer Resource Connection, ePRF, Pcard, Finance and budget reports) with efficiency to complete required tasks.  • Reports IT issues for St. Croix to St. Thomas office coordinator.  • Acts as point of contact for office utilization and equipment.  • Helps recruit, train, direct and coordinate office volunteers and support office volunteers recognition efforts. Enters volunteer data into Siebel.  • Ensures that an emergency preparedness plan is in place and that office closings are communicated and posted on Yammer. Maintains relationships with office vendors and point of contact for storage management (internal and external)  • Maintains office alarm codes and access keys/devices.  • Materials and Product Management Activities:  • Processes ePRFs for office related expenses and invoices.  • Completes ITRs upon request.  • Ensures timely donation processing by following processes in accordance with Finance standards. Provides timely and accurate reports as needed.  • Reconciles event donations from in coordination with event staff.  • Coordinates office supply management with Office Coordinator in St. Thomas.  • Handles mail management, including local office procedures to receive orders, mail shipments and large mailings for St. Croix. Senior IT Security Analyst Federal Home Loan and Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac - Herndon, VA November 2015 to December 2016 • Infrastructure Support and Identity Access Management Team  • Security Administrator and Access Provisioning for SailPoint, Lotus Notes, GOOD, BMS, RSA, Oracle, Sybase, Financial and Treasury application. Infrastructure Application and Identity Access Management Support.  • SharePoint Contributor and manage and edit entries for the Identity Access Management Department. Collect, Confirm, verify, audit and upload documents required for Security Controls protocols based on daily, weekly, biweekly, monthly, quarterly and annual reporting for all SOX, PPI, PROD, NON PROD, PROD NON PROD, environment and application related access controls, application availability, accuracy and access control.  • Collector and POC for all password management reports uploaded to SharePoint  • 24/7 Support for Lotus Notes, Sybase, Oracle and RSA/VPN  • Platform Support for Lotus Notes, RSA/VPN, Blackberry Enterprise and GOOD for MOBILE. Services  • OIM MAC Request support, MAC Level II support, Test to Production Smoke Testing Support, Termination, Disable, Transfer and Recon processing and support  • OIM Group support for SOX, Financial, PPI applications and platform support  • Information System Key Technology Control reporting for all platforms and SOX applications.  • POC for Identity Access Management department to Information Security Governance Office  • Application and System ID Inventory reporting for PROD an d NON PROD environments  • Applications and application role support Primary on call IT Specialist March 2015 to November 2015 • Create, update and resolve issues using Lotus Notes ticketing system. Create child tickets and relate same tickets from Parent ticket for provisioning of user access and other user security provisioning task delegated to other support teams  * Successfully supported Projects:  * RSA VPN SecurID Administrator assist with setup and connection, perform varied administrative tasks via RSA Console.  * Windows XP to Windows 8.1 application and platform testing for behavior within 8.1 environment  * Provide support for RSA issues related to conversion of Blackberry and Windows 8.1 image  * Provide support for NUC employee's access to Unified Collateral Damage Portal a.k.a. UCDP real estate appraisal proprietary informational data transfer portal.  * Internal Technology Registration primary contact for MSP IBM ,Accenture, CGI and HP user access control and account provisioning. IT Support Analyst Access Control and Risk Management-Identity Access Management Fannie Mae - Reston, VA May 2014 to November 2015 Enterprise Business Services Internal Technology Registration  • Tier II/III Support Security & Access Management - Managed Service Provider (MSP) account Provisioner. Create, configure, modify, revoke and delete contractor accounts using Oracle Identity Access Manager OIM software and add/modify/delete user role accounts for multi-platform environments and cross domain access to Enterprise Financial Applications.  • Create, update and resolve issues using Remedy BMC Incident Management Console. Create, update and track issues through to resolution for Change Management Remedy Console; requests created and submitted to other support teams for action, track, document and follow up to resolution. Create child tickets and relate same tickets from Parent ticket for provisioning of user access and other user security provisioning tasks. Utilized Remedy Incident and Child/Parent relationship requests to generate tickets for user access provisioning processes for Fannie Mae uses across the United States. CMS XOSC Tier II Specialized Operational CSR- Security Clearance Public Trust - Falls Church, VA December 2013 to April 2014 - 6402 Arlington Boulevard Falls Church, VA 22042 12/2013 - 04/2014  • Tier 2 Technical support for the Affordable Care Act of 2010 (ACA) supporting calls/emails from users of various Federal exchange applications across 26 states. Serve as initial point of contact for all application systems related issues. Provide technical and investigative support to issuer and state clients on contribution amounts, claims, claims data transmission issues, reinsurance payments. Provide access and log-in support (ID's/login passwords, and user accounts) for the Federal Exchange system, Data Service Hub, State Medicaid and Children's insurance program (CHIP) agencies connecting to Federal Exchange Platform System (FEPS), and State Issuer System Administrators or other authorized stakeholders.  • Create, update and resolve issues using Remedy Incident Tracking  • IT Desktop Technician for Operations Support Center install applications, troubleshoot issues, provide desktop user support, contribute to production of technical documentation, track, resolve tickets using free ware SpiceWorks. Contribute to the overall planning and implementation of new software and hardware in accordance with sunset of WinXP OS. User Security and Access Control Administrator IFCID -Identity & Access Management World Bank Group-International Finance Corporation - Washington, DC August 2012 to December 2013 • Tier II & III Support - Managed user access to World Bank Group network and application resources. Create, configure, modify, revoke and delete all user accounts using various business tool software. Security Administrator provisioning access for multi-platform environment and cross domain access. 365/24/7 Support and Remote Support  • Sailpoint and user credentialing reporting for weekly and quarterly access review protocol  • Escalated and work with other IT support groups for coordination of role based access account provisioning and account creation related to SummitFT, Sybase, UNIX and other middle ware applications.  • Review and act upon daily user account security reports related to terminations, account removals and on/off boarding processes related to IT Security. Applications utilized include RSA SecurID, Lotus Notes, Active Directory, Blackberry Enterprise Management Admin Console, PeopleSoft HR, Cognos, AMP, and other proprietary financial applications.  • Create, update and resolve issues using Remedy Web Incident Management Console. Create, update and track issues through to resolution for Change Management Remedy Console requests created and submitted to other support teams for action. Create child and relate same tickets from Parent ticket for provisioning of user access and other user security provisioning tasks. Utilized Remedy Incident and Child/Parent relationship requests to generate tickets for cross domain provisioning and other user access provisioning processes for various entities of the World Bank. IT Support Analyst-Identity and Access Management Fannie Mae - Reston, VA September 2011 to July 2012 • Tier II Support - Managed Service Provider (MSP) account Provisioner. Create, configure, modify, revoke and delete contractor accounts using Oracle Identity Access Manager OIM software and add/modify/delete user role accounts for multi-platform environment and cross domain access to Enterprise Financial Applications.  • Create, update and resolve issues using Remedy BMC Incident Management Console. Create, update and track issues through to resolution for Change Management Remedy Console; requests created and submitted to other support teams for action, track, document and follow up to resolution. Create child tickets and relate same tickets from Parent ticket for provisioning of user access and other user security provisioning tasks. Utilized Remedy Incident and Child/Parent relationship requests to generate tickets for user access provisioning processes for Fannie Mae uses across the United States.  • Create, update and resolve issues using Lotus Notes, OIM, RSA and other infrastructure ticketing system. Create child tickets and relate same tickets from Parent ticket for provisioning of user access and other user security provisioning task delegated to other support teams  • Update and resolve issues using Oracle Identity Management access request tracking tools. Analyze OIM/AIM generated user access requests for appropriate approvals. Support Associate Stratus Consulting, Inc - Washington, DC May 2011 to August 2011 Office Manager -Liaison and contact for company in-house proprietary contracts, modifications, request for bids, proposal and period of performance correspondence and execution by contracting officer office of the Executive Vice Presidents and Principals. Liaison for contracts, timesheets, payroll, petty-cash custodian, VISA corporate card custodian, responsible for service, delivery and billing for office equipment and office overhead operational contracts, costs and vendor services. Customer Service Representative Data Processor - Temp OptoTraffic - Lanham, MD July 2010 to November 2010 Tier I and Tier II data processing of daily speed camera images validating quality and accuracy; processing of poor quality and blurred images as Tier II Support. Served as administrative and data processing escalation support per Shift Supervisor and Operations Manager. PMO Office Consultant- Security Clearance Public Trust - IBM Navy ERP Project Program Manager's - Fairfax, VA February 2009 to October 2009 PMO Office Consultant- Payroll, Travel and Expense Administrator/Approver. Managed ERP project consultant's timely submission, review and approval of payroll, time and travel expenses in accordance with NAVY ERP program guidelines. Highly visible liaison between NAVY staff and management for approvals of time, overtime and expense protocol. Special Assistance Eradication Tropical Bont Tick Program-Veterinarian Services Department of Agriculture - Saint Croix, VI August 2007 to December 2008 St. Croix U.S. Virgin Islands 08/2007 to 12/2008  • Managed activities of TBT Program including scheduling, recording of data and monthly reporting to Management  • Inter-island travel for Department of Agriculture various fairs and community outreach events.  • Database manager for Territories division of Veterinary Affairs utilizing MS Access CRM Tier II Help Desk Analyst - - Security Clearance Public Trust- IBM GoArmyEd Continuing Education Program - Fairfax, VA October 2006 to July 2007 • IT Support for Web portal and Service Member continuing education on-line enrollment, billing and course/web portal access  • Web based CRM ticket tracking database for ticket creation, update and resolution. Utilize Oracle, MSSQSL and PeopleSoft databases for data analysis and review of privileged propriety data towards problem resolution. IT E-Commerce Supervisor Caribbean Reservations, Inc - Saint Croix, VI October 2005 to July 2006 Manager of IT Systems and Support, installation, configuration, troubleshooting, support and maintenance of Win2003 Server, PC hardware and peripherals including desktop computers, laptop computers, scanners, modems, and networked printers. Client Support Analyst-Health Information Management 3M - Silver Spring, MD May 2000 to April 2004 Tier II Support for Medical EMR and HIM applications proprietary applications. On-call 24/7 Support Analyst providing remote and telephone support. Support for server, client, install, test, production and deployment. Help Desk Analyst MedStar Health The Washington Hospital Center - Washington, DC January 1998 to May 2000 Tier 1 incident level support analyst for Information Systems Department supporting Invision, ACF2, mainframe printers, login and password support, user profile support, financial software support, liaison for ISD and Technical Services Education B.S. in Computer Information Technology Major Business Management Minor University of MD University College - Adelphi, MD March 2010 to December 2016 Paralegal Certificate Program University of the Virgin Islands 1995