Sr. Systems Administrator Sr. Systems Administrator Sr. Systems Administrator - HUD OIG IT Waldorf, MD Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator HUD OIG IT - Washington, DC October 2017 to Present • Build, design and troubleshoot Windows Servers  • Troubleshoot MS Exchange, MS Sharepoint  • Active Directory Administration  • MS Exchange and MS Sharepoint Administration  • Router and switch configuration  • Firewall configuration  • SCCM Windows Patch deployment for servers and workstations  • Azure Cloud Migration for MS Exchange, MS Sharepoint and Office 365 Sr. Systems Administrator Freddie Mac - Reston, VA August 2014 to October 2017 • Build and troubleshoot virtual machines using VMware. Design, build and troubleshoot ESX host within the virtual environment.  • Implement and build Windows 2008 R2, Windows 2012 R2 and Windows 2016 servers per the customer's request. Install network monitoring and customer specific software  • Assign appropriate computing resources (i.e. ram, cpu, hard disk requirements, datastore allocation) to each virtual machine.  • Provide weekly reports based on number of Remedy tickets completed  • Analyze and complete a monthly Qualys report that is used to determine system, network and application vulnerabilities  • Assist other team members with server related projects as needed  • On-Call rotation every six weeks with other team members to provide 24/7 support in case of an emergency or server maintenance  • Analyze and inspect all Windows servers to ensure each machine is performing as expected  • Build and troubleshoot Citrix Xenapp and XenDesktop servers Cyber Security Analyst Cyveillance - Reston, VA September 2012 to March 2015 • Analyzing customer social feeds and websites for malware, spam, and threat detection  • Intrusion detection for customer websites  • Brand protection for customer brands based on threat monitoring, copyright infringement Systems Engineer I/II ValueOptions - Reston, VA June 2012 to July 2014 • Install and configure MS SharePoint 2007 with an upgrade to 2013. Administer and troubleshoot MS SharePoint related questions by building websites, web pages, assigning permissions and designing sites with the use of SharePoint Designer.  • Install and configure MS Exchange 2007 with an upgrade to 2010. Administer and troubleshoot MS Exchange through the use of the MS Exchange Management Shell and MS Exchange Management Console. Troubleshooting user permissions, creating email accounts, assigning mailbox permissions, setting STIG requirements, mailbox migrations, database failover, calendar creation and distribution group creation.  • Develop and document operational procedures for Windows servers and applications. The document that our engineering team is using to create standards for our server builds is called As built documentation. The As built document provides detailed documentation regarding how to setup servers, build domain controllers and virtual environment setup.  • Troubleshooting hardware and software issues in order to ensure maximum up-time of windows servers and windows desktops. Currently, I support the Enterprise Engineering team. The Enterprise Engineering team is responsible for all resolving all high level tickets including: server issues, virtual machine request, switch or router configuration, email related questions and Active Directory architecture configurations.  • Patch Management for OS/Applications/Databases: Check, identify, test, install, and verify all pertinent IOS Patches (IAVA compliance and Standard Cisco recommendations) LANDesk is a information management system we use at ValueOptions to apply patches to all workstations and servers via the company policy.  • Ensure strict adherence to departmental policies and procedures such as change management, configuration management, and security and access control. At ValueOptions we use a document called Change Request Form. The Change Request Form is used to document any changes made on a server level. The document must be filled out in its entirety for changes at the headquarters facility or any of the remote sites. Network Administrator I/II Neighborworks America - Washington, DC October 2009 to May 2012 • Installation and configuration of ArcServe and Veritas Backup software  • Create documentation for operating procedures and testing  • Work with (EMC) Storage Area Networks Installation and Configuration  • Administer and maintain Dell and HP servers  • Install and configure Windows servers  • VMware ESX & ESXi Server Configuration/Administration  • Cisco Wi-Fi WLAN Installation and Configuration  • Virtual Server Deployment and Configuration IT Support Specialist Neighborworks America - Washington, DC November 2007 to October 2009 • Setup and configure MS Outlook email profiles  • Setup and configure user accounts Help Desk/Data Analyst Verizon Communications - Rockville, MD July 2006 to October 2007 Desktop and laptop support for 100 end users IT Support Specialist Linowes and Blocher LLP - Bethesda, MD June 2006 to July 2006 Provided support for 75-100 end user Help Desk Technician, Points Light Foundation - Washington, DC March 2006 to May 2006 Provided support for 100-150 end users such as: troubleshooting, upgrading (Temp to Hire Position) Help Desk Analyst ACDI-VOCA - Washington, DC January 2006 to February 2006 • Provided support for 150 end user computers such as: troubleshooting, upgrading  • Installed software applications and Operating Systems for Dell Machines  • Created user accounts Help Desk Technician Best Buy Geek Squad - Arlington, VA September 2005 to January 2006 • Provided technical support on Windows Operating System PCs  • Used trouble ticket system to evaluate the condition of each PC  • Performed virus and spy-ware removal for various notebooks and desktops Desktop Support Analyst Bowie State University - Bowie, MD June 2005 to August 2005 • Provided support for 30 end user computers such as: troubleshooting, upgrading  • Removed Cisco Switches to prepare for network installation  • Configured DHCP and DNS using Unix from the command line Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Maryland University College - College Park, MD December 2011 Master of Science in Information Technology Bowie State University - Bowie, MD August 2010 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, EXCHANGE, SERVER ADMINISTRATION, CITRIX Additional Information SKILLS:  HP Switch Configuration Windows Server Administration 2003-2016 Wireless LAN Controller Configuration Network Monitoring Symantec Enterprise Antivirus Installation/ Configuration  Microsoft SharePoint Installation/Configuration 2007-2016 MS Exchange Server Administration 2007-2016 Cisco Switch Configuration System Design/Server Architecture Windows Server 2003- 2016 Installation & Configuration  Azure Cloud Migration VPN Configuration Active Directory Administration VMware ESXi Installation & Configuration Citrix Administration