Director, IT Project Management Office Director, <span class="hl">IT</span> Project Management Office Director, IT Project Management Office - Lower Colorado River Authority Work Experience Director, IT Project Management Office Lower Colorado River Authority - Austin, TX May 2016 to Present Accomplishments:  * Delivered IT project portfolio of $28 million, consisting of different business units, managing a team of internal and external project consultants.  * Commended by CEO for successfully leading a critical Distributed Control System (DCS) upgrade project to completion on a tight timetable.  * Spearheaded the development of portfolio management, analysis, QA/QC, and reporting tools using business intelligence applications.  * Provided crucial consultation and expertise VP in development of executive report dashboard and strategic plan.  * Served as key liaison between PMO and different business groups to understand business expectations and objectives and meet them.  * Provided vital in-depth consultation to organizations and universities for PMO best practices in analysis, reporting, and managing IT and cybersecurity projects.  * Created and standardized project schedule templates and other project artifacts such as PMO gates and criterion, risk register, issue log, and kick-off template.  * Developed and balanced portfolio for resource utilization to identify resource constraints and availabilities. Infrastructure and Security manager Amplify Credit Union - Austin, TX March 2015 to April 2016 * IT Security Program - Development and implementation of a security program based on company-wide risk assessment and gap analysis. CIS top 20 critical controls were the foundation of the program.  * Incident Response Plan - Prepared and rolled-out Incident Response Plan which included preparation, identification, containment, eradication, and recovery phases and steps, using existing and new tools and processes.  * Security and Network Assessments - Coordinated and carried out several assessments based on various audit and regulation requirements. This included organizing and preparing documents from various departments and individuals, and generating reports from various tools.  * End-point Protection - Researched and deployed end-point protection solution across the enterprise, thereby reducing the number of incidents that were occurring by at least 10%.  * Mobile Device Management - Replaced existing in-house MDM solution with cloud-based solution. This included performing research, PoC, and getting a company-wide buy-in for successful implementation.  * Change control application - Developed a change management program and implemented a change control solution which included processes, guidelines, and training.  * Backup, Disaster Recovery, and Encryption - Ran projects based on business continuity planning and disaster recovery, and security objectives. IT Project manager Marsh & McLennan Companies - New York, NY May 2014 to March 2015 * Logical Security Project - A global enterprise-wide project that spanned four operating companies. Managed one of the tactical streams across all operating companies, and also served as a point of contact for other project streams. Led workshops and provided project analysis and status reports to stakeholders.  * Asset Management Program - A global initiative to implement a robust asset management program. Led vendor meetings and demos, prepared scorecards for vendors, negotiated agreements and terms, presented project analysis and status reports, and managed Proofs of Concepts of selected tools or vendors. IT Director New England Construction Co. Inc - Hauppauge, NY October 2010 to May 2014 Senior Systems Analyst Royce & Associates - New York, NY June 2010 to October 2010 IT Director and Development/Infrastructure Manager New England Construction Co. Inc - Garden City Park, NY February 2004 to June 2010 Garden City Park, NY February 2004 - June 2010  IT Director and Development/Infrastructure Manager Principle Software Engineer New England Construction Co. Inc - Garden City Park, NY May 1999 to January 2004 Sr. Software Engineer/Module Lead Mahindra Satyam IT Services - Hyderabad, Telangana July 1998 to January 1999 Software Engineer/Team Lead Gulf Computers, Surrey - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 1996 to June 1998 Education University of Notre Dame 2018 to 2019 MBA in Financial Management and Information Systems Pace University, Lubin School of Business 2007 to 2009 Bachelors of Engineering in Civil Engineering Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana 1992 to 1996 Skills Gap analysis, Pmp, Primavera, Project manager, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Amazon web services, Android studio, C#, Exchange, Hadoop, Html, Ms project, Perl, Python, Swift, System development, Vba, Visio, Visual basic Additional Information Areas Of Expertise    * IT Security  * Leadership/Team Building    * Infrastructure Management  * Strategic Planning/Analysis    * Project Management  * Operations Management    Core Competencies    Leadership - Enthusiastic visionary capable of adapting to a number of roles simultaneously. Industrious and decisive, a creative thinker and dynamic innovator. Strong, versatile, and flexible leadership.    Cyber Security - Certified security professional (CISSP, CCSP, DEVSECOPS), skilled in developing and implementing a security program. Performing gap analysis and risk assessments as well as developing solutions around them.    Project/Program/Portfolio Management - Certified Project Manager (PMP), skilled in planning, monitoring, and managing complex projects utilizing System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies. Specializing in risk management initiatives and systems integrations.    Infrastructure and Operations Management - Creating efficient and effective management strategies that supersede mediocre infrastructure practices. Utilizing appropriate change management to control changes and provide a stable and predictable environment and various infrastructure needs, including servers, endpoints, and mobile device management.    Technical Skills  * Languages C#, Visual Basic, VBA, Perl, Swift, Python, Java, Shell, ASP, HTML, XHTML, CSS  * Software  Windows Server, Unix, MS SharePoint, MS SQL Server, Google and Amazon databases, MS Exchange, VMWare ESXi, VMware Workstation, MS Virtual PC, Windows 2000, XP, Vista and 7, Symantec End Point Protection    * Big Data/BI Cloudera Hadoop, Tableau  * Cloud  * Network    Amazon Web Services  TCP/IP networking and protocols, OSPF, VLAN/spanning-tree    * Telecom Iwatsu campus phone system, Polycom video conferencing solution  * Server Hardware HP Blades C7000 and C3000, HP BL, DL, & ML servers, IBM RS6000, X3650  * Storage SAN - HP P2000, NAS - Buffalo, Linksys, D-link, Seagate  * Network Equipment  Cisco ISR routers, Cisco Wireless routers and Access Points, Cisco Catalyst switches, Cisco ASAs, SonicWALL firewalls and routers    * Tools/Packages  MS Visual Studio, Crystal reports, MS Visual Source Safe, Primavera, MS Project, MS Office Suite (Word, excel, Access, PowerPoint, Visio), Tableau, XCode, Android Studio, Flutter    * Mainframe COBOL, CICS, Micro Focus Revolve Workbench, ADSALIVE, DMLO, OLQ, FILEAID, XPEDITOR, IDMS, DB2, ADSO