Cyber Security Analyst II Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II Cyber Security Analyst II - BAE Systems Inc Reston, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst II BAE Systems Inc - Reston, VA August 2015 to Present • Part of the Global Security Operations team network traffic monitoring and incidence response team.  • Daily tasks include active network traffic monitoring across all potential vectors of compromise (DMZ, host based, email, web based, and insider threat.)  • Protecting the company from both advance threat actors, generic/commodity based crime ware, and malicious intent and through investigation and enforcement of acceptable use policy.   • Primary responsibly include: recognizing and investigation of potential compromise including comprehensive report for each incident investigated, recommendation of further actions if needed, write up and facilitation of remediation work order.  • Ancillary responsibility include: Creation and revision of standard operating procedures, training of new hires on custom environment and tools specific to BAE GSOC in the form of quarterly brownbag/knowledge transfer sessions.  • Daily analysis technique for investigation of potential intrusions: Establishing time of events, process walk-backs, rule and indicator lookups, pcap analysis Malware samples, capture of malicious traffic and C2 beacons for content creation, investigation of malicious webpages; .  • Tools used on a daily basis: ArcSight ESM, ArcSight logger, Cisco IronPort, Wireshark, Out of Band system (Linux based VM sandbox environment running Win7, Win10), FireEyeHX, Redline, RSA Security Analytics, Confluence, JIRA, Sourcefire Snort.  • Understanding of common attack vectors/exploitations, web based attacks and exploitation vectors, covert channels, data exfil techniques, Advanced Persistent Threats, malware infections and propagation privilege escalation techniques, etc. IT Support LogMeIn, CentraStage, Office - Reston, VA May 2015 to Present 1099 Contractor  • Manage and support network infrastructure of over 300+ hospitals and doctors telecommunications video equipment and software maintenance.   • Active directory provisioning user management including creating, maintaining and decommissioning users.   • Data center maintenance: change request, break fix, device switchovers, cable management / general upkeep.   • Direct support for doctors and hospitals in setup, upkeep and troubleshooting.   • Daily use tools: Zendesk ticket management system, OASIS VersaSRS, LanDesk, WASP asset management, VidiStar Imaging, Cisco Telepresence VCSE, LastPass, Vyopta, ConnectWise, Active Directory, 3CX, Zoom, Polycom RealPresence Tandberg/Cisco SX series codec, LogMeIn, CentraStage, Office 36. Network Engineer Aston Technologies - McLean, VA July 2014 to February 2015 • Primary focus on Cisco networking gear with emphasis on route switch and data engineering support.  • Understanding of common networking protocols:RIP, EIGRP, OSFP and BGP.  • Configuration and maintenance of basic LAN/WAN infrastructure, including but not limited to DHCP, AAA, VLAN nomenclature, IP addressing, VPN, QOS, NAT, ACL, Frame Relay, STP, etc.  • Junior level network design with emphasis on level 1, 2 and 3 of the OSI model, Greenfield design, migrations, and disaster recovery.  • Network optimization efforts: software upgrades, device compatibility checks, best practices, and security advisories, deployment guides.  • Worked closely with vendors on projects to ensure they were meeting contractual obligations.  • Worked closely with clients and management to ensure technical requirements meet business needs Education Bachelors of Science in Biology George Mason University - Fairfax, VA Skills Cyber Security, Information Security, Siem Certifications/Licenses Security+ Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH)