VPN Project Consultant - Silgan Containers VPN Project Consultant - Silgan Containers Mission, KS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience VPN Project Consultant - Silgan Containers Robert Half Technologies - Grandview, MO June 2019 to Present Update users for VPN use across global company  ? Communication with end users regarding schedule for verifying devices  ? Transferring required files / updating computers  ? Verifying updated antivirus  ? Remote access to machines to verify updates and status of machines  ? Provide weekly project status updates Associate Engineer - Archer Technical Support RSA Technologies - Kansas City, MO July 2018 to May 2019 Provide triage, customer case workflow management and customer case resolution.  ? Effectively communicate procedural and technical issues to internal and external customers, in a fast paced and customer  critical environment.  ? Interface directly with customers at different stages of problem resolution process - diagnosing customer issues, communicating plans for resolution, explaining developments and conveying resolution.  ? Manage own schedule of cases, which includes determining priority levels and negotiating and setting expectations with customers. Project Consultant Netsmart Technologies - Kansas City, MO June 2018 to July 2018 Inventory PC's ready to be deployed  ? Communication with end users regarding schedule for replacing devices  ? Transferring required files / shortcuts / desktop links from existing computer to the new computer  ? Setting up, and training users on Office 365  ? Provide guidance on the use of Windows 10  ? Inventory of returned equipment  ? Reformat of hard drives on returned equipment  ? Provide weekly project status updates IT Security Analyst SE2's Identity and Access Management - Topeka, KS November 2017 to February 2018 Manage Active Directory (AD) Access requests for users  ? Process termination, transfers, and new hire access levels for security.  ? Process Primary administrator for SE2's Identity and Access Management security processes and procedures.  ? Grant and verify all applicable access entitlements.  ? Administer and monitor SE2's perimeter security including Firewalls, Remote Access appliances, and vulnerability scanning.  ? Administer and monitor SE2's endpoint security infrastructure including anti-virus, internet content filtering, and security  patching.  ? Recommend standards, conventions, controls, policies, and procedures in all areas of expertise.  ? Update process documentation as required. End User Support Specialist Burns and McDonnell - Kansas City, MO February 2017 to July 2017 Performed install, repair, and upgrade of computer hardware.  ? Supported Windows 10 transition for users  ? Performed troubleshooting of hardware and assisting with software issues.  ? Update Windows 10 image and deployment for End of life cycle users  ? Performed basic training on hardware and software when necessary.  ? Performed preventative IT/Network maintenance tasks.  ? Worked with Corporate IT Infrastructure team as needed for installs, maintenance, and repair of network and phone  resources.  ? Developed business relations activities with regional office staff and management.  ? Performed IT processes for daily activities as defined by corporate IT including asset management activities and IT inventory  management.  ? Researched asset management tasks by completing appropriate documentation, keeping inventories of active equipment, and providing for disposition of returned technology assets in Excel.  ? Provided support to customers in all Burns & McDonnell locations via phone, video, e-mail, and in-person.  ? Performed requests for services can be received from incidents assigned from Service Desk with all relevant contact  information.  ? Actively maintaining and tracking of IT assets through Excel and other software.  ? Researched initial troubleshooting with no resolution.  ? Resolved in person visits as required due to hardware failure.  ? Worked on incidents assigned from other IT groups when their secondary troubleshooting has indicated a root cause related  to areas of responsibility held by A/V Specialist.  ? Worked on incidents from non IT sources through e-mail, phone, or walk-up.  ? Install, maintain and educate end users on Office 365 updates and functions.  ? Executed Audio/Visual support during presentations and company-sponsored events.  ? Performed setup and execution of video conferences.  ? Performed regular preventative maintenance and monitoring of all AV enabled spaces at Specialist's local site, including all  Video Conferencing infrastructure located within corporate data centers.  ? Performed setup and execution of video conferences. Business Analyst, HPE Performance Softech Solutions - Topeka, KS June 2016 to December 2016 Maintaining the working process for current system for state level Medicaid system  ? Processing the change order process for the life cycle of a change order  ? Updating and maintaining meeting minutes for change orders  ? Meeting with stakeholders to ensure that needs are meet  ? Claims Adjustments for testing of change orders for current system  ? Testing of new change orders in model office to ensure that they meet the requirements Technical Consultant, Payless Shoesource Tek Systems - Topeka, KS October 2012 to February 2016 Maintained QA testing with machines and software to ensure that products sent to stores, as well as machines used at the corporate level are working correctly for shareholders.  ? Regulated the Batch Scanner project. Where we implemented a multi-national project for updating all of the store batch  scanners, we updated over 4,000 stores and managed to do so under our allotted time, and budget.  ? Upgraded the Debit Card Readers (DCR) project for Payless stores that were tested in the New York area.  ? Coordinated Puerto Rico Store upgrade project for printers, to work with their lottery system, as well as upgrading their  store systems.  ? Standardized all the 4,000 payless stores to Symantec Endpoint Protection software 12.1.5 version.  ? Operated on internal project for upgrading all Computers from XP to Windows 7 operating system at the corporate level.  ? Deployment of new Registers and hardware to store to remove the remaining Windows 2000 operating systems.  ? Upgraded over 200 laptop computers for users in the field, and worked with them to transition to new operating system.  ? Worked on relocation/remodel stores ensuring that hardware and equipment were working to requirements prior to opening  dates. Troubleshooting changes that arise with construction and faulty equipment.  ? Maintained documentation for new projects and installations to help with training and troubleshooting of future issues.  ? Assisted in training of new employees and development of training documentation for new employees to deployment  department.  ? Monitor break/fix issues for warranty time for all projects deployed, maintain documentation and transition hand off to other  departments.  ? Performed hardware asset management by keeping inventories of active equipment, and providing for disposition of returned technology assets in Excel.  ? Provided software asset management tasks by keeping software licence up to date, and tracking inventory.  ? Utilized Agile development processes on DCR (Debit Card Device Project) and Batch Scanner projects to ensure success of projects to adapt to the needs of the Shareholders, and do testing to ensure quality. Shift Manager Scotty's Midtown - Emporia, KS 2007 to 2012 Managed the running and management of a shift at a local gas station.  ? Maintaining customer relations and store maintenance tasks.  ? Focused on working relationship with vendors, customers, as well as helping to ensure quality operation of store. Lab Assistant, Cremer Computer Lab Emporia State University - Emporia, KS 2008 to 2011 Handled technical troubleshooting for students, and faculty.  ? Performed network and desktop support for maintenance tasks.  ? Provided technical support for both students as well as faculty that helped to utilize the computer lab, and expanded the knowledge base of all involved.  ? Helped with the deployment and setup of over 55 new computers to increase the output and functionality of the computer  lab for students.  ? Helped with the redesign of the labs layout and policies for an individual self-supplied paper printing policy. Education MBA degree ESU UNIVERSITY May 2012 Bachelor Degree ESU UNIVERSITY May 2008