SCCM Administrator SCCM Administrator Systems Engineer Level Prattville, AL Work Experience SCCM Administrator Vaco - Birmingham, AL December 2018 to Present Responsible for Enterprise level desktop management services for all Cadence bank employees and vendors across multiple offices in the south east U.S. Supported the Windows 10 desktop migration efforts for over 1700 laptop/desktop clients and the inherent data migrations and hardware installations. Managed SCCM software deployments and device collections, as well as scripting tools and Windows imaging and testing. Systems Engineer American Computer Consultants - Birmingham, AL December 2017 to February 2018 Provided support for a Managed Services Provider (MSP) organization in remote and on-site capacities utilizing the following technologies: • Windows Server/Desktop Support • Microsoft Active Directory • Microsoft Hyper-V • VMware • SonicWALL Firewalls • SonicWALL GMS • Digium SwitchVox Phone System • VOIP • PRTG • Continuum RMM • ConnectWise Manage PSA • OpenDNS Umbrella• AeroHive Wireless • Ubiquiti Wireless • Office 365 • Storagecraft ShadowProtect • eFolder Replibit • Veeam • HPE Servers and HPE Switches. IT Analyst, Operating Systems Windows PSA March 2017 to September 2017 Essential duties included: • Prep, configure, and install solutions as part of the implementation process • Client training on implemented solutions • On-going maintenance & support of client solutions • Remediation of issues with clients end-point & critical business systems • Daily response to service tickets pertaining to client issues • Monitoring & management of client systems • Responsible for entering time and expenses in Professional Software Automation (PSA) tool as it occurs • Understand processes in PSA tool by completing assigned training materials and blueprints on ConnectWise University • Enter all work as service/project tickets into PSA tool as it occurs (daily) • Cross-training ACCi staff for support purposes • Administer assigned in-house systems • Complete in-house projects assigned from time-to-time • Regular and predictable attendance • System documentation maintenance and review in Professional Software Tool (PSA Tool) • Communication with customers as required: keeping them informed of incident progress, notifying them of impending changes or agreed outages • Regular and predictable attendance • The ability to complete an assigned task in a safe manner and in a constant state of alertness • The ability to get along with co-workers, customers and other employees • Upholds company policies, including the prevention of harassment • Work with the sales team to design technical solutions for clients - Hardware, software, peripherals, accessories, process, environment, etc.  March 2017 - Sep 2017 IT Analyst, Operating Systems Windows  Techproviders Inc., Alabama Power Company Headquarters, Birmingham, Alabama  Managed all Windows OS based server systems for Alabama and Georgia Power Company headquarters and all remote sites in the southeastern United States which includes Nuclear, Gas, Wind and Coal production plants consisting of thousands of physical and virtual machines. Primary responsibilities included deploying physical and virtual (VMware/Hyper-V) servers utilizing Operating System Deployment (OSD) methods including SCCM package deployment through PXE boot or ISO mounting. Also utilized Powershell for scripting and remote management of systems to support OS upgrades and installing SCOM/SCCM agents amongst others which would require modifying the scripts to reflect the correct source and destination servers depending on the geographical location of the resources. Utilized custom applications to deploy various VBS and batch files scripts for customizing deployed images to suite specific server roles such as Web, SQL, Oracle or File servers. Other daily tasks included change requests (CRQs) and ticket resolutions using Remedy. Standard ticket requests would include allocating disk space to VMs, troubleshooting memory and CPU utilization issues, installing and configuring software applications, new server deployments, server migrations, replacing or upgrading server hardware and DNS/DHCP/AD troubleshooting. I also provided 24/7 on call support on a one week schedule rotation. Cyber Security Analyst JSG Inc., Alabama Department of Transportation - Montgomery, AL September 2016 to March 2017 Montgomery, Alabama  Provided network and systems security support for all systems in the ALDOT domain. Monitored network traffic utilization using SPLUNK software utilizing dashboard graphing, charting and reporting. Also supported the operation and maintenance of IDS systems using SNORT software.  Handled internal audits and investigations using the Forensics Toolkit (FTK) software system to retrieve and analyze data from networked servers and workstations, as well as, mobile devices in order to identify possible misuse of government systems or to retrieve deleted information including emails and encrypted data. Utilized various software including Wireshark, Nmap, Metasploit and other utilities in the Kali Linux operating system to identify network traffic and software vulnerabilities. Windows Systems Administrator Leidos Inc - Montgomery, AL September 2015 to June 2016 Managed Enterprise Windows (2003-2012) and Unix (RHEL5, RHEL6) servers for the United States Air Force 26 NOS. Providing patching support using WSUS and SCCM deployment software and server management using VMware, Remote Desktop, iLO and KVM resources. Also provided limited management support for RHEL5 and RHEL6 Unix servers as well as SQL and Sharepoint servers. Managed Windows based Data information wall servers providing 26 NOS crew with critical information on global servers utilizing Nagios, Arcsight and various other 3rd party monitoring software. Managed the creation of Splunk queries and dashboards to allow for visualization of network data and search features for log analysis. Performing DoD STIG analysis for software vulnerability scanning and compliance. Windows Systems Administrator PSI Inc - Montgomery, AL June 2013 to September 2015 Provided technical and maintenance support for all Windows (2003-2012) based AHLTA Medical records systems across multiple NIPR/SIPR .mil domains worldwide. This includes minor and major software patching and deployment, as well as, general system health management and monitoring.  Manage systems through various software platforms: vSphere Web Client, WhatsUpGold (WUG), BMC Bladelogic, Tectia SSH/FTP, NetIQ Operations Center 5, McAfee HBSS and WSUS. STG Inc - Fort Huachuca, AZ December 2012 to March 2013 HBSS Windows Support Management Team  STG Inc., Ft. Huachuca, Arizona  Provide server support and maintenance for all HBSS Windows servers CONUS.  Upgraded all servers to Windows 2008R2 and reintegrate into the Army.mil domain. Apply all security software and patches to provide compliance to Army system standards.  Worked in coordination with the SQL Server management team to ensure all systems are operating at optimal performance with little interruption to down range users.  Documented all change management procedures and maintain consistent inventories of all NIPRNET assets. Some features utilized are Host Intrusion Prevention System (HIPS) which allows for firewall and application level blocking, Rogue System Detection (RSD) and Data Loss Prevention (DLP) which allows for monitoring systems on the network and granular device control on individual systems respectively. Managed Systems Engineer, Sr NCI Inc - Fort Huachuca, AZ June 2012 to September 2012 Supported the DISA Enterprise Email Migration efforts for all CONUS and OCOCUS sites. Provided network bandwidth utilization testing and evaluation to determine if the excessive traffic caused by user account and mailbox migrations will affect network performance.  Utilized multiple software applications and functions (Wireshark, Aircrack, TCPDump, Snort) to analyze and troubleshoot wired and wireless network traffic issues and vulnerabilities via packet sniffing, logging and intrusion detection.  Provided technical guidance to CONUS/OCONUS sites for transitioning from legacy APC power services to new equipment on the TLA without causing Enterprise Services degradation. Created baseline drawings and documentation guides to help ITP sites reach compliance with NETCOM OPORDs.  Provided technical guidance to FMWR for isolation of traffic via VLAN/VFR solutions and VLAN trunking through the TLA. Worked closely with CTNOSC to create multiple firewall enclaves to isolate and pass traffic to allow enterprise services to all Management, Business, Non-Franchised and POS systems in order to meet compliance orders received from 7th Signal Command. Storage Systems Administrator CTG Inc December 2011 to June 2012 Tucscon, Arizona  Provided technical support for the IBM SAN Volume Controller (SVC) products utilized in corporate enterprise environments nationwide. Collected and analyzed logged data using various tools (Dump Decoder, Websphere and IBM knowledge base articles). Assisted administrators remotely with configuring and upgrading devices, creating/managing/importing virtual/physical LUNS, Thin provisioning and Mirroring amongst many other supported features. ICE Inc - Fort Huachuca, AZ June 2011 to November 2011 Supported CONUS/OCONUS with the transition from ePO server 4.0 to 4.5 as well as the installation and support of new hardware. This includes modifying HIPS firewall settings and working with DISA to verify boundary port exceptions and that traffic is reaching its destination.  Processed and modified system policies for DCM waiver requests on SIPR. This was to allow users read/write capabilities for optical media.  Provided SQL database support for all systems. Including database size management and integrity as well as backups and regular maintenance utilizing queries and scheduled tasks.  Provided documentation for task processes as well as tracking and storing records for ass DCM waivers, IP ranges and 2875s for SIPR user account creations. SYSTEMS ENGINEER NCI Information Systems Inc - Fort Huachuca, AZ November 2010 to June 2011 Supported Army HBSS deployment operations at Ft. Huachuca Arizona. Tasked with assisting offsite units with installing, configuring and maintaining all HBSS related deployment tasks. Also traveled to offsite locations to provide direct support for HBSS DCM deployment.  Supported the DISA BRAC transition at Ft. Meade, MD. Tasks included Network, Core Server, SAN and Audio/Visual support in order to bring the new installation up to operational readiness. Primary support architecture included the following: NetApp SAN configuration, Cisco UCS blade server systems, VMWare and Hyper-V virtual environment configurations, Widows server systems and overall integration of all system components. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Abacus Technology Corporation - Albuquerque, NM November 2001 to November 2010 Tasked as primary backup administrator for all local server data on NIPR and SIPR networks. Responsible for backing up over 15 TB of data utilizing disk-to-disk and disk-to-tape methods. Obtained in-depth knowledge of HP Data Protector and Veritas NetBackup software including: SQL, VSS, Exchange, HP EVA and VMware integration.  Managed a multi domain AD structure to include creating and modifying user/computer objects, managing group memberships, creating and modifying group policy and inheritance within the OU structure. As well as inter-domain one-way and two-way trusts.  Migrated over 1500 user accounts from one SIPR AD domain to another utilizing Directory Resource Administrator (DRA) via .csv files and command line scripting.  Provide administrative support for all Kirtland SIPRNET users. This includes user account creations and maintenance as well as hardware/software support, upgrades and maintenance for all classified equipment.  Provide administrative support for all users on the base unclassified network. This includes account modifications, DFS directory access, hardware support for all server equipment, software support for all systems, and overall general support for all ticket requests generated through the NCC helpdesk.  SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR (Special Projects)  Abacus Technology Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico  Provide all IT related support for an entire facility, including Server, workstation, telephone and software maintenance/installation.  Managed a single domain AD structure to include creating and modifying user/computer objects, managing group memberships, creating and modifying group policy and inheritance within the OU structure.  Performed network intrusion testing and packet capturing to detect unauthorized software and vulnerabilities on classified networks using Wireshark and Microsoft Network Monitor.  Support over 150 users from three different sites located across KAFB.  One of three total technicians whom provide support for the entire local network domain.  Maintain all facility wiring including copper and fiber optic (computer networking only, not telephone).  Maintain SQL databases for all computer related equipment for tracking purposes.  DESKTOP SUPPORT/HELPDESK TECHNICIAN  Abacus Technology Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico  Member of the Kirtland AFB C4 network support team  Assisted in managing a LAN/WAN network on Kirtland AFB, Albuquerque, New Mexico with a user base of over 10k.  Provided desktop technical support for all users via phone or on-site.  Became more familiar with AF regulations and standards regarding a secured LAN/WAN network.  Gained valuable experience while working in a Windows 2000 domain environment. Gained skills in working with Microsoft Windows Active Directory.  NETWORK ENGINEER  Abacus Technology Corporation, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia  Managed a LAN/WAN network on the Eskan military base in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia with a 300+ user base.  Traveled throughout the kingdom of Saudi Arabia by commercial airline, private aviation, and automobile in support of all downrange and remote clients.  Worked with U.S. military personnel in support of the United States Military Training Mission (USMTM), operating location Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.  Gained in-depth experience in the usage and functionality of a Windows NT domain in a LAN/WAN environment.  Became proficient in the use of Windows 2000 Server, Advanced Server, and Workstation operating systems.  Designed and implemented Active Directory domains and migrated user and computer objects from their previous NT domain structure.  Gained knowledge in the use of telephone switch systems, AAC, IDNX, and CISCO routing equipment.  Gained experience in the use of Wireless LAN systems and microwave technology for data transmission.  Provided 24/7 support for local and downrange users.  Managed the daily operations of the helpdesk and hardware repair offices.  LAN ADMINISTRATOR  Abacus Technology Corporation, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia  Worked at the SPPN helpdesk in support of all SPPN clients throughout the kingdom of Saudi Arabia.  Held responsibility for tracking and recording help request tickets and running weekly, monthly and yearly statistical reports.  Organized and implemented operational procedures in order to streamline the helpdesk process and to provide the users with a more efficient support service.  Provided remote technical support for downrange clients and on-site support for local clients.  Managed the assignment of help requests to the appropriate technicians and other personnel.  Worked closely with the Network Engineers and provided troubleshooting support prior to assigning the requests. Education certification New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Montgomery, AL 2000 Troy State University of Montgomery - Montgomery, AL 1998 to 1999 Certificate of completion of Electronics in training Autauga County Vocational Center - Prattville, AL 1997 to 1998 High School Diploma Prattville High School - Prattville, AL 1998 Skills SQL (10+ years), WIRESHARK (9 years), CISCO (9 years), INTEGRATION (9 years), INTEGRATOR (9 years), System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, Linux, SCCM Additional Information Technical Skills:  All versions of Microsoft Windows Desktop and Server Operating Systems  Active directory implementation and management  RedHat Linux (RHEL 5 and 6)  NetIQ Directory and Resource Administrator  CISCO network switching and routing equipment  Network Probing/ Security: Wireshark, Snort, Aircrack, Microsoft Network Monitor  Splunk (Logged data analyzation, data visualization and custom queries)  Veritas NetBackup/BackupExec/HP Data Protector/Commvault  Magnetic media and VTL storage systems  Disk-to-disk backup solutions  VBS Scripting  In-line network encryption devices  SQL Database Systems (Database Disaster Recovery, Mirroring, Backup/Restore and Querying)  HP/Netapp/EMC SAN/MSA environments and VMS integration