Help Desk Analyst Help Desk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Help Desk Analyst - Scotiabank Inc Bayamón, PR I have worked for companies in information technology services, my goal as a professional in the career of support and  maintenance of computer equipment is to acquire greater in the execution of task of setting up networks and  connectivity. Work Experience Help Desk Analyst Scotiabank Inc - San Juan, PR October 2018 to Present Provides effective/efficient user support by identifying, recording, resolving and/or escalating system problems  and deficiencies through timely escalation to 2nd level System Support Officer/SSC Management/International  Global Service Center/Vendor and Service Providers. Ensures all calls are immediately entered into the Bank's  problem management ticketing system and an appropriately escalated.  • Provides users 1st line system support, with the aim of maintaining continuously high system availability both to the branches /units and the Bank's customers.  • Escalates IMAC (installation, moves, adds, changes) to vendors/service providers as required. Logs call with vendor or services provider, coordinates the resolution activities with the end users and manages the problem  until resolved to the end user's satisfaction.  • Ensures awareness of and adherence to Bank's security requirements as detailed in the security awareness  program and in accordance with the guidelines of the International Technology Operating Guidelines (ITOG).  Ensures all policies (Internet, Emails, LAN & PC) are strictly adhered to, report any unusual occurrence to the, Senior Manager Systems, Systems Manager and/or Director SSC.  • Working knowledge of Bank's Telephony, Network, LAN/WAN topology and PC/Server operations, applications and administration.  • Working knowledge of IBM System, OS/400, Client Access, AIX, Windows, Active Diectory.  • Working knowledge of the Bank's change management. Problem management and escalation.  • Working knowledge of support Branches and Units Operations, procedures and workflows. Jr. System Administrator Correa Tire Corp - Dorado, PR, US July 2018 to August 2018 • Install and configure software and hardware.  • Manage network servers and technology tools.  • Setup up accounts and workstations.  • Monitor performance and maintain systems according to requirements.  • Troubleshoot issues and outages.  • Ensure security through access controls, backups and firewalls.  • Upgrade systems with new releases and models.  • Develop expertise to train staff on new technologies.  • Build an internal wiki technical documentation, manuals and IT policies.  • Manage information technology and computer systems.  • Plan, organize, control and evaluate IT and electronics data operations  • Design, develop, implement and coordinate systems, policies and procedures  • Ensure security of data, network access and backup.  • Act in alignment with needs and system functionality to contribute to organizational policy.  • Identify problematic areas and implement strategic solutions in time.  • Audit systems and assess their outcomes.  • Preserve assets, information security and control structures.  • Handle annual budget and ensure cost effectiveness.  • Continuing support for all Vast Retail and Vast View user.  • Analyze business data to be accurate within all departments like inventory (warehouse), accounting, item  maintenance, and any other that may apply. IT Technician Support LPC Consulting Group Inc - Guaynabo, PR April 2018 to June 2018 • Install, upgrade, support, and troubleshoot printers, computer hardware, Windows 7 and Windows 10 OS, Office 2007 and 2010 as well as other authorized desktop applications and peripheral equipment  • Perform general preventative maintenance tasks on computers, laptops, printers, and any other authorized  peripheral equipment unless prohibited by existing customer warranties  • This includes installing, diagnosing, repairing, maintaining, and upgrading hardware and equipment (including  but not limited to PCs, laptops, printers, scanners and Black Berries) to ensure optimal performance  • Actively take ownership of Remedy tickets and problems assigned, accurately record work performed and troubleshoot issues (in person, by telephone, or via remote access) in a timely fashion  • Provide direct end user assistance to include familiarizing users with basic software, hardware, and peripheral  device operation  • Develop and maintain a sound understanding of approved operating systems and application software as well as business-related processes and procedures, company guidelines  • Responsible for monitoring, operating, managing, troubleshooting, and restoring service to client personal  computers (PCs) or laptops that have authorized access to the network  • Expert technical knowledge of PCs and desktop hardware  • Authoritative knowledge of current protocols, operating systems, and standards  • Windows 7 operation and software and hardware troubleshooting  • Microsoft Office 2007, Office 2010 support Office 365 and Google Suite  • Working knowledge of AD, Server 2008, 2012, 2016 remote control tools and TCP/IP fundamentals  • Ability to operate tools, components, and peripheral accessories  • Proven customer service skills and effective time management, planning and organizing skills  • Function effectively in a team environment with both technical and non-technical team members  • Work effectively with minimal supervision and maintain a professional demeanor under stress  • Manage time efficiently, set priorities appropriately, schedule calls IT Help Desk Support The Cervantes Group Inc - San Juan, PR 2017 to 2018 PC/Offices 365 Support Specialist  • Contribute to the realization of the project for the offices of MMM Healthcare, LLC.  • Take support request from staff via phone and e-mail, research solutions to issues presented, and resolve  request while keeping staff informed of their issue's status.  • Provide technical training to staff on all applications and hardware.  • Create and provision user account on Exchange Online/365, local network and cloud storage as well as decommission accounts. Key deployment iPhone 365 accounts.  • Troubleshoot issues involving network connectivity and services such Active Directory, Window domain  membership, DHCP, and DNS.  • Follow established IT policies and standards to deliver high quality service and contribute to the creation of new policies.  • Conduct hardware and software testing and evaluation.  • Assist with special projects and perform other duties as assigned. IT Desktop Support Technician Opmits Corp - San Juan, PR October 2016 to May 2017 Provide technical assistance to all users of HomeOrthopedics and Orthobone corporations, either, face-to-face  or remotely in other offices on the island.  • Create and maintain Active Directory user/computer accounts, permissions, and access control system.    • In depth (1+ years) experience of Redhat Linux administration, including system design, configuration, maintenance, upgrade and administration.  • Responsible for troubleshooting, installation, configuration and repairing computer systems and performing  hardware and software performance regularly.  • Analyze and interact with the databases of the customized programs.  • Administer phone switch and voice mail system, faxes, cameras and DVR repairs.  • Tickets with SysAid software management.  • Configurations and troubleshooting with printers, tablets, peripherals, smart phones and other devices.  • Maintenance for best performance of the network servers, backup daily for the servers and databases.  • Generate files weekly batch of quality calls.  • Intranet management.  • Set up a VPN from Customer Sites to our facilities. Windows Server Administrator HP May 2008 to December 2016 November 2010) Help Desk Support Ingellicom, Inc - San Juan, PR 2016 to 2016 IT Services Desk Remote Support Analyst Tier 1 and Field Support Technician    • Migration processes in virtual machines by installing Citrix Receiver 4.4, settings of printers, transfers of documents, installations of applications in each of the HP Thinclients or desktops to all users of MMM  Holding Inc.  • Provide helpdesk support to end-users of proprietary software.  • Restore and unlock from passwords, free sections of the console through Citrix.  • Open tickets for each incoming call and scale it to tier 2, if it represents a software and hardware problem or application issues.  • Answer questions about feature and resolves problems.  • Document all issues and generate report detailing common problems and error trends.  • Fill for in-house IT services as needed, installing new desktop systems for developers, project managers, and quality assurance team members.  • Responsible for troubleshooting, installation, configuration and repairing computer systems and performing  hardware and software performance regularly.  • Configurations and troubleshooting with printers, tablets, peripherals, smart phones.  • Create images to computers using the Acronis software and encryption with Mcafee. Applications Control Technician Evertec Inc - Cupey, PR 2012 to 2013 • Checking out information (financial, deposit accounts) from "data entry section" through the IBM AS/400.  • Registration in Excel of all transactions and payments.  • Sending financial report to customer by email or fax.  • Burning cd of financial statements (daily, weekly and monthly) as requested by customers.  • Monitoring the information through Data Express tool.  • Processing electronically Retail, Wholesales and Interstate accounts of Child Support Administration (CSA).  • Receiving payments from CSA, issuing from banks, post offices ACH network, telephones, PC Bank, Popular  Bank and Tele payments.  • Detachment of quantities send to CSA  • Corrections and verifications of payments that were rejected by mistake or any other error using the IBM  AS/400 operating system.  • Scanning of checks, money orders, checks from the Labor Department and CSA.  • Grouping of checks and money orders.  • Access to Web Ammo tool for printing confidential documents from CSA.  Administration of Socio-economic Development of the Certified Network Security Associate October 2010 to March 2011 Ø Defcon group 787: From 0 to 1-Day Exploit With Binary Diffing ( March 28, 2019) Linux Essentials January 2011 to January 2011 Ø Certified Cybercrimes Forensic Investigator (March 2011)  Ø Implementing and Maintaining Microsoft SQL Server 2008 Reporting Services (March 2011) Certified Network Defenses Professional Ethical Hacker 2010 to December 2010 Ø Configuring and Troubleshooting a Window Server 2008 Network Infrastructure (December 2010)  Ø Certified Network Defenses Professional Ethical Hacker (February 2011) IT Field Support Technician I Department of Family - Santurce, PR 2001 to 2010 • Preparation of wiring structure.  • Setting of printers on the network, repair of PCs and assemblies.  • Solve problems with computers in the office and out of the office.  • Antivirus and others applications to computer installations.  • Monitoring and maintenance of the servers on the network.    Division of Computer Center  Processing data equipment operator I    • Processing all computers work daily or monthly upon request.  • Management of electronic equipment of simple nature.  • Interpretation of operating instructions to make them in logical sequence.  • Setting the different components of the System to start trading the computer according to the instructions  received.  • Maintenance and preparation computing equipment.  • Give alert of any error or mistake in the system.  • Daily processing of backups copies to different servers in the database with the HP Data Protector Manager  Tool.  • Transfer files to others servers.  • Printing checks, labels and flyers for the participants of the Nutritional Assistance Program and prepare them  for mailing.    Programming and Development Division  Electronic System Analyst I  • Study information specifications for the different applications for the different applications to be programmed  electronically.  • Carry out the technical work of codification of programs in different computer languages including preparation  of logic diagrams.  • Try new programs analyze the results, purge and correct errors found.  • Prepare instructional manuals and documentation on elaborated programs.  • Review existing or use program to correct errors and reduce the processing time.  • Collaborate in the implementation of programmed systems.    ACADEMIC PREPARATION  EDP University of Puerto Rico, Inc. Hato Rey, PR August 29, 2014    Bachelor's Degree Computer Programming  SEMINARS/CONFERENCES/TRAINNINGS/CERTIFICATIONS Education Bachelor's EDP Univeristy of Puerto Rico Inc-San Juan Skills Active directory, Citrix, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Vpn, Dns, Networking, Solarwinds, Linux, Udp, Ethernet, Database, Microsoft access, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, As/400 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Database: Oracle PL/SQL Developer, Microsoft Access, Enterprise COBOL for z/OS V4R2    Operating system: Microsoft Window (NT 4.0 Workstation, 2000, XP, 2003, Vista, 7, 8, Server 2008 NT 6.0 and  Server 2012) IBM AS/400, HP OpenVMS Systems, macOS Sierra 10.13.4, Redhat Linux Administrator    Tools: Microsoft Office 365, Citrix XenappDesktop Director v2.10 Build 33 (Director Edge Sight v7.6 Build 2),  VMware vSphere Client v5.5, TightVNC Viewer v2.7.10, Active Directory Users and Computers v6.1, 3CX, Filemakers,  SysAid, CA Technologies, G Suite Admin by Google Cloud, Team Viewer, Window Remote Desktop, Symantec  Antivirus, Acronics, CloneZilla, Solarwinds, DameWare Mini Remote Control, McAfee Antivirus    Networking: TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, UDP, Subnet, Ethernet switches and routers, VPN and LAN/WAN  Administrator, Citrix System Inc., Untangle (Firewall)