SECURITY ENGINEER <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> ENGINEER United States Navy Veteran with a demonstrated history of working in the IT and network security industry. Strong Security Engineering professional with a Bachelor of Science (BS) focused in Computer and Information Systems Security/Information Assurance. San Diego, CA Work Experience SECURITY ENGINEER Proficio - Carlsbad, CA November 2017 to Present • Assist in the on-boarding and implementation of ProSOC service and Managed Security Services solutions for Proficio clients across multiple industries and regions.  • Review technical security posture (network, application, and servers) for existing and newly acquired businesses or services.  • Perform installation and configuration of security monitoring tools in support of our ProSOC service.  • Using ArcSight and Splunk to monitor log flow and alerting for customers.  • Resolve escalation from SOC Analysts.  • Participate in Engineering on-call rotation.  • Research new products for SIEM compatibility.  • Work with our Content Team to develop use cases.  • Assist with implementation of vulnerability management programs.  • Provide technical training on multiple security devices to our internal team.  • Used out of the box thinking as well as industry standard troubleshooting tools.  • Creating/modifying technical documents. CYBERSECURITY ANALYST SOC, PROFICIO March 2017 to November 2017 • Monitor events using multiple SIEM Consoles (ArcSight & Splunk).  • Constructed active channels/dashboards to replay and interpret events.  • Investigated security incidents using active channels, event graphs, annotations, previous/current cases, and reports.  • Created annotations, reports and manual cases.  • Recognized patterns or inconsistencies that could indicate complex cyberattacks.  • Perform threat hunting.  • Recommended improvements to service, efficiency and quality of work.  • Developed and documented appropriate troubleshooting techniques.  • Demonstrated excellent communication and customer care skills.  • Met defined service level agreements regarding response time and customer notification.  • Constantly lead US region for most cases worked.  • Assist junior analyst with triaging cases.  • Maintaining log records. INFORMATION SYSTEMS SPECIALIST FINANCIAL PARTNERS CREDIT UNION January 2015 to March 2017 • Monitor and maintain ATMs, FPCU Website/E-Banking, and Symitar systems daily to maintain maximum up time to 99.9%.  • Ensure all IT related problems and issues are logged in the IT request system BMC TrackIT  • Support end users and executives with any issues regarding PC, Network, ATM and Telecom problems or questions, including remote offices.  • Serve as a backup on coordinating ATM activities and implementation of new software or hardware.  • Perform QA testing on new software release before pushing to all departments with PDQ Deploy.  • Create/Modify/Update procedures as needed.  • Use SmartDeploy to create custom images for each department workstation.  • Active Directory User administrator.  • Exchange User administrator.  • Configuring Cisco Phones with Call Manager.  • RSA User Account Administrator.  • MaaS360, Secured Mobile Device Management Administrator.  • BAE Systems Security Management Console Administrator.  • Cisco Email Security Appliance Administrator.  • Assist with Administering of LogRhythm.  • Conduct Security Training to end users.  • Perform random Phishing test with organization.  • Complete all daily operational tasks as assigned as well as verify work is being completed in a timely manner. IT MANAGER SAN DIEGO MEDICAL FEDERAL CREDIT UNION January 2015 to July 2015 • San Diego Medical Federal Credit Union merged with Financial Partners Credit Union. While in the position of IT Manager, I oversaw everything related to IT for SD Medical Federal Credit Union. One-man team responsible for the main branch and two remote branches.  • Supported, maintained, and administer Financial System (Symitar).  • Provided security training to end users.  • Monitor Network Traffic with Solarwinds.  • Migrated SD Medical's network over to Financial Partners Network.  • Administer users in Active Directory, Microsoft exchange, Polycom IP Phones.  • Perform nightly backups.  • Build and maintained standard deployment images for computers.  • Support board member meetings every Friday.  • Managed cisco router, cisco catalyst switches, Juniper firewalls, Dell iSensor IPS.  • Creating documentation for policies and procedures.  • Understanding of Regulatory Compliance (SOX, GLBA, HIPAA, FISMA, PCI, DMCA).  • Conducted audits to ensure compliance. TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST HEWLETT-PACKARD March 2014 to January 2015 - CONTRACT POSITION, HEWLETT-PACKARD  • Providing Tier I and II level support in an enterprise environment to all Hewlett-Packard employee.  • Perform data recovery, data backup, and data transfers.  • Deployed COE and Non-COE Images to user's computer  • Assist in helping to enforce HP IT Security Policy.  • Help with the expansion of the site's LAN.  • Implementing and supporting Microsoft Lync communication.  •SharePoint Administrator.  • Creating documents for standard and non-standard IT process and policy.  • Providing training to non-technical end users.  • In charge of inventory, shipping and receiving of all IT assets. OPERATIONS AGENT BEST BUY August 2013 to May 2014 FOR GEEK SQUAD, BEST BUY  • Resolving customer's issues, via phone, email, or in person.  • New computer setups, doing client education, checking in clients, making reservations for clients.  • Daily tracking of all computers in repair with current status and estimated repair times.  • Shipping and receiving of computers, tablets, phones, parts.  • Restoring and cleaning all return computers and tablets, then set back to factory settings to be sold as open box.  • Running hardware and software diagnostics, virus scans and removals, software installations.  • Data backups and transfers.  • Installing and removing hard drives, rams, power source, fans, CPU, motherboard, LCD screen, graphic cards, and sound cards.  • Screen replacement for iPhone, laptops, and tablets. SYSTEM SPECIALIST INTERN ENCINA WASTEWATER AUTHORITY August 2013 to March 2014 • Providing IT support to end user in a windows environment. Troubleshooting, answering questions, and providing training.  • Testing thin clients to ensure user friendly.  • Creating and maintaining user's account.  • Running Ethernet cables from multiple rooms to server room.  • Installing switches, routers, access points, servers, patch panels.  • Experience with cisco call manager, cisco unity, IPrism, Veeam, Solarwinds, SharePoint.  • Windows server 2008, 2012, win7, and win8. Microsoft office, Adobe, Print servers, financial servers, and Exchange server. ESET AV Manager.  • Setting Dynamic IP address for office equipment's.  • Setting up computers and VoIP phones for users.  • Doing clean installation of operating systems, creating back up images.  • Creating documents for issues that have been resolved, creating diagrams with Visio 2013.  • Programming security door locks and gate locks.  • Experience with MUNIS (Used for our financial system), creating requisitions, PO's. PC REPAIR INTERN SAN DIEGO PC HELP December 2012 to August 2013 • Trouble shooting and repairing desktops, laptops, tablets, and smartphones.  • Breaking down and setting up PC, tablets, and smartphones for repairs.  • Performing quality assurance testing after each repair.  • Setting up LAN for gaming center.  • Documenting all work done on each item.  • Inputting customer information into the system (Microsoft CRM).  • Removing viruses, updating virus protection software, improving PC performance.  • Installing new software, operating system, and new PC components.  • Addressing customers' questions and concerns via email or phone in a timely manner. Maintenance Technician United States Navy - San Diego, CA May 2006 to May 2012 - Awarded for having good conduct while in the service without any incident.  • Navy Achievement Medal - May 2009 - Awarded for discovering and repairing steam leak on the main engine turbine while on deployment, saving the navy$150,000.00 MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN UNITED STATES NAVY May 2006 to May 2012 • Performed inspections, kept detailed records regarding operations and performance as part of overall Maintenance.  • Minimized department costs by monitoring inventory and usage of materials and tools.  • Learned Strong problem-solving and decision-making skills with a special attention to detail.  • Supervised, trained, and managed the safety of teams of junior personnel as large as thirty employees.  • Carefully interpreted and followed diagrams, technical manuals, and oral or written instructions.  • Designated as overall in charge for responsibility of office computers and printers.  • Performed miscellaneous clerical duties such as filing, note-taking, and operating office equipment's.  • Set-up desktop computers, laptops, and printers for office space.  • Troubleshoot and repaired issues with office computers, printers, monitors.  • Replaced failed hard drives, installed graphics card, ram, fan, power supply.  • Provided excellent customer service to contractors with question or any concerns. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in (BS), COMPUTER AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY/INFORMATION ASSURANCE ITT TECHNICAL INSTITUTE - San Diego, CA April 2014 to December 2015