ERP Security Analyst ERP <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> ERP Security Analyst - User Access Management Dallas, TX Work Experience ERP Security Analyst User Access Management - San Jose, CA February 2014 to Present The UAM team focuses on the design and implementation of user access security models for Oracle R12 Enterprise Business Suite (EBS), and Oracle Transportation Management (OTM) environments, to meet Cisco's Segregation of Duties (SoD) and Security Policy Compliance Objectives.  • Define entitlements, business policies and assign user roles; Check for SOD conflicts across user roles and responsibilities.  • Work with business process owners to customize their desired responsibilities in Oracle.  • Perform remediation activities to address Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) deficiencies.  • Assist in design and testing of Oracle Applications, along with testing of automated controls based on knowledge of financial processes.  • Develop and confirm program operations by conducting manual tests; modify program sequence and code to fix defects.  • Support multiple testing cycles and go-lives for both Supply Chain Management and Finance modules. Web Developer Cox School of Business September 2012 to February 2014 Cox school has an elaborate website http://smu.cox.edu with information on faculty, programs, admissions, alumni, events and more. Our team is responsible for complete design, making updates and managing day-to-day operations of the site. Technologies used are JSP, HTML/CSS, My SQL.  • Re-designed the User-Interface (UI) layout and added content blocks on faculty pages, with each faculty page now showing separate tabs for profile, documents, publications and research.  • Currently adding video lectures to each individual faculty's pages. Web developer Maha Shiv Shakti Foundation (MSSF) - Birmingham July 2011 to August 2012 MSSF is a non-profit foundation based in UK that approached me to build their website.  • Designed and programmed the website from scratch, including obtaining the URL from domain agents and configuring it.  • Created a Content Management System (CMS) using JSP, PHP, HTML/CSS so MSSF staff can easily make content updates and maintain the site.  • Currently working on improving the initial design and layout, to make the site be more dynamic and to allow visitor registrations. IT Instructor Radix Info - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh June 2010 to September 2010 Radix Info is a 10-year old IT company providing application development and training services. I was hired to train freshman college students and recent graduates in core IT skills.  • Taught programming in C covering topics such as pointers, file management, c-sockets.  • Also taught Java, including topics in polymorphism, classes, Java in networks, JSP. Education B. Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering Auroras Engineering College - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh July 2012 M. S. in Computer Science Southern Methodist University - Dallas, TX Additional Information CURRICULUM PROJETCS  Account Tracker  This Android application allows user to keep track of different bank accounts held by a user and the transactions in those accounts  • Created an android application using Eclipse(ADT) to manage multiple bank account transactions using a single application.  • Studied and implemented different storage mechanisms and some advanced packages like text to speech, map view in android system.    Wireless Sensor Networks  A wireless sensor network (WSN) is a collection of nodes organized into a cooperative network. The nodes communicate wirelessly and they could be distributed in random way, so we can see the nodes as vertices and the connection as edges in a random geometric graph.    • In this project we implement an algorithm for determining a coloring, terminal clique, and a selection of bipartite sub-graphs that are produced by an algorithm for graph coloring in a random geometric Graph (RGG).  • These results model is a wireless sensor network (WSN) with each bipartite sub-graph providing a communication backbone.  • Implemented using java plug-in language called Processing    Attendance and Examination Automation System (AEAS)  Colleges in India have a separate department for conducting examinations for students across all departments. This AEAS system was designed for the department to automate student attendance and run reports.  • Created a Content Management System (CMS) using JSP, PHP, HTML/CSS staff can easily make updates and maintain records.  • My module of work is to work on security, front end design and building database for the system    Employee Email System Upgrade for AP-Genco  AP-Genco is the biggest thermal power supplier in the state of Andhra Pradesh, India. They had a very old legacy system for employees to mail each other. In this project, we replaced the legacy system with a better and improved system which has add-ons like chat box, large file share etc. The new system was more secure and supported document attachments, which were a huge benefit to the end users.  • My module of work is mainly concentrated on handling requirement gathering sessions, building up a chat box using java bean and jsp concepts and working on test case reports.  • Had the opportunity to understand the complete SDLC of the project, and concepts in database maintenance.  TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming: C, C++, Java including ADT, Java Script, Shell Script, C#, Python  Dev. Frameworks: Eclipse, Liferay, ADT  Databases: Oracle R12, My SQL, PL/SQL scripts  Web Tools: PHP, HTML, CSS, JSP, JQuery, JSON  Operating Systems: Windows Vista, Windows 8, Linux, Android    COURSE WORK  Graduate: Algorithm Engineering, Multi-Core Software Engineering, Advanced Application Development (Android Application Development), Operating Systems, Computer Architecture, Advanced Concepts of Software Design, File Organization and Database Management; Object Oriented Analysis and Design; Computer System Security  Undergrad: Introduction to Programming Languages (C), Object Oriented Programming and its concepts in Java, Software Engineering, Web Application Design, Computer Network Security.