Director of Security Operations, Conduent (formerly Xerox Corporation) Services Director of <span class="hl">Security</span> Operations, Conduent (formerly Xerox Corporation) Services Information Security | Risk Management | Compliance | Assessment | Data Protection | National Speaker | Consultant Seattle, WA Balancing Information security with technology and business is what I do. I design, implement, and manage information security programs and risk management efforts. From leading audit remediation efforts, to building software assurance programs, to managing security initiatives, I've done it for startups and Fortune 500 companies. I also teach undergraduate evening courses in InfoSec.    Information Security is more than just relying on appliances to safeguard customer data, protect intellectual property, and keep an infrastructure from being hacked. I combine the right balance of risk management, security policies and practices, and evaluation methods to create a cohesive security framework.     With experience in telecommunications, aerospace, software development, insurance, and professional services consulting, I drive savvy and strategic solutions across the enterprise.     Information security should enable the business, not hinder it. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Security Operations, Conduent (formerly Xerox Corporation) Services Conduent October 2016 to Present • Identify and execute replication, transition or creation of security processes, roles, vendor agreements, and operational security capabilities as part of executive security team for day-one functionality in company split from Xerox (Conduent: Day one, 70K employees, $7B revenue).     • Spearhead replacement of enterprise-wide external security scan capabilities. Evaluation, triage, roadmap, and execution across multiple PCI, HIPAA, FISMA, and commercial business units.    • Lead the development and enhancement of an enterprise end-to-end security practice across Conduent Services Division, ensuring the protection of customer offerings and information.     • Build security capabilities amongst development teams throughout the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), consolidate common platforms and security tools for security operations, and seamlessly integrate security practices when using outsource providers. Information Security & IT Consultant | Risk Management | Assessment | Data Protection Yeoman Security Consulting August 2013 to Present Yeoman Consulting offers security assessments, roadmaps to resolving issues and preventing future ones, and training and awareness, customized for your environment and needs.    The focus is on securing the systems your business relies on and safeguarding your data, including compliance areas like PCI, PII, GDPR, and HIPAA, and implementing what is needed to reduce the risks to your business.    From building security programs to managing and training teams on security, I believe in building business success by helping protect valuable data, the underlying systems, and most importantly your customers.    Primary clients included Physio Controls, PACCAR, Microsoft. Alumni Association President New Mexico Tech October 2016 to October 2018 The New Mexico Tech Alumni Association (NMTAA) is basically a startup.   We recently became a 501c3 nonprofit, established an understanding for operation with our alma mater (New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology), and established a student scholarship.  The challenges that lie ahead are branding, building enrollment, defining services, and growing our scholarships and internship offerings.  It is an exciting time to be growing the organization and its operations for the future.  Adjunct Faculty | Information Security Systems ITT Techincal Institute October 2004 to October 2018 • Teach evening courses and develop lesson plans and instructional aids for the courses:    - Information Security Essentials   - Risk Management and Intrusion Detection  - Information Security Policies  - Hardening Linux  - Security Architecture of Common IT Platforms  - Information Security Perspective on Intranets, Internets, and E-Commerce  - Project Management  - Graduating Students Capstone Class  - Computer forensics  - Audit & Compliance    • Design, develop, and present course materials based on the current text, supplementing the course with books, articles, and discussion topics. Create project, midterm and final examinations. Director of Security Operations, Product Development Services Integration (PDSI) Xerox April 2015 to December 2016 • Architect the Xerox Services Information Security Roadmap for becoming an industry leader in Information Security by Design in software development solutions.    • Define Information Security activities and improvements for Large Enterprise Operations (LEO) organization RFP bids (contracts exceeding $5M, annual revenue $500M).     • Contribute guidance on tactical and strategic direction on HIPAA HITRUST certification for five clients, recommend and manage opportunities to enhance operational PCI compliance practices, and assess the impacts of Safe Harbor (now Privacy Shield).    • Enact a centralized information security tool portfolio for web (dynamic) and source-code (static) vulnerability scans; incorporate the portfolio within a centralized enterprise-wide assessment service with teams based in United States and India; integrate the portfolio with other risk assessment methodologies. Program Manager | Application & Product Security | Risk Management & Enterprise Assurance Vertafore February 2012 to September 2013 Vertafore is a leader in productivity software and services for the insurance industry.    • Drove initiatives to establish security baselines for the company's product lines and enterprise services.    • Expanded and strengthened Security testing to 24 Web software products, SOA, mobile, and integrated enterprise products, and refined the remediation process for lowering risk levels.     • Introduced the regular use of a leading Web security assessment tools to the product teams. Structured user training and recruited users as overall security focals.    • Spearheaded the proof of concept, approval, and integration of a third-party security firm’s services across all product lines as part of regular product development. Executed practices for disclosing assessment results to third-party audits and customer inquiries on product security risk.    • Oversaw threat modeling and security architecture sessions across the product lines. Identified key design documents and a modeling methodology, creating standard guidelines. Provided custom "primer" training.     • Originated awareness and training materials for developer reference, including security bulletins as an authoritative source, code review decision trees, and a primer on key aspects of the Security Development Lifecycle for agile, pull, and waterfall methodologies.  Security Software Assurance Technologist | Application & Enterprise Security | Identity Management The Boeing Company August 2006 to February 2012 Founding member of think tank to grow enterprise-wide secure development practices, tools & processes    • Executed experience in integrating security guidance across 8 business units and 5,000+ developer community.    • Championed first security flaw analysis tools for software development and testing deployed across the corporation. Negotiated procurement contracts with vendors.    • Originated first risk identification evaluation tool for security in software applications. Tool used in key areas with sensitive data subject to regulatory control (eg. Personally Identifiable Information, PII).    • Introduced threat analysis and modeling tool for identifying security flaws in software architectural designs.    • Designed and implemented first static source code analysis framework with new methods to streamline reviews.    • Envisioned security processes, best practices, statement of work guidelines, and joint development environments for the outsourcing of software development projects.    • Integrated security evaluation and validation processes into corporate Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC). Leveraged best practices from various methodologies, such as Microsoft’s Security Development Lifecycle (SDL) and Systems Security Engineering Capability Maturity Model (SSE-CMM).    • Initiated technical bulletins as single information source for company’s developers to identify application security vulnerabilities and resolutions.    • Performed security architecture design guidance on database and application security from a design and implementation perspective to Boeing development projects.    • Appraised and evaluated code review, scanner, and other vulnerability assessment tools (open source and commercial) for use as corporate standards by the security and development teams.    • Defined recommendations in Opportunity Evaluations (OE) to executive management for how to streamline and enhance the use of software to control the release of export-sensitive data per federal regulations. Adjunct Faculty City University of Seattle 2002 to 2008 Maximized impact on student learning by bringing professional experiences and hand-on examples to the classroom. Demonstrated diverse abilities to teach undergraduate and graduate courses across a variety of Information Technology disciplines. Showed initiative in developing additional curriculum offerings.    My team created the prototype for this graduate school's first information security certificate, later influencing their MS in Information Security    • Designed course curriculum in Information Security for City University, Greece campus.    • Provided distance learning, interactive online, and live course instruction for graduate and undergraduate courses in computer security and technology.    Undergraduate Level Courses Taught  - System Analysis and Design  - Management of Information Systems  - E-Commerce Strategy  - Intrusion Detection  - Perimeter Security    Graduate Level Courses Taught  - Database Design  - Management of Information System  - Knowledge Management  - Corporate Computing Security  - Secure Transfer and Storage of Information    • Designed, developed, and presented course materials based on the current text, supplementing the course with books, articles, and discussion topics. Create project, midterm and final examinations. Application Security Service Manager | Security Perimeter System | Secure Network Designs The Boeing Company / McDonnell Douglas April 2002 to July 2006 Founded 1st software security assessment team for code & architecture reviews & vulnerability testing    • Conceptualized, implemented, and supervised company’s first application security program, including development by partner, supplier, and other non-Boeing entities.     • Established the processes for evaluating project scope, performing risk reduction, and approval reporting. Conceived the approach for ranking the severity of discovered vulnerabilities.     • Identified the first corporate metrics for the operational tracking of software security flaws found in development efforts.    • Enacted a database repository for tracking evaluation efforts, capturing flaw mitigations, and providing metrics for management and approval boards.     • Introduced practices for the secure creation and acceptance of outsource/offshore code.    • Managed operational efforts of contract and corporate labor of 5 team members. Evaluated and directed team work.    • Determined scope, scheduling, and billing for assessment efforts and assigned individuals. Security Analyst in Microsoft Infrastructure Security, Short Term Project Solutions IQ at Microsoft Corporation 2002 to 2002 Provided analysis of security flaws and countermeasures in early efforts to reduce business impact.    • Developed one of the first ISAPI filters for MS Internet Information Server (IIS) in C++ and C# to prevent Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities in Web pages.  • Analyzed common security vulnerabilities and recommend mitigations. Created recommendation whitepapers to detail the vulnerabilities and their solutions. Designed whitepapers based on internal project architecture reviews.  • Established methodology for system vulnerability assessments and testing techniques. Participated in penetration testing of applications to determine if the targets can resist attack.  • Collaborated with product development teams to provide guidelines, training, and security code reviews during design, development, and testing phases. Education M.S. in Computer Systems City University Certificate in Executive Management University of Washington Executive Programs B.S. in Technical Communication, minor Mathematics and Computer Science New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology Links http://yeomansecurity.com http://linkedin.com/in/kennethsilsbee Awards • The Boeing Company Exceptional Performance Award, Boeing Commercial Aircraft Security Project.    • The Boeing Company Exceptional Performance Award, Boeing Personally Identifiable Information (PII) Security Project.    • Best Presentation, Processes, Procedures and Standards for Business and Enterprise Excellence, The Boeing Company Technical Excellence Conference (BTEC10).    • The Boeing Company Achievement Award, Successfully Implementing the 7E7 Production Enclave.    • The Boeing Company Certificate of Appreciation, Recognized contributions to eBESS (corporate job bank).    • The Boeing Company Certificate of Appreciation. Recognition of security contributions to enterprise-wide Virtual Private Network (VPN) service.    • City University Master’s Program Presidential Honors (2002, GPA 3.96 out of 4.0).    • Weyerhaeuser Letter of Appreciation. Recognition by a Vice President for contributions to a successful, large reengineering project. Publications Presentations    • ITT Technical Quarterly Meeting: What Does It Take to Be In InfoSec?    • Vertafore Enterprise Development Meeting: Safer Applications: Security Resources for Development and Test    • East Lansing Community College: Trends in Information Security    • New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology: Meeting Today’s Security Challenges    • The Boeing Software Conference, Seattle, WA. Application Security: Tools and Methods to Reducing Risk.    • The Boeing Company Web Working Group, Seattle, WA. Web Application Security: A   Proactive Approach.  • Information Security Forum, Vancouver, Canada. Boeing Application Security Assessments.    • The Boeing Company Technical Excellence Conference (BTEC10), Long beach, CA.     • Application Security Assessments: A Value-Add to Reduce Risk.    • The Boeing Company WTS/Citrix Technical Symposium, Seal Beach, CA. Application Security Assessments: Value Added Security.    • The Boeing Company Security Forum, Mesa, AZ. Panel Discussion: Application, Capability, and Vulnerability Assessments.    • The Boeing Company WTS/Citrix Technical Symposium, St Louis, MO. Application Vulnerabilities and Countermeasures.    • The Boeing Company Security Forum, San Diego, CA. Application Security: The Bad Guys, Magic Helmets, and a Battle Plan.    Publications    • A Template for Creating Software Application Release Notes, Wikipedia.  Should Vulnerabilities Be Treated As Defects?. http://kennethsilsbee.wordpress.com/2013/08/13/should-vulnerabilities-be-treated-as-defects/    • Using Extranet Enclaves to Protect Resources and Enable Collaboration. The Global Perimeter Journal.    • Painting By Numbers: A Framework for Assuring Application Security. The Global Perimeter Journal.    • E-Commerce Security Criteria When Making or Buying Web Hosting Solutions. Library of Congress. Additional Information Application Development Tools   Java, C/C++ and C#, Visual Studio and .Net Framework, Eclipse, SQL, MySQL, Oracle PL/SQL, Ruby, MS Sequel Server, TFS Bug Tracking    Intranet/Internet Development Tools   Java Script, VB Script, Perl, ActiveX, ASP Classic and .Net, AJAX, Web 2.0, XML and SOAP protocol, OData protocol, ColdFusion, Common Gateway Interface (CGI), Web Services Descriptive Language (WSDL) & OData    Security Tools   Application Vulnerability Description Language (AVDL), Security flaw tools (eg. Hailstorm, WebInspect, Acunetix, Burp Suite, AppScan, Klocwork, Fortify, Nikto, Findbugs, Yasca, FXCop, CAT.Net, Achilles and Charles), Forensics tools (eg. The Sleuth Kit (TSK), Forensic Toolkit (FTK), Helix3), Snort IDS, ModSecurity, Microsoft Threat Modeling, Veracode    Computer Systems   Windows, Linux, Sun Solaris, AIX, and HP-UX. Virtual environments (ie MVware and Citrix), Android    Corporate Training   Data Communications, Project Management, Managing International Projects, Testing & Quality Assurance, IEEE Logic Symbols, SANS Institute – various security, NetScreen Firewall Configurations, Information Security and the Law    Security Expertise   Secure Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), Threat Modeling and Risk Management, Microsoft STRIDE, ISO 27001 and COBIT security frameworks, Systems Security Engineering Capability Maturity Model (SEE-CMM), Data Loss Prevention (DLP), Source Code Analysis Methodologies, Application Security Vulnerability Assessment, Denied Parties List (DPL) Export Regulations, Security Standards, Application Firewalls, Security Metrics, Security Auditing, Personally Identifiable Information (PII), Security Policy, Mobile (IOS & Android) Security, PCI DSS, ISO 27001 audit    Additional Expertise   Project management (eg Microsoft SCRUM), Service Level Agreements (SLA),   Project Test and Implementation Management, Corporate Policy, Project Feasibility and Architecture Evaluations, Conflict Resolution, Operational Metrics, Database design, Lean, Agile