Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Delaware, OH With over two decades of professional experience and over a decade of personal studying, I have gained a broad base of knowledge and experience. I take pride in my ability to implement and integrate new solutions, troubleshoot issues throughout all seven OSI layers, and present material in a way that brings extremely technical information down to a personal level. It is my intention to continue exercising the ability to improve the lives of coworkers and customers through the implementation of technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Horizon Industries Ltd - Columbus, OH July 2015 to Present Hired in 2015 as a contractor to provide incident handling support for the Defense Logistics Agency. Responsibilities include monitoring security dashboards for actionable events. Review and evaluate cyber intelligence reports. Investigate any signs of possible network intrusion. In 2018 I was given added responsibility as a Malware Analyst.    Specific Achievements and Responsibilities: • Review Arcsight ESM events for actionable information.  • Monitor open source intelligence for actionable information.  • Perform malware analysis to research new indicators of compromise.  • Assist Law Enforcement/Counter Intelligence with information gathering • Study current adversarial campaigns, capabilities, and behaviors.  • Review reports generated by other CNDSPs for applicable information. Application Administrator Tecport Solutions & Digital Management Inc - Columbus, OH June 2014 to June 2015 Hired in 2014 as a contractor to provide application administration support for the Defense Information Systems Agency. Responsibilities included rollout and ongoing administration of a collaboration and communication platform supporting the entirety of the Department of Defense.    Specific Achievements and Responsibilities: • Applied ITIL best practices to software rollouts.  • Deployed, operated, and debugged complex applications, including database components.  • Managed servers in DoD cloud environment.  • Provided subject matter expertise to diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve software problems in Windows, UNIX, and Linux operating environments.  • Developed automated deployment and validation tools using Visual Basic, Python, and Bash.  • Developed disaster recovery procedures • Managed and built software rollouts using automated deployment and configuration utilities including BladeLogic and custom developed tools. IT Administrator iSYS, LLC - Lewis Center, OH September 2008 to June 2014 Brought on board in 2008 as the sole IT support person for the TEM division, I was tasked with handling all facets of the division's needs. Responsibilities included, developing a COOP site, building out the division's network infrastructure, and building out the server infrastructure to maintain satisfactory customer experience. In early 2013 promoted into a supervisory role over one additional team member.    Specific Achievements and Responsibilities: • Managed all areas of Active Directory • Maintained approximately 70 workstations and approximately 20 servers • Provided budgets, purchasing information, and planning for new, and continuing projects • Used DISA security technical implementation guides (STIG) as a basis for server group policies • Implemented host intrusion detection system (HIDS)   • Implemented Cisco based network • Developed disaster recovery procedures • Consolidated services via in house cloud, using VMWare ESXi • Migrated Active Directory from Server 2003 to 2008 • Implemented documentation portal using Sharepoint • Promoted to supervisor in early 2013 • Planned and implemented a network redesign during a remodel and expansion project. lead scripting engineer Sarcom 2005 to 2008 I was responsible for the management of a scripting project for a large insurance firm. It was my duty to coordinate team member duties, train new members, and provide technical expertise to the team. Position moved to deployment of hardware and software on site, along with software support.    Specific Achievements and Responsibilities: • Managed users and computers in Active Directory • Provided leadership to a team of 5 programmers • Supported and trained new team members • Assigned tasks and monitored team progress   • Deployed customer computers • Deployed software • Created custom software packages using InstallShield AdminStudio 6.0 • Provided customer with resolutions to scripting issues • Provide software support to customers IT Manager Harris Instrument Corporation August 1998 to June 2004 Hired by owner of the company while still in high school, I was responsible for developing software for many different hardware devices. I implemented the company's tape based networked disaster recovery solutions for the entire system. Job duties grew over time to include writing project proposals for customers, financial decisions, and license compliance. In 2008 returned on a contract basis to provide IT support.    Specific Achievements and Responsibilities: • Maintenance of the entire company's workstations, over 20 98 to XP machines • Administration of NT and Linux servers • Network services and security • Budgeting and planning future IT needs   • Developed disaster recovery procedures • Developed software for Intel microprocessors • Developed software for Rabbit 2000 processor • Worked with customers to plan projects Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Western Governors University 2019 Skills Active Directory (9 years), disaster recovery (10+ years), intrusion. (10+ years), Linux (8 years), security (10+ years), Cyber Security, Nist, Information Security, Siem, Cybersecurity, It Security, Comptia, Network Security Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) June 2021 Security+ May 2021 Linux+ May 2021 Network+ May 2021 CCENT October 2021 Additional Information Key Skills  Programming/Scripting  • C  • Visual Basic  • SMS Scripting  • Python  • Bash    Server/User Software  • Apache 1.x - 2.x  • Sendmail/Postfix  • Symantec Backup Exec 12.x  • VMWare Hypervisors  • VirtualBox  • IIS 6/7/8  • WSUS  • Sharepoint  • Symantec End Point Protection Manager 11.x/12.x  • Arkeia Network Backup  • BladeLogic  • Arcsight ESM  • Arcsight Logger  • McAfee ePO  • MySQL  • Netscout nGeniousONE  • SiteProtector    Technologies  • Microsoft Design & Implementation  • Active Directory Design & Implementation  • Security Concepts & Prevention  • Disaster Recovery  • Cisco Switches/Routers  • IPsec VPN/site-to-site VPN  • Host Intrusion Detection    Operating Systems  • Microsoft Windows 2012 Server  • Microsoft Windows 2008 Server  • Microsoft Windows 2003 Server  • Microsoft Windows XP/Vista/7/8  • Linux (Redhat, Debian, Ubuntu, CentOS)