Senior Manager, IT Risk and Compliance Senior Manager, <span class="hl">IT</span> Risk and Compliance IT and Cybersecurity Governance, Risk, and Compliance Subject Matter Expert Maywood, IL Information technology governance, risk and compliance expert with extensive experience in governance, risk and compliance, data privacy, IT audit, third-party security risk assessment / management, and security operations. Skills encompass: risk assessment and management; SOC assessment and reporting; PCI, SOX, ISO 27001, COBIT, NIST Cyber Security Framework, and NIST Computer Security requirements; compliance audits of complex, large-scale systems; network and application security; data anonymization; cloud-based platform secure configuration, security requirements of GDPR, CCPA and other US and global privacy laws and regulations. Strong, current IT technical background. Work Experience Senior Manager, IT Risk and Compliance US Cellular Corporation - Chicago, IL February 2015 to June 2019 Directed Governance, Risk and Compliance team, providing guidance, consultation and risk services to security operations, national network engineering and business for compliance to SOX, CPNI, NIST and PCI DSS requirements.  ? Implemented and matured enterprise security risk management frameworks.  ? Reduced PCI annual assessment costs by over 4 years by ~$100k by streamlining and automating internal processes for control owner interview scheduling, and evidence production and storage.  ? Led and managed selection and implementation of LogicGate GRC system which included: identification / evaluation of appropriate vendors; preparation of RFP/RFP information security questionnaires; contracting with selected vendor; installation and configuration of GRC system platform.  ? Implemented PCI sustainability control testing to ensure ongoing compliance to PCI DSS requirements for customer credit card and financial information.  ? Collaborated with Legal/Privacy Officer to reviewed third-party contracts for information security requirements  ? Ensured all internal SOX, PCI and Customer Proprietary Network Information audit findings were appropriately documented, tracked and remediated. Adjunct Instructor Computer Information Systems Triton College - River Grove, IL June 1995 to September 2016 Credit courses taught included: Network Security, Windows Client and Server, Introduction to Computer Science, Microsoft Office. Vice President/Senior Technology Risk Officer PNC Financial Services - Pittsburgh, PA March 2014 to February 2015 Managed information security assessment program for PNC's treasury management applications and systems. Information Security, Risk and Compliance Auditor Insight Global Inc - Chicago, IL September 2013 to March 2014 Designed and implemented security assessment program at Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago for high risk applications and network security.  ? Partnered with in-house app developers to determine the classification of data that was processed, transmitted and stored by FHLBC systems, and determined required remediation of deficiencies discovered during assessments. AVP/ IT Controls Manager, Commercial Credit Card JP Morgan Chase - Chicago, IL April 2013 to September 2013 Managed application internal controls self-assessments and remediation of gaps as subject matter expert for applications/systems that transmitted PCI, financial and personally identifiable information. Information Security, Risk and Compliance Auditor Insight Global Inc - Chicago, IL September 2012 to April 2013 Performed information security risk assessments of third-party vendors for HSBC Bank Information Security and Fraud Risk division. Security Compliance and Risk Analyst The Warranty Group - Chicago, IL May 2012 to September 2012 Developed global information security risk and governance program and created and implemented global information security policies and procedures. Manager, Agency Technology Solutions Information Security Auditor Arc Worldwide - Chicago, IL May 2008 to February 2012 Developed/implemented Arc's vendor and internal information security risk, compliance and general IT controls security assessment program that decreased time spent on audits by 75%.  ? Created and delivered first security awareness training around data classification and protection of sensitive and personal client data.  ? Audited external third-party vendors for compliance to Arc's information security contractual requirements which included IT general controls, detailed network infrastructure, internal and web application controls assessment, testing, rating findings based on risk, and follow-up remediation).  ? Performed security assessments of internal company applications, monitored remediation of security deficiencies discovered by vulnerability scans, ensured app development followed standard SDLC and change management methodology, and identification and authentication to company developed internet-facing applications. Information Technology Audit Manager Gardner Denver - Quincy, IL October 2007 to May 2008 Planned, scheduled, performed and tracked remediation of deficiencies for SOX 404 and general internal controls audits for US and European (Germany) Gardner Denver companies.  ? Reduced time spent doing audit by 50% which saved ~$75K per audit. Information Technology Auditor University of Illinois - Chicago, IL March 2007 to October 2007 ? Performed all aspects of audit including risk/internal controls assessment, opening/closing conferences, work papers, testing, remediation, preparation of self-assessment questionnaires for University and Medical Center IT systems and applications for compliance with HIPAA, state and other federal laws, and PCI data security standards. Information Technology Auditor/Global SOX Audit Team SOURCES IT 2005 to 2007 Identity Access Management Team Lead- Security, Re SOURCES IT 2004 to 2005 Email Engineer SOURCES IT 2000 to 2004 Information regarding positions held prior to 2000 will be furnished upon request. Education Master of Music in Music DePaul University - Chicago, IL Bachelor of Music in Music DePaul University - Chicago, IL