Principal Security Engineer Principal <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Principal Security Engineer A position in Information Technology, where proven motivation, resourceful problem-solving, a superior work ethic, and technical expertise will add value. Work Experience Principal Security Engineer April 2018 to March 2019 Managed PCI compliance with Qualys  ? Managed PCI Vulnerability audits  ? Managed SOC2 Vulnerability audits  ? Managed Dark Trace breach alerts  ? Managed Vulnerabilities and hardening on Windows and Linux systems  ? Performed Active Directory Security Audit  ? Architected and configured Logging Management using SyslogNG and Splunk  ? Performed Vmware ESXi security audits  ? Performed Network Infrastructure vulnerability audits  ? Managed Penetration test  ? Managed installation of CyberArk Team Lead, Senior Infrastructure and Vulnerability Engineer MBCI - Jasper, IN February 2015 to October 2018 Managed a team of three system engineers  ? Provided remediation and disaster recovery consulting during and after security incidents  ? Performed network vulnerability scans with Qualys  ? Performed Web Application scanning with Eretina and Nessus  ? Performed monthly internal and external website vulnerability audits  ? Performed Vulnerability Management  ? Implemented Security Awareness training and program  ? Architected and Implemented Splunk Enterprise  ? Administered Splunk Servers and created dashboards and reports  ? Administered 25+ Red Hat Linux Servers  ? Architected MS Azure solutions and migrated vm's to the cloud  ? Managed ADFS/SSO for Applications in MS Azure  ? Upgraded child domains and servers from 2003 server/ functional level to server 2012 and 2016  ? Administered Vmware ESXi infrastructure  ? Installed and Configured UCS and IBM blades  ? Administered EMC and Nimble SAN's  ? Managed and Implemented project to move production from EMC to Nimble SAN  ? Managed and Implemented project to upgrade from ESXi 4.1 to 5.5 on 150+ hosts  ? Managed and implemented Windows Security patching project  ? Administed Lync 2013 Team Lead, Senior Application Security Engineer Hospital Corporation of America - Nashville, TN March 2013 to February 2015 Managed a team of five engineers  ? Administered Ping Federate Single Sign On solution  ? Created Mobile and thick app SSO connections  ? Managed multiple complex projects concurrently  ? Administered Windows Server 2012 and 2008 Infrastructure  ? Maintained Vmware ESXi servers and Vcenter  ? Administered CentOs Servers  ? Administered and maintained Splunk Enterprise and created dashboards and reports  ? Provided monthly report to senior management  ? Managed vendor relationship  ? Maintained SSO connection for 40+ enterprise applications  ? Maintained certificates  ? Managed Azure web app security and migrated VM's to cloud  ? Managed Azure AD and cloud security Systems Engineer Ardent Health Services - Nashville, TN May 2011 to February 2013 Administered ESXI/Vsphere and VCenter Server 4 and 5 with 10-20 or more host and 1000's of VM's  ? Administered Citrix Xenapp farm  ? Maintained servers for mission critical health care systems  ? Administered Microsoft Exchange 2010 and 2003  ? Performed user migrations from Exchange 2003 to 2010  ? Migrated 3000 users from purchased hospitals email systems to Exchange 2010  ? Setup Unified Communications  ? Administered Lync 2010  ? Administered Blackberry Enterprise Server 5  ? Setup hundreds of Server 2008 VM's  ? Administered Active Directory  ? Deployed IBM Hseries bladecenters  ? Managed multiple projects    Moto Enterprises, Nashville, TN  Systems Administrator - 8 months  ? Administered Vmware ESX, SQL servers, windows 2003-2008 servers  ? Provisioned LUNs with DELL Equalogic and IBM XIV  ? Managed Vmware View 4 infrasturture  Senior Information Security Analyst - 12 months  ? Managed and mentored two Junior Analyst and two Senior Analyst  ? Deployed, managed and maintained all security systems and their corresponding or associated software, including intrusion detection systems, cryptography systems, and anti-virus software.    IT Infrastructure Architect - 12 months  ? Managed 5-10 Systems Engineers  ? Determined the quantity and size of web, application, database, and other system servers necessary to satisfy an applications non-functional requirements  ? Worked with the technical leads on service delivery teams to communicate technical designs and resolve implementation details for all network, server, storage and software components  ? Ensured architectural integrity and compliance with hardware and software infrastructure standards  ? Worked with operations to drive continuous improvement in availability, serviceability and efficiency  ? Performed technical risk assessments and develop contingency plans to insure situational and application availability requirements were met Experian Health - Franklin, TN 2013 to 2013 Security and Server Administrator Binary IT Solutions - Evansville, IN March 2010 to March 2011 Performed Server maintenance at client locations  ? Administered Active Directory users ,GPO's, printers, and accounts at client locations  ? Setup multiple physical and virtual servers at client locations  ? Installed and configured Checkpoint and Fortigate firewalls  ? Setup Blackberry Enterprise Servers  ? Administered Vmware Vsphere 4  ? Installed and configured Exchange 2007-10  ? Designed and implemented disaster recovery plans for multiple sites and systems  ? Administer and implement servers in a PCI compliant environment  ? Administer and implement servers in a HIPPA compliant environment  ? Provisioned SAN storage, DELL Compellent Business Intelligence and Data Warehouse Analyst II Vectren Corporation - Evansville, IN May 2007 to October 2008 Managed group of six long term contractors  ? Administered IIS and Apache web/application Servers  ? Supported business users reporting needs  ? Performed Quality Assurance for Enterprise Data Warehouse  ? Insure ETL processes are functioning and data is valid  ? Migrated SQL Servers from 2000 to 2005  ? Administer Windows 2003\Unix Servers for Business Intelligence and E-business  ? Administered Vmware Server, create virtual machines, managed virtual networking  ? Designed and Built systems to support business processes  ? Developed web applications in ASP and PHP  ? Administer Oracle 10g databases for Business Intelligence and E-business  ? Used SQL to create scripts, triggers, and procedures for data reporting systems  ? Setup Group policy object's, users with in Active Directory  ? Administered PKI and PGP  ? Administered Windows Security for multiple enterprise applications IT Project Coordinator/Level 2 Support, Information Systems Toyota Motor Manufacturing Indiana - Princeton, IN January 2006 to May 2007 Procured all hardware and software for enterprise projects  ? Installed and configured ERP software  ? Implemented technology upgrade to mission critical stamping system  ? Used Vmware Server to setup 50+ servers and virtual networking  ? Troubleshot and Imaged Windows 2000/XP PCs and Laptops  ? Administered Vmware Server, create virtual machines, managed virtual networking, managed, created iSCSI and SAN virtual infrastructure, used Vmotion  ? Used Active Directory to manage users, groups, workstations, printers, and servers, setup Group policy objects  ? Maintained EMC SAN  ? Installed and configured SQL servers  ? Configured Cisco routers and switches, troubleshot LAN/WAN connections  ? Performed Yearly Security Audit/Pen test of IT systems using Snort, Nessus, nmap  ? Performed remote installations and upgrades using terminal server and VNC  ? Maintained mission critical Windows 2000, 2003, and Linux servers  ? Managed Cisco Wireless Access Points and wireless LAN coverage Computer Technician/Junior Systems Administrator, Library Services University of Southern Indiana - Evansville, IN October 2003 to June 2006 Implemented technology system for campus and remote user access to card catalog  ? Implemented system for databases and e-book/journal remote access  ? Taught IT classes  ? Administered IIS and Apache Web Servers  ? Used Vmware Server to manage server infrastructure  ? Installed and maintained Windows Server 2003, Unix, and Linux Servers  ? Administered Windows Security including certificates, username/pw, share security, Active Directory  ? Setup Group policy object's, users, DC, forest, trees, authentication, login scripts with in Active Directory  ? Installed and configured Novell NetWare, Administered Netware 6.5 and Zenworks  ? Installed and troubleshot hardware and software for Dell PC's and laptops  ? Implemented and administered WSUS and SUS servers  Experience Continued  ? Used Symantec Ghost to rebuild lab and staff computers  ? Used Veritas Backup Exec to manage daily backups and restore data  ? Maintained Department website and built web applications Systems Analyst Hopkinsville Community College - Hopkinsville, KY May 1998 to May 2001 Maintained inventory database using SQL on MySQL server  ? Installed and maintained PeopleSoft ERP System  ? Created new process to manage student registration  ? Diagnosed and repaired LAN problems  ? Installed and configured routers and switches  ? Built computer systems, saving $50,000 in department funds  ? Maintained and upgraded Windows NT Servers  ? Maintained, upgraded, and repaired Windows 95 - 2000 workstations  ? Managed staff and student user names and passwords on Windows NT  ? Used Symantec Ghost to rebuild lab computers saving the department $60,000 in funding  ? Transformed a disorganized paper inventory into a smoothing-running online database saving the department thousands of hours and dollars Education Bachelors of Science in E-business Hopkinsville Community College - Hopkinsville, KY September 2018 Bachelors of Science in Computer Information Systems University of Southern Indiana - Evansville, IN Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Vmware, Xenapp, Asp, Security, Web services, Cissp, Exchange, Itil, Network security, Virtualization, Linux, Red hat, Unix, Comptia, Giac, Ids, Ips Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    ? ISC² CISSP  ? ITIL v.3  ? Citrix Netscaler and Xenapp  ? Microsoft Azure  ? Amazon Web Services (AWS)  ? Google Cloud Platform  ? Splunk Architecture and Administration  ? COMPTIA Network+ Certified Professional  ? COMPTIA Security+ Certified Professional  ? COMPTIA I-Net+ Certified Professional  ? Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator  ? SANS GIAC Security Essentials (GSEC)  ? Vmware Certified Professional-VCP4  ? Vmware Certified Professional-VCP5  ? VMware Certified Professional-VCP6-DCV  ? Vmware Sales Professional-VSP4  ? Vmware Technical Sales Professional-VTSP4  ? Vmware Infrastructure Virtualization Technical Sales  ? Vmware Desktop Virtualization Technical Sales  ? Vmware View 4  ? Vmware View 7  ? Cisco Network Academy  ? IT Project Management  ? Certified Computer Technical Support  ? Certified Information Technology Security Fundamentals  ? Programming in Visual Basic.Net, Python, ASP, Crystal Reports 9, and Java  ? Web site design in HTML, JavaScript, PHP, ASP, and XHTML  ? Advanced courses in MSSQL, SQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g Administration  ? Experienced with Windows 2000 - 2012, Active Directory design and installation and design and deployment of enterprise-wide Group Policies using Active Directory components.  ? Windows XP and 7 and 8, Windows Server 2000 - 2012 Management, Red Hat Linux, HP- Unix, Citrix, IBM, DELL, and HP server hardware  ? Microsoft Exchange Server 2003-2013, Microsoft Office 97- 2010, Network Security using IDS/IPS