Cyber Security and Risk Management Consultant Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> and Risk Management Consultant Cyber Security and Risk Management Consultant - Oxley (SOX), NIST Cyber Security Framework, PCI-DSS San Juan, PR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security and Risk Management Consultant Oxley (SOX), NIST Cyber Security Framework, PCI-DSS 2018 to Present Experienced Technology Risk & Controls Executive, with broad experience in the following areas: IT  Compliance & Risk Management, Governance Risk & Compliance (GRC), Program Management, Sarbanes  Oxley (SOX), NIST Cyber Security Framework, PCI-DSS, HIPAA/HITECH, Third Party Risk  Management, Business Continuity, Security Awareness, Vulnerability Management Program, among many  others. DIRECTOR OF RISK MANAGEMENT & CYBER SECURITY- DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY American Heart Association - Dallas, TX 2013 to 2018 Recruited by former Global CIO of Brink's, Incorporated colleague to drive strategy of Risk & Cyber Security  initiatives. Main responsibilities include to develop a roadmap to implement Risk Management and Cybersecurity  program, as well as to lead remediation across the Association and its affiliates. Significant contribution to the development and initiatives of the organization to ensure continuous growth in protection of assets.    Key Challenges: Significant Accomplishments:  High resistance culture to ? Bi-Annual executive presentations to the Audit Committee and AHA's Board of security and risk Directors reporting progress of Information Security Program, CyberSecurity  requirements. and Risk Management efforts.  ? Lead Compliance and Privacy projects, including PCI DSS Certification efforts, No Risk & Security team to hich obtained the first ever Pass Report of Compliance (ROC) from a Qualified  execute tactical tasks. Security Assessor (QSA).  ? Implemented the CyberSecurity Program by leading vulnerability remediation  Lack of internal expertise efforts which resulted in a reduction by 98% in only 8 months, an a to meet PCI Compliance  strong-cyber defense network proved by a penetration test.  Reporting Requirements.  ? Improved Third-party due diligence process, by including specific contract    language, and defining service-specific security requirements, including but not  No strategy to align  business and security limited to compliance requirements with the cloud security alliance framework.  objectives. ? Created and Lead the Association's Incident Response Process, Security  Awareness Program and Risk Acceptance Processes.  ? Grew Risk Management team FTEs by 150%. VP - BUSINESS INFORMATION SECURITY OFFICER (BISO) Citigroup - Global Information Security Services - Irving, TX 2012 to 2013 Provided support to all Information Security related activities for the Global IT Service Assurance organization, and Global Data Center Operations, Planning & Strategy.    Significant Accomplishments:  ? Recognized for influencing Senior Executive Leader to include Information Security as part of the regular  team activities/updates.  ? Lead User Awareness program for the Global IT Service Assurance Organization  ? Reviewed, approved and report on all Risk Acceptance documents, which included to be a liaison between Engineering, Infrastructure, and Risk & Control teams.  ? Effective and timely management of security incidents.  ? Completed a project to track and report effectively the progress of team goals.  ? Received recognition for work well done, and exceeding goals expectations. MANAGER, GLOBAL IT RISK & COMPLIANCE Brink's, Incorporated - Coppell, TX 2006 to 2012 Promoted from Global Business Analyst to Manager of Global IT Risk & Compliance. Lead a team of analysts  to provide global risk management services. Lead SOX and PCI compliance programs for North America, LATAM, EMEA and APAC regions, including over 30 countries world-wide.    Significant Accomplishments:  ? Reported status of progress of Global IT Risk & Compliance activities to Executive Business leaders, CIO, VPs, and Directors.  ? Designed and implemented the Global IT Risk Management Framework, Global Vulnerability Management  Program and Global Data Security Program (PCI - DSS).  ? Reported due diligence results to business leaders regarding CompuSAFE (electronic deposit box mostly  found at retailers) and ATM Operations.  ? Promoted in 2011 from Senior Business Analyst to Global Manager of IT Risk & Compliance.  ? 2007 - Brink's Award Recognition LEAD IT AUDITOR Popular, Incorporated - San Juan, PR 2004 to 2006 Promoted from IT Auditor Analyst to Lead Auditor within a year. Lead a team of Junior IT Auditors and improve  business processes and comply with Federal Reserve, BSA, FDIC, SEC, USA Patriot Act, Safe Harbor, Internal  Controls among many others.    Significant Accomplishments:  ? Recognized by Legal and Compliance team within the records retention and email archiving audit process for implementation project.  ? Applied technical engineering knowledge to IT Audits, resulting in significant improvements in audit  program. Example: Windows Server 2000 Audit review reported over 120 observations.  ? Created the first segregation of duties matrix for Trust System, which included millions of records and hundreds of user profiles.    OTHER TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE IT Technical Analyst Belcorp, Incorporated 2003 to 2004 Network Controls Operator Abbott Biotechnology Plant 2002 to 2003 MIS Intern Abbott Chemical Plant March 2002 to May 2002 Tour Guide Bacardi Corporation 2001 to 2001 General Manager Mr. Natural Stores 1999 to 2001 Disney Company March 1999 to May 1999 Education Master's Degree in Sciences in Computer Information Systems University of Phoenix Bachelor's Degree in Sciences in Computer Science University of Puerto Rico Vocational High School Skills Hospital, Governance, Risk Management, Compliance, SOX, SOX, Risk Management, Governance, Excel, Compliance, Hospital, Internal Audit, Compliance, Governance, Risk Management, Excel, Hospital, SOX, Internal Audit, Compliance, Risk Management, Governance, Hospital, SOX, Internal Audit, Excel Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 CRISC