Global Head of Cyber Security Transformation & Business Operations Global Head of Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Transformation &amp; Business Operations Global Head of Cyber Security Transformation & Business Operations De Forest, WI Work Experience Global Head of Cyber Security Transformation & Business Operations QBE Insurance Group Limited - Sun Prairie, WI January 2018 to June 2019 Sydney, NSW  Homed in Sun Prairie, WI * January 2018 - June 2019    Global Head of Cyber Security Transformation & Business Operations - Insurance  • Led the Global Cyber Security Transformation Program as mandated by the board to strengthen and mature QBE's security landscape.  • Core responsibilities included defining the delivery plan, mobilized the global transformation team, (UK, AU, US), and defining and managing multimillion-dollar investment budget.  • Continued to drive the development of the Cyber Security tower strategies to develop the delivery plans necessary to achieve the program's technical objectives, which included uplift of the Global Security Operations Center, transformation of Privileged Access Mgmt capabilities, and consolidation and uplift DLP functions under a global service offering. VP Global Infrastructure Services Program Management - Insurance - Sun Prairie, WI March 2015 to January 2018 • Leadership of the Global Workplace Services Strategic Portfolio, with programme oversight of delivery teams to execute global WPS IT initiatives including Office 365 services globally, Microsoft Azure platforms and other cloud service offerings.  • Drive the development of the Workplace strategy and develop the delivery constructs to ensure alignment to and achievement of that strategy across all regions.  • Leadership of the Global IT Procurement Portfolio, acting as primary point of contact between IT Procurement and Global IT for all licensing and services agreements.  • Global owner of Microsoft EA, including all perpetual, cloud service/subscription and service offerings for the enterprise. VP, Infrastructure Service and Portfolio Management NAO - Insurance QBE North America - Sun Prairie, WI July 2011 to March 2015 • Leadership of the Infrastructure portfolio/project delivery team to execute on North American infrastructure and strategic global IT initiatives of consolidation, optimization and system stabilization improvements. Approx. $34m portfolio responsibility.  • Lead the ITIL Operations team to build and implement process improvements for the QBE ITIL Practice of change, release, incident/problem, and configuration management disciplines.  • Leading the implementation of major process overhaul of IT Asset Management policy, procedures and practices to support IT Software license compliance and IT physical asset tracking. Responsible for tracking/maintaining compliancy on ~$140m estate.    Program Manager - Insurance  • Responsible for development and implementation of datacenter disaster recovery program.  • Led team to integrate policy admin systems from 5 companies into a single platform. Program included upgrade of a highly configurable customized policy admin system to support multi-variant policies in North America. Sr. Project / Program Manager - Multinational Pharmaceutical Research Covance Labs, Inc - Madison, WI March 2008 to July 2011 • M&A program management - Developed strategy & plan to integrate / migrate two acquired labs/business units into Covance domain. Includes network infrastructure separation, application asset and data transfer for over 440 discrete lab applications, domain extension & integration and physical asset transfer.  • IT Program Management responsibilities to design, develop and implement an HA/DR global lab information system used in 5 countries, via two datacenters.  • Delivered a multi-year Infrastructure Refresh Program consisting of 6 domestic & international sites involving validated application remediation on new platform, procurement/acquisition of HW/SW and services to support the efforts. Sr. IT Strategic Sourcing Manager -Telecommunications Sprint Nextel - Overland Park, KS January 2006 to March 2008 • Drove 4G network sourcing process to select top 3 vendors to design and deploy next generation telecommunications network infrastructure all regions in US.  • Negotiated MSA and related statements of work to support the development and build out of the 4G network among three selected vendors in the Midwest & Eastern Seaboard. Independent Consultant / Trainer Centriq Foss - Overland Park, KS April 2004 to January 2006 Independent Consultant, Technical Instructor - IT  • Provided technical consulting, delivery and instruction of Microsoft Technologies, Server 2000/2003, Network Infrastructure, Exchange 2003, Project Management, and other Custom courses. (MCP)  • Provided project management/consulting to outside clients on an independent basis. Category/Sourcing Manager - Service Applebee's International, Inc January 2002 to April 2004 • Managed $110 million contract portfolio.  • Defined, coordinated and managed the execution of alternate source contracts, including the strategic distribution and product/freight optimization using cross-functional resources, consistently met savings and cost avoidance goals managing the frozen/dry grocery/desserts category. Principal Consultant - Delivery Management - IT & Management Consulting Cap Gemini Ernst & Young - Overland Park, KS May 2000 to January 2002 • Program Manager of multimillion-dollar supply chain management process reengineering project.  • Managed project budget and financials, provided project management, risk management, process design and reengineering.  • Served as Project Manager in PMO for multimillion-dollar enterprise finance and SCM system and call center process reengineering project, responsibilities included documentation management, process definition and build/release management using RUP/PER. Director of Systems Integration, Infrastructure, Development and Support Services - IT Service IKON Technology Services - Overland Park, KS March 1995 to May 2000 Overland Park, KS  March 1995 - May 2000  Director of Systems Integration, Infrastructure, Development and Support Services - IT Service  • Manage development and deployment activities of 35 direct reports and five departmental P & L's for teams consisting of Network Integration & Infrastructure Engineers, Project Managers, Sourcing Specialists, Support/Maintenance and Programming Personnel in Kansas City, Wichita and Topeka locations. Programmer/ Analyst Sprint Long Distance - Kansas City, MO September 1994 to March 1995 - Telecommunications  • Certified Lotus/Domino Development lead, consulting in messaging and application development group - facilitated requirements definitions and developed workflow applications to support requirements. Systems Administrator - IT & Management Consulting Andersen Consulting - Kansas City, MO 1992 to 1994 Technical integration, migration and support of MS Exchange, Novell GroupWise and Lotus Domino Messaging environments. Gathered functional and technical requirements, modeled future state solutions based on requirements. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems DeVry Institute of Technology