Shopyourway member service data security manager/captain Shopyourway member service data <span class="hl">security</span> manager/captain Shopyourway member service data security manager/captain - Sears Holdings Bronx, NY Work Experience Shopyourway member service data security manager/captain Sears Holdings April 2018 to Present Corporations/Shopyourway  Role/Duty: leading and managing the member service team.  -Signing up of members, collating data of members and adding them in to MSA app  -checking data safety following RMF process of making sure all data confidentiality  Integrity and availability (CIA) is observed  -inputting of members to the PS program and updating clientele app on client  Information.  - System categorization, selection and implementation of controls through the RMF  Process in terms of Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability (CIA).  - Conducting Risk Assessment to identify vulnerabilities, threats and associated  Impacts in the system for appropriate control selection and implementation by Employing system/Network scans and other vulnerability tools and generating  Reports.  -troubleshooting IT, smart phones and gadgets to be able to install and implement  Program rollout for members,  -lead member of the Business to business arrangements and coordination team for Events to educate and update member information  -able to bring in incremental sales by 80% for the store on weekly bases with Member signups and clientele services to members when they visit the store.  - Conducting Risk Assessment to identify vulnerabilities, threats and associated impacts in the system for appropriate control selection and implementation by employing system/Network scans and other vulnerability tools and generating reports. On member information Cyber security analyst Cyber Vision Technologies, LLC June 2012 to 2015 Role/Duty: - In a team of Information Security Experts to secure Systems for companies/Organizations as Third Party Assessor (3PAO)/ External Auditor.  - System categorization, selection and implementation of controls through the RMF process in terms of Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability (CIA).  - Conducting Risk Assessment to identify vulnerabilities, threats and associated impacts in the system for appropriate control selection and implementation by employing system/Network scans and other vulnerability tools and generating reports.  - Embarks on conducting Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA) and Privacy Impact Analysis (PIA)  - Thoroughly assess Security controls to verify that all implemented Management, Operational, Privacy and Technical controls are sufficient. Also, detailed Security Assessment Reports (SAR) and Plan of Action and Milestone (POAM) are developed.  - Through RAR development, suitable mitigation solutions are suggested within A specific time frame to address all known vulnerabilities and threats in the  System to secure information.  -Creates a platform to have discussions among data sharing partners to Maximize system security.  - Creates System Security Plan (SSP) to highlight the system security posture in terms of security requirements and control in use and planned by the Information System Owner for compliance.  - Identification of vulnerabilities, threats and risks in the system by Conducting IT risk assessment  - Securing System's Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability by auditing system security Installations and providing recommendations for system owners by developing Contingency Plan.  employing system/Network scans and other vulnerability tools and generating  reports. On member in customer information IT systems /Business Development manager INTERPAYAFRICA SYSTEMS 2009 to 2015 Ability to competently work with Microsoft office applications and windows OS-10    ? Responsible for the strategic planning and business development of company e-commerce products and platforms  ? providing payment solutions for companies and institutions to customers  ? Training and facilitating customers to be able Generate electronic billing and payment collection using payment platform and integrating with them through company API.  ? providing marketing solutions and reaching out to customers that will need the products lines of the company  ? Training and singing up of institutions and universities to use the company products.  ? Team planning and working with development team to provide absolute customer specification and satisfaction on company products line and customer information security.  ? Set target for marketing team to achieve to increase revenue for the company and quality satisfaction for customer to stay with the company with emphasis on compliance to policies on data security.  ? Was able to signup 10 institutions worldwide in the West African diaspora and integrate their data into the company product line within the first quarter of the fiscal year which generated revenue for the company over $4.6 million in annual revenue. Transactional Processing Production manager ACS-BPS (GHANA)/ USA LIMITED 2000 to 2009 Administrative/project team manager to make sure productivity and work is effective  • Data processing using computer to produce speed and accuracy for good  Quality results. Using UBIE software and web based Portals to monitor  Workflow from offshore teams Via Satellite network connectivity.  • A competent team leader in production work and personnel management  • Was able to work on quality control for the department which yielded in Increasing the quality performance of department to 99.50% to meet site  Target for two (2) quarters in fiscal year.  • Able to communicate effectively with offshore teams and SBU (Strategic  Business Unit) managers to ensure achievement of departmental goals  Such as TAT (Turnaround Time) and quality standards on work. This  Resulted in getting an offshore account to be brought to the country. Education Bachelor of Science Monroe College - Bronx, NY August 2017 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Methodist University College 2012 Skills AUDIT, RISK ASSESSMENT (5 years), CIA, COLLECTION, RISK MANAGEMENT, AUDITING, COBIT, DISASTER RECOVERY, HIPAA (5 years), INFORMATION SECURITY (5 years), ISO, NIST (5 years), SECURITY (5 years), WEB BASED, CYBER SECURITY (5 years), DATA COLLECTION (5 years), FISMA (4 years), CISCO (3 years), INCIDENT RESPONSE, NETWORK SECURITY (4 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Call Center (5 years), Customer Care, CSR Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/glenn-dodoo-486041142 Certifications/Licenses CCNA February 2019 CompTIA A+ FISMA CERTIFICATION IN RMF TRAINING Network+ Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  ? Well versed in all the RMF processes including its compliance, by the use of NIST Publications and standards, as well as other frameworks like Fed RAMP and cloud services.  ? Ability to competently work with Microsoft office applications and windows OS-10  ? Knowledge in FISMA framework and information's CIA including NIST 800-53 based information system's compliance standard coupled with external auditing  ? Experienced in using Risk Management Framework (RMF) to response to incidence, regulate and remediate actions in accordance with FIPS 199. Example of the RMF areas include FISMA and HIPAA.  ? Ability to secure a system's CIA by classification and categorization through the RMF procedure  ? Regarding Information Technology ( IT), my areas of expertise include Cyber Security, Network Security, Information Assurance, (IA), Risk Management, System Monitoring, Regulatory Compliance, Physical and Environmental Security, Incident Response and Disaster Recovery.  ? Over four (6) years of IT skills and much experienced in FISMA compliance, developing Security policies, procedures and guidelines.  ? Proficient regarding analysis and organizational skills, knowledgeable in various applications, database, operating systems and network devices.  ? Cisco network and packet tracing skills  ? skilled in using UBIE web based software to track and transfer information through FTP mediums to off shore site through satellite transmission  ? skilled in Transactional processing ( data Entry)    ? Effectively hardworking and responsible, coupled with exhibited knowledge in information security artifacts.  ? Mastery in verbal and writing communication  ? Ability to learn and adapt to diverse situations, multi-tasked and independently work with minimum or no supervision.  ? Skilled in writing reports for risk assessment recommendation documents.  ? Skilled in corporate management and team leadership  ? skilled in data collection and MSA and data entry processing (transactional processing)    DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES  Aspiring to exhibit my experience and knowledge in a growth oriented setting in areas such as Risk Assessment, System Audit Engineering, System Security Monitoring, FISMA, , Testing of Information Technology Controls and Developing Security policies, procedures and Guidelines as Information Security Engineer/Information System Auditor. And General management skills in salesforce    SECURITY STANDARDS AND FRAMEWORKS  HITECH/HIPAA, Security Assessment & Authorization (SA&A), NIST 800-53, NIST 800-60 rev I Vol II, , FISMA, FISCAM, , framework and Cloud services, knowledgeable in CISCO packet tracing and networks. CISCO, Comp.hardware and Infrastrure, system support.    My frameworks specialties are Control objectives, Rules of Engagement, Administering Procedures & Reporting, Continuous Monitoring and other governance frameworks such as COBIT, ISO, and NIST.