Acquisition Program Manager Acquisition Program Manager Acquisition Program Manager - Department of Defense-US Air Force, Hanscom AFB North Chelmsford, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Acquisition Program Manager Department of Defense-US Air Force, Hanscom AFB September 2016 to Present Provide acquisition management support services and ensure effective and efficient delivery of acquisition services for the Program Office  ? Manages acquisition requirements, program strategies, statement of work, and acquisition plan development for the Program Office    26 Network Operations Squadron (June 2005-September 2016) IT Network Engineer / Program Management Liaison Abacus Technology August 2015 to Present Manages the schedule of 18 programs across the Air Force Intranet Control Weapon System (WS) - a $1B WS  ? Liaison between the PMO (Program Management Office) and operational user (26 Network Operations Squadron) - ensuring communication on program status is relayed to the operational community  ? Supports Deployment and sustainment of network boundary equipment and provides systems engineering support for the AFNet Gateways program office  ? Technical review/creation and technical and operational support and review of contractor and vendor documentation  ? Develops and implements technical aspects of a project/program through designated phases of the acquisition cycle  ? Plans, organizes, and coordinates activities of 18+ programs at 26 NOS including engineering, program control, configuration/data management, test, and logistics.  ? Reviews and directs the progress of on-site contractors in meeting program objectives.  ? Assessing and managing the schedule and technical performance progress of assigned projects or programs through the required phases of the acquisition cycle  ? Planning, organizing, and coordinating activities related to engineering, testing  ? Supported $36M router modernization--redesigned antiquated AFNet router configuration--cyber ops enabler at 200+ AD/ANG bases  ? Supported SDP test events/dplyd at 16 FSE bases--secured MAJCOM apprvl for Full Rate fldg--mitigated h/w failures 12%  ? Coordinated with 26th NOS on SDP fielding plan--slashed CAB/ASI requests from 90 to 1-- reduced ASI AFNet outage request time by 9 days  ? Assisted SPO with 28 Phase 1 site surveys--streamlined install ~5 days--cape ensures 7M NIPR/SIPR emails routed  ? Coordinated the JRSS Gap Filler-MEG efforts between 26th NOS and PMO on installation of equipment into the IMS and then migrating the email security function from the GWs to the two APC sites Front Desk Associate Marriott Legends - Prattville, AL June 2014 to August 2016 part-time)  ? Providing customer service to guests by checking them in and out of the hotel. Answering questions and making sure their stay is enjoyable. Boundary Support Specialist II HARRIS Corp February 2012 to August 2015 Systems Engineer General Dynamics March 2008 to February 2012 Information Security Analyst General Dynamics June 2005 to March 2008 Create and manage firewall rules in CSM (Cisco Security manager) and in Palo Altos.  ? Monitor and analyze network traffic on Air Force networks for 16 gateways covering 98 bases daily  ? Created, managed and maintained packet filtering firewalls located on the boundary Cisco boundary routers for Air Force SIPR.  ? Performance data is gathered on all SDPs as well as over 250 WAN circuits. Daily reports are provided to ensure optimized performance of all SDPs and circuits.  ? Monitor and analyze traffic in order to provide perimeter protection and create Access-List (ACL)  ? Assist in troubleshooting connectivity, firewall support and overall security issues  ? Performed network management and technical support services on classified and unclassified networks comprised of over 250 service delivery point (SDP) routers and over 1400 routers, switches and firewalls.  ? Network management also included Information Assurance/Information Protection measures for the WAN SDPs and the NOD Local area network (LAN) assets  ? Secondary functions included network security implementation, domain name service administration and performance metric gathering.  ? Logged, tracked and resolved problems in the Remedy Trouble Management System.  ? Analyze data and make recommendations based on remedy tickets.  ? Evaluated, reported customer problems and provided problem reports and analysis.  ? Create analysis reports when circuits are down for military personnel used for monthly and weekly briefings.  ? Supervised three people to ensure timely submission and accuracy of ticket monitoring and reporting.  ? AFNOC Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) support desk, including all aspects of network management, troubleshooting, reporting, and network security  ? Provided trend analysis, utilization reporting, configuration management of Channel Service Unit/Data Service Unit equipment, and cryptographic equipment, maintaining and coordinating password changes, responding to security violation attempts, and coordination with other agencies.  ? Provided and recommended procedures to optimize the monitoring and tracking of ports and protocols.  ? Maintain accuracy of CCSD, SDP and base count report and balance with e-Health reports.  ? Create analysis reports for the Air Force website Billing Coordinator American Mobile Imaging - Montgomery, AL March 2004 to June 2005 Billing Coordinator Auxi Healthcare Services - Temple, TX March 2003 to December 2003 Submit medical claims to insurance companies and other payers for payments, Accounts receivable, accounts receivable  ? Post payments to patient accounts, examined EOB's  ? Submits reports for weekly and monthly reporting Insurance Analyst-Provider Relations Representative EDS - Montgomery, AL June 2001 to March 2003 Liaison between the State Medicaid agency and Medical Providers  ? Educating the medical provider community throughout the state of Alabama and surrounding states on all aspects of Medicaid billing via on-site visits, in-services and in-house training sessions  ? Produce written reports outlining the details of provider contacts  ? Provide installation, training and technical support of EDS' Provider Electronic Solutions software, which enables the provider to electronically submit Medicaid claims  ? Identify and research problem claims and system issues  ? Participate in various Association meetings and conferences in a proactive effort to educate and assist providers and build public relations with the State Medicaid Agency  ? Engage in constant training and education through EDS University courses and other training opportunities  ? Educate medical staff about HIPAA compliance policies and maintaining confidentiality. Assistant Manager-Front Desk Manager Hampton Inn - Montgomery, AL February 1993 to May 1996 Help to manage a 105 room hotel at 100% occupancy 6-7 days per week  ? Supervised a staff of 15 people to include front desk staff, breakfast bar staff, maintenance staff, and room attendant supervisor  ? Provided new-hire training  ? Tabulated payroll, scheduling  ? Ordered and picked up breakfast items for breakfast bar  ? Spot checked rooms, along with General Manager to uphold the 100% Satisfaction Guaranteed motto Education Bachelor's in Business Management Faulkner University at Montgomery - Montgomery, AL April 2016 certification in DOD Vulnerability Management System Auburn University at Montgomery - Montgomery, AL 1998 to 2000 Medical Providers Alabama State Medicaid Certifications/Licenses TS/SCI clearance