Sr Cyber Security Engineer (CDM Expert) Sr Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer (CDM Expert) Sr. Cyber Security Analyst / Sr. Technology Fort Washington, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Cyber Security Engineer (CDM Expert) Zachary Piper Solutions - Fairfax, VA June 2019 to Present • Supporting CDM DEFEND Group C, provide technical input, expertise, and recommendations, ensure compliance with technical requirements  • Assist with technical details at Agency technical meetings and Working Groups with the CDM DEFEND integrator.  • Review the architecture design and ensure all documents are strategically aligned with Agency/CDM objectives.  • Troubleshoot and/or provide network recommendations to ensure Agency/CDM requirements are met.  • Provide detailed review and recommendations of deliverables, communicate key updates and features provided in each submissions release  • Install and configure Sailpoint and CA PAM. Configure connectors from Sailpoint to other source applications.  • Participate in integrator agency meetings, provide recommendation on matters of understanding technical network requirements of the Task Order Sr. Cyber Security Analyst / Sr. Technology Fannie Mae - Reston, VA February 2011 to June 2019 PROJECT - Secure Configuration Baselines - Build Secure Configuration Baseline based on Center for Internet Security (CIS), NIST, industry best practices, and vendor documentations for a wide range of platforms including Windows server 2012 R2, Windows server 2016, Domain Controller, Windows 10 Enterprise, Unix/Linux servers (RedHat, SUSE, SLES), Mac OS, Containers (Docker, Kubernetes), AWS Linux, AWS AWS Foundation, AWS Web Architecture, VMWare ESXi based private cloud, Middleware (Tomcat server) and Oracle Database;  Used Tripwire and Nessus for scanning and Tableau to analyze data from Illumio logs;  Worked in a cloud compliance project and used different tools such as DivvyCloud and Amazon inspector    PROJECT - App Sec and Governance - Used Fortify to scan application code and identify vulnerabilities; Prepared monthly application security vulnerability report per portfolio and work with application/platform teams towards its resolution    PROJECT - XML Gateway -  ? Develop design/architecture for XML Gateway infrastructure; configured, documented and maintained XML Gateway servers  ? Developed two reference web applications to test the integration of the security appliance; Developed web service standard  ? Key player from project initiation to closure;  ? SSL certificate management  ? Used tcpdump, wireshark and other related tools to troubleshoot issues; Used syslog and arcsight for logging and monitoring purposes; Developed scripts that help monitor XML Gateway appliances  ? Test XML Gateway servers for SQL injection, Code injection, using virus, and others related risks; Integrated XML Gateway with Blue Coat AV server  ? Created Applications integration guide, operations guide and knowledge articles; Trained team members  ? Created the TCP (Technology Contingency Plan) for XML Gateway    PROJECT - SWIFT  ? Installed, configured, applied patch and upgrade SWIFT enterprise platform  ? Configured and managed Hardware Security Module (HSM) for SWIFT infrastructure  ? Manage SSL certs, cypher suits and related activities  ? Worked in integrating SWIFT with CyberArk  ? Participated in regular security related reviews and exercises    PROJECT - API Gateway (Axway)  ? Installe, configure, patch, upgrade API Gateway on AWS cloud environment  ? Setup monitors  ? Create knowledge articles for operations support    PROJECT - B2B Gateway  B2B Gateway is an enterprise platform for integrating internal applications with external clients and/or partners. The services using TIBCO technology and java components  ? Participated during the development phase of B2B Gateway  ? Created the TCP (Technology Contingency Plan) for B2B Gateway and its components  ? Setup enterprise monitors    PROJECT - Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  ? Provided architecture support for application teams in areas of security (such as container based authentication), integration, monitoring and alerting.  ? Supported TIBCO infrastructure including TIBCO EMS, Business Works and TIBCO Admin  ? Setup Queues and Topics to integrate applications  ? Performed code reviews for different applications including Java and BW based applications Senior IT and System Auditor ETHIOPIAN AIRLINES - Addis Ababa, ET 2003 to 2008 including software development positions  ? Played key role in forming IT audit and Information Security units and positions  ? Worked in evaluation and implementation of industry best practices and standards including ISO, ITIL and COBIT  ? Worked in developing applications using Visual Basic, C++ and Java Computer Science Instructor MicroLink Information Technology College - Addis Ababa, ET 2001 to 2003 Teaching Computer Science College (programming, algorithm, security) Computer Science and Mathematics Instructor Royal College - Addis Ababa, ET 2000 to 2001 Teaching Computer Science, Mathematics and Statistics    Languages, Scripts, Web Technologies and Frameworks: Java, Angular JS, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, JSF, Java Script, Web Services, WS Security, SAML, Shell Script, Ansible, jil script, Python  Servers, OS and Enterprise Platforms: Unix/Linux, Windows, Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic, TIBCO Business Works, XML Gateway, API Gateway, TIBCO, SWIFT, Synchrony, AD, LDAP, Domain Controller, Splunk, ELK, ServiceNow, SailPoint, McAfee ePO Policy Auditor and Application Control, Tripwire IP360 VNE, Tenable Security Center, Ping (Identity)  Tools: Nessus, Tripwire, HP Fortify, Venafi, CyberArc, SailPoint, CA PAM, Splunk, Archer, Radiant, Wireshark, tcpdump, nmap, Metasploit, SoapUI, Eclipse, Tableau and others    Skill: Education Master of Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA 2012 Bachelors of Science in Statistics and Computer Science in Statistics and Computer Science Addis Ababa University - Addis Ababa, ET 2000 Skills Cissp, Siem, Information Security, Nist, Cyber Security, SailPoint, PAM, Tenable, TripWire, Archer, XML Gateway, AWS, UNIX Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) ITIL v3 Oracle Certified Java Programmer Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate CompTIA Network+ MCTS