Senior Director/Director Assistant Senior Director/Director Assistant Senior Director/Director Assistant San Francisco Bay Area, CA Senior Administrative Assistant with extensive experience in daily office operations including calendar management and meeting preparations, making travel arrangements, expense reporting, budgeting, invoice processing, HR-related activities and payroll reporting. Expert working knowledge of Microsoft Suite (Word, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint), SAP, and Concur. Expert in constantly prioritizing high volume requests with tight deadlines while sustaining high quality of end product. Effective team player with excellent written and verbal skills, highly adaptable to new culture. Creative and innovative, analytical, intuitive, focused on process improvement. Detail oriented, professional, with sound judgment in dealing with confidential information. Strict work ethics and interface professionally with all levels across the organization. Speak/write English and Tagalog fluently.    • Microsoft Suite (Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Outlook) • HR processes  • SAP and Concur • Time Reporting and Tracking  • CPR/AED Certified • Budget Forecasting and Tracking  • Data Analysis  • Expense Reporting    • Project Management Assisting  • Verbal and written skills Work Experience Senior Director/Director Assistant PG&E - San Francisco, CA 2009 to 2017 Key support for Senior Director of Strategic Analysis and two Directors for Digital Strategy and Customer Insights during this period, along with their respective teams for a total of 30 team members at some points.  • Helped edit content for pge.com during the complete redesign project with very tight deadline.  • Promptly reported time in SAP for 22-30 Digital Strategy and Customer Insights employees, resolved issues as they came in a timely manner, with zero percent error.  • Created shopping carts in SAP and processed invoices. Created a process shared with vendors so that invoices were received on time.  • Streamlined ordering process for PCs, furniture including ergonomics and supplies needed by two teams of 30.  • Accurately and consistently reconciled Contractors' timesheet hours (averaging 10 Contractors) with respective invoices and posting up to 15 cross charges per worker per month in SAP.  • Onboarded new employees and contractors which included office orientation, ordering of company ID, computer equipment, space location, desk phone and other office needs.  • Made travel arrangements and prepared expense reports monthly in Concur for two Directors and six team members.  • Addressed an average of 100 emails per day, 65 percent of which required action, research or issue resolution, and replied to each requestor the same day.  • Monitored annual mandatory and safety training for 30 employees, which ensured 100% compliance before the end of each year, scheduling group leader-led sessions. Data Security Manager/Systems Analyst- IT Testing for Billing Services SBC Services Inc. / AT&T Services Inc - San Ramon, CA 1997 to 2008 Provided complex data/mainframe access quickly for 1700+ end users in the Billing Services Department, resetting passwords, using web-based tools. Created a fully-managed process documentation for Data Security Administrators in Customer Care and Billing Retail Solutions Department for the 13 states where AT&T Services had Billing offices to ensure that our company was in full compliance of Sarbanes Oxley Auditors' mandates. Mentored Systems Analysts and supervisors on processes to ensure smooth operations everyday.  • Responded to Sarbanes Oxley Auditors' request to delete one million lines of dataset access unused for more than a year from the database which was done manually using a slow computer programming tool. In order to meet the tight deadline, contacted the SOX Auditors to extend the deadline and requested six Directors to each assign a dedicated team member to help out. The cleanup project was reviewed and completed accurately one day before the deadline.  • Tracked quality of jobs running during testing releases, making sure that abends were kept to a minimum so that billing for new products could be put in place sooner.  • Provided Emergency Fix approvals for dataset accesses and migrated files from one mainframe library to another, making changes in existing JCLs to perform the task at hand.  • Managed assets for more than 300 employees, which involved leasing equipment and inventory control, using web-based inventory database.  • Created and maintained Emergency Preparedness Process documents and was the primary contact for more than 200 employees in case of disaster. Education Bachelor of Science in Education in Elementary Education Northern Luzon Teachers College Skills Scheduling, Data Entry, Payroll, Microsoft Office, Human Resources