IT Security Manager / Test Control Center Manager <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Manager / Test Control Center Manager IT Security - Risk Management - Security Management - Network Engineering Madisonville, LA Accomplished IT professional with demonstrated success implementing strategic IT initiatives that improve business functionality with positive results. I possess expertise in a diverse range of technologies within multiple industry settings. Strong information security background with knowledge of DISA, NIST, DIACAP, HIPAA, and FISMA data security compliance standards. Industrial Controls environment. Strong networking background with Cisco and HP routers and switches. Expert Systems/Database Administrator with demonstrated success designing and implementing database solutions. Experienced in engineering, administration, and support of information systems. Proven ability to lead and motivate projects and teams to ensure success. Skillful in diagnosing complex problems and consistently delivering effective solutions. Possess first-rate communication skills to lead and work in concert with a diverse group of professionals.    ? Network & System Security, Project Management, Risk Management, Regulatory Compliance, Cloud Technology, Change Management, Vulnerability Assessments, Client/Server Technology, Team Building, Product Development, Data Integrity, Quality Assurance Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Manager / Test Control Center Manager Syncom Space Services - Stennis Space Center, MS January 2015 to Present Security Manager / ISSO  Manage all information security components for the NASA Test Operation Contract (TOC) and SACOM Contract. Identify and assess IT security risks on new and existing infrastructure. Provides information assurance support for the development and implementation of security architectures to meet new and evolving security requirements. Investigate and recommend appropriate corrective actions for IT security incidents. Develop and implement security standards, policies, procedures and guidelines for multiple platforms and diverse systems environments. Perform vulnerability assessments and security audits. Prepare documentation of NASA related security plans and procedures. Assist NASA in its compliance with relevant security standards, including NIST and FISMA. Investigate security needs, and recommend, plan, implement, test, and monitor information security improvements. Plan, execute, and document annual Contingency Plan training/test/exercise.    TOC/SACOM Network Engineer  As the TOC Network Engineer role, my primary responsibility is to ensure the availability of the A-Complex network infrastructure. This includes the network devices for NDAS, Industrial Controls Systems, and Camera Systems throughout the A-Complex buildings. The major duties and responsibilities of my role as the Network Engineer are:  • Configure, test, and maintain network equipment.  • Identify, diagnose, and resolve network problems.  • Create and maintain comprehensive documentation for each network devices that includes the latest configuration backups.  • Monitor throughput to ensure there are no latency issues.    TCC/NDAS Manager  Manage A-Complex Test Operations for data acquisitions and test-controls for the TOC Contract. Provide direction and support to all of the TOC/SACOM technicians and engineers in the A-Complex to resolve issues with NDAS/SDAS/Camera/High Speed/Industrial Controls systems. Manage multiple network operations, including configure, test, and maintain test-control networks and identify, diagnose, and resolve network problems. Resolve major issues as we approach each test.  Lead a team of software engineers through the full software life cycle: design, implementation, testing, production, & maintenance for the suite of NDAS (NASA Data Acquisition System) applications. Prepare, organize, and maintain NASA requirements by documenting contract performance, and overseeing compliance for NDAS. Provide information assurance support for the development and implementation of security architectures to meet new and evolving security requirements. ISSO / Security Manager / Test Control Center Manager Lockheed Martin - Stennis Space Center, MS April 2011 to January 2015 Same responsibilities for both companies- Contract Renewal with different company (Lockheed Martin and Syncom Space Services)    Security Manager / ISSO  Manage all information security components for the NASA Test Operation Contract (TOC) and SACOM Contract. Identify and assess IT security risks on new and existing infrastructure. Provides information assurance support for the development and implementation of security architectures to meet new and evolving security requirements. Investigate and recommend appropriate corrective actions for IT security incidents. Develop and implement security standards, policies, procedures and guidelines for multiple platforms and diverse systems environments. Perform vulnerability assessments and security audits. Prepare documentation of NASA related security plans and procedures. Provide requirements for NASA in its compliance with relevant security standards, including NIST and FISMA standards. Investigate security needs, and recommend, plan, implement, test, and monitor information security improvements. Plan, execute, and document annual Contingency Plan training/test/exercise.    TOC/SACOM Network Engineer  As the TOC Network Engineer role, my primary responsibility is to ensure the availability of the A-Complex network infrastructure. This includes the network devices for Data Acquisition Systems, Industrial Controls Systems, and Camera Systems throughout the NASA Test Complex facilities. The major duties and responsibilities include:  • Configure, test, and maintain network equipment.  • Identify, diagnose, and resolve network problems.  • Create and maintain comprehensive documentation for each network devices that includes the latest configuration backups.  • Monitor throughput to ensure there are no latency issues.    TCC Manager  Manage A-Complex Test Operations for data acquisitions and test-controls for the TOC/SACOM Contract. Provide direction and support to all of the TOC/SACOM technicians and engineers in the A-Complex to resolve issues with NDAS/SDAS/Camera/High Speed/Industrial Controls systems. Manage multiple network operations, including configure, test, and maintain test-control networks and identify, diagnose, and resolve network problems. Resolve major issues as we approach each rocket engine test.    Lead a team of software engineers through the full software life cycle: design, implementation, testing, production, & maintenance for the suite of NDAS (NASA Data Acquisition System) applications. Prepare, organize, and maintain NASA requirements by documenting contract performance, and overseeing compliance for NDAS. Provide information assurance support for the development and implementation of security architectures to meet new and evolving security requirements. Project Manager / System Architect- Analyst Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne - Stennis Space Center, MS 2008 to 2011 Develop and implement security standards, procedures and guidelines for multiple platforms and diverse systems environments. Perform vulnerability assessments and security audits. Prepare documentation of NASA related security plans and procedures. Managed several .Net Development projects that involved the design, modeling, prototyping, coding, testing, and documentation in full-life cycle for each product. Analyze, track, document, and resolve complex software and hardware matters pertaining to critical facility and rocket engine testing. Work with customers and users to analyze current business processes and procedures to help identify gaps and areas for process improvement. Identify options for potential solutions and assessing them for both technical and business suitability. IT Technical Support Manager Summit County Children Services - Akron, OH 2003 to 2008 Establish and maintain hardware and software standards for desktop and laptop computers, network servers, database servers, network switches and routers, web servers and other infrastructure components. Development of agency-wide security policies and procedures regarding information technology, including Internet access and usage, appropriate security provisions, back-up and recovery practices, disaster recovery and remote access techniques. Monitor and change policies and procedures as the environment evolves. Supervise, train, monitor, and evaluate IT staff as well as train end users on various IT functions. Manage multiple projects that improve performance and business functionality. Manage the development, delivery and enforcement of security standards, best practices, and solutions to ensure information security across the Agency. Implement Application Development methodology that includes requirements definition, functional and technical design, coding, testing, implementation, training and documentation. Manage production turnovers by conducting performance tests, and reviewing SQL coding standards and methods.    ? Instituted new network infrastructure that improved systems efficiency and dependability. (Upgraded Cisco core and switches for capability of supporting POE)  ? Implemented a new VoIP phone system.  ? Implemented a VPN solution, upgraded the internet infrastructure with a fiber backbone.  ? Successfully completed two Microsoft Office upgrades to over 500 systems. (MS Office 2003 and MS Office 2007)  ? Upgraded all network servers from Windows 2000 to Windows 2003. (Includes upgrading Exchange 2000 to Exchange 2003)  ? Implement new security infrastructure that include IDS and firewall/spam/web protection.  ? Conducted Security Audits to demonstrate system compliance.  ? Implemented SMS technology to deploy all software packages and security updates.  ? Implemented wireless network throughout the Agency campus.  ? Implemented a complete disaster Recovery plan. (Includes a secure hot site in the event of an emergency)  ? Redesigned and implemented an Agency Website and Web Portal. Network Systems Administrator Boeing - Stennis Space Center, MS 1999 to 2003 Responsible for the implementation and management of the Windows 2000 Active Directory scripting for system implementation; Developed and implemented scripts to automate, monitor, and manage the SQL database environment and web functions; Developed and implemented backup schemes using Veritas Backup Exec.; Administer and support Windows Servers, Desktops, and printers; Southeast region focal for Microsoft SQL server and Windows 2000 Active Directory; Responsible for support, repair, installation, upgrades, maintenance, and training on all hardware and software applications for network end users; Accountable for administering and assuring continuous availability of all local and remote servers; Worked collaboratively with management and software developers in designing and implementing complex software applications using web and database solutions for use on various programs. Computer/Network Technician Lockheed Martin - Stennis Space Center, MS 1997 to 1999 Responsible for the installation and maintenance of desktop computers and peripherals in support of approximately 1500 users at Stennis Space Center. Provided support for both hardware and software repairs, upgrades, installations, and configurations on all network and stand alone systems. Provided support for Microsoft and Novell networks for several contractors. Responsible for server maintenance and backups. Education Masters of Science in Information Assurance and Security in Information Assurance and Security Sam Houston State University - Huntsville, TX Present Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ September 2003 Skills Cisco (5 years), Exchange (5 years), firewall (5 years), Security (10+ years), SQL (9 years), Active Directory, Disaster Recovery, Network Administration, Vmware, VoIP Certifications/Licenses CISSP 2013 to Present CEH 2012 to Present CCNP Route & Switch CCNA CyberOps Additional Information Operating Systems Windows Server 2000 - 2016, RedHat/Ubuntu/Kali Linux, Windows 7 - 10, Windows XP, Windows Vista, MS-DOS  Hardware  Routers - Switches (Cisco, HP, Cabletron), Cisco Firewall/ASA Appliances, Cisco VPN Concentrator, Cisco IDS/IPS, Adtran CSU-DSU's, Tape Libraries, Equalogic SAN (iSCSI), Storage Arrays, Servers, Destops/Laptops    Software  Microsoft Office 2xxx/365, MS Project, MS Visio, AWS, Adobe Creative Suite, Crystal Reports, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, MS Exchange, Visual Studio, VMWare, Veritas/Symantec Backup Exec, Microsoft ISA 2005, IIS, Document Management System    Networking LAN, WAN, TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, SMTP, FTP, Telnet, VPN, ICMP, RIP, RIPv2 NAT, EIGRP, TFTP, Active Directory  Security  CISCO ASA, PIX, Symantec Enterprise Suite, FTK, McAfee Foundstone, Firewall/Spam, CISCO ACS, Websense, Webtrends Security Manager, Real Secure IDS, SSH, SSL, Digital Certificates    Security Tools  Nessus Professional, IBM BigFix, ForeScout, RSA Archer, FTK, Splunk, Wireshark, Snort, Nmap, Kali Linux Tool Set, IDA Pro, OllyDbg, SonicWall Web Security    Languages Python, C#, C++, VBScript, HTML, XML, ASP, ADSI, .Net, ActionScript, Visual Basic, SQL, MySQL