Network and Desktop Support Technician Network and Desktop Support Technician Network and Desktop Support Technician - Tuacahn Center for the Arts Ivins, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network and Desktop Support Technician Tuacahn Center for the Arts - Ivins, UT December 2018 to Present • Desktop support includes working directly with faculty/staff to troubleshoot hardware, software, network, and printing issues.  • Install, upgrade, and repair computer systems.  • Provide IT support for the night staff as scheduled during the production season. Desktop Analyst I Art Institute of Las Vegas - Las Vegas, NV April 2018 to December 2018 • Installed and performed moderate to complex repairs to hardware, software, and peripheral equipment while following installation specifications for PC/Apple computers.  • Supported local/remote users regarding software/hardware issues and documented work in the ticketing system.  • Managed several student workers that provided equipment checkout and printing services to the campus. Home Department Associate Fred Meyer - Juneau, AK October 2015 to April 2018 • Provided a high-level of customer service in a retail environment in the home department.  • Ensured that the home department was kept clean, merchandise was displayed neatly, and items were properly stocked. Infrastructure Support Technician, IT Services University of Alaska Southeast - Juneau, AK September 2015 to April 2018 • Installed, configured, and supported laptop and desktop PC's, printers/scanners, Windows operating systems, and hardware/software installations.  • Completed Windows 10 software installations in a virtual desktop environment using vSphere web client.  • Imaged, built, and transferred files for computers migrating from Windows XP to Windows 7.  • Maintained the Cisco Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) phone system which included adding, deleting, and updating users using the Cisco Unified Communications Manager (CUCM) including the Unity voicemail system. Systems Engineer Agilex/Accenture Federal Services - Las Vegas, NV June 2015 to September 2015 • Conducted security analysis and remediation for network, printer, and computer vulnerabilities at the Consolidated Patient Account Center (CPAC) for Veterans Affairs.  • Assisted technicians with network and desktop support. Infrastructure Support Technician, IT Services University of Alaska Southeast - Juneau, AK September 2011 to May 2015 • Installed, configured, and supported laptop and desktop PC's, printers/scanners, Windows operating systems, and hardware/software installations.  • Completed Windows 10 software installation in a virtual desktop environment using vSphere web client.  • Imaged, built, and transferred files for computers migrating from Windows XP to Windows 7.  • Maintained the Cisco Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) phone system which included adding, deleting, and updating users using the Cisco Unified Communications Manager (CUCM) including the Unity voicemail system. Network Support Technician Intern Highline College - Des Moines, WA May 2010 to May 2011 • Installed, monitored, and repaired network infrastructure, including switches, wireless access points, and phones including digital and VoIP.  • Performed testing and installation of network wiring and cabling (category 5, 5e, 6, and fiber) which included Ethernet and twisted pair cabling.  • Completed 6 upgrades to campus removing outdated network hardware/cabling while installing 29 new 24/48-port switches, cabling, and mounted rack equipment with over 1200 cross-connections to classroom computers. Production Coordinator / Settlement Clerk Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco - Seattle, WA September 1999 to September 2009 • Monitored and maintained the general ledger for check operations using the Integrated Accounting System.  • Performed processing and settlement duties for all commercial checks incoming and outgoing. Bookkeeper / Office Clerk Safeway - Des Moines, WA January 1997 to August 1999 • Performed nightly bookkeeping for entire store by processing all forms of payment and entering the ending balances into the company's accounting system while providing assistance to the customer service desk. Law Enforcement and Security Specialist United States Air Force, stationed United Kingdom and Panama June 1991 to January 1996 • Provided security for base personnel, aircraft, and nuclear weapons resources.  • Received four achievement medals for meritorious service while on duty. Education Associates degree in Data Recovery and Computer Forensics in Data Recovery and Computer Forensics Highline College - Des Moines, WA January 2010 to June 2011 Associates degree in Accounting in Accounting Highline College - Des Moines, WA September 1996 to June 2000 Skills Phone system, Cisco, Networking, System management, Imaging