Cyber Security Compliance Professional Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Compliance Professional Cyber Security Compliance Specialist - Jacobs Engineering Work Experience Cyber Security Compliance Professional Jacobs Engineering - Orlando, FL 2017 to Present A key member of the Enterprise Cyber Security Team. Worked with Cyber Security team to stand up the Enterprise Cyber Security pillars. Co-authored Jacobs' Cyber Security Policy and Procedures. Conducts Cyber Security audits and drive compliance with corporate's policies/procedures and industry standards and regulations. Executing phishing campaigns and annual Cyber Security Awareness Training to the enterprise. Cyber Security Risk Management Lead, coordinating with InfoSec management in identifying risks and opportunities.    • Responsible for information security policy development and governance.  • Leads information security training and awareness activities program.  • Leads Risk/Opportunity Management Program Cyber Security Program Manager Lockheed Martin - Orlando, FL 2010 to 2017 Lead Cyber Security projects and programs in technical refresh and delivering new, cyber security solutions. Developed security posture and drive compliance and governance. Leads Disaster Recovery Team, coordinating business continuity plans, drills and safeguards.  • Always delivered the project on time, on budget, and in scope  • Lead Cyber Security Team in achieving Excellent IT DR BR rating Remote Access Manager Lockheed Martin - Orlando, FL 2007 to 2010 Service owner/product manager for Enterprise Telecommunication Remote Access that spans domestic and international domains. Responsibilities included: roadmap, staff, performance/operations, schedule, and budget. Manage a matrix team focused on enterprise IPSec and SSL (URL-rewrite) technologies that encompassed: firewall, network, security, proxy, and core applications for Lockheed Martin Enterprise.  • Lead team in deploying a more robust, Enterprise remote access solution to enhance the protection from cyber security attacks  • Lead team in providing reliable remote access solution with 99.7% availability Corporate Senior IT Auditor Lockheed Martin - Bethesda, MD 2005 to 2007 Performed IT and business systems audits reviewing a variety of platforms, operating systems, applications, and processes. Worked with functional management to provide recommendations for resolution, developed solutions to complex problems, determined a course of corrective action and presented audit results to senior-level management. Performed audit of domestic and international controls for enterprise CCB, SOX, CORBIT and other Government contracting regulations.    • Successfully negotiated with process owners, identified compensating or complementary controls, recommended the practical solutions and remediated the significant deficiencies.  • Re-designed the audit planning process by developing and implementing new corporate policies and government regulations which led to better risk coverage and partnership with external audit firms Senior Systems Engineer Lockheed Martin - Orlando, FL 2002 to 2005 Provided Engineering knowledge and skills supporting F-35 Program Sustainment Data Product Integration & Delivery (SDP I&D) and Sustainment Support activities within the Data Quality & Integration Management (DQIM) - Production and Systems Integration Team. Performed Sustainment Data Product (SDP) management, research/analysis, processing, and handling data exchanges between Program Stakeholders and Systems, Suppliers, Teammates, Propulsion System Contractors, Internal Data Authors and Operational Sites.  • Successfully deployed turnkey systems (Automated Logistic Integrated Systems) on time and within budgetary limitations, reducing overall cost of project by more than $2MM  • Key contributors in functional analysis, timeline analysis, structured improvement activities, detail trade studies, requirements into system specifications Finance Analyst Specialist Lockheed Martin - Orlando, FL 1999 to 2002 Performing dual functional roles: IT Account Manager and IT Liaison. Performing IT budget analysis and reviews for multi-departments. Focal point for all hardware, software, and licensing budget within business area. Job role encompassed both Purchasing Agent and Cost Account Manager; evaluated and presented recommendations/solutions related to short and long-term Information System needs. Prepared and developed annual IT budget; Monthly reporting of actual vs. budget with variance analysis; Proactively tracked trends, identified issues, risks, opportunities, and mitigation plans.  • Designed and implemented Labor Keeping system that compensated legacy systems' shortcomings, eliminated data inconsistencies, and saved the company over 1MM  • Received President's Award for Reducing manufacturing work force's waste time by 10% by creating training materials and training employees. Education MBA University of Central Florida Skills Cyber security, Disaster recovery, Security, Remote access, Auditing, It auditing Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/lmalone7 Additional Information Professional Expertise  Dedicated, result-focused leader, bringing effective collaboration and unified solutions across the Enterprise. A strategic visionary who embraces change and new ideas with a proven record encompassing:    • Cyber Security Prog Manager • Remote Access Manager  • IT Auditing • DFARS/GDPR  • BC/Disaster Recovery • Identity & Access Management  • IT Security Framework • Risk/Opportunity Management  • Privacy Champion • Vulnerability Access Management