System Administrator and Operations Manager System Administrator and Operations Manager System Administrator and Operations Manager Columbia, SC Microsoft Certified Professional / CompTIA A+ Certified / VMWARE VTSP 5.0 Certified Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator and Operations Manager AMCOL SYSTEMS - Columbia, SC October 2018 to Present Key Results:  • Manage Windows Server 2008/2012 including Active Directory, Group Policy, Exchange mailboxes, Symantec Endpoint Manager, Backup Exec Processes and WSUS. Use of PowerShell to work with MS Exchange and Office 365 to exporting of mailboxes, exchange maintenance tasks and synchronizing of AD via MS Azure.  • Manage and support corporate I-Phone's, I-Pad and Android network and email access.  • Project Management - Successful migration to Office 365, setup of updated equipment lifecycle upgrades and VMware Server infrastructure upgrade.  • Supervise Network Operations department team of 6 that includes help desk employees, programmers and applications managers. MSP Service Desk Manager HILLSOUTH - Florence, SC June 2017 to August 2018 Key Results:  • Provide Server, Desktop, Application and printer ensuring minimal downtime to large and small companies in Florence, SC and surrounding counties.  • Managed systems include Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 Active Directory, Group Policy, Exchange mailboxes and distribution groups, Antivirus, Network Backup Appliances, installation of approved Microsoft security and application updates and installation of application packages. Used PowerShell to work with MS Exchange and Office 365 to export mailboxes, exchange maintenance tasks and synchronizing of AD via MS Azure.  • Manage desktop images, Security Access forms and inventory for network security policy compliance. System management tools include Sophos Firewalls, Sophos Endpoint Security, Acronis Imaging Software, Clonezilla, Cisco Switches, Sophos Switches and Employee's and Vendors to access network resources..  • Manage and support corporate I-Phone's, I-Pad and Android network and email access.  • Project Management - Work with Sales departments for onboarding new client sites setting them up on managed Sophos Antivirus, Firewall and Kaseya management services.  • Supervised a service desk team managing the technical development, client scheduling, hardware and software quotes for clients. Perform semiannual and yearly reviews, approve time sheets and requests for vacation/leave. Server and Security System Administrator SOUTH CAROLINA 811 - Columbia, SC March 2016 to June 2017 End of contract  Key Results:  • Provide Server, Desktop, Application and printer ensuring minimal downtime.  • Managed systems include Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 Active Directory, Group Policy, Exchange mailboxes and distribution groups, Antivirus, Network Backup Appliances, installation of approved Microsoft security and application updates and installation of application packages. Used PowerShell to work with MS Exchange and Office 365 to export mailboxes, exchange maintenance tasks and synchronizing of AD via MS Azure.Manage desktop images, Security Access forms and inventory for network security policy compliance. System management tools include Kaspersky Security, Acronis Imaging Software, Clonezilla, etc. Manage Palo Alto Firewall, Cisco Switches and Employee's and Vendors to access network resources.  • Manage and support corporate I-Phone's, I-Pad and Android network and email access.  • Project Management - Work with Sales and Application Vendors to manage support contracts and maintenance agreements. Negotiate and obtaining highest ROI by working with competing vendors. Managed VMware deployment project to deliver the completed project a year ahead of projected schedules by previous System Administrators. Managed deploying VMware Disaster Recovery site in Texas at Texas 811 location completing in 3 months instead of earlier projected goal of 1 year. New equipment goals for laptops set at 8 and I obtained 14 new laptops for the same price while adding 3 years extended warranty within the same budget.  • Supervised a team of 4 people managing the technical development, management and testing of Geocall ticketing and mapping system. Perform semiannual and yearly reviews, approve time sheets and requests for vacation/leave. Network Administrator Support Analyst CREATIVE CONSULTANTS GROUP - Conway, SC May 2014 to March 2016 Key Results:  • Provide Server, Desktop, Application and printer support for over 50 businesses in SC ensuring minimal downtime.  • Managed systems include Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 Active Directory, Group Policy, Exchange mailboxes and distribution groups, Antivirus, Network Backup Appliances, installation of approved Microsoft security and application updates and installation of application packages.  • Manage desktop images, Security Access forms and inventory for network security policy compliance. System management tools include Kaseya, Autotask, LMI, Acronis Imaging Software, Clonezilla, etc.  • Manage Dell Sonicwall VPN access for Employee's and Vendors to access network resources.  • Manage and support corporate I-Phone's, I-Pad and Android network and email access.  • Worked with Vendors, Application and hardware sales to get highest ROI and cost savings for company. Developed quotes for customers to build new servers, desktop and laptop deployment.  • Project management: managed VMware and Hyper-V virtual deployment for medical facilities and banks. Managed security migrations moving Antivirus applications from AVG to Trend Micro and Symantec Endpoint Security. Worked with PowerShell to work with MS Exchange and Office 365 to export mailboxes, exchange maintenance tasks and synchronizing of AD via MS Azure.  • Managed team of 10 technicians performing annual evaluations, approving time sheets and requests for vacation/leave. Manage team projects guiding team in various aspects of project to keep everything on schedule and within budget. Network Administrator CARBIS INC - Florence, SC May 2012 to May 2014 Key Results:  • Provide server, desktop and printer support for corporate users to ensure minimal downtime.  • Managed systems include Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 Active Directory, Exchange mailboxes and distribution groups, Sophos Antivirus Endpoint Server, Microsoft AX, SQL Server 2008, Unitrends Network Backup Appliance, Microsoft System Center Essentials 2010 providing approved Microsoft security and application updates and installation of application packages.  • Managed desktop images, Security Access forms and inventory for network security policy compliance. Maintain WSUS updates, system packages and reporting using SCCM 2010.  • Managed Cisco VPN access for Employee's and Vendors to access network resources.  • Managed and support corporate I-Phone's and I-Pad's. Network Administrator CHESTERFIELD GENERAL HOSPITAL - Cheraw, SC July 2011 to May 2013 Key Results:  • Provide server, desktop and printer support for 500+ users to ensure minimal downtime.  • Provide support and optimization for Windows XP, Windows Vista and Windows 7 operating systems.  • Managed systems include Active Directory user, Microsoft Group Policy, Microsoft Exchange, Symantec Antivirus Server, HMS (AS400) accounts, Meditech, Allscripts and Symantec Ghost Solution Suite.  • Manage desktop images, Inventory and Security Access forms for SOX compliance.  • Manage Juniper VPN access for Hospital Employee's and Vendors to Hospital network resources.  • Manage and support corporate Apple I-phone's, Blackberry's, Android's and I-pad's. Provided additional support to Apple Mac computers used by physicians to access Hospital Resources.  • Managed system migration from Meditech to HMS (AS400 medical record application) that included replacing servers, desktops, laptops and printers. Completed the project a month early and corporate sent me to work at sister hospitals to assist with their migrations that had fallen behind. Project Management 2008 to 2012 Previous upgrade to 2008 by former System Administrators brought system down for two weeks before fixing. I successfully tested and found solutions to migrate several versions over the weekend with 0 down time. IT BUSINESS ANALYST II BB&T - Florence, SC June 2010 to July 2011 Key Results:  • Provided support and optimization for Windows XP, Windows Vista and Windows 7 operating systems.  • Maintained inventory and Security Access forms for SOX compliance.  • Provided support for Windows Servers, Desktops, printers, network security access (files/folders/vpn) for BB&T subsidiaries to ensure minimal down time.  • Managed systems included Active Directory, Microsoft Group Policy and MS Exchange.  • Banking system runs on AS400 system. Managed AS400 access, queues and work flow.  • Managed team of 5 employee's, responsible for technical training, evaluations and approving requests for vacation/leave. Network Support Analyst MCLEOD REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER - Florence, SC September 2008 to June 2010 Key Results:  • Provided 2nd level systems support for 5000+ workstations across multiple facilities to ensure minimal downtime and smooth roll outs, in addition to creating desktop standardization and computer images for quick and efficient deployment.  • Managed systems include Active Directory user, computer accounts and Security group access for application and folder access to hospital network resources.  • Maintained inventory database and warranty management recovering previously lost revenue due to lack of warranty processing on desktop, laptop and printer hardware. Desktop/Network Support Analyst TUOMEY REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER - Sumter, SC May 2006 to September 2008 Key Results:  • Provided support for 3000+ workstations and Servers across multiple facilities to ensure minimal downtown and smooth roll outs, in addition to creating desktop standardization and computer images for quick and efficient deployment.  • Managed systems include Windows Active Directory user, computer accounts and network security groups, MS Exchange, Trackit Server and inventory database.  • Created and managed MS Exchange 2003/2007 user mailboxes, distribution groups and group mailboxes.  • Managed security access forms for SOX compliance.  • Maintained inventory and warranty submissions recovering previously lost revenue due to lack of warranty management.  • Project Management: In charge of setup of new physician offices working with application and hardware vendors to get medical practice patient record systems up and running on schedule. As part of the project I was in charge of quoting, ordering and installation of Windows Servers, configuring Group Policy and setting up desktop systems with client applications and/or Terminal Server connections to Applications.  • Supervised team of 6 technicians, responsible for training, evaluations, approving timesheets and requests for vacation/leave. Co-ordinated employee's schedules to achieve best coverage and work with various projects as needed. Education Assoc. in Arts Degree in Technology Summary FLORENCE DARLINGTON TECHNICAL COLLEGE - Florence, SC May 1999 Diploma CHESTERFIELD HIGH SCHOOL - Chesterfield, SC June 1991 Skills System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux, Linux Administrator Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Comptia A+ VMware VTSP 5.0 Driver's License