IT Security Analyst II <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II Flowery Branch, GA Work Experience IT Security Analyst II Sprint Nextel Corp - Atlanta, GA April 2003 to February 2015 Responsibilities  • Created detailed training documents for DNA, Harbor Flex, TMS2, OMA and Ensemble Wholesale applications.  • Preformed training classes, lab s and tier 3 support for third party vendor IBM outsourcers. These duties were to set up and prepare international personnel basic, intermediate and advanced training as well as guidance on an ongoing basis.  • Responsible for training of vendor sites on DNA processes, which included the use of the ticketing system (HP Service Manager 7). User processes required for provisioning as well as how vendor managers could monitor user access.  • Managed Device Network Analysis (DNA) creating and maintaining group permissions/roles. Provisioning access, reactivations, transfers, termination reports including quarterly audits.  • Managed Harbor Flex from a Sarbanes Oxley standpoint, including ensuring portfolios were set up correctly to provisioning and off boarding of user’s access.  • Supported all aspects of the Ensemble Wholesale billing system utilizing Sarbanes Oxley compliance audit processes. This process required detailed documentation for system profile owners to ensure end user access was maintained for their daily business needs.  • Responsible for Ensemble Retail billing system agent code access. This ensures that users are able to provide customers with correct price plans, discounts and access.  • Supported Network Traffic Management System (TMS), for account provisioning for Finance and Network organizations.  • Weekly analysis of the I.T. Compliance and Risk Management report, which ensured internal Sprint and Vendor (outsourcers) access to eligibly employed personnel.   • Maintained Corporate Provisioning Portal (CPP) for the CARE Organization, this maintenance required setup/updating of profile owner’s for Ensemble Retail billing system and sView/iCare (GUI interface) to the billing system.   • Maintained Enterprise Provisioning Portal (EPP), which is used by Sales, Marketing, Network, Finance, Fraud, Collections and Vendor Management. EPP while similar to CPP had specific audit trails for Sarbanes Oxley compliance for through put communications between CPP and EPP.  • Supported Open Mobile Alliance Device Management (OMA) so employee and vendor sites were provisioned correctly for application access.  • Utilized SQL Developer by constructing basic query requests for data validation in the following managed/supported applications. DNA, Ensemble (Retail and Wholesale) and OMA.  • Manage CPP (Corporate Provisioning Portal), Care, Sales, Marketing provisioning and modifications for the Ensemble billing system for Sprint/Nextel.  • Manage Ensemble billing systems (Retail and Wholesale) with relations to CARE, SALES, Marketing, and Wholesale with respect to profiles, agent codes and daily activities for various organizational needs.  • Troubleshoot a variety of group’s data by running SQL queries, to ensuring users have the required tools to complete daily duties.  • Provide instruction and guidance on system requirements with respect to Sprint/Nextel policy and procedures and Sarbanes Oxley compliance.  • Responsible for managing and maintaining the integrity of the billing system/Ensemble numbering system, which changed during the Nextel to Sprint merger. This cross table continuity allowed for user and customer history to be maintained.  • Primary liaison for AMDOCS in maintaining user accounts and records, using SQL along with communications with profile owners, vendor account managers.  • Maintained a variety of Sprint Security tables for the billing system, requiring querying abilities, and evaluating, researching and correcting data as needed. Create and manage enhancement requests, bug reports including process oriented procedures.    Accomplishments  Training documentation and training for IBM outsourcers in the Philippines, provided level three support during training, labs and during the transition of duties from Sprint to the IBM outsourcers.     Maintained records for Sarbanes Oxley compliance with respect to billing systems so that Sprint maintained compliance at all times.    During the Sprint Nextel merger, reduced contractual obligation fines to zero,     Dedicated to the customer experience from internal Sprint, world wide vendor's as well as consumer customer experience.    Skills Used  Organizational skills, by keeping complete tracking records.  SQL query basics   Troubleshooting internal customer, vendor site issues, create bug reports, resolve training issues.  Provide real time provisioning to Sprint billing system and various applications discussed in the responsibilities section of resume.  Communicate written and verbally across internal sprint organizations and with worldwide vendor support teams. FrameMaker Q.E. Development Adobe Systems - San Jose, CA November 1999 to November 2002 Responsibilities  • Managed and performed detailed and comprehensive white box testing of FrameMaker on multiple platforms and operating systems including Macintosh, Windows, Solaris, HPUX, and AIX. Feature areas included Printing, PDF generation, PDF Bloat, PDF Import, Color, Import Formats.  • Performed detailed and comprehensive interoperability testing of Acrobat Distiller workflows using Adobe’s FrameMaker and InDesign products.  • Performed detailed and comprehensive compatibility, scenario, and black box testing on English, German, French and Japanese operating systems with localized versions of the FrameMaker desktop publishing application  • Based on TDS and test plans created and maintained both manual and automated test ware for use on all support Windows, Macintosh and UNIX operating systems. Manual test ware included complete step-by-step procedures and test documentation for blind testing on feature areas. Within the automation test ware test files, control files, control PPDs for FATE test tool for feature where updated as the PTG group updated drivers and CSPI (rip’s).  • Logged and maintained defect reports in Vantive database for developers in a concise, complete manner providing test files for use for debugging purposes.  • Managed printing lab multi-operating systems consisting of multi-manufactured printers for FrameMaker QE group with considerations on color, level of PS and needs of the product features.  • Collaborated with QE and Development in cross product implementation and workflows, which included Adobe Acrobat, InDesign, PTG (Adobe drivers) creating and maintaining matrix for smooth product implementation.  • Interfaced with over 150 worldwide customers during FrameMaker Beta programs to improve product feature sets, resolve issues and discuss real world application issues.  • Validated and managed bug reports from Technical Support on current products, to find workarounds along with how to implement changes into upcoming development of FrameMaker. Reviewed, tested and reported to Technical Support bug entries, for timely resolve of customer issues.  • Prepared and reviewed technical documentation for internal and external customer use, including test case, test plans, test design specifications, feature requirements specification and FrameMaker’s user guide.    Accomplishments  Starting with Adobe as a technical support for the FrameMaker desktop publishing responsible for PDF generation, was transferred from Atlanta to Seattle and created training for the first level FrameMaker customer support services. Once this was completed was again transferred to San Jose (HQ) in the role of development QE (QA) for the following sections, PDF generation, print drivers, FATE (FrameMaker Automated Text Application), color schemes and page lay out.    Continued in this role until Adobe discontinued the product to proceed in a different path.    Skills Used  Postscript printing language, for various product print drivers, with focus postscript fonts. PDF generation using distiller as the intermediary to transfer/convert FrameMaker documents to PDF. Technical Support Team Leader /Trainer Peachtree Accounting Software - Atlanta, GA February 1994 to November 1997 Responsibilities  • Focus on Training Peachtree Accounting for Windows, to new hire technical support, development and QE along with structuring training procedures for external customers  • Provided Technical Support for Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, Inventory, Payroll, Time and Billing, along with Journal Entries/General Ledger and reports  • Provide quarterly and year-end procedures from editing and updating tax tables to, multiple state employees, garnishments, FICA, W-2, 941 and 1099’s  • Created Training Materials for Peachtree Accounting for Windows in the following areas: New Hire product training, Technical Support Training in areas of Chart of Accounts, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, Inventory, Payroll procedures, and reports  • Created and performed continued training programs for specialized certification on all aspects of Peachtree Accounting with focus on payroll and year end procedures  • Maintained training records for Technical Support Organization for basic, advanced and new release training  • Responsible for collecting, debugging customer data from team and report back findings along with the fix  • Awarded Employee of the Month, January 1997 for contributions to the technical support department and company goals    Accomplishments  As back ground was not in accounting, was able to start my time with Peachtree in customer support, working my way up to team leader and eventually trainer for all incoming employees.     Skills Used  Interpersonal skills in communicating verbal and written. Ability to interpret customers accounting needs and provide solutions on how to correlate their balance sheets, income statements, credits and debits as well as run quarterly and year end reports. Education BS in EET DeVry - Atlanta, GA 1985 to 1988