IT Network Requirements Specialist and Technical Writer <span class="hl">IT</span> Network Requirements Specialist and Technical Writer IT Service Delivery / Program Manager / Operations Analyst Woodbridge, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Network Requirements Specialist and Technical Writer CSS LLC February 2018 to May 2018 IT Network Requirements Specialist and Technical Writer           (Supporting DIA)            February 2018 to May 2018  ·        With prime Cyberspace Solutions, LLC, hired as surge (temp) employee on SGIS Contract to develop requirements to enhance and improve build of the Stone Ghost International System network platform hosted at DIA HQ Bolling AFB in DC by formulating project plans.  ·        On 5-year modernization effort provided comprehensive project plans consisting of complete scope layouts for two projects underway: Canadian Integrated Broadcast Service - Common Operating Picture (IBS-COP) and Stone Ghost Central Webpage Redesign. Interacted with technical and user stakeholders at all levels to identify and deconflict project workflows, user stories, and mission needs. Lead both project teams. Communicated project status to leadership and team members. Experience with MS Project and SharePoint. IT Software Requirements Analyst Advanced Technology Consulting, LLC at DIA HQ Bolling AFB in DC on ESL August 2017 to October 2017 • With subcontractor (to prime Na Ali'i) Advanced Technology Consulting, LLC at DIA HQ Bolling AFB in DC on ESL contract provided oversight for DIA Enterprise Software Licensing program.  • Prepared vendor contracts, briefings and functional requirement documents from SharePoint and Oracle relational database (precursor to ServiceNow called RSA Archer) to aid in overall IT cost reductions. Conducted IT financial analysis and vendor / customer relationship management. IT Help Desk Service Delivery Manager NGA October 2013 to April 2017 • Starting in 1991 was 26-year Federal employee of NGA and predecessor agencies, NIMA and DMA). Elected VERA early retirement on 4/28/2017.  • As Senior Operations Help Desk Master within NGA CIO-T Operations Control Office NCE National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) in Springfield, Va. working in a cyber security environment was responsible for [Remedy] Aged Trouble Ticket Queue Reduction program, where reduced the overall aged incident ticket count agency-wide from over 1,500 to consistently below 100 for over 14,000 employee work force by collaborating with nearly 500 contractor support groups who were handling the aged priority 3 & 4 tickets.  • Partnered with engineers and referenced an automated Remedy analytics report indicating the programs' daily status. Generated Excel program graphs to gather and illustrate how the overall numbers of outstanding aged trouble tickets fluctuated over time. Preformed technical analysis to evaluate results.  • Briefed CIO-T management chain weekly on Remedy ATTQR Program performance. Worked with Windows dashboard creation developers in generation of tiles which pulled from Remedy BMC analytic data. Ensured contractor Service Level Agreements were within government compliance. Provided technical support to NGA staff on the use of the Remedy ticketing system to ensure proper ticket routing. Daily support consisted of fulltime interaction with all levels of management. Established and updated documented & new procedures / processes. Business Continuity Planning Associate NGA June 2016 to June 2016 obtained BCP data from agency SMEs to ingest into BCP database tool. BCP Eagle Horizons exercise recognition, June 2016.  • With regard to ticket management, provided oversight to define customer requirements, tasks and dependencies, aligning them with agency strategic or corporate objectives. Monitored and reported on network health and status. Monitored site bandwidth utilization, recommended alternative delivery paths, supported operations integration of new data source processes, system capabilities, and recommended use of agency products holdings from community libraries and external sites to support agency needs. Familiarity with Cedalion system. IT Enterprise Technical Account Manager January 2010 to October 2013 • As NGA Customer Service Representative assisted users in various groups including the initial deployment to NCE Springfield by directing Enterprise Service Center technicians to resolve user service request tickets to add or repair user desktop components and software.  • Achieving ITIL Foundation Certification, September 2013. Outstanding TAM support commendation. Geospatial Analyst / Cartographer April 1998 to January 2010 NGA Remote Replication Services Geospatial Analyst systems operator In Bethesda MD - Bethesda, MD 1998 to 2010 created numerous custom products, secondly, at the Pentagon NGA/RRS (1998-2009) in support of the Joint Intelligence Center, NGA IA technical representatives and Army Logistics customers, and lastly managed the Ft. Belvoir NIMA College RRS (1998-2001) mainly supporting the school's chief engineer. Military "Google World Map" 1 2008 to 2009 using Global Mapper software. At NIMA College Ft Belvoir and Pentagon RRS facilities gave dozens of tours briefing hundreds of personnel on the RRS operation there. Recognition for numerous worldwide conflict support and meritorious unit awards. NGA Staff Officer January 2007 to August 2007 serving in a detail to the NGA Corporate Communications team. Was in charge of the Ask-The-Director column and newsletter publication informing the workforce of NGA's accomplishments and activities in the field.  • At all RRS sites, operated networked computer systems (Dell, HP, Sun) to furnish geospatial imagery on various media for DoD planners. Provided on-site Geoint, GIS expertise, and custom-tailored geospatial intelligence support for the Intelligence Community, Military Services and Unified Commands. Used Erdas Imagine, ArcGIS and FalconView in generation of custom products.    • Domestic NGA RRS deployments included MacDill AFB Central Command April 2002; Miami SouthCom March 2004 during Haiti crisis; Norfolk July 2005 in support of routine maritime maneuvers; Quantico Base, May 2009 'Nine Innings' Philippines US Marines training where provided custom onsite GEOINT enabling Marines to clarify hypothetical assistance to a US ally. Haiti earthquake crisis support award 2010, Deepwater Horizons support award 2010 (BP disaster). Remote Replication System support award, 2010. Cataloging Specialist November 1994 to April 1998 NGA predecessor DMA / NIMA Information Services and Training Production lead on NIMA Digital Data Products Quarterly Bulletin, a small digest listing all NIMA digital products. Utilized Mac PC and NT IBM PC having Word, Excel, and MacDraw Pro. Lockheed Martin 1995 to 1995 • Utilized DMA Automated Publishing Production System (DAPPS) with Intergraph software applications to produce country pages for catalogs. Assisted other DMA/NIMA catalog production leads with Special Notices, Topographic, Hydrographic and Aeronautical catalogs. Participated in Modernized Cataloging Production System (MCPS) factory acceptance test in PA (1995). Utilized Unix Sun Solaris with Sparc 20 Open Windows 3.4 Lockheed Martin applications for MCPS production. Cartographic Analyst January 1991 to November 1994 NGA predecessor DMA Mapping and Charting Department Production of NGA (predecessor DMA/NIMA) early digital production of manual imagery products such as Topographic Line Maps and Controlled Image Base of various scales worldwide using color separation methods and aircraft imagery analysis. Specialized in South American counter drug mapping program, 1993. Recognition for Korea charting project 1993. Relocatable Target Assessment Data (RTAD) 1992 to 1992 • Using light tables, generated map compilations using AGDS system produced early DMA digital products Interim Terrain Data (ITD) overlay cells, Relocatable Target Assessment Data (RTAD) cells, and Digital Terrain Elevation Data (DTED) products using Automated Graphic Digitizing System. Recognition for Gulf War support, 1992.  Previous employers included: unarmed security guard McDonnell Douglas Electronic Systems Company 1990 to 1991 Talent Tree Temporaries, mail clerk (1990) The Huffman Press, motor courier (1989) Versar Environmental Consultants, property transfer technician (1988-89) CTI Consultants, concrete technician (1988) BDM International Corp, general services office worker (1984-88) Education Bachelors of Science in Geology in project management The George Mason University - Fairfax, VA February 2018 to May 2018 Skills Technical Writing, Writing Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffrey-b-steinberg-56968257