IT Systems Administrator <span class="hl">IT</span> Systems Administrator IT Systems Administrator - GMFS LLC Denham Springs, LA Work Experience IT Systems Administrator GMFS LLC April 2016 to Present As the IT systems admin for GMFS, I was the primary IT contact for over 250 employees, which included ~160 onsite users as well as ~100 remote users stretching across the southeast United States. Primary duties included supporting all desktops, laptops, multifunction devices, email support with Exchange and Mimecast, SMB file sharing setup and security, and active directory administration and maintenance. Implemented and administered SonicWall firewalls for enhanced security and VPNs. Primary project lead for Windows 7 to Windows 10 migration for all computers. Virtual server administration of 2008 R2 to 2019 flavors running on VMWare ESX-I hosts. Imaging with Acronis and Microsoft update approval/monitoring with WSUS. Email administration with Exchange 2010/2016 as well as Office 365 using Outlook, smartphones, and tablets. Handled inventory of all hardware, spare parts, and software licenses. Standardized software deployment using SCCM and PDQ Deploy. Local ESET anti-virus installation, troubleshooting and reporting. Also tasked with ongoing security vulnerability identification and remediation using Nessus. Administered ongoing user security training in conjunction with Wombat/Proofpoint security training modules. Monitored daily backups both locally and offsite using AppAssure. SAN storage administration on NetApp and Nimble storage devices, along with smaller NAS appliances from ReadyNAS and Tanberg. I/S Support Specialist Stupp Corporation November 2015 to March 2016 As an IS Support Specialist, I was the sole member of both the IS and IT departments. In the IS role, I would assist the developers with their understanding of the technical specifications and capabilities of the network and hardware and also provide a presence in project meetings to ensure all IT-related tasks could be accomplished within the current network environment. My IT tasks included basic ticket remedies involving printers, networking, and email, along with more advanced tasks such server management, backup monitoring, VPN, SQL administration and network performance monitoring. IM Systems Analyst Williams Olefins Plant - Geismar, LA May 2015 to November 2015 As an IM analyst, my duties fell within Tier 2 onsite support. Those tasks included PC refreshes (data migration and rollout), ticket escalation from helpdesk inquiries, printer and multifunction support, as well as network/server administration. Server environment consisted of various nodes running Server 2008 R2 with usages involving file servers, print servers, application hosts, SQL, and backups. Most servers were virtualized running on VMware ESX boxes, which was also supported by Tier 2. Expanded duties included printer/multifunction support, telephony troubleshooting within an older PBX environment, and audio/visual support utilizing multimedia equipment and messaging programs such as Skype. IT Consultant Tigerbytes IT Solutions - Zachary, LA January 2014 to May 2015 Normal responsibilities ranged from every day network and systems administration to handling new projects and rollouts from start to finish. I was responsible for a variety of clientele in and around the greater Baton Rouge area. Tasks included server monitoring and response, onsite and offsite backups, email administration (Microsoft Exchange, Office 365, 3rd Party hosting solutions), and standard system/desktop administration in both Active Directory and workgroup environments. Rollout and maintenance of networking equipment including routers, firewalls, switches, and access points. Remote site access using VPN tunnels, remote desktop, and other remote access programs. Supported server versions ranged from 2003 - 2012 R2, including Small Business Servers. Email administration with Exchange, Office 365, and cloud hosted solutions. Local and external file sharing using SMB shares, Dropbox, OneDrive, and Sharepoint. Technology Services Engineer Ricoh USA - Baton Rouge, LA October 2011 to December 2013 In the role of a Technology Services Engineer, I was responsible for a wide array of IT services. I handled customer training for newly installed equipment, in addition to conducting the installs themselves. I have notable experience with Ricoh imaging devices and related components such as embedded document servers and scan to folder/email functions. General network service included design and maintenance on both peer-to-peer workgroups as well as client-server domains. Implemented remote monitoring, including both onsite and offsite backups. Regular server and workstation maintenance. Administration of numerous SonicWALL appliances, some of which included features such as Deep Packet Inspection, spam protection, and internal virus protection. Responsible for port-forwarding for specific applications as well as set up of SSL and IPsec-based VPNs. Installation and onsite management of Fonality VoIP telephony systems. Information Systems Security Analyst TraceSecurity, Inc - Baton Rouge, LA May 2010 to May 2011 As a security analyst, I worked with many organizations throughout the continental United States performing systems auditing, security assessments, and penetration testing services in order to identify vulnerable software or any less secure access methods in place. Performed both onsite and offsite external and internal penetration testing. Complied detailed reports on findings which included proof of concept and possible remedies. Onsite physical security assessments for access controls, surveillance monitoring, visitor logs, and other regulation-focused measures for financial institutions. Onsite and remote social engineering assessments in order to test employee training and identify lapses in company security policies. Configuration reviews in order to ensure that access controls were implemented and all unneeded protocols and services were eliminated. Utilized an assortment of open source and proprietary tools in both Windows and Linux environments to gather network and device information and to explore possible attack vectors. Senior Onsite Technician Rent-A-Nerd Computer Services, Inc - Baton Rouge, LA November 2006 to May 2010 Experience with all major computer manufacturer systems and hardware. Supported many homes and small business computers and networks with emphasis on customer service. Designed and built custom computers for array of different needs including servers, gaming machines, basic word processing, media servers, graphic design and file servers. Virus and spyware removal. Office XP, 2003, 2007, and 2010 installation and support. Experience with Mac OS X and Windows. Supported networks using an array of networking hardware. Supported email and synchronization with Blackberry, Palms, iPhones, Android and other PDAs. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Network Technology and Security Administration Herzing University - Kenner, LA June 2005 to December 2009 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, Linux Additional Information I am experienced in the design, implementation, administration and troubleshooting peer-to-peer networks as well as client-server domains. My responsibilities have included installation/monitoring of onsite and off-site backups, configuration and maintenance for centralized routers, switches, and firewalls, and support for Windows 10, Windows 8/8.1, Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows XP, and Apple OS-X machines. Administration of Windows Server 2003 - 2019 versions, including Small Business flavors along with Exchange server and/or Office 365. Designing administering networks with increased security measures and other customer-specific or regulatory requirements. Disk and partition imaging using Norton Ghost, Acronis, SmartDeploy and Microsoft Imaging platforms. PDA, smartphone, laptop, and tablet support including air card operation and POP/IMAP/Exchange email with remote access. Installation and management of VoIP telephony systems utilizing advanced call routing, auto attendants, and multiple call groups.    Hardware:  Standard form factor familiarization with vendors such as Dell, HP, IBM/Lenovo, Sony, Toshiba, Apple, and custom-built machines. Network environments that utilize various devices such as switches, routers, wireless adapters, firewalls from SonicWall, Cisco, and Palo Alto. Additional security-focused configuration involving wireless encryption, MAC filters, IDS/IPS systems, surveillance cameras and biometric systems. Virtual hosts running VMWare ESX-I and integration of NAS devices from HP, NetApp, and Nimble.    Software:  Microsoft Windows version XP through Windows 10. Office versions 2000 - 2019, including Office 365 installation and troubleshooting. POP, IMAP, Exchange email set up in Outlook and other mail clients. Remote access programs and implementation of VPN tunnels utilizing Cisco, SonicWALL, Barracuda, and Microsoft. Anti-virus and anti-spyware program installation, configuration, and monitoring/reporting. Group Policy and standardization within domain environments. Mobile OS administration involving Android, iOS, and Blackberry. Windows update administration and monitoring via WSUS.    Communications:  Dial-up/legacy connections, cable, DSL, fiber, and frame relay circuits for internet access and networking including VPNs. TCP/IP, POP3, SMTP, IMAP, SSL, SSH, NTP, FTP, telnet, SIP, SMB, SNMP, and RDP protocols. Network-wide communications using wired Ethernet and wireless 802.11b/g/n/AC. Communications across networks and sites utilizing VPNs and other remote access solutions. Offsite and remote administration using Remote Desktop, VNC, LogMeIn, TeamViewer, DameWare, and GoToAssist.