Managing Director, Cyber Resilience & Security Assurance Managing Director, Cyber Resilience &amp; <span class="hl">Security</span> Assurance Managing Director, Cyber Resilience & Security Assurance - Charles Schwab & Co Dallas-Fort Worth, TX IT Security and Risk Management leader with 20+ years of experience in aligning strategic goals to risk management programs. Proven successes in retooling GRC platforms and the development of technology risk programs implementations. Extensive experience leading large teams across the globe, risk assessments, controls design / remediation, business transformation, and identity and access management. Held leadership positions in 1st, 2nd, and 3rd lines of defense at multiple organizations. Work Experience Managing Director, Cyber Resilience & Security Assurance Charles Schwab & Co May 2018 to Present • Establish and run the Cyber Security and Privacy regulatory center of expertise and execute the quarterly steering committee meetings.  • Provide support for Schwab's regulatory exams for areas of expertise.  • Govern the RCSA oversight and effective challenge program for cyber and business continuity related risks, controls and issues firm-wide.  • Led the Phase 1 GRC design team responsible for the future state lifecycle management of KRIs.  • Led the development team for the creation and roll-out of an interactive risk and issues dashboard aggregating data spanning multiple GRC platforms.  • Thought leader and active participant on multiple firm-wide Risk Management Program initiatives for GRC and IT Risk Management capabilities.  • Ensure departmental programs adhere to Enterprise Risk Management policies and standards.  • Lead teams to improve the quality and processing for issue identification and analysis. Director, Global Head of IT Risk Office - Ocwen Financial Corporation August 2015 to May 2018 • Reporting to the CIO, develop and maintain a comprehensive IT Risk Organization including staffing, risk identification & mitigation strategies, KRIs, standards & frameworks for the entire global CIO organization.  • Direct responsibilities to resolve multiple state regulatory deficiency remediation programs.  • Developed a global organization of risk professionals.  • Frequent interactions with CxO and VP level personnel regarding risk considerations.  • Organized forums for Technology and risk/ audit/ compliance organizations improving the focus, processes and interactions.  • Define vision and strategy for IT risk assessment program including the RCSA.  • Oversight of IT policy and procedure development for CIO organization.  • Direct ownership of IT-SOX risk and controls framework including controls self-testing. Operational Risk Manager - Technology The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation January 2014 to August 2015 • Develop and execute cross departmental "extreme but plausible" cyber security related scenarios to identify existing mitigation strategies or control gaps.  • Product Manager for MetricStream GRC tool. Led the development and implementation of enhanced incident collection module, including business requirements and test scripts, liaise with technology and business teams. Performed end-user training for over 200 users.  • Provide executive management reporting for Operational Risk Department.  • Coach new employees on risk management and technical concepts related to department objectives. Direct responsibility for the production of departmental policies and procedures. Co-Owner LPW, Inc December 2012 to December 2013 • Prepare budgets and manage cash flows within the defined plans. Hands on responsibility for day to day operations, procurement, inventory management and logistics.  • Vendor management, including establishing pricing and discount models. Terminated unprofitable product lines.  • Established new e-commerce selling platform, streamlined pricing strategies leveraging automated tool-sets, improved inventory management processes including significant increase turn-over of obsolete inventory.  • Implemented improved customer service procedures across all 3 lines of business. Information Security / IT Risk Manager Gerdau Long Steel North America October 2008 to December 2012 • Manage North America Corporate Information Security Operations team.  • Global project team leader responsible for IT controls, Identity & Access Management for enterprise-wide SAP implementation.  • Collaborative member of Global Information Security Pillar setting policy and procedures.  • Day to Day management responsibilities for 18 US and international staff members.  • Established a culture of IT risk and controls consideration through partnership and collaboration.  • Responsible for Information Security and Infrastructure's annual multi-million dollar operating budget. Director of Internal Audit Sage Software April 2004 to July 2008 Senior Associate, Risk Advisory Services KPMG, LLP September 2001 to March 2004 IT Auditor Kimberly-Clark Corporation July 2000 to August 2001 Financial Analyst MTS Systems Corporation September 1999 to June 2000 Planning/Cost Analyst United Sugars Corporation September 1997 to August 1999 Education B.A. in Financial Management University of St. Thomas Bachelor 1997 Skills Cyber Security, Information Security, Nist, Network Security, It Security, Cissp, Cybersecurity, Information Assurance Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) June 2005 to Present Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) January 2013 to Present CRISC December 2010 to Present Project Management Professional (PMP) July 2008 to Present