IT Security Administrator/ Security Analyst/Cyberark Admin <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Administrator/<span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span>/Cyberark Admin IT Security Administrator/ Security Analyst/Cyberark Admin Davenport, IA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Administrator/ Security Analyst/Cyberark Admin John Deere - Moline, IL November 2015 to January 2019 • Utilizing the Privileged Access Management model to secure permissions by using Cyberark and other methods to distance and secure access.  • Designing and implementing infrastructure to minimize impact to end users while keeping access restricted from user ID's.  • Assigning permissions, creating position profiles for quick access and creating/activating all computer ID's in a global capacity.  • Working in Active Directory, Exchange Server, IBM Identity Manager, HOST and various applications (AWS, Jenkins, Git) to grant approved permissions and/or create user ID's which grant domain access throughout the infrastructure.  • Writing scripts in various languages (Visual Basic, Powershell, Pearl) to increase efficiency for project work SCCM Administrator/ IT Analyst John Deere - Moline, IL September 2012 to January 2013 Configuration of Windows Server 2003, 2008 R2 and 2012, SCCM Server configuration and administration with integrated WSUS and SUP deployments, documentation of processes and procedures including system wide notifications to client affected computers, software packaging, scripting via VBS and Powershell, support of John Deere computers worldwide (approx. 50,000+) at a Tier 3 level NEC/SCCM Administrator/ IT Analyst DOIM - Rock Island Arsenal, IL April 2010 to July 2012 • Remote support for all government/military computer systems, user accounts, approved hardware on Rock Island Arsenal.  • Configuration of Windows Server 2003, 2008 R2 and 2012, Lead WSUS configuration and patch deployment and management, SCCM configuration and administration to all NEC managed computers including packaging of software and mass deployment and experience in remote scripting to mitigate failure of SCCM software installations via command line, PSExec, VB Script and Powershell.  • Used and administered SharePoint for documentation of processes and procedures including system wide notifications to client affected computers.  • Advanced technical support was also given to lower tiers within the facility and failure mitigation for massive outages to all NEC managed personnel on the Arsenal Information Technology Support Technician Techteam Global - Davenport, IA January 2009 to May 2010 • Supporting John Deere employees globally with Blackberry, networking, software, hardware, printing, mainframe and infrastructure troubleshooting.  • This position involves basic to advanced support in all of the above categories Representative MarketSource - Moline, IL July 2007 to January 2010 for Best Buy-Sales, product education to Best Buy Reps, ensuring all HP products are up to standard and specification based on HP guidelines. Information Technology Systems Engineer Northrop Grumman Missions Systems - Fort Hood, TX February 2005 to April 2005 • Configuration, management and general support for the FBCB2 project at Fort Hood assisting in development and maintenance of all Configuration Management (CM) data.  • I assist in the maintenance and administration of material and equipment databases.  • Providing general project support for CM and the Configuration Control Board (CCB), duplication and distribution of proposed and approved patches to operating system software and distribution and tracking of media (CD's and replacement media) to government sites. Classroom Assistant Garner Management Services - Copperas Cove, TX May 2004 to January 2005 • Classroom assistant teaching basic computer literacy classes at the Copperas Cove Economic Development Corporation.  • Includes weekly set up and tear down of computer lab equipment. Technician (Tier 2 Wireless Solutions Support Center), Nextel - Temple, TX March 2004 to May 2004 • Technical troubleshooting on personal and business Blackberry Handheld devices, Blackberry Enterprise Server, Blackberry Desktop Manager and Blackberry Webclient.  • Various implementations of software, databases and prior technical knowledge were used to correct issues on malfunctioning Blackberry Handhelds.  • Technical certification for Blackberry Handheld devices, Blackberry Enterprise Server, Blackberry Desktop Manager and Blackberry Webclient was also achieved. Installer/Technician C-Tech of Texas - Killeen, TX June 2002 to December 2002 Texas  • Installation, troubleshooting and technical support on satellite based systems such as Direct TV and Direcway satellite Internet, including on site problem solving and adjustment of equipment. Installer/Technician, Quality Systems Belton, TX May 2002 to November 2002 Installation, troubleshooting and technical support on satellite based systems such as Direct TV and Direcway satellite Internet, including on site problem solving and adjustment of equipment. Sales/Installer, Comtel AT&T subsidiary - Davenport, IA December 2001 to March 2002 Installation, troubleshooting, technical support and sales for broadband Internet connections and digital cable. Website Designer Netjester Design - Clinton, IA February 1999 to November 2001 Website development, graphic design, conceptual art design and multimedia merging techniques for Flash 5, FrontPage, Paint Shop Pro 7, and Bryce 5. Technician Farsight Computers - Odessa, TX January 1997 to February 1999 Construction, troubleshooting, software installation and technical support for customers either through phone or on site. Technician Triple C Computers - Odessa, TX October 1998 to January 1999 Maintenance, repair, and troubleshooting of older model PCs. Education Associates Scott Community College 2013 to 2014 Skills Active Directory, HTML, access, security, testing Certifications/Licenses Valid Drivers License CompTIA Security+ July 2011 to Present CompTIA Server+ July 2011 to Present