Contracted PC Technician Contracted PC Technician Contracted PC Technician Ocala, FL Analytical, self-driven and detail-oriented Help Desk Analyst with 5 years of solid experience supporting software/ hardware systems, performing equipment upgrades under adverse conditions, and optimizing technical support operations. Effective key team member with excellent analytical, problem-solving, decision-making and multi-tasking skills – who contributes positively to each project; works well in high stress situations. Continually enhance customer satisfaction and overall profitability by delivering solutions on time and within budget. Excel in increasing productivity, improving processes and resolving complex problems through excellent communication, diagnostic and problem solving skills. Proven ability to provide clear answers to non-technical customer questions and implement process improvements. Excellent leader, negotiator and problem solver with superior customer service skills with ability to balance technical support with interpersonal rapport. Work Experience Contracted PC Technician K-Force - Ocala, FL March 2019 to July 2019 Ensure performance and availability of IT equipment and devices, including 2000 computers, servers, printers, and scanning devices for PC Imaging, SCCM. Work closely with corporate IT groups and management to ensure efficient deployment and testing process, provide on-site support and technology resolutions, troubleshoot image issues, and address system issues accordingly.  • Improved technical control for securing customer and corporate IT systems by managing spreadsheets and inventory for deployment, overseeing testing, leading imaging priorities and tasks based on deployment needs, and ensuring compliance with security policies.  • Maintained efficient operation by ensuring efficient inventory data management, tracking devices stocked and deployed, performing desktop support and providing excellent customer service. Help Desk Analyst ITonDemand - Ocala, FL July 2018 to January 2019 Managed and resolved technical issues on by proactively responding to user inquiries, assessing problems and issues, providing quick Technical Support and Solutions for customers, and providing excellent customer service. Administered and coordinated wide range of duties encompassing coordinating daily schedules and dispatching technicians, assisting in LOB revamping and retooling, handling incoming customer queries and requests, and implemented viable solutions to computer issues in order to deliver a satisfactory solution.  • Improved overall customer satisfaction and SLA times by eliminating redundancies and improving business practices resulting to improve ticket accuracy, tracking and durations.  • Reconfigured and revamped the ticketing flow to better track SLA's; simplified process, removed redundancies on process, and secured strict compliance with company policies.  • Collaborated with senior analysts and IT managers on handling escalated and difficult issues that needs special attention; deployed technicians to resolve issues and queries from end users, provided viable solution, and maintained direct communication with clients.  • Developed solutions and provided remote support to end users through Labtech and ConnectWise. Help Desk Analyst Verteks - Ocala, FL May 2015 to June 2018 Provided customer support, service and technical support to companies from different fields - such as law offices, insurance and Healthcare - through analysis and problem resolving to enable installation, maintenance, education, implementation and documentation of a variety of software and hardware technologies using remote communication or through phone to the clients. Utilized proficiency and expertise in Labtech, ConnectWise, Active Directory, GPO, exchange server, and other tools to deliver excellent support to end users.  • Efficiently handled and resolved queries from clients through assessing their needs, developing viable solutions, providing helpful information, and providing excellent customer service.  • Achieved and maintained overall customer satisfaction and SLA times by revamping current business practices to eliminate redundancies, increase ticket accuracy, and improve tracking and durations.  • Resolved issues by researching documentation; troubleshooting hardware, software, guiding client through corrective steps; escalating problems to second level; tracked status of problems and solutions.  • Effectively managed 90% of dispatch and tech assignments through proper coordination of with scheduled appointments, assisting with Connectwise administration, and overseeing time tracking. ( IT Support) (Contracted) Proactive Networks - Pasadena, CA September 2014 to February 2015 Assisted and supported clients from different industries including law offices, insurance and real estate agencies - by researching and answering communications questions, resolving problems, providing on-site and remote support, and providing resources. Applied expertise in Active Directory and Exchange, LabTech, VNC, LogMeIn, and ConnectWise for tracking tickets, managing information, and providing excellent support.  • Performed and coordinated wide range of functions including installation and update of servers, backup systems, and new user computers; tracking tickets; managing Incidents and Service Requests; and troubleshooting software and hardware problems. Help Desk Technician/Asset Management (Contracted) WestED Non Profit - Los Alamitos, CA May 2014 to September 2014 Asset Management Analyst (Contracted) The Computer Merchant - Chino, CA January 2013 to November 2013 Diagnostics, Forklift, and QA Associate (Contracted) Randstad - Ontario, CA March 2012 to January 2013 Machine Operator (Contracted) Spherion - Ocala, FL August 2011 to January 2012 Security Guard Securitas Security - Gaithersburg, MD October 2007 to May 2010 Receptionist Trent Patrick Real Estate - Los Angeles, CA April 2005 to April 2007 Education Forrest High School - Ocala, FL August 2001 High School Diploma Mt. San Antonio College - Walnut, CA Skills Active directory, Git, Security, Linux, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Mac, Mac os, Desktop Support, Pc Support, Help Desk, LAN Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/david-kortright-0b710753 Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating Systems: Mac OS X, Linux (KDE, Gnome), Windows (95, 98, XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10)  Windows Server (2003, 2008, 2012, 2016)  Microsoft Office System: Access®, Word®, PowerPoint®, Outlook, Excel  Antivirus Removal and Security Upgrades | Active Directory, Server 2008-2016  Connectwise Automate, Manage, and Control | Datto Certified | Git / GitHub