IS Security Administrator IS <span class="hl">Security</span> Administrator IS Security Administrator - TriWest Healthcare Alliance Sun City, AZ Work Experience IS Security Administrator TriWest Healthcare Alliance - Phoenix, AZ 2017 to Present Customer service Vulnerability Management Web Filtering System Administration Patching Spam Analysis Microsoft Windows Compliance Scanning    TriWest Healthcare Alliance - Phoenix, Az. 2017 - Present  IS Security Administrator    ? Monitor network traffic for unusual activity  ? Perform vulnerability and compliance scanning assessments using Tanium and Security Center  ? Provide information regarding any perceived weaknesses in the security program to IT Security management  ? Defend systems against unauthorized access, modification and/or destruction  ? Hands on experience in security systems, including firewalls, intrusion detection systems, anti-virus software, authentication systems, log management, content filtering, etc  ? Conduct periodic security administration tasks including security infrastructure management and monitoring in the areas of network monitoring, vulnerability assessment, data and compliance monitoring  ? Review software for vulnerabilities and acceptable use within the environment  ? Ensure that the company knows as much as possible, as quickly as possible about security incidents by creating incident reporting  ? Implementing and monitoring security measures for the protection of computer systems, networks and information  ? Good understanding of basic security concepts - authentication, authorization, auditing  ? Knowledge of NIST 800-53 and FISMA moderate security controls  ? Responsible for Cisco Firepower web filtering request  ? Proactively reviewed security training and notification documents  ? Review and respond to suspicious activity such as NIDS/HIDS alerts, phishing emails, software/malware evaluation  ? Evaluate resources and other request for compliance and applicable company and security polices Tier III CSC Technician MSI Solutions, Inc - Phoenix, AZ 2015 to 2017 Build and maintain Client relationships through listening and customer focus skills; must be approachable and patient  ? Consult with clients, review and understand their current work process  ? Be able to work with our client to amend their current processes to best fit our software and trouble shoot client issues  ? Discuss requirements and explain functionality to both technical and non-technical individuals or groups  ? Troubleshoot client technical issues - system errors, data issues, performance issues, etc. in a timely manner while manning an inbound email and phone queue.  ? Serve as primary Support liaison  ? Understand and recreate client issue on our test systems.  ? Communicate the progression of software defect releases to external clients.  ? Collaborate with other departments as necessary to expedite client resolutions. IT System Administrator Planet Aid, Inc - Milford, MA 2010 to 2015 Responsible for creation and delivery of all technical Help Desk documentation.  ? Worked with vendors to setup, configured, and implemented the Sonic Firewall and Meru Networks Access Points  ? Hands-on security systems management and support for Firewalls, Anti-virus, Secure Printing and End-Point Security  ? Answer help desk phone calls and emails  ? Setup New Hires and Administration changes for all employees using Active Directory  ? Provided on the spot Troubleshooting as time allows  ? Troubleshoot, Re-Imaged, Repair and Maintained functionality of all Desktop & Laptops as needed  ? Maintained the BizFone telephone system, i.e. relocating, restarting and reassigning extensions  ? Maintained and Support Xerox Docushare Copier system and Repository  ? Supported for mobile phone systems  ? Coordinated service repairs with various outside venders either on-site or over the phone POS Operations Analyst/Trainer Chicos FAS, Inc - Fort Myers, FL 2004 to 2010 Responsible for creation and delivery of all technical Help Desk documentation contained within Standard Operating Procedures Manual or other operational documents as prescribed by the POS Technical Support Manager.  ? Responsible for the creation and execution of various Help Desk Training Programs and storage for the Help Desk knowledge base.  ? Identify Help Desk associate's opportunities for improvement or skill gaps, and communicate to management team (i.e. phone etiquette, proper use of Help Desk tools, technical proficiency, etc.)  ? Participate in work groups and activities aimed at improving the overall quality of support to our customers.  ? Act as a direct resource to customers and management for any and all feedback regarding problems or concerns for support issues.  ? Facilitate communications to customers, support teams, and management during large scale outages.  ? Identify repetitive problems and provide trending information to facilitate permanent resolutions.  ? Proactively build working relationships and maintain open dialogues with business partners to insure support practices are consistent with current business objectives.  ? Organize and lead necessary meetings.  ? Ability to work independently without consistent supervision. Education High school or equivalent in Accounting Dudley Hall Career Institute - Worcester, MA 1991 High school or equivalent South High Community School - Worcester, MA 1988 Skills Customer Service, Call Center, CSR, Customer Care