FIeld Operations Contractor - Techniciam II - Network Engineer FIeld Operations Contractor - Techniciam II - Network Engineer Computer Science Engineer Downey, CA Ethic Hacker, Scripts Programer, Software Developer, Team Player, Funny, Good Attitude, Quick Learner and Ambitious. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience FIeld Operations Contractor - Techniciam II - Network Engineer SAC Wireless LLC - San Diego, CA January 2019 to Present Conducting verification surveys in communication structures for the clients Cox and Nokia for future fiber expansion projects. Designing new fiber installation projects.   Verifying telecommunication poles with the IKEGPS and PanGrid tools   QA/QC verification surveys on IKEGPS and PlanGrid. Cyber Security Analyst - IT Manager - Independent Consultor BTG TEXTILES, INC. - Vernon, CA January 2017 to Present Installation and configuration of file servers, work stations and network equipment.  Set up of Wi-Fi routers, VPN, firewall network zones, IP addresses and subnets, DHCP, DNS, WinServers.  Administration of users, computers, groups, roles, shared resources.  Information Back up. Busines Class Techniciam - Independent Contractor TechNet Partners INC - Carlsbad, CA February 2017 to November 2018 Network Troubleshooting.  Installation of TV, Internet and Phone Services.  Audio Video Installations  Home Wifi and security configuration.   Home runs and Smart panels installations.   Port forwarding in home router for cameras remote access. Head of the Security Information Department ETECSA.SA - Habana August 2008 to November 2016 Install and configure workstations in all areas of the company. (Microsoft Windows 10, Windows 7,  Windows XP, Windows 2000, Office 2007, Kaspersky Workstations Antivirus, HP-Scaners and Printers).  Provide technical support by telephone and through remote desktop.  Manage the IP addresses of the Enterprise network.  Link and configure VPN with company offices.  Manage and monitor Routers, Switches, firewalls and other network elements.  Install and configure the servers: Active Directory, DNS, and DHCP.  Make Updates and save backups of servers.  Keep updated the log of incidents of the network.  Make the plans of Security, Contingency, and Analysis of Risks.  Direct and assign responsibilities to the computer security team.  Monitor the traffic of the Network.  Manage the security application servers.  Review the Security plans, Contingency Plans and Risk Analysis.  Participate in the board of directors of the company  Owner and Manager | Laptop Repair Shop TESLA, CUBA Education Computer Science Engineer in Cyber Security and Networking. University of Informatics Sciences - Havana August 2003 to July 2008 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry IPVCE Martires De Humboldt 7 - Havana September 1999 to July 2002 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (8 years), COMPUTER SECURITY (8 years), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (8 years), PRINTERS (8 years), SECURITY (8 years), Cissp, Siem, Cyber Security, Information Security, Cybersecurity, It Security, Network Security, Linux, Information Assurance, Comptia, Nist Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sginarte/ Certifications/Licenses Computer Science Engineering Degree July 2008 to Present University of Informatics Sciences Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kf-ke73y8fg2kfn2 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  Chess player mind set. Math abilities. Patient. Persistent. Understanding. Listening. Sports. Leadership.  Planning. Typing. Time managing. Technologies understanding. Developing software. Troubleshooting  technologies. Handwork.    TECHNOLOGIES  Microsoft Windows 2000, XP, 7, 8, 8.1, 10, Server 2000, Server 2003, Server 2008.  Microsoft Office Word, Excel (Specially Excel and Project), Access, PowerPoint, Visio, Project. (2003,  2007, 2010, 2013, 2016)  Microsoft Visual Studio .Net. PHP, C++, C#, Java, Android Framework, MySQL, XML, HTML5, Ajax, Java  Script, Drupal, Joomla, Python, bach, perl, Microsoft SQL server.  Microsoft Active Directory. Fedora Directory Server  Linux: Ubuntu, Debian, Red-Hat.  OSSIM, Snort, Nagios, Kaspersky, Nmap, Ntop, Smtp, Ftp, ssl, SMTP, TCP, IPv4,  HP Scanners and Printers Technologies.  Cisco, Mikrotik, Huawei, Telindus, Ericson, Linksys, Netgear, Ubikiti.  UCI, Postgraduate Courses  2008 - 2016  Basis of Telecommunications  Telecommunications Networks  Telematic services  Introduction to telecommunications  Telecommunications Networks.  Telecommunications. Advanced topics.  Introduction to Computer Security  Security in Telecommunication networks.  TCP / IP  Snort, Intrusion detector system.  SIM, Security Information's Manager.  Kaspersky, Antivirus workstations, Net-Agent and Administrator Kit  HTML and CSS  Linux Basics  Operating System Linux  Architecture and Patterns  Basic in Computer Project Management  Management Techniques  Negotiation and Contracting Management  Scope and time management  Quality management  Cost Management  Tools for project management  Project management in the organization  Management of Risks and Efforts