Manager, Information Security Manager, Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Manager, Information Security - Speedcast Manvel, TX Proficient IT professional motivated to contribute a diverse range of IT expertise in systems  architecture, network infrastructure, project management, information security, and business  support while serving in a challenging role. Work Experience Manager, Information Security Speedcast December 2018 to Present Lead the design, implementation, operation and maintenance of the Information Security  Management System based on the ISO/IEC 27000 series standards, including certification against ISO 27001  • Promote awareness of security issues to ensure sound security principles are reflected in the  organization's vision and goals  • Provide engineering support for cybersecurity infrastructure  • Proactively collaborates with the IT department and related business units to increase system  security, document system architecture and define long-term design strategies. Manager of IT Infrastructure and Operations NorthStar Midstream February 2017 to November 2018 Reporting to the SVP of Finance and Administration, responsible for planning, directing and coordinating the design, installation and connectivity of computer systems and network  infrastructure to ensure the stable operation of the organization's IT assets  • Act as a liaison for all IT related issues/projects involving controls process engineers and technicians  • Work with stakeholders to define business and systems requirements for new technology  implementations and develop business case justifications and cost/benefit analyses for IT  spending and initiatives  • Improved credential security and management by migrating to Azure Active Directory. Enabled  single-sign-on and two-factor-authentication for all supported applications.  • Developed and implemented IT user acceptance policy, security controls, and best practices to protect corporate assets and ensure high availability  • Performed security and vulnerability assessment of environment for continuous improvement  of company security posture using the NIST Cybersecurity Framework Core Functions Server Engineer KIRBY CORPORATION April 2015 to February 2017 • Responsible for the maintenance and support of all IT server infrastructure company-wide.  • Oversee the remediation of findings from public and internal security audits to meet SOX  compliance.  • Backup and replicate corporate data center to ensure meet requirements of retention and disaster recovery policy.  • Deployed MS Hyper-V servers to all branch offices to consolidate hardware and leverage  continuous backup and off-site replication.  • Collaborated with various company departments to complete projects and initiatives Systems Administrator; Vessel Support; Server Engineer KIRBY CORPORATION March 2011 to April 2015 • Maintain and support all computer hardware and software for approximately 80 vessels.  • Provide 24/7 service desk support for all KOM corporate users.  • Serve as primary field technician for rollout of Wheelmate solution to entire Kirby Offshore  Marine (KOM) fleet. The project involved installation of Boatracs satellite system, installation of Cisco 819 router, imaging of new laptops, migration of business-critical files/applications, and  training of crew.  • Completed integration of K-Sea's server/desktop environment to KOM's IT infrastructure and domain policies. Systems Administrator; IT Manager K-SEA TRANSPORTATION PARTNERS, L.P October 2005 to March 2011 Reporting to the Director of IT, responsible for overseeing vessel and shoreside IT operations at all sites. IT Manager K-SEA TRANSPORTATION PARTNERS, L.P 2007 to 2010 • Relocated to Seattle from 2007-2010 to serve as IT Manager for Pacific and Hawaii Divisions.  • Deployed and maintained data/voice LAN and WAN (MPLS) infrastructure and security.  • Consolidated server hardware through Hyper-V virtualization to reduce hardware footprint and reduce operational costs.  • Responsible for the maintenance and backup of file servers, domain controllers, and critical  production servers in a 24x7x365 environment.  • Actively monitored and audited monthly telecommunication bills and sought out cost-effective  alternatives for both shore-side and offshore communications. Streamlined vessel  communications to reduce annual expenditures by $200,000.  • Contributor in the integration of company IT services during acquisitions of Seacoast  Transportation, Smith Maritime, Sirius Maritime and River Associates  • Designed and managed installation of Axis surveillance camera systems, HID ProxCard access  points, and TWIC card readers at all facilities. Systems Analyst ALTERNATIVE DISTRIBUTION ALLIANCE November 2003 to October 2005 • Provided in-person and phone technical support for local/remote offices and ADA clients  • Facilitated ticket escalation and resolution  • Configured, troubleshoot, repaired all IT related hardware  • Performed administrative Active Directory tasks  • Evaluated new hardware, software, and management tool solutions  • Managed user accounts and access codes for company's web-based portal Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science in Computer Science PACE UNIVERSITY - New York, NY June 2003 Skills Active directory. (10+ years), Citrix (4 years), Dhcp (10+ years), Dns (10+ years), Exchange (10+ years), Firewall (10+ years), Hyper-v (6 years), Netapp (2 years), Network attached storage (10+ years), Networking, Cissp (Less than 1 year), Information Security (2 years), Siem (2 years), Cyber Security (2 years), It Security (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Firewall and security - AlienVault USM, Fortigate, Palo Alto, Panorama, Cisco ASA, Sonicwall  NSA, Microsoft ISA Server, Cisco Umbrella, ESET, Kaspersky, Symantec Endpoint Protection,  Proofpoint, SentinelOne, KnowBe4  • Networking - Adtran Netvanta, HP ProCurve Switches, Cisco SG Switches, Riverbed Steelhead,  Cisco Meraki/Ubiquiti/Ruckus WAP, Sierra Wireless RV  • Telecommunications Technology - Fiber Internet, Wireless Broadband, HughesNet, Iridium,  VSAT, Omnitracs  • Server software - Windows Server 2008/2012/2016 (AD, DNS, DHCP, IIS, Hyper-V), Microsoft  Exchange, SQL Server, Forefront Identity Manager, SCCM, WSUS, Citrix, VMWare  • Cloud Services - Azure (IaaS, AD, SSO), O365 (Exchange Online, Active Directory), Sharefile,  Druva, Salesforce, ServiceNow  • Telephony/VOIP systems - Hosted PBX, Cisco/Polycom Phones  • File storage infrastructure and backup - NetApp, NAS/DAS, Snap Appliance, Symantec  BackupExec, Commvault Tape Library, Druva Cloud Backup, StorageCraft, VEEAM, Sharefile  • Site security and surveillance - Secure Perfect 6.0, Axis Cameras and Management Software,  Avigilon, Interlogix