IT Operations Administrator <span class="hl">IT</span> Operations Administrator IT Operations Administrator - DELTA HEALTH SYSTEMS Salt Lake City, UT Work Experience IT Operations Administrator DELTA HEALTH SYSTEMS - Salt Lake City, UT June 2014 to Present Administration of Salt Lake, Stockton and Fresno office networks independently and with remote team  members.  ? Resolve/restore end user domain, Citrix or VPN connectivity. Resolve user problems via Remote Desktop, VPN, Citrix or TeamViewer.  ? Manage multiple Microsoft Servers environment. Maintain, troubleshoot and monitor systems.  ? Windows System administration, Active Directory, email server administration, printers management.  ? Implement Software, test, configure, install virtual machines and train staff on new and existing programs.  ? Manage equipment from box-to-rack-to-decommissioning. Created detailed recommendations to improve  organization, integrations, upgrades and cost-efficiency.  ? Completed a comprehensive IT inventory, updated and reimaged desktops.  ? Upgraded power outage prevention and readiness plan; maintained office functionality.  ? Migrated company to faster, cost-effective ISP.  ? Updated hardware and software to current KACE version, implemented use of KACE virtual server for multiple teams, including HIPAA Compliance Team.  ? Prepared documentation for and responded to security and system integrity audit under HIPAA. Systems Administrator/Network & Hardware Engineer NAARTJIE CUSTOM KIDS - Salt Lake City, UT June 2009 to June 2014 Systems and Network Administrator for 60 US retail stores.  ? Designed, managed, maintained functional networks for stability, integrity, data security. Designed network  architecture for stores. Traveled to new sites for network installations, directed contractors during build-out.  ? Administered security protocol and ensured PCI Compliance. Pre-configured and installed Cisco  ASAs/firewalls. Managed Active Directory, domain controller and mail server.  ? Performed network analysis, monitoring and diagnostics, reported to VP and Head of IT.  ? Resolved escalated top-tier and critical technical problems.  ? Performed and analyzed all systems testing. Designed, recommended and implemented disaster recovery  plan. Upgraded entire company's credit transaction processing from analog to TCP/IP with backup system to ensure zero-failure. Implemented multiple software upgrades with zero downtime in every US store.  ? Created complete technical process documentation and corporate training book.  ? Screened, hired, trained, mentored, supervised and delegated tasks to Junior Sys Admins. Contracted IT Support HIRSCHI CHRISTENSEN, PLLC - Salt Lake City, UT November 2009 to March 2011 IT Operations Analyst Level II SUPERVALU - Salt Lake City, UT March 2008 to June 2009 Re-imaged, configured, repaired Windows Servers and proprietary software on Windows-based registers.  ? Directed on-site technicians and managers for correct credit card processing installation at fuel centers and self-checkout consoles.  ? Identified/analyzed causes of software and hardware failures, implemented solutions for reliability.  ? Repaired LAN, WLAN and WAN connectivity problems.  ? Assisted vendors with integration and configuration of domain controllers, DNS servers, routing and network.  ? Resolved Electronic Payment problems to increase company revenue. Field Systems Specialist PITNEY BOWES - Salt Lake City, UT April 2007 to March 2008 Installed, maintained, and repaired several proprietary systems for Federal and State Agencies and Corporate  clients. Accurately and promptly resolved customer concerns.    DYNCORP INTERNATIONAL / COCHISE CONSULTANCY, INC., Iraq Security Specialist Personal Security Detail October 2004 to September 2007 Team Leader:  ? Ensured safety and well-being of all security personnel, administrative staff. GPS and transponder tracking of personnel. Managed team shift scheduling and days off.  ? Created written documentation and Standard Operating Procedures for missions and team operations.  Salt Lake City, UT 84105 | sg940@outlook.com | 801-244-2668 2  ? Established and maintained internet and VOIP connections in remote locales.  ? Troubleshot and repaired all team and client member laptops, hardware and software.  ? Responsible for eighteen security members and twelve client personnel.  ? Responsible for mission planning, plotting routes/alternate routes.  ? Logistical materials management.  Detail Shift Team Leader:  ? Leadership, guidance, supervision, and direction of personnel maintaining the security of living area  compound for clients and team members. ALBERTSON'S INC - Salt Lake City, UT October 2004 to September 2007 IT Support Contractor ST. AMBROSE CHURCH - Salt Lake City, UT October 2004 to September 2007 Sole support contractor, responsible for all the IT needs of small businesses.  ? Remote assistance and on-site repairs on company computers. Managed servers, switches, routers and backups.  ? Supported the Point-of-Sale systems and networks for the store registers and servers.    Certifications, Proficiencies  Fluent in Spanish (spoken and written)  CCNA - Cisco Certified Network Associate  MCP 2000 - Microsoft Certified Professional  CompTIA Network+  CompTIA A+  Windows XP, 7, MS Server 2003-2012, Exchange server, Active Directory, MS Office Suite  Mass 500, Retail Pro, PC Charge, Falconview  TeamViewer, Citrix, IBM AS400 Assistant Network Administrator / Lead Help Desk Technician GREENBACKS, INC - Salt Lake City, UT October 2001 to December 2003 Effectively supported the Head Network Administrator with the upkeep and troubleshooting of the corporate  network, built/supported computers, built/supported servers, local area network cabling, switches, routers and assisted users.  ? Ensured the communication and data recovery of information transmitted from 100 remote stores sites to  the corporate office.  ? Configured Cisco ASAs.  ? Set up and managed users in Active Directory.  ? Diagnosed and repaired connectivity issues and PCs.  ? Effectively helped corporate end users with network, hardware, and software issues.  ? Traveled to stores as needed, installed and configured ADSL routers on site, fixed computers, ran and terminated network cabling.  ? Ensured 100% network performance.  ? Administered and maintained store network, computers, and registers and IT functionality during the acquisition of Greenbacks, Inc. by Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. Maintained remaining Greenbacks' store systems  until completion of the acquisition. Last contractor of Greenbacks, Inc. Handed off and closed down corporate network. Education General Studies Salt Lake Community College 1993 to 2001 Skills System Admin, Active Directory, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification