Front Desk Manager Front Desk Manager IT Security Coordinator - JOHNSON & JOHNSON / IRON MOUNTAIN Hamilton, NJ (Relocating to Washington NJ in mid-August 2019 Work Experience Front Desk Manager Fluid Physio - Lawrenceville, NJ February 2019 to Present • Schedule patients to receive physical therapy.  • Utilize Quickbooks for patient invoices and various other expense purposes.  • Assist patients to contact and determine potential out-of-network health care benefits.  • Contribute to team meetings to stimulate company growth or enhance patient satisfaction. Postal Support Employee United States Postal Service - Trenton, NJ November 2018 to February 2019 • Manage various machines to process and sort mail and parcels.  • Performed manual checks of mail to ensure accurate distribution. IT Security Coordinator Iron Mountain - Piscataway, NJ May 2013 to November 2018 Contractor working at Johnson and Johnson  • Provide and remove application access to users and customers ensuring that compliance and procedures are met with the application being requested  • Managed application and database access for MDM, ICS, SAP, CARS/IS, CARSMA, HPQC, and more.  • Generate several reports for business and auditing purposes. Performed VLOOKUPS regularly.  • Requested by manager to assist in creating and reviewing SAP Audit logs for business critical documentation that require detail orientation and accuracy  • Perform "Manager Mailer" report on a bi-annual basis to remove or grant application access based on 1,500+ managers to review their direct reports' access  •Regularly assist in CIA and PWC audit reviews and meetings  • Manage, review, and support several e-mail boxes  • Assist users and customers with password resets by e-mail, phone, or screen share  • Formulated new ideas and process for new and old applications to be more efficient Image Production Specialist Remedy Intelligent Staffing - Freehold, NJ August 2012 to May 2013 Temp working at Iron Mountain  • Prepared highly confidential documentation to scan for digital storage  • Scanned paper documents into a digital media to be billed to the customer.  • Adapted to new rules and procedures on a regular basis  • Trained new workers for the company's work flow process. Retail Systems Analyst / IT Support Analyst Betsey Johnson - Secaucus, NJ May 2011 to October 2011 • Maintained 150+ retail system computers across 2 offices, a distribution center, and over 70 retail locations globally  • Managed point of sale (POS) applications to add and update prices, inventory, and user profiles  • Provided weekend on-call support and traveled for on-site service at headquarters and promotional events  • Audited accounts payable and communicated action plans to senior management to remediate issues  • Developed technical documentation and created training guides. Data Base Processing / Communication Specialist Assistant Multicultural Community Services - Edison, NJ February 2008 to May 2011 Prepare over 70 client reports each month to be presented at Municipal Family Courts Education Bachelor of Arts in Information Technology Informatics RUTGERS UNIVERSITY - New Brunswick, NJ October 2009 Skills SAP (3 years), ACCESS (Less than 1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), EXCEL (10+ years), HTML (Less than 1 year), SQL (5 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Outlook (10+ years), SOX Compliance (5 years), HIPAA Compliance (8 years), Administrative Assistant, Payroll, Quickbooks, Filing Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL HIGHLIGHTS  • Software Proficiency: MS Word, MS Excel, PowerPoint, SAP, Quickbooks, various software applications  • Hardware Proficiency: Strong abilities installing network devices  • Computer Languages: SQL+ (Oracle), (X)HTML, Java, Access, MYSQL, C++