Senior CNC Consultant and Architect Senior CNC Consultant and Architect Senior CNC Consultant and Architect - Multiple Oracle Platinum Partners Coral Springs, FL Work Experience Senior CNC Consultant and Architect Multiple Oracle Platinum Partners 2015 to Present CNC consultant/solutions architect specializing in Enterprise One installs/upgrades on SQL, Oracle and DB database platforms.  ? Performed pre sales activities for prospective clients - performance assessments, upgrade assessments and proposals, net change  workshops and training.  ? Full cycle implementation net new install of 9.2.2.5 on SQL 2016 database, providing all aspects of install from database to ERP  installation..  ? Lead CNC on upgrade for large sporting goods company from Xe to 9.2, tools 9.2.2.5 currently in CRP. Handled database installation  and all Unicode conversion processes.  ? Lead CNC on successful upgrade for gaming company from 8.12 to 9.2, tools 9.2.1.6, implementing SSL on web tier..  ? Lead CNC on successful upgrade for parts manufacturing company from 9.0 to 9.2 tools 9.2.2.1. Installed all aspects from SQL Server, bolt on services (Reports Now, Spreadsheet Server) and exposed BSSV / SSL setup.  ? Start to finish CNC on upgrade from 9.1 to 9.2 application on 9.2.1.4 tools / SQL database (500 users)  ? Multiple tools upgrades to 9.2.2.5 in order to support UX One components (Orchestrator Studio, Notifications, Process Recorder, etc.)  ? Top level Managed Service support.  ? Provide leadership and documentation to team on best practices with newer E1 tools and technologies (UX One, ADF, Weblogic  Security Patching, OVR on latest version of BIP.)  ? CNC consultant specializing in Enterprise One installs/upgrades on Oracle database platforms.  ? CNC consultant on two full upgrades from Enterprise One 9.1 to 9.2. Upgrade all facets of the Enterprise One technology stack  (database, web tier, and enterprise servers.) Platforms were Windows, Linux and AIX.  ? CNC Consultant on four new implementations of Enterprise One 9.2 on Oracle databases - 3 are in production, 1 pending. Responsible  for implementation of all Enterprise One technology stack (databases, web tier and enterprise servers)  ? Supported two new implementations of Enterprise One 9.1 on Oracle 12c databases. Provided total Oracle installation, RMAN setup for backups, and database level security.  ? Implementation of new UDO functionality delivered in 9.2, set up promotion paths, content approval security, provide training as needed for multiple clients.  ? Implementation of Oracle 12c (Enterprise, Standard and RAC) editions for multiple clients, providing database security assistance, RMAN setup assistance for backups, extensive use of datapump for refreshes, and Golden Gate for table synchronization.  ? Vertex installations for both Sales and Payroll taxes.  ? Installation and upgrades of multiple One View Reporting Servers. (BIP Server, Enterprise Install)  ? Installation/configuration of Oracle ADF server - Weblogic 12.1.3 with Fusion Middleware 12.1.3/ADF 1.3  ? Installation/configuration of Oracle Data Integrator - Weblogic 12.2.1 with Fusion Middleware 12.2.1  ? Installation of UPK and KCenter for multiple clients.  ? Top level support for managed services tickets. Lead CNC Administrator Assa Abloy - New Haven, CT 2015 to 2015 Provide CNC Administration for JDE 9.0 system on Tools 9.1.3.3 (DV on Tools 9.1.5.3) Windows/SQL2008 platform.  ? Removed ActiveX controls to support transition to Chrome versus Internet Explorer as browse (HTML text editor, ran full conversion.)  ? Supported successful go live of three new divisions due to ERP consolidation.  ? Responsible for installation of all ASU's and ESU's.  ? Implement and clean up security via All Out Security Tool.  ? Implemented windows scheduling to streamline submission of hourly jobs with daily finite end points. CNC Administrator III Watson Pharmaceuticals - Sunrise, FL 2010 to 2015 Provide top level CNC support to Xe and 8.0 systems, and all supporting apps such as Websphere, DSI, Optio and Loftware.  ? Implemented and maintain SAP Netweaver 7.31 EHP1 Process Orchestrator (SOA, ESB for messaging.)  ? DB2 administration as pertaining to all corporate JDE systems.  ? Created scripts for detailed SOX analysis via SQL adaptable to various security methodologies.  ? Perform advanced data analysis of manufacturing, financial and procurement tables to assist business analyst team.  ? Lead CNC in migration to new hardware for JDE 8.0 system (AS400 V7R1, Windows VM's.)  ? Script and execute validation protocols for JDE and SAP related systems. Consultant Perot Systems/Dell 2008 to 2010 primarily assigned to Watson Pharmaceuticals  ? Primarily worked with Watson Pharmaceuticals account. Provided CNC support on JDE 8.0 systems, go live for multiple sites as Watson expanded.  ? Implemented proof of concept upgrade to JDE 9.0 / DB2 from JDE 8.0 system. Project was eventually cancelled due to company  direction change to SAP.  ? Upgraded Perot hosted JDE instance from 8.11 to JDE 9.0 / Oracle 10g / AIX. Senior IT Engineer Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2008 to 2008 JD Edwards One World Xe CNC support and administration including SOX standards.  ? CNC on JDE upgrade project to 8.12, tools 8.97, remaining on DB2 database.  ? Maintain documentation in regards to all migration for DB2 / JDE related activity due to heavy change control. Senior CNC Analyst Levitt Corporation - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2006 to 2008 All JD Edwards One World CNC support and administration for 8.11SP1, tools 8.95H1 and all supporting apps such as Websphere, Create Form, and GL Inquiry Suite.  ? SQL 2000 Database administration for all JDE databases.  ? SQL scripting to provide auditors with information on security and financials for SOX auditing.  ? Installed, upgrade and maintained documents in CreateForm package for custom printing needs. Security Officer Avatar Properties - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2005 to 2006 All JD Edwards One World Xe / World Coexistence CNC support and administration.  ? Technical lead on project to migrate from World to One World Xe for all Homebuilder, Financial and Payroll applications. Handled all  data migration and assisted with table conversions as needed.  ? Manage MIMIX Replicate1 tool to replicate all data from the AS400 to a SQL 2000 database utilized by Cetova report writer tool.  ? Primary IT contact for all internal and external audits. IT Project Specialist Schering Plough - Miami Lakes, FL 2002 to 2005 Documentum electronic document management system.  ? Fourth Shift ERP system and backend applications utilized to fill business gaps.  ? Technical lead on Empower upgrade project.  ? Administration and support of all infrastructure hardware and applications.  ? Administration and support of all local databases - Oracle and SQL based.  ? Provided technical expertise to site validation team in regards to site system remediation planning (CFR Part 11, GMP).  ? Develop, review and maintain GMP related documentation and change controls for all systems and department related standard  operating procedures such as System Design Specs (SDS), Testing Specs (PQ/IQ/OQ), and all summary reports related to validation of IT systems. Network Engineer / CNC Noven Pharmaceuticals - Miami, FL 1999 to 2002 Responsible for all One World Xe CNC responsibilities on NT/Oracle 8i platform from implementation onwards.  ? Extensive One World Xe ERW for customization  ? Developed standard operating procedures and validation documents regarding the technical aspects of the One World Xe system. Intern / Systems Analyst / Micorsoft Windows NT Administrator Cordis Corporation, A Johnson and Johnson Company - Miami Lakes, FL 1996 to 1999 Started as intern and was hired near immediately full time as a Windows NT 4.0 Administrator. Implemented first Citrix farm. Education Bachelor's degree in Computer Science in Formal IT Training St. Thomas University - Miami, FL 1995 to 1998 St. John's University - Jamaica, NY 1993 to 1995 Skills Rte, Gmp, Data analysis, Db2, Oracle, Sql, Erp, Sap, Java, Weblogic, Websphere, Sarbanes oxley, Sox, Middleware, Scripting, E1, System validation, Documentation, Business services, Bi