Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Analyst Winston-Salem, NC Work Experience Security Analyst Affordable Care Act August 2013 to April 2016 Performed duties and responsibilities as a member of the Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A) Team in support of the cyber security and information assurance requirements for the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Program Management Office (PMO). The IRS SA&A documents developed as part of the support process included the Security Categorization Worksheets, Authorization Boundary Memos (ABM), System Security Plans (SSP), Information System Contingency Plans (ISCP), Privacy Impact Assessments (PIA), Security Assessment Reports (SAR), Audit Plans and schedules supporting the security work in accordance with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS), NIST Special Publications (SP800 series) and Internal Revenue Service manuals. Orchestrated working and validation sessions to obtain the information required to complete the SA&A documentation developed. Attended all meetings of the Integrated Project Teams (IPT) for the projects supported. Provided cyber security support to the following ACA PMO project: Information Returns (AIR). Senior Analyst NIST SP October 2012 to August 2013 on the IT- Security Compliance Monitoring project within IRS MITS Cybersecurity. The IT-SCM project supports information security by automating the monitoring of compliance with internal information technology security controls. The RSA Archer Enterprise Governance, Risk and Compliance (eGRC) Platform is used to provide the required eGRC functions. The RSA Archer eGRC Platform aggregates data from across the range of IT management, operational, and technical controls. Reports and data from these various information points depict a combined risk evaluation across the IT security controls, as stated in NIST SP 800-53.  • Generated the required Enterprise Life Cycle (ELC) documentation for the customer, including the System Test Plan, Configuration Management Plan, System Deployment Plan, System Management Plan, Project Charter, Contingency Management Plan and System Verification and Validation Plan.  • Worked on the Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A) effort and produced Security Categorization Worksheets, Master Inventory Reclassification Checklist and Security Change Request Forms.  • Led all testing efforts including Functional User Testing, Independent System Acceptance Testing and 508 Compliance Testing.  • Received Advanced RSA Archer Administrative training and served as an Archer administrator, including the implementation of programs within the RSA Archer eGRC platform. Northrop Grumman IT, Government Solutions August 2004 to October 2012 • Provide management oversight of the Engineering Integration Test Group (EIT) on the IRS Service Center Recognition Imaging Processing System (SCRIPS).  • Assign and monitor tasks of the Engineering Integration Testing personnel and ensure that integration are completed and accepted on time and within budget. Coordinate activities between Software Engineering, Quality Assurance Testing (QAT), and IRS System Acceptance Test (SAT) functions.  • Ensure EIT personnel are properly trained and foster cross training among individuals within the group. Interface with the engineering and support groups to plan for daily, weekly and monthly resource requirements in order to complete testing assignments. Lead, Engineering Integration Testing Northrop Grumman IT, Government Solutions January 1999 to October 2012 Senior Analyst, IT- Security Compliance Monitoring Constellation West March 2011 to June 2012 Software Quality Engineer 4 Northrop Grumman IT, Government Solutions February 2004 to August 2004 • Supported the work request for testing the IRS Individual Master File (IMF) application. Analyzed IMF system documentation including Program Requirements Packages (PRP) and Request for Information Services (RISs), for legislative and other changes effecting IMF accounts.  • Prepared test cases based on these changes to verify that the integrity of the account is maintained and that all changes have been implemented correctly for the current tax-processing year. Prepared deliverables as requested (for example, Test Confirmation Report, Requirements Test Matrix, and Comments File). e-services Test Lead Northrop Grumman IT, Government Solutions January 2001 to February 2004 • Created and managed a 15-member Test Team on the IRS Business Systems Modernization (BSM) e-services project as part of the PRIME organization. Successfully leads the e-services testing effort from its inception to its implementation of four product releases into the IRS production environment, on time and within budget.  • Successfully managed all test activities related to functional, acceptance, and integration testing.  • Interfaced with the other PRIME BSM projects to ensure project integration and coordinate testing efforts and resources. This included coordinated test environment resource requirements with the Development Integration and Test Environment (DITE) and Enterprise Integration and Test Environment (EITE) teams as well as coordinating activities between IRS System Acceptability Test (SAT), System Integration Test (SIT), Final Integration Test (FIT), and Deployment Site Readiness Test (DSRT) teams within Integration, Test and Deployment and the IRS Product Assurance Teams.  • Performed all aspects of personnel management, including annual performance management planning and evaluation and coaching.  • Provided management oversight of the Quality Assurance Test Group (QAT) on the IRS Service Center Recognition Imaging Processing System (SCRIPS). Assigned and monitored tasks of the Quality Assurance Testing personnel and ensured that quality assurance testing was completed and accepted on time and within budget.  • Coordinated activities between IRS System Acceptability Test (SAT), and System Acceptance Test (SAT) functions. Recommended and implemented improvements in the quality assurance processes. Ensured that Quality Assurance Testing personnel developed and documented test procedures for all operations and form types and conducted peer reviews on the test procedures.  • Interfaced with the engineering groups to plan for daily, weekly and monthly resource requirements in order to complete testing assignments. Technical Analyst Sterling Software January 1984 to January 1999 January, 1984 - January 1999    • Provide all levels of technical and customer support as the support and testing focal point for the current product releases of VM:Backup and VM:Tape.  • Responsible for quality prior to release to the customer base and for working with Engineering and Product Management to refine the existing product.  • Responsibilities included developing testing estimates by reviewing design documentation, planning and developing testing methodologies and strategies, monitoring and reporting the quality and progress of testing,    Technical Analyst  Product Support Specialist  Technical Support Representative Education Northern Virginia Community College Computer Learning Center