Desktop Support Technician Desktop Support Technician Desktop Support Technician Humble, TX Work Experience Desktop Support Technician VES - Houston, TX June 2018 to October 2018 • Create new user and email accounts in AD and Exchange 2016 as requested.  • Provide technical support for all inhouse and remote users with a variety of Windows, Microsoft Office, networking and proprietary Veteran Affairs application.  • Responsible for identifying and resolving network connectivity, AD security permission, email and SPAM filter, printing and scanning, laptop and desktop hardware and OS issues on a daily basis.  • Managed ESET antivirus server and desktop security to eliminate vulnerabilities.  • Responsible for testing images and imaging all desktops and laptops as needed  • Restored files and folders from backups as requested.  • Provided security access to AD groups and distribution folders. Security Analyst II JP Morgan Chase - Houston, TX April 2016 to September 2017 i-Space 2013 to 2016 • Patch Management - including but not limited to: identifying, configuring, and testing of Microsoft patches for the following operating systems, images and applications: Windows 7 (on platforms LVDI/i-Space/GenY), Windows 10, Office 2010/2013/2016, Silverlight, Shockwave, Adobe Reader and Acrobat, Adobe Flash Player and Debugger, IE, and .NET  • Test, package and deploy out-of-band patches, hot fixes and updates in System Center Updates Publisher  • PowerShell projects - testing and configuring GPOs for PowerShell focusing on permissions and logging.  • Minor PowerShell scripting  • SCCM - Software update group management - create software update groups and added the monthly security patches and updates.  • Verification of deployment of all patches to pilot testing groups to ensure successful install prior to global deployment of all packages created monthly.  • WSUS - monthly maintenance Desktop Engineer i-Space - Houston, TX July 2015 to December 2015 • Responsible for building high-end Windows workstations to replace systems running Linux.  • Installed Schlumberger Petrel software, to include all required dependent software plugins.  • Configured and installed software for Data Manager, Reservoir Engineer, Geo Scientist or Kiosk profiles.  • Responsible for applying security groups to systems to ensure applications and end users could function properly on a daily basis.  • Replaced hard drives, video cards and added more memory for added performance.  • Responsible for ensuring the correct version of Windows was installed, due to the consistency of updates occurring every two months. Systems Engineer/Par Petroleum i-Space January 2015 to June 2015 • Created AD accounts, mailboxes and personal drives for new users.  • Maintained and supported Active Directory as required by the organization.  • Imaged systems for new users; as well as repaired laptops and desktops when needed.  • Maintained the SCCM environment, and upon request, created and deployed package.  • Maintained the McAfee infrastructure and kept a 97% system compliance throughout the domain. Active Directory Security Administrator/Energy Transfer i-Space - Houston, TX September 2014 to December 2014 • Assisted in migrating users from multiple domains into one domain.  • Created Security and Distribution groups, Organizational Units and Exchange mailboxes; to include setting security via Global Policy Objects Systems Engineer i-Space - Houston, TX August 2013 to February 2014 • Maintained 30+ dynamic client environment on a daily basis  • Provided second level remote support at a 99% success rate.  • Create new user accounts in Active Directory, Exchange mailboxes, Security and Distribution groups, GPO Policies, and 3rd party software applications  • Maintained Active Directory, Exchange, 3rd Party E-mail Spam Filter, Windows Server 2008, 2003 and 2000, Windows 8, 7 and XP, Apple Products and various types of mobile devices, Patch Management, Anti-Virus and Managed Backups.  • Provided support for printing, hardware and software, wired and wireless networks, VPN issues as they arise. IT Engineer/Patriot Bank i-Space January 2013 to July 2013 • Created new user accounts and mailboxes in AD and Exchange 2010.  • Provided technical support for Operating Systems, Office products and third-party applications.  • Responsible for providing support to the entire Mortgage side of the company.  • Image and deploy new hardware to bring sites up to date.  • Assisting with the migration to a new phone system.  • Maintained images according to hardware and software changes. IT Infrastructure Engineer Ceva Logistics - Houston, TX January 2010 to September 2012 • Technical lead for Forefront Client Security migration team supervising 8 global implementation team members  • Designed, configured and implemented FCS replacing various antivirus solutions for 25,000 devices in 3 global regions.  • Designed and implemented current global WSUS infrastructure.  • Maintained server and desktop OS security to eliminate vulnerabilities. System Administrator March 2007 to January 2010 • Develop, support and maintain Active Directory on multiple domains, GPO's, and Operational Security for servers and desktops.  • Provide Active Directory support for 25,000 users and 50,000 devices.  • Administrator of global patch management via WSUS.  • Managed SCCM infrastructure spanning 80+ sites globally.  • Sole administrator of the multi-domain antivirus solution. Tier III Help Desk Support/Desktop Technician June 2002 to March 2007 • Met 99% success in SLA ticket closure.  • Experienced in Microsoft 2k, 2003 and 2008 server technology and Desktop OS support.  • Provided successful management and execution of 27 domestic and international station moves.