Day Laborer Day Laborer Day Laborer - Labor Finders Columbus, GA To secure a position in which my experience in customer service, leadership, computer, electronic, network methodologies, and my interpersonal and professional skills will not only better the company for which I work, but also help me to polish my abilities and experience even more. To find a position that honors family values as well as helps me to see my team members as family as well. To succeed and lead others to success.    PROFESSIONAL COMPUTER/NETWORK EMPLOYMENT Work Experience Day Laborer Labor Finders - Columbus, GA August 2018 to Present • Worked for Aaron's Furniture making collection calls  • Work for Spectra on assignment bartending and banqueting as well as assisting at the Civic Center for concerts and indoor football games. Contract Worker Staffing Connection - Columbus, GA September 2017 to August 2018 • Worked in call center at Masterbuilt answering calls and troubleshooting customer issues with manufacturing or part replacement issues and orders.  • Worked at Panasonic as a Logistics Coordinator organizing and filling shipments, inventory control, management of Oracle database to split and merge shipments. Retail Associate Manager T-Mobile - Columbus, GA October 2014 to August 2015 Assisted Store Manager in conducting behavior, values, and selling strategies and coaching sessions  ? Mediated customer/company concerns regarding practice, employees, and merchandise  ? Initiated training for customers in store  ? Stayed up to date on wireless products and technology for mobile industry  ? Initiated selling tools/concepts in store to drive sales within store and district  ? Led management calls (reporting numbers, projections, store concerns) Network Analyst II (Monitoring) TSYS - Columbus, GA April 2013 to February 2014 Served on a network monitoring team of 2 technicians installing and maintaining monitoring tools such as CA Spectrum, OPNET (VNE, IT Guru, AppResponse Xpert, AppTransaction Xpert and Netplanner), and Reporter Analyzer.  ? Participated in weekly capacity planning review to identify weaknesses in the network. Have drafted up diagrams using Microsoft Visio 2010.  ? Used AppResponse Xpert to analyze circuit usage, traffic flow, and retransmission rates.  ? Kept task list, wrote and published documentation to SharePoint site, creating new pages and links as needed.  ? Managed project initiatives using Microsoft Project, projecting resources, and time per resource per project.  ? Adhered to procedures and held others accountable to the procedures.  ? Was transitioned to the Monitoring team to incorporate my ability to write technical documents, motivate others, and provide efficient and responsible delivery.  ? Maintained SharePoint wiki site for our department with "how to" documentation and have written technical documentation for support of our tools and processes.  ? Attended OPNETWORK conference for training on OPNET tools to pass forward to our customers internally.  ? Participated in capacity planning meetings as well as upgrade meetings for planning analysis, project design, and remediation to ensure our network is preventatively maintained for high availability.  ? Trained two replacements on the OPNET/Riverbed Tools  ? Fostered vendor relationship between TSYS and Riverbed for the OPNET suite support, licensing, and contract renewal. Network Analyst II TSYS - Columbus, GA September 2011 to April 2013 24/7 Network Support)  ? Served on a team of 8 technicians in a 24x7 rotation supporting network infrastructure and connectivity, troubleshooting, tracing traffic to include taking packet captures across Checkpoint R65/75 firewalls, used Provider-1 and Smart Dashboard to verify policies and monitor user and client access and routes.  ? Wrote configuration scripts for network infrastructure changes on Cisco and Extreme routers and switches.  ? Built generic templates and PCI compliant templates for CISCO routers, switches, and stack topology.  ? Drafted firewall access lists for clients, both internal to TSYS and external to TSYS.  ? Remediated CISCO configs for more accurate SNMP polling and trapping, as well as modified configurations per the client's request, as well as remediated ntp server strings and basic configurations.  ? Added and modified routes within CISCO and Extreme devices. Served as mediator between clients and internal operations.  ? Used Splunk, CA Spectrum, OPNET AppResponse Xpert and AppTrans Expert, and device logs to remediate any network issues.  ? Performed tcpdumps for troubleshooting the three-way handshake on F5 Big IP Load Balancers and Checkpoint firewalls and monitored and analyzed traffic blocks and allows on Checkpoint firewalls as well as availability of servers within F5 Load Balancers usually in a round robin configuration.  ? Replaced, retired, and traced cable connections for Cisco and Extreme routers and switches. Lead the initiative for research and implementation of PCI compliance on Extreme devices, to include update of Extremeware and XOS software.  ? Gathered requirements for life cycle planning on Extreme devices for implementation of CISCO devices for better reliability across our high-availability network. Information Security Analyst II TSYS - Columbus, GA August 2010 to September 2011 Provisioned user access to security applications such as Enterprise Identity Access Management, RSA, TS1/TS2, HPNSK/Tandem, and Checkpoint Provider-1.  ? Conducted cleanup and maintenance of all access on a quarterly and individual review process.  ? Identified areas of risk and implement a solution of which I was assigned as Project Lead to an effort to review the token request procedure and revise it to meet customer and company needs.  ? Updated SOPs per application as needed.  ? Lead meetings and discussions in our team as needed.  ? Identified processes for improvement and have had several of those processes rewarded, acknowledged, or implemented.  ? Identified a terminations procedure that has not been performed on our Internet facing security application and in the process of identifying this as an issue, management uncovered where 800 team members who were termed were automatically loaded, which could have caused the company risk and loss of credibility.  ? Participated as a SME with our remote access solution to include providing support to our DSOs, customers, and review and revising access per security procedures.  ? Provided Level I support on all security applications to which I provision access.  ? Revised the firewall access request procedure associated with remote access and token assignment in which we will be revising the request process, the access provision procedures, as well as performing a cleanup of old access and current access.  ? Implemented the provisioning of access to the Checkpoint portal CMA and removing all access during the termination or transfer process. Client Services Analyst II TSYS - Columbus, GA January 2008 to August 2010 Provided analysis in XML and RTDS data packets used in screens by Capital One for customer and account maintenance.  ? Corresponded with clients regarding updates on incidents created and attended meetings on those incidents with team members and clients.  ? Led several conference calls between TSYS customers and our project team to discuss the progress of initiatives.  ? Worked closely with technical resources to understand the programming behind the scenes, provided level I research and resolution in TS2 for potential issues with packets for use in RTM, ProphIT, VRU, IFM, and Chordiant workflows.  ? Worked closely with Capital One Management and Development to understand their needs and give them timely resolutions.  ? Gained experience with applications such as SOAPSonar, OTIS, CICS, CDMET, Service Manager, Lotus Notes, WSDL Weaver, Docline, XML Documentation, SharePoint and R&D Website.  ? Performed project validation for my modules and documented results in Validation Documents for Capital One review as needed.  ? Provided Level I support and issue resolution.  ? Identified and recommended opportunities for enhancements to Capital One.  ? During the UDAP effort, I lead and managed the Production Support activities by getting updates from other CSAs and updating the report that I send out every morning to internal project resources and Capital One resources. Firedog PC Technician Circuit City - Columbus, GA January 2009 to November 2009 • Provided support to customers for computer technology including software, hardware, networking and other general questions.  • Performed virus removal, software upgrades, and other general repairs as needed.  • When repairs were slow, performed new pc setups with antivirus/anti-spyware protection, customization, and software installs or hardware upgrades.  • Engaged customers with pc sales and provided information about all areas of expertise in order to make the customer comfortable with their purchase.  • Organized repair station and placed calls to customers for completed repairs and pickups.  • As an in-home technician, I set up, configured and repaired customers' computers and wireless networks to include recommending the proper wireless router for their home and the requirements for internet function. Adjunct Instructor Columbus Technical College - Columbus, GA May 2008 to May 2009 • Created program course work, edited course work as it applied to the quarter and the agenda provided via an Internet Portal (Angel) for students.  • Delivered education to students via a 5-week in class "Introduction to Micro-Computers" class which included basic introduction into Internet/PC/Network hardware and technologies such as TCP/IP, wireless routing, and basic troubleshooting to transition the students to an online learning environment using an internet facing portal for Certified Microsoft Office Specialist program.  • Other classes taught include Keyboarding, and Certified Microsoft Office Specialist applications.  • Created and proctored final and midpoint exams.  • Submitted grades and attendance to supervisor at the end of the quarter as well as maintained a discussion board for work ethics issues and student interaction. Sr. Systems Support Technician Intercall - West Point, GA August 2006 to December 2007 • Participated as 1 of 3 senior technicians.  • Lead 2 junior technicians in maintaining a functional call floor for quality call center operations. Performed infrastructure and other network maintenance as needed.  • Created accounts for new users and transfers and assigned appropriate permissions as well as assigned exchange accounts to user logins as requested.  • Repaired daily dns/tcpip/proxy configurations, printer shares, and configuring software based on department needs. Installed and maintained CheckPoint thick and thin clients on remote users' laptops.  • Used ghosting and remote deployment software (CA Unicenter) to create images for pcs and deployed image jobs via mac address recognition to multiple computers for quick resolution of pc software updates and repairs.  • Toned network ports and punched network hubbles and cables as needed as well as participated in effort to re-label and color code all patch cables in panels.  • Implemented and maintained routers and switches in the existing network as well as replacing and configuring physical connections to these devices.  • Using the Cisco router device's control panel, have performed such tasks as refreshes, address and access credential assignments by zone. Displayed initiative and drive to do a great job. Took pride in my position, my department, and the company for which I worked. Network and Computer Installer/Implementer John Loney, self employed - Ellerslie, GA May 2007 to June 2007 Participated as 1 of 2 workers to develop and implement a Microsoft Windows Server 2003 network into a small doctor's office in Talbot County, Georgia. Set up wireless network for laptops and PDAs and configured all software and applications for the clinical environment.    Jan 2005 - Jan 2006  Implemented computer network in my father's business with 4 computers, 2 printers, 2 routers, and ran cable in building using correct wiring standards and cables. Set up permissions on server for business workgroup, sharing, and printing capabilities. Created and edited web site for father's business with pay-pal and credit card capabilities and inventory listings and maintenance. Counter Intelligence Agent Geek Squad, Best Buy 662 - Opelika, AL 2006 to 2007 • Interacted daily with customers and established customer and employee rapport.  • Served as a leadership partner in my precinct, challenging my co-workers daily to excel with their strengths and identify their opportunities for improvement.  • As part of a cohesive team, I encouraged associates to perform tasks daily, as required by Best Buy SOP, and to work as a team.  • Made executive decisions based on customer issues that may not have needed manager assistance. Daily activities included PC software/hardware/network installation, configuration.  • Removed spyware and viruses with special tools and my knowledge of registry maintenance, and troubleshot with the customer the technology of wireless infrastructure and their security protocols and the benefits of each.  • Participated as 1 of 7 agents to run and operate precinct keeping it neat, orderly, and appropriately functioning for the customer.  • My management requested I transfer from Columbus 0843 Best Buy to 0662 Opelika Best Buy as requested by my previous supervisor for my accountability skills, management ability, organization, and customer rapport.  • As 1 of 2 agents on a 5 agent team, participated to bring the precinct back to a fully functional and organized precinct per district standards. PC Technician/Bridge Support Specialist St. Francis Hospital - Columbus, GA 2004 to 2006 • Served as project lead with hospital wide Bridge Pharmaceutical bedside medication system and supported user and patient interface and software functionality problems. Since this solution was a wireless solution, I participated in the address and credential assignments to Cisco wireless routers per zone.  • I assisted in refreshing their connections and using the router's control panel to reset, change address or location information. Implemented anti-theft system for laptops associated with this project and because of this system, recovered 3 of the 5 stolen laptops over a 2-year stretch.  • Participated in implementation of and operated as Portal Administrator for physician applications, providing training and support to physicians and their staff on the functionality of the Dashboard Portal.  • Supported Microsoft Office Professional 2000 and 2003, as well as served as knowledge base for end-user training issues with Professional suites, Microsoft NT, ME, 2000, and XP (home and professional) platforms, as well as some Active Directory and Windows Server 2003 administration.  • Implemented and supported Checkpoint VPN Client, DNS and TCP/IP solutions. Maintained and developed components of hospital intranet using Macromedia Dream Weaver and Fireworks.  • Worked well among a team of several I.S. department employees, mostly unsupervised, where initiative was a must, and handling stressful situations combined with multitasking events was required to complete the job appropriately.  • Installed and repaired hardware and software components in Dell, IBM, HP, and Gateway computers. Multitasked projects and common job tasks, as well as provided end-user support via telephone, and provided on-site and off-site repairs as efficiently and quickly as possible. Computer Operator/Help Desk Operator St. Francis Hospital - Columbus, GA 2000 to 2004 • Operated and maintained a third-party mainframe-based network (AS-400), interfaces and UNIX applications (RumbaNT) with Telnet capabilities.  • Troubleshot user issues, associated with network printers and PCs, software applications, security, and Microsoft Office 2000/2003 suite.  • Determined if issues were to be routed to an on-call technician based on resources or permissions I did not have.  • Logged issues in a Help Desk Application and assigned them to appropriate technicians.  • Relayed urgent issues to the appropriate personnel and maintained communication log to relay issues to next shift members and managers.  • Ran reports, tape reel backups, and did data entry in bulk. IT Intern and Computer Technician Brookstone School - Columbus, GA October 2000 to March 2001 • Worked in a teamwork environment as 1 of 4 I.T. employees in which to gain experience in pc hardware, network development, and end-user applications.  • Supported and maintained some Novell OS workstations and applications.  • Implemented and supported a fiber optic network into the new annex of the school.  • Installed, configured, and maintained network devices such as routers, switches, and hubs on the network. Education Associates of Applied Technology in Electronic Engineering and Computer Technology Columbus Technical College - Columbus, GA July 2002 to September 2004 Skills Siemens, Wireless, Cisco, Exchange, Dns, Macromedia, .net, C++, Software implementation, Ms office, Maintenance, Customer service, Ms office 2000, Office 2000, Front page, Front page 2000, Documentation, Client relations, Punctual Additional Information OTHER WORK RELATED SKILLS    -Excellent Customer Service and Vendor Client Relations  -Excellent Rapport building skills  -Excellent documentation procedures and communication skills  -Ability to learn quickly and have an immense initiative to learn  -Ability to relay information to others, teach them what I know.  -Web development with Macromedia Dream Weaver and Front Page 2000  -Windows NT/ME/2000/XP/Vista support  -MS Office 2000/2003/2007 support  -Software support with Microsoft Products and other third-party programs  -Some project Management, implementation, and maintenance experience.  -Some programming using VB5, C++, and .NET  -Hard-working  -Punctual  -Hardware and software implementation, repair, and removal  -Exchange troubleshooting/dns/tcpip configuration  -Network infrastructure implementation and support to include wireless and wired 100BaseT and 10BaseT routers such as Siemens, Cisco, Netgear, D-Link, LinkSys, and Belkin to include G, N, and B technologies.