Director, Global IT Infrastructure, Security and Services Director, Global <span class="hl">IT</span> Infrastructure, <span class="hl">Security</span> and Services Director, Global IT Infrastructure, Security and Services - Steel Partners Holdings LP Canal Winchester, OH Work Experience Director, Global IT Infrastructure, Security and Services Steel Partners Holdings LP - New York, NY 2018 to Present Developed 3-year information technology strategy and roadmap to support business needs  Responsible for strategy, planning, budgeting, resourcing and delivery of IT systems, infrastructure, services and projects across the business  Evaluated new technology trends to balance need for enterprise ready technology with desire to innovate  Defined and executed plans to deploy new systems, tools and technology to ensure smooth adoption  Implemented and monitored a comprehensive IT security and risk management program in conjunction with corporate office of Information Security Principle Telecom Network Consultant American Electric Power - Columbus, OH 2017 to 2018 Develop standards, processes and procedures for SCADA networks  Project lead to design and build private MPLS network to converge transmission, generation and distribution backbones  Design network integration for private LTE network distribution SCADA initiative  Ensure NERC-CIP compliance on Bulk Electrical System critical infrastructure components Senior Network Engineer, National Network Operations and Engineering Time Warner Cable - Columbus, OH 2014 to 2017 Troubleshoot and resolve critical network and system issues.  Project lead - annual bandwidth upgrade projects for Midwest region, encompassing 3.5 million customers  Mentored and trained engineering personnel in key elements of networking systems  Provided technical presentations to internal business units and management  Researched and identified technology opportunities and their application to the business.  Tested and validated all new hardware and connections for proper configuration and performance. Senior Network Engineer Danaher Corporation - Washington, DC 2004 to 2014 Managed and led acquisition integration projects, including security assessment and network integration.  Provided project management and network consulting for operating companies.  Exceeded SLA in the design and implementation of new Data Centers for corporate shared services.  Managed Internet connectivity for corporate data centers to meet SLA.  Implemented and managed DDOS protection for corporate data centers.  Implemented Cisco TelePresence videoconference systems for corporate offices.  Implemented VoIP for Corporate Shared Services utilizing Cisco Call Manager Express in US and China.  Designed and implemented PCI compliant wireless network standards, authored wireless security standards.  Designed and implemented global WAN acceleration project.  Designed and implemented corporate teleworker project utilizing 802.1x security with AES encryption and certificates.  Performed security scans, surveys and analysis for operating companies and corporate entities. Senior Data Communications Engineer Airborne Express - Seattle, WA 1999 to 2004 Designed and implemented multi-vendor, redundant multi-homed Internet connectivity.  Redesigned Data Center connectivity and implemented switched gigabit Ethernet environment.  Designed Frame Relay to internet based IPSEC VPN conversion, realizing $1.5 million annual savings  Network design and technology leadership for the Network Services group.  Provided research, planning and for 800 location global network.  Developed and implemented applications enabling NOC monitoring of 1000+ network devices.  Provided third level support for high availability 24x7 web farm and data center environment.  Provided packet capture and protocol analysis for application problem resolution.  Developed distributed SNMP monitoring applications for network elements    BP Amoco Corporation (formerly Amoco Corp.) Senior Systems Software Engineer/Team Leader Tulsa, OK 1997 to 1999 Team leader for distributed architecture and design team at BP Amoco's Tulsa Technology Research Center.  Coordinated research and design efforts with IT and line of business stakeholders  Managed separate software development, test and validation.  Investigated new technologies to determine applications to business environment.  Minimized delivery time and support costs of Windows NT workstation deployment in the global standard  computing environment by producing and packaging an automated unattended installation methodology  including standard desktop applications.  As Windows NT global Y2K compliance project manager, exceeded goals by completing assurance testing ahead of schedule.  Provided 4th level support to the global distributed computing infrastructure architecture organization on  Novell and Microsoft server and desktop environments and Novell, Microsoft and UNIX interoperability  issues. Sr. Analyst Sprint Paranet - Houston, TX 1997 to 1997 Enabled large Houston hospital migration to distributed client/server environment by implementing a switched Ethernet network.  Provided network device and traffic during migration using HP Openview.  Published articles in national technology periodicals on network directory services.  Trained and mentored junior analysts. Senior Distributed Computing Analyst, Team Leader Amoco Corporation - Houston, TX 1991 to 1997 Team leader, Directory Services team.  Responsible for overall performance, functionality, and design of the global 40,000+ user distributed  network.  Designed, documented and implemented standard server models for DCI network.  Wrote corporate Directory Services standards and procedures.  Authored UNIX-NetWare interoperability specifications for lpr printing, NFS data sharing and ftp services. Education BS in Geology/Physics Murray State University Skills Linux, Bgp, Cisco, Citrix, Eigrp, Isis, Juniper, Network monitoring, Ospf, Remote access, Switching, Vmware, Vpn, Data center, Firewalls, Networking, Remedy, Ddos, Open source, Routing protocols