System Administration System Administration Service Desk Analyst Stickney, IL Passionate customer focused IT Professional with over 10 years of experience in information systems. Recognized by peers and managers as the "go to person. Bilingual (Spanish), determined, dependable with good sense of troubleshooting due to many years of experience. I am highly motivated, a quick learner with the ability to multitask.  • Effective troubleshooting in an enterprise environment; analytical thinker, effective at applying knowledge for problem solving.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills Work Experience System Administration Department of Veteran Affairs Network Security Operations Center (by way of Ameriinfovets Inc) Hines, IL. - Hines, IL October 2018 to Present • Support effective end users with trouble connecting to Citrix.   • Troubleshoot issue connecting to Citrix or any of the Xen Apps desktops.   • Ensuring user has the proper remote access approval and placed in the proper OU. IT Lead Noble Network Charter Schools - Chicago, IL December 2017 to October 2018 As and IT Lead, I provide direct support to students, teachers, and staff of Noble through the installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of end-user computing equipment. Under the supervision of the Director and Assistant Director of IT and as part of a fifteen-member team, the IT Lead is primarily responsible for providing front-line/first responder technical support.     As, a members of this team I am responsible for resolving “level one” technical issues in-person/hands-on as well as remote support for thousands of computing devices and hundreds of applications for 1200 employees, 12,000 students, and nineteen locations throughout Chicago.    • Troubleshoot issues with:  • Apple software and hardware  • iWork  • Microsoft Windows  • Google Admin   • Google software applications  • Microsoft Exchange  • Active Directory  • MS Office, Outlook,  • VMWare, Sophos Antivirus; Symantec Backup Exec, Pro, Airwatch MDM, Deploy Adobe studio, and   • AV systems, and Phone services, IP Office Voicemail.   • Perform basic one-on-one technology training for new employees, as needed.  • Firewall issues, whitelisting web pages and checking alerts  • Created rules for approved URL's Network Engineer - Department of Veteran Affairs Network Security Operations Center Dynamic Integrated Services - Hines, IL March 2015 to March 2017 Performed system checks for VPN connectivity, operational status of Secure Mobility Client (SMC), Citrix Access Gateway (CAG), RESCUE, and Citrix – StoreFront on T1 laptops. Document the test results of the system checks. Monitors Network Operations Manager (NOM) Alerts, Solar winds, nGenius traffic patterns. Reviews CA Service Desk Manager (SDM) tickets to determine the status and work those that belong to our group.   Work requests from VA Information Security Officers (ISOs) Virtual Private network connects that need to be added, edited, or removed via the VA   NSOC custom developed, web?based ISO Portal for Site to Sites, and Perform Citrix Access Gateway (CAG) Redirect requests. Participate in HPI calls as a representative of BPE. Participate as a member of a team working on assigned projects. Eager to learn current procedures and new procedures as incorporated into the team activities. Is responsive to the lead and direction of lead.  ·        Site to Site IPsec tunnels partner to VA tunnels. Access control and overlapping static and dynamic NAT and PAT for these connections.   ·        Troubleshooting Access control List  ·        Riverbed interceptors, Riverbed steelheads  ·        Network packet capture and analysis via Cisco ASA command line interface.  ·        Remote access for end users. Client VPN remote access solutions utilizing the enterprise internal and external DNS for load balancing and Active directory for authentication, authorization and group policy assignment for DHCP pools. Citrix NetScaler, Cisco any connect Client, Cisco ASAs, Cisco NAC and Cisco ACSs. National Service Desk Team Lead Adams Communication & Engineering Technology (ACET, Inc.) - Hines, IL August 2014 to March 2015 Involved in hiring process - interviews in person and over the phone. Part of weekly management meetings provided weekly call volume reporting procedural to upper management. Kept my team up to date with day to day outages along with procedure to resolving alarming issues. Technical Support Team lead. I was responsible for responding to all service requests, incident tickets. Ensure all employees are updating incident and proper documented solution while providing excellent customer service.  Identified:     ·     LAN, WAN, DNS and DHCP networking issues  ·     Active Directory Password Reset  ·     ITSM – created tickets, incident. Escalate tickets to appropriate team. Train new hires on how to use ITSM. Generate reports, view ageing tickets for the team. Nation Service Desk Adams Communication & Engineering Technology (ACET, Inc.) - Hines, IL August 2013 to August 2014 The Tier I Nation Service Desk Security is responsible for responding, identifying, and resolving short-term issues. Interact with user and provide first point of contact resolution. User must be able to identify and resolve remote access issue (VPN), Personal Key Identification (PKI), Personal Identity Verification (PIV).    ·      Security Service Desk Technician    ·     Experience with PKI, PIV, VPN  ·     Identified LAN, WAN, DNS and DHCP networking issues and troubleshoot the issues.  ·     Strong Windows knowledge  ·     Good problem-solving skills  ·     Remote Access Citrix  ·     Cisco Any Connect Secure Mobility Client    ITSM – created tickets, incident. Escalate tickets to appropriate team Service Desk Analyst Apex Sytems, Inc - Elk Grove Village, IL January 2013 to August 2013 Service Desk Analyst - Apex Systems, Inc. Elk Grove Village, IL -                         Jan-2013 - Aug-2013  ·     Provided software, network support for United Airlines systems. Provided guidance on technology; reviews, prioritizes, actively resolves customer service requests on site, via telephone; resolved problems involving the use of diagnostic tools, troubleshooting and problem-solving methodologies.  ·     Assists all customers with email migration questions supported software. Documents all customer contact during the service request problem-solving process, including all successful and unsuccessful decisions made, and actions taken IT Support Analyst Stericycle, Inc - Lake Forest, IL August 2007 to May 2011 • Provided high level of Technical Support to our district offices and offsite locations. The IS department is responsible for installation and maintenance of desktop computers, laptops and associated hardware systems; troubleshooting computer systems and printers; and serving as a technical resource for end-users of various hardware.  • Responsible for responding to all service requests, incident tickets, and tasks assigned by the ITSM system, ensuring timely response and resolution within defined SLAs. The Service Delivery Team owns incidents, problems, standard changes, standard image, software deployment and mobile device management.  • The Support Specialist is responsible for providing hardware and software support on-site and over the phone to the corporate office and over ten regional offices. Personal interactions include employees at all levels, in order to resolve problems and implement new solutions. The Support Specialist will report to the Support Desk Manager.  • Technical troubleshooting of hardware and software issues courteously and expeditiously Answer and appropriately handle incoming customer support requests via phone, e-mail, voice mail, IM, and in-person requests.  • Escalate or transfer problems when appropriate. Document, track and monitor all problem/resolution activity in the tracking system to ensure a timely resolution Stage, configure and deploy new and existing desktops/laptops/peripherals Install basic PC software applications (MS Office Suite, Project, Visio, Acrobat, etc.)  • Assisted in the hardware warranty repair process  • Rotated after-hours support coverage with other teammates  • Continuous development of problem-solving techniques, and the creation of more efficient support methods  • Participated in team projects that enhance the quality of the help desk service level  • Other IT-related operations, administration and maintenance functions as requested Information System Specialist Walgreens Corp - Mount Prospect, IL May 2005 to August 2007 • Provide high-level administrative support to the Director and Managers of IT - Operations by handling information requests, and performing support specialist functions such as scheduling meetings.  • Communicate with visitors, employees, and other individuals to answer questions, disseminate or explain information, address complaints. Processed weekly and bi-weekly payroll for hourly and salary personnel, reconciling payroll and verifying payroll, prepared payroll reports as requested and maintaining time keeping and handling inquiries regarding payroll from employees and management team Education Associate of Applied Science in Information Technology ITT Technical Institute - Mount Prospect, IL 2006 Skills Active directory (8 years), Citrix (5 years), Dhcp (10+ years), Vmware, Dns (10+ years), Solarwinds (2 years), Splunk (2 years), Mdm, Backup exec, Visual basic (2 years), Symantec, Avaya (5 years), Ios, Windows mobile, Sql (3 years), Microsoft office, Outlook (10+ years), Microsoft windows (10+ years), Windows 7, Microsoft windows 7 (5 years), System Administrator, System Admin (5 years)