Event Specialist Part Time Event Specialist Part Time I am Your Most Qualified, Dedicated, Productive employee that will work for you Richardson, TX To obtain work position to bring higher profit and intrinsic positive values to an ethically and socially responsible company. Follow the corporate policies, think outside the box to get around the obstacles, and document results. Be a good team players, share information and knowledge within the team, follow the path to achieve company short term goal for our team's credit. Finally, learn to share responsibility with team members to get the job done on-time. I enjoy communicating with fellow co-workers, as well as scheduling the details of a project, and boosting the morale of the entire team when I can to eliminate job-related stress. Also enjoy planning or preparing an office pot-luck and social get-together. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Event Specialist Part Time Advantage Solutions LLC - Richardson, TX January 2019 to Present Marketing special promotional products in healthcare, beauty, food, drinks, wine and beer tasting at Many local and distant Walmart Supercenters. Try them before you buy the products. Courteous and with fast speed to give the best customer service. driver-guide-customer service Uber Lyft January 2016 to Present completed 1000+ ride and Ubereatsr trips with over 500+ 5-star top most ratings IT Enterprise Service Desk Analyst for Project Anthem HCL America - Frisco, TX January 2015 to Present Duties include: nationwide Mcafee data encryption VPN security support, ID management service support, service request and service-now ticketing system, dameware, SCCM, Citrix receiver, Active Directory, IBM IMS CICS mainframes, MS 2003 2008 Server, Terminal Server, Printer server, User Security, Map network drives, software upgrades, MS Power Shell, VPN, FTP, TFTP, SSH, Firewall, and Excel troubleshooting.  Striving for FCR (first call resolution) and good handling time with 30 or more incoming calls a day. Aiming for providing the most excellent technical helpdesk skills. Operating with phone or the on-line chat utility, Dameware, SCCM, ServiceIT, or Service-Now ticketing system. Mission is to be able to support all aspects of the PC desktops and laptops Microsoft office suite, outlook, excel software application, IBM mainframe passwords, SQL or Oracle database, PC desktops software installation issues, virtual desktops troubleshooting, published desktops, Laptops, printers, as well as limited telecom issues. Member Services Representative Part Time CROSSMARK - Plano, TX July 2015 to January 2019 Provide promotional food and drink samples to members at Sam's Club. Promote sales of the demonstrated products to sold out. Benefit Advisor - Operations One Exchange - Richardson, TX July 2014 to December 2014 Aiming to provide excellent medicare advantage or supplement enrollment information to retirees from major companies such as IBM, GE, or Verizon throughout the U.S. to suit their needs. Provide unbiased and objective information of companies like Aetna, Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Cigna, Express Script, Humana, Kaiser, Medco, and United Healthcare insurance coverage.  New York Staffing Services $11.67/hour Research Assistant JP Morgan Chase Investment - Dallas, TX April 2014 to May 2014 Administrative assistant and research assistant verifying customer documents in Oracle database search. Verifying paper mails under strict security guidelines. Customer Service Representative Extend Health Inc One Exchange - Richardson, TX August 2013 to December 2013 Provided excellent 100 plus Cold calling potential customers with scripts provided by supervisor. Promptly taking incoming calls from customers requesting medicare enrollment information regarding medicare supplement plans or medicare advantage plans. Ensure compliance to HIPPA information security. Independent contractor DFW Career Training Corp - Richardson, TX October 2012 to August 2013 On Call and Travel to private clients work locations to provide highly demanded field service support for cash register installations, POS machines, Self-service POS machines, Kiosks, and printers for private clients in the DFW area case by case basis. Provided in-home private care-giving services part-time to seniors. Network Security Specialist DFW Career Training Corp - Irving, TX March 2013 to April 2013 Troubleshooted and debugged visual-basic SQL programs in the Microsoft 2003 and 2008 server with VB Studio programs, and troubleshooted network connections with Microsoft 2008 servers that was left out by the ex-contractors. Retain network security for website access to company website. Short term assignment to reconnect servers that were left out previously. School Director DFW Career Training Corp - Richardson, TX October 2007 to March 2012 Started new corporation with a mission to provide customized and hands-on highly demanded computer and medical technical career Training School Project from conception to implementation. Trained, certified, served and assisted employment to more than 60 people from age 19 to 60 from October 2007 in computer and network support specialist program approved by the TWC-career schools and colleges. Provided Dell laptops and Kindles to enrolled students of the school.  Set up school with automated and balanced Cisco Network systems in-school.  Successfully formed and organized a for-profit company of a career school with an excellent tracking record of providing career training in CompTIA, Microsoft, Oracle and Cisco IT professional certifications. Providing job search assistance to graduated students.  Provided career training in Medical Administrative Assistant programs with medical billing and coding training.Successfully installed new exam centers for Prometric and Pearson Vue testings for a location at Richardson, TX providing testings for Java, Oracle, Microsoft SQL.  Dedicated and managed sources of training funds to establish financial stability for the career school. Establish financial accountability with creditors to obtain short-term loans for the organization.  Continued building a project working team of successful employees of administive staff, training Instructors, and school representatives. Create effective placement services for students in school and graduating from training programs. contract health and life insurance agent United American Insurance Co - Plano, TX March 2007 to December 2007 Provide health and life insurance sales support with company paid leads by calling and emailing to potential customers. Life insurance agent American General - Dallas, TX October 2006 to 2007 Cold calling and door to door sales for life insurance policies, group insurance policies and individual emergency medical policies. Microsoft and Linux Specialist MS Power Shell - Richardson, TX January 2000 to 2007 System Unix C-compiler, conversion SuSE Linux Redhat Linux, C and C compiler. Developed Excellent Linux/Oracle System processes and standard operating procedures, and ensuring established procedures are followed development of the virtual private network VPN with firewalls setup to ensure IT security; Coordinated with other delivery groups, infrastructure, strategic partners, and business process organizations to ensure smooth operations and business results. AT&T Wireless consultant/database programmer Paladin Consulting Inc - Dallas, TX April 1996 to September 2000 Cingular Wireless Project Senior Consultant  Reports to the Director of operations to lead a team of 5 programmers to maintain excellence in Unix Oracle DBMS Relational Database Management System. long-term project data architect normalization and modeling Using PL/SQL C, C++ software coding standard, implement and maintain applications in Oracle, Informix, Sybase and Progress with HP Unix systems. Aim to ensure on time performance and completion of project deliverables; reduced system defects. Developed, implemented and maintained software applications with Unix C-Shell, Unix-Shell, C, C++ PL/SQL for Wireless reporting application in batch-mode, Point-of-Sales system in real-time and reporting mode. Managed large IT project to coordinate data conversions from Unix Progress/Informix Relational database to Oracle database; coordinated IT resources and schedules. Consultant Contractor Verizon - Richardson, TX October 1994 to March 1996 Code, test, and implement software programs encryption programs using C C++ to track telecom PBS switch status. Implement simple password encryption algorithms for secured Sun Linux OS system. Database Analyst/Data Administrator COMPUSA - Addison, TX November 1992 to 1994 System conversion project from IBM AS400 to IBM-AIX, HP-UX using PL/SQL, C, CC++, C-Shell, Unix-shell from flat files to Relational Database Systems for warehouse inventory, POS, store administrations, and bar-codes. Established Data Dictionary and Data Standards for CompUSA. System Analyst Programmer Analyst Data Analyst Data Administrator PEARLE VISION - Dallas, TX January 1991 to 1992 Setup excellent and reliable POS Pearle Vision stores using C, DB2, PL/SQL, 4th GL, Unix shell scripts in Progress Relational Database to program point of sales systems. Establish Data Dictionary and Data Structures in Progress Relational Database. SDLC Specialist USAA Federal Savings Bank - San Antonio, TX August 1987 to 1991 Implement customized financial management and data extraction reporting project for the money market and brokerage stock and mutual fund trade department for USAA members using Microsoft O/S 3.1, with C programs, Microsoft Word, Macros programming. Limited Unix system administration. Limited IBM mainframe JCL/Cobol support. Completed the project with users sign offs and finalized technical documentations. MIS Director AT&T Unix V - Dallas, TX August 1986 to August 1987 Lead backoffice team of 8 Implemented very much needed automated AT&T Unix V mini-computer system with Unify RDBMS, C, SQL, 4GL, supporting large client database. System Backup Restore. Monitoring Program and System development, testing to comply with state and business requirements System Analyst and Programmer Analyst NDC Inc - San Antonio, TX May 1983 to July 1986 Plexus Unix, Motorola 68000, C, Compiler C/SQL interface, Informix RDBMS, Unix C-shell programming and development , Data Architect with RDBMS normalization. Education MBA University of Phoenix - Dallas, TX June 2004 to July 2006 Bachelors Degree in BA Economics National Taiwan University - Taipei, TW Skills database (10+ years), Linux (8 years), Oracle (10+ years), security (10+ years), Unix (10+ years), Call Center, Customer Service, Customer Care, Bilingual, CSR Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information 3 more years of IT service desk, 10 years of project management and team development, and 20 years of large and medium-size system analysis and programming experience. Listen to the customers to find the root of the users application problems, resolve the issues as quickly as possible, as well as educating the customers on the technical aspects to cover their expectation that the problem should not reappear. Adhere to information security policies to be applied to corporate windows systems. Finding ways to resolve issues efficiently and document the findings thoroughly.  Have the following proven service desk skills: major VPN security support, contribute to Unix system conversion from AIX to HP-UX, service request and service-now ticketing system, dameware, SCCM, Citrix receiver, Active Directory, IBM IMS CICS mainframes, MS 2003 2008 Server, Terminal Server, Printer server, User Security, IT-Audit-Logging, IP Packets Sniffer, Wireshark, TCP/IP, Kerobos, encryption algorithms, MS Power Shell, VPN, FTP, TFTP, SSH, Firewall, long-term project data architect normalization and modeling, Oracle PL/SQL, Informix, C, C++, Progress , Sybase; Database Administration, Novel Linux, Redhat Linux, Network Administration; DHCP, DNS, Cisco, Teradata; Data modeling; DB2; IBM TSO/MVS; NATURAL, JCL, COBOL, PERL, AWK, SED    Computer Skills  CompTIA A+ Network+ Security+ certified  Analyze and resolve issues with Cisco routers, Dell laptops and desktops, HP laptops and printers, Apple Mac, Computer, printer, routers, switches, wireless access points and repairs  Accounting Software (Peachtree, Quickbooks, Excel, etc)  Apple, Unix, Linux, Microsoft XP/Windows 7, Sun Solaris Computers Operating Systems  Database Software (Oracle, Sybase, Informix, Access, etc)  Data Entry Terminal (PDT, Mainframe Terminal, etc)  EMail Software (Outlook, Webmail, etc)  Internet Browser (Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Firefox, etc)  Networking or Lan Software (Cisco, etc)  Peripheral Devices (Scanners, Printers, POS cash registers etc)\