Help Desk Support - Contractor Help Desk Support - Contractor Charlotte, NC Intelligent, dependable and highly motivated candidate seeking a challenging IT career. Work Experience Help Desk Support - Contractor Compucom Systems, Inc - Fort Mill, SC April 2019 to Present Call Center Support - Provide support on the Level 1 Realogy (Insurance Brokerage Service) Call Center team for industry brands such as Coldwell Banker, ERA, Better Homes and Gardens, Century 21, Sotheby's, NRT, Cartus, and TRG, such as resetting passwords and unlocking accounts in the Active Directory and Oblix, resetting Citrix sessions in the Virtual Machine, and escalating issues that can't be resolved on First Call. Service Now is the ticketing system used to create caller tickets, and access knowledgebase articles for resolutions, as well as pulling/verifying user information from HEAT ticket system if caller cannot be found in ServiceNow. Tech Support Analyst - Contractor AmerisourceBergen Lash Group - Fort Mill, SC March 2018 to August 2018 Manager: John Cutillo, 267-549-5330 John.Cutillo@Compucom.com    • Customer Service - Provided software and hardware support at the IT Café (Walk up tech support counter) and Desk side assistance with issues that pertained to Patient Plus, Skype for Business 2016, Microsoft Office and Microsoft Office 365, Avaya Telephones, Followyou Network printing, password resets in Active Directory, Cleared ID badges using Equitrac, cleared document hang-ups using Document Director, mapped Network drives, Configured Wyse terminals, issued or replaced peripherals, and used Connect Now Ticketing system to create, update, and close requests, tasks, and incidents.    • Project Coordinator - Worked with a team of 5 to install user's equipment to complete 3 floors in a new building, used floor plans and worked with electricians and telephone workers to ensure power was functioning in all cubicles and offices, and conducted walk-thrus with upper management to check issues and/or completion. IT Security Admin. - Contractor Lowes Corporate Office - Mooresville, NC July 2017 to February 2018 Manager: Tim Thomas, 704-758-0713 tim.w.thomas-1@lowes.com  • Used Remedy ticket system to pull requests and create tickets for new and transfer users in several offices to create/unlock accounts, assign/reset passwords, assign/update fax numbers, and provide access to shared drive and folder access based on their role, in the Active Directory, Mainframe, UNIX, Siebel, InfoCenter, Avaya CMS, Service Bench, and Faxcom. In addition, updating and keeping team and manager abreast of any unresolved user or application issues.  • Used SLA's and SOPs to run scripts to create user accounts in Active Directory, UNIX, Siebel, InfoCenter and Avaya CMS. IT Specialist U.S. Dept. of Housing & Urban Development - New York, NY August 1988 to August 2016 Director: Raymond Chan, 212-542-7373 Raymond.Y.Chan@hud.gov    • IT Specialist - Overseen the New York and Newark Offices consisting of over 300 users, being responsible for Hardware and software administration and maintenance, Network support and being the Point of Contact. In addition, supported and troubleshoot network issues including cable management, Ethernet switch, workstations and Ethernet cabling, assisted Telework users with HUDMobile/VPN login and created/modified Distribution Lists in Outlook's Global Address Book.    • MS Office 2010 Instructor - Set up training class sessions and invitations via SharePoint, conducted classes in a Microsoft Office 2010 and Office 365 in person and via Live Meeting/Communicator, as well as create/distribute Reference Guides. Created outlines on various applications based on Management requests and/or software upgrades.    • Help Desk - Monitored the CA Service Desk Manager Help Desk system and troubleshoot issues such as Printing, MS Office, Loaner Equipment, Software installation requests at user's desk or via Remote Access, Ink Cartridge replacements, Network connectivity error, PC/Printer/Scanner setup or move, issuing PIVcards readers for Telework users, and Outlook mailbox/mailing group requests. In addition, utilizing the CHAMP system to create New User/Modify/HUGONE requests for users entering on board (creating an H# or C# account, email address and Network drive access), and transfer offices or agency departures.    • Video Conference Coordinator - Scheduled video conferences for multiple offices, sent out invites to attendees, reserved conference rooms, and VTC video equipment through the Outlook and SharePoint calendar.    • Inventory Coordinator - Kept inventory of user's equipment and loaner equipment such as laptops, projectors, cameras, wireless mice, mobile hotspot, Aircards and ink cartridges.    • Hardware/Software Coordinator (including upgrading and maintenance) - Created a spreadsheet with a list of all users scheduled for upgrades along with their location and date of PC Upgrade, along with a map to show location of users so the Contractors can identify the users easily when retrieving and replacing their equipment. Education Associate Skills Customer service (Less than 1 year), Problem solving (Less than 1 year), Receptionist (Less than 1 year), Retail sales (Less than 1 year), training (10+ years) Additional Information Skills  • Outstanding Oral and Written Communication, Problem Solving, Training, Customer Service, Innovative Teamwork, Bilingual, Planning and Organizing skills.