Information Security Compliance Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Compliance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Compliance Analyst - University at Buffalo Buffalo, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Compliance Analyst University at Buffalo 2019 to Present Improved the University's readiness and response to information security threats and events. Ensured ongoing compliance with regulatory and research-related requirements including NIST 800-53, NIST 800-171 and HIPAA. Focused on risk & compliance specializing in administrative information security working with researchers and on research projects. Participated in and supported all other aspects of the information security practice including security operations; risk & compliance; training, education, and awareness; incident response; identity and access management.  • Worked with distributed research community to achieve security compliance in accordance with standards as prescribed by the granting/contracting agency  • Developed System Security plans and Preformed Risk Assessments for various departments and groups at the University  • Worked on the implementation of Splunk for the University at Buffalo gathering requirements, developing dashboards, identifying data to input into Splunk  • Review logs and events related to covered research systems and investigate any anomalies  • Report incidents via incident handling process and files incident reports with outside agencies as appropriate and per contract requirements  • Educates researchers/faculty about the proper way to handle possible compromised systems  • Worked collaboratively with stakeholders on campus to improve research information security compliance  • Maintains proper documentation for the compliance program  • Reports metrics on program effectiveness to management Manager - Information Technology Nova Healthcare an Independent Health Company 2013 to 2018 Managed teams of Developers/Programmers, Network/System Administrators, EDI Operators and Business Analysts. Facilitated IT risk analysis, risk management processes, and identify acceptable levels of residual risk. Maintained HIPAA, HITECH, CMS and PCI compliance. Provided support for audits and regulatory exams. Managed third-party vendor risk assessments. Supported LAN/WAN/WIFI infrastructure. Led business continuity management including disaster recovery planning.  • Received corporate recognition for the successfully integrating all of Nova Healthcare's Information systems and telecom into the Independent Health IT enterprise (SuperNova Award).  • Received corporate recognition for successfully overhauling and modernizing Nova Healthcare in-house CRM software package (SuperNova Award).  • Received Enterprise recognition from Independent Health and Nova for successfully migrating Nova's insurance Claims system off of IBM AIX and to linuxONE.  • Integral resource for Nova to successfully pass their SOC1 audits (System and Organization Controls Report) as well as obtain their URAC accreditation.  • Helped develop/implement a change management process and incident management system process.  • Implemented industry standard development environments for application and reporting in the form of DEV, QA, UAT, and Production environments.  • Introduced and Implemented SQL tools such as SSIS for data extraction, data warehousing and data transformation as well SQL Server Data Tools - Business Intelligence.  • Successfully centralized and standardized Nova file transfers from outdated and vulnerable desktop tools to using Tidal and IBM's Sterling File Gateway (SFG) solution for managing edge-based file transfers  • Worked to implement ITIL framework for corporate ITSM solution as well as the Agile SDLC development model for application development.  • Worked with the technology team on designing, testing and implementing Citrix terminals.    Professional Experience (continued) Manager of Information Services Ashton Potter 2007 to 2013 Recruited and managed a team of developers to design and implement an accountability system for the production of United States postage stamps, tax stamps and secure labels satisfying contractual obligations. Implemented technology and telecom aspects of the Ashton Potter start up expansion including hardware, software, firewalls, routers, switches, cabling, and telecom. Managed support of LAN/WAN infrastructure.  • Drafted and presented to USPS representatives on the leading edge safety and security of private microwave transmission technology, then implemented the solution for secure data transmission.  • Ensured Ashton Potter satisfied Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) for acceptance, processing and storing of credit card information.  • Designed and laid out the second largest security and surveillance system in the area with Amherst Alarm for Secure Personalized stamped envelope facility.  • Supported successful acquisition of North American Secure Printer Organization (NASPO) certification.  • Designed and implemented a cloud based redundant, offsite virtual server environment with Rackspace to satisfy disaster recovery and offsite requirements.  • Established standards, policies and procedures laying the foundation for ISO 9001 certification. Network Systems Manager/ Analyst Ivoclar Vivadent Inc 2004 to 2007 Handled Information Technology functions (hardware, software, telecom) of North American Headquarters including 350 onsite and remote users. Collaborated to develop and maintain IT budgets and recommend actions to maintain technology effectiveness. Provided feedback to management and project personnel regarding client assignments, profitability of managed services, and high priority project delegation.  • Participated on a team of project managers responsible for hardware technology, coordinating and configuring SAP in the United States and Canada on the North American SAP project.  • Evaluated current and future security technologies to enhance corporate IT security.  • Developed information systems through multi-step processes of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Project manager of several large scale technology projects including the migration and configuration of mail server and users to Microsoft Exchange 2003 server. Global IT Services - Technical Project Manager / Network and Systems Analyst Electronic Data Systems (EDS) (DXC Technology) 1998 to 2004 at the Xerox Corporation  Developed project plans, processes and documentation for Xerox corporation projects, including large scale moves and PC equipment refresh projects. Provided support for platforms, configurations and maintenance of new workstations hardware and software upgrades. Advised on new equipment purchases and leasing.  • Developed project that removed Novell Network servers and migrated all of Xerox Corporations data to a Microsoft Active Directory environment  • Supervised a project team deployed Windows servers, workstations and implemented Windows Active Directory for Xerox Canada.    Certifications/Affiliations  Certified Information Security Manager, CISM  Certified Information Security Auditor, CISA  Certified ITIL v3 Foundations  ISACA - Information Systems Audit and Control Association  ISSA - Information System Security Association  REN-ISAC - Research Education Networking Information Sharing Education Masters of Science in Strategic Leadership Roberts Wesleyan College Skills Security, access, Active Directory, testing Certifications/Licenses CISM Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA)