Program Manager, Information Security Group Program Manager, Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Group Program Manager, Information Security Group - INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND Woodbridge, VA, 22912, US Work Experience Program Manager, Information Security Group INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND - Washington, DC March 2018 to Present (contractor through TEKsystems)  Working directly to the CISO, managing the Enterprise Information Security Program (EISP) with an annual budget of ~$5m Capital and ~$2.5m Admin, with up to 5 active projects at any time. Responsible for managing the interface with the organization's Project Management Unit, ensuring all reporting and methodology obligations are met.  • Introduced program-level reporting for the CISO and CIO to give regular and relevant insights in to the current program, project and budget performance.  • Provided SME input to a comprehensive security posture assessment, carried out by an external company.  • Input to develop the latest 3-5 year plan for cybersecurity projects for management approval to recommend appropriate investment.  • Managed the admin budget on behalf of the department to within 1%, including budget submissions for the next financial year.  • Implemented a system for time reporting to give a granular level of detail of how team resource is being utilized, giving a clear  understanding of capacity and demand to management.  • Introduced an improved project closure report template to address specific points of concern for the CISO, improving consistency and reducing the effort required to close projects.  • Worked with operational team lead to align resources with project and service requirements, ensuring workloads are balanced and aligned with available skills.  • Management of information security projects as required, e.g. SIEM replacement ($4.5m budget), Crown Jewels ($900k budget) IT PMO Portfolio Manager HOAG MEMORIAL HOSPITAL PRESBYTERIAN - Newport Beach, CA August 2014 to December 2017 Ownership of IT project management methodology (PMM), initiatives, processes, tools, and artifacts to fully support IT projects. Develop, compile, and report metrics on projects, programs, portfolio, and process adherence. Prepare content for IT governance, portfolio status for IT town hall meetings, timesheet and capital expenditure (CAPEX) reporting, and ad-hoc reporting. Coordinate resources with program managers, project managers, business analysts, and other staff.  Administer project portfolio management (PPM) tool, Serena Mariner. Liaise between IT PMO and Finance to channel requests for project budgets and information. Support yearly capital planning process and end-of-year budget closure and carryover. Lead monthly IT project review meetings. Liaise between IT and enterprise PMO for business case peer review and development of IT resource estimates. Act as IT control point for Gartner and KLAS research.  • Reviewed processes to identify opportunities for improvement and implement changes. Managed and streamlined contract labor invoicing process, saving 20+ hours/week ($70K+/year) across department.  • Mentored project managers, program managers, and project teams on executing PMM. Served as subject matter expert (SME) for Project Management Office (PMO).  • Managed and delivered a project to replace the organization-wide physical access control system within ~$1M budget, to deliver increased capabilities to the Security team.  • Redesigned IT PMO SharePoint site to mirror PPM workflows, thereby enhancing usability for managing project and methodology document assets.  • Updated project life cycle to include defined interactions and responsibilities of project sponsors.  • Provided accurate, evidence-based reports with analyses, roadmaps, and portfolio itemization to IT steering committee, leadership team and governance forums.  • Supported IT PMO director by attending meetings on his behalf, running team sessions, and providing new hire orientation.  • Initiated project review meetings with IT managers, CIO, and PMs; gathered metrics and presented results to management to prioritize projects and allocate resources effectively.  • Provided orientation to new team members, staff training during meetings and individual coaching. Program Controls Manager/Head of PMO NHS Connecting for Health September 2008 to May 2014 Supported five CIOs overseeing North Midlands and East Programme for IT (NMEPfIT). Contributed key inputs and analyses for effective contractual negotiations and decision making, in collaboration with senior supplier representatives. Managed formal Office of Government Commerce gateway reviews for several programs to ensure appropriate spending of public money. Interfaced with corporate finance department and managed ~£10m annual group budget. Led team of seven, including QA, SharePoint and reporting managers; governance administrative support; planner; and PMO analysts. Recruited 15-20 employees across departments.  • Provided end-to-end project lifecycle management and PMO service for renegotiation process, including governance support, document management, risk and issue (R&I) process management, planning and reporting, leading to £1bn savings for UK taxpayers.  • Conducted performance evaluations for team members. Provided coaching, mentoring and training, resulting in higher levels of stakeholder satisfaction and acceptance of PMO across business.  • Participated as member and leader of team that developed corporate processes for portfolio management, central single reporting processes, reporting standards, key performance indicators (KPIs), and information management.  • Introduced R&I KPI metrics and reporting across programs, improving quality of R&I management and reducing open risks by ~60%.  • Established program controls and procedures for contract exit and transition program. NHS Connecting for Health - Leeds July 2003 to May 2014 Assistant Program Controls Manager NHS Connecting for Health July 2005 to September 2008 Managed PMO for N3 program (New National Network for the NHS), including all program controls on behalf of program manager. Led projects such as quarterly customer satisfaction survey and early stages of voice technology project for Nottingham Hospitals. Served as single point of contact for all program information. Specified and implemented an order and deployed estate reporting tool covering the NHS N3 network, managing details of 30,000+ network connections to NHS and private healthcare organizations. Senior Project Support Analyst NHS Connecting for Health July 2003 to July 2005 Supported NHS N3 and NHSmail programs as dedicated project support office (PSO) manager. Handled supplier communications, coordinated contractual documentation reviews, prepared reports, maintained R&I register, and managed inputs from 12+ geographically dispersed team members. Worked to operationalize a contract upon signature to obtain ~$1B networking and complimentary services for the National Health Service over a seven-year period. Project support, project management, product development roles Smith & Nephew Medical, Ltd - Kingston upon Hull 1992 to 2003 Education Higher National Certificate in Graphic Design HULL COLLEGE - Kingston upon Hull Skills Program Management, Project Management, PMP Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/markdsavage Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 November 2017 to Present