Senior IT Security Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Systems Engineer Senior IT Security Systems Engineer - Dell IT services Houston, TX • Self-motivated team player with the ability to perform my responsibilities with minimal supervision and take initiative when necessary. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior IT Security Systems Engineer Dell IT services September 2017 to Present • Knowledge and experience with IAAS, PAAS and SAAS cloud hosted services and cloud computing environments. Defense in depth, security posture procedures, policies and safeguards. Delivery of security offerings related to cloud security, including security governance ( security policies and procedures), security strategy ( security planning), risk (risk assessments and management), cloud data protection (classification, encryption, tokenization), cloud-based identity and access management (IAM), RBAC, privileged access management (PAM), multi-factor authentication and monitoring/analytics for and in the cloud.  • Ability to map security controls to compliance requirements for cloud environments. Governance, Regulations, Compliance- HIPAA, SSAE18/ SOC2, SOC3, PCI-DSS, GxP, GDPR, FedRamp, FISMA, NIST 800-53, ITAR and ISO 27001. UCF compliance mapping tool. Pre-Sales solutions architecture support of security and compliance, control mappings, new product assessments, customer security assessments, rfps, questionnaires and onsite presentations. NIST cybersecurity framework mapping.  • Provides support to Sales team for IAAS cloud security for a mission critical cloud service provider. Cisco firewalls, Fortinet IDS/IPS, Trend Micro Host Based FW/IDS/FIM/AV and vormetric encyryption are some tools used in our environment. Business Continuity and DR solutions. Nessus and Nexpose vulnerability scanners implementation and scanned reviews. Splunk SIEM tool and customer setup for log management. Senior Engineer IV Zions Bank Corporation December 2010 to September 2017 • Provided architectural design and technical knowledge to assist the business. Provided design recommendations based on long-term IT organization strategies, security and ROI.  • Rapid 7 metasploit pro penetration testing, exploitation and nexpose vulnerability scanning as well as remediation. Security application, network, application and server hardening, SSL certifications, PKI keytool, creation of security standards, patching and overall due care of all middleware. Splunk implementation, log analysis and data extraction. PCI-DSS compliance, audit support and controls implemented.  • Planned, installed, configured, upgraded, maintained, automated and tuned WebSphere Application Servers, WebSphere Portal/WCM Servers, MQ, DB2, LDAP, RBAC, IAM, Weblogic Application Servers and Jboss Application Servers in a clustered solution for high availability, load balancing and fail over support. Also implemented and configured Wily performance tool and utilized it for issues.  • Annual and quarterly business continuity exercises and DR recovery.  • Web Servers configuration were Iplanet, IIS, IHS, LAMP and apache/tomcat. Configured siteminder web agent and ssl.  • Pushed full life cycle projects and cots in development, test, staging and production environments as well as 24x7 support. Application debugging, testing and hardening.  • Websphere DataPower, initial configuration, firmware upgrade, involved in solution architecture of XI52, WAF (web application firewall), xml firewall, web services and multiprotocol gateway configurations, application domain configurations, policy and rules configurations, user account and data files management, automation, front and back side handlers, network configurations, curl commands, AAA, RBAC, HMAC, XSLT, XML, WSDL, SOAP, REST, CORS, JSON, web services, ESB and WSSR. SOA policy manager, network director and BPM support. SOAP UI, node.js and REST tools. Ips and threat detections, hmac 256 crypto configurations.  • Implemented Mfoundry mobile banking application in linux/apache/jboss/oracle, Anti-Money Laundering software, Norkom Detica audit application in unix/apache/websphere/oracle, TriTek check imaging application in linux/apache/websphere, Strong Authentication application in unix/iplanet/weblogic, SOA software policy manager and SOA network director application Supported F5 configurations and 24x7 support. Vsphere cloud implementation and configurations as well as AWS cloud. Senior Engineer CSC Consulting July 2009 to December 2010 • IAM, Identity Management Security-CA Identity Manager v12.5 rollout, installation, configuration and support of apache web servers, IMS application server Jboss, CA directory, IMS provisioning servers, reporting server, rcm application server, AD connector and Lotus notes connector. Splunk log analysis, Public Key Infrastructure certificates configurations.  • Planned, installed, configured, upgraded, maintained and tuned WebSphere Application Servers v5.1, v6.1 and v7.0, WebSphere Portal, Web Content Management, DB2, Siteminder Web Agent, Apache, Tomcat and Jboss Application Servers. Responsible for the vulnerability management and remediation using nexpose scanner.  • Supported and configured Sql, Omnifind search, Domino, Wily Introscope Enterprise performance tool, Confluence Wiki, quickr, quickplace and Workplace.  • Web Servers configuration were Iplanet, IIS, IHS, tomcat, and apache. Configured siteminder web agent and SSL. Senior Web Analyst (Ingram-Micro) ACS Consulting January 2008 to July 2009 • Checkpoint firewall requests, configurations and implementations, TCP/IP, SSL and HTTPS.  • Planned, installed, configured and tuned many WebSphere Application Server project upgrades from 4.1, 5.1 to 6.1, upgraded WebSphere Portal/ WCM to 6.0 then 6.1.  • Configured and tuned JBoss, tomcat, Iplanet, IIS and IHS.  • Implemented Epic application for hospital client, also maintained HIPAA controls for this application.  • Environments included development, test, staging, and disaster recovery and production environments.  • Configured performance and monitoring tools; clearapp qv, netiq, wireshark, hobbit, gomez tool and wily tool across all environments and drilled down within jvms to record and monitor all activity.  • PKI configured and maintained, global security, SSL certificates, verisign, security components, siteminder/policy server's configurations.  • Operating systems worked on windows 2000, windows 2003, red hat Linux, and SuSE Linux, Sun Solaris Unix and AIX Unix servers.  • Implemented security policies and standards into technical designs and solution development.  • Validated technology designs and provided consultation to software development and engineering teams. Senior Engineer JPMorgan Chase February 2007 to January 2008 • Planned, installed and configured web logic 8.0, WebSphere application servers 5, WebSphere portal 5.1 and mq. Iplanet, IIS, IHS, tomcat, vignette and apache in development, test, qa, dr and production environments. Worked firewall request, tcp, udp, ssl. https and disaster recovery.  • Provided 24X7 on call production support in mission critical enterprise environment.  • Engineered several successful full life-cycle solutions for the J2EE applications.  • Installed EARs, WARs and configured application specific JVM settings.  • Configured WebSphere resources including JDBC providers, JDBC data sources, and connection pools.  • Configured and maintained PKI, SSL certificates, verisign, security components, siteminder/policy servers.  • Worked with network technologies, TCP/IP, ssl, load balancers in dmz.  • Operating systems worked on windows 2000, windows 2003, red hat Linux, SuSE Linux, UNIX -AIX, SUN and HP servers.  • Worked with J2EE enterprise-based technologies: JAVA, JMS, java, JDK, JSE etc.  • Good communication skills, triage communication resolving issues, worked with developers, system engineers, database administrators, operations, management as team player. Senior Analyst contract-Fidelity Investments December 2006 to May 2007 • Installed implemented, integrated, upgrades and maintained the j2ee Websphere application server's environment.  • Duties include middleware design, planning, implementing, builds and support: Websphere 5.x, 6.x, WebSphere Portal 5.0, JBOSS, IIS, Tivoli access manager and Apache in development, test, staging, and production environment. Senior Web Technical Specialist IBM April 2006 to December 2006 • Server consolidation  • Design and planning of the web architecture.  • Duties include middleware design, planning, implementing, builds and support: Web logic 7.x, 8.x, Websphere 5.x, 6.x, WebSphere Portal 5.0, JBOSS, ASP .NET, IIS and Apache in development, test and production environment.  • Configuring and maintaining the certificates and security components.  • Knowledge of LPAR's and VMware.  • Monitoring and tuning performance. Windows 2000, 2003, Red Hat Linux, Unix Aix, Unix Solaris and HP servers.  • Worked with J2EE based technologies including: TCP/IP, Java, JSP, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JSESSION and RMI. Senior Engineer Alliance Data Systems September 2005 to March 2006 • Duties include middleware design, planning, implementing, builds and support: Web logic 7.x, 8.x, Websphere 5.x, JBOSS, ASP .NET, IIS, vignette and Apache in development, test and production environment.  • Identity management and active directory configurations and support.  • Configuring and maintaining the certificates and security components.  • Monitoring and tuning performance.  • Troubleshooting all issues from browser, network, web, application to database.  • Mercury siteScope configuration for performance monitoring of web application sites. Windows 2000, 2003, Red Hat Linux and UNIX servers.  • Worked with J2EE based technologies including: Java, JSP, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JSESSION and RMI.  • Working knowledge of Tomcat, Web logic, MQ Series, Crystal Reporting, BizTalk, HTTPS, HTTP, SFTP, SSH, TCPIP, SOAP, XML, JVM, Ports, Oracle, Visio, Word, Excel, SQL, UDP, JAVA, EAR, JAR and WAR. Senior Analyst Dallas Children's Medical Center May 2005 to September 2005 • Designed and implemented a huge cerner clinical application using Websphere 5.0.2.2 across twelve Windows 2003 servers, active directory, vertically and horizontally scaled environment, IIS, load balanced behind two Cisco context switches with failover. HIPAA compliance and controls implemented. Installed, configured and maintained Epic application.  • The doctors, nurses and pharmacists used this with handheld scanners on a wireless 802.11b network.  • Duties included: planning and designing the WebSphere development, test and production environment.  • Installing the product, setting up multiple node environments.  • Migrating existing installations and configurations.  • Installed and Configured Cisco router and security firewall asa device.  • Configured LDAP and active directory. Administering in preparation for application deployment.  • Obtaining assembled modules containing application code.  • Deploying modules on development, test and production environments.  • Testing access to deployed modules.  • Administering deployed modules, servers and resources.  • Configuring and maintaining the security components.  • Monitoring and tuning performance.  • Troubleshooting all issues from network, web, and application to database.  • Designed a Websphere 5.0.2.2, Red hat Linux horizontally clustered environment, apache httpd, load balanced behind two Cisco context switches with failover for the new Lawson application that would manage the business aspect of Children's Hospital from finance, accounting, human resources etc.  • Worked with J2EE based technologies including: Java, JSP, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JSESSION and RMI.  • Working knowledge of Tomcat, Web logic, MQ Series, Crystal Reporting, JBOSS, HTTPS, HTTP, TCPIP, SOAP, XML, JVM, Ports, Oracle, Visio, Word, Excel, SQL, UDP, JAVA, EAR, JAR and WAR. Unix/Linux Adminstration/Middleware Engineer Southwest Airlines January 2001 to May 2005 • Designed, developed, tested and administered the J2EE web architecture, working with developers, vendors and DBA's. Implemented and migrated Websphere Application Server 4.0, 4.7, 5.0 & 5.1, dmgr, WebSphere portal 5.0, apache, IHS and IIS.  • Working knowledge of JVM, SOAP, XML, Ports, Virtual Hosts, UDP, RMI, JAVA, EAR, JAR, WAR and TCPIP.  • Provided 24x7 coverage working in a team environment. Korn shell scripting, java, debugged in C, modified and light Perl scripting, sed, awk.  • Supported, tested & migrated several applications including Oblix, Maestro, Tivoli, Legato, HACMP, IBM MQ Series, Hp service guard, monitoring tools, SAS, satcom servers, swift, sonalyst, & swami. Demonstrations & presentations, worked directly with customers, hardware vendors, oracle and Sybase DBA's.  • Unix system administration; hardening, korn shell scripting, awk, sed, patch & system upgrades, installed new software, device management, user management, security, nas, san, legato. Senior Netcenter Engineer Southwestern Bell Internet January 2000 to January 2001 • Unix system administration; korn shell scripting, awk, sed, patch & system upgrades, installed new software, device management, user management, security, nas, san, legato on sun e4500 & netra's.  • Team lead of my shift, management of team.  • Dedicated monitoring all servers & networking on sun Solaris in data center.  • Oracle 7 database administration.  • Dns & bind configurations, mx records, a records, cname, reverse delegation (in-addr.arpa), smtp, subnet masking, telneting, ftp,pinging, trace routing, nslookup, dig, etc.  • Monitored servers & systems using patrol and netcool.  • Advanced troubleshoot nis +, ldap, oracle, sims mail, mta's, unix sun solaris, sun ultra sparc station, nfs, email, sendmail, sims, pop3 mail, dns, routers, Cisco, ascend, caymen, t1, ds1, csu, dsu, atm, frame relay, isdn, dsl, dealing directly with customers on the phone and cases.    Awards:  2014 Powered by People Award, Zions Bancorporation  2016 Aristotle Excellence Award, Zions Bancorporation Education Certification Grayson Community College - Sherman, TX December 2000 Certification Southern Methodist University Tech - Plano, TX June 1999 Skills IIS, IPLANET, LAMP, SAAS, SECURITY, System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux, Vmware