Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - First Data Corporation Middletown, MD Highly motivated and determined professional, seeking to utilize skills and  abilities to advance a career in an IT environment. Adept in multiple Microsoft  Windows operating environments, as well as Android. Work Experience Information Security Analyst First Data Corporation - Hagerstown, MD 2017 to Present Validate requests for access to various payroll/gift card products promptly,  ensuring appropriate approvals while adhering to strict Service Level  Agreements.  • Provide basic troubleshooting with access difficulties, as well as assisting in troubleshooting new products for ease of use/access.  • Work with varying teams to ensure correct accesses are provided. IT Support Specialist Middletown Valley Bank - Middletown, MD 2016 to 2017 • Efficiently delivered prompt technical and troubleshooting assistance related to computer hardware and software.  • Administered users in the phone system, both from PRI/VM server as well as end units, working with third party as necessary.  • Managed parent image and application updates, providing timely  deployment to virtual machines.  • Performed installation and maintenance of network attached printers,  including training employees on new machines. Teller Representative PNC Bank - Frederick, MD 2013 to 2016 Provided technical support for different machines in the bank, including end  terminals, ATMs, and teller cash recycling devices.  • Led and participated in team building initiatives.  • Completed cash transactions with extreme levels of accuracy. Education Associates in General Studies Frederick Community College - Frederick, MD 2012 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (Less than 1 year), CUSTOMER RELATIONS (Less than 1 year), CUSTOMER SERVICE (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills • Strong computer and technology skills, including Microsoft Office, VMWare,  Group Policy and Active Directory.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly in high pressure situations to rapidly  diagnose and resolve system issues.  • Excellent internal and external customer service skills, with over 10 years of  experience in customer relations.