Correctional Officer III Correctional Officer III Escort - South Carolina Department of Corrections Columbia, SC Work Experience Correctional Officer III South Carolina Department of Corrections - Columbia, SC July 2018 to Present Columbia, SC July 2018 - Present    Provides security, custody and control of inmates in a correctional setting. Duties include:  Maintain control in inmate dorms, cafeteria, work sites and surrounding areas.  ? Instruct and direct inmates assigned to various work details.  ? Maintain and report inmate count and daily logs; prepare and submit miscellaneous reports.  ? Maintain surveillance and search for contraband.  ? Maintain and inspect building for cleanliness and sanitation; requisition and direct issuance of supplies, tools and equipment; maintain inventory of equipment.  ? Escort visitors and civilian employees through assigned facility.  ? Ensure that inmates receive prescribed treatment including medical and behavioral prescriptions.  ? Control gate tower or other special post.  ? Make prescribed security inspections and searches of specified buildings, building contents, grounds, vehicles and people and take necessary action.  ? Maintain and operate security devices in a security setting, such as gates and doors, weapons and mechanical devices.  ? Instruct and counsel officers concerning duty requirements.  ? Investigate inmate/resident complaints and take appropriate action.  ? Serve as backup for any dorm/building dispute requiring assistance and crisis intervention; make reports to appropriate personnel. Carpenter Mechanic New York City District Council of Carpenters - New York, NY 2002 to Present Constructs, erects, installs, and repairs structures and fixtures of wood, plywood, and wallboard, using carpenter's hand tools and power tools.  ? Studies blueprints, sketches, or building plans for information pertaining to type of material required, such as lumber or fiberwood, and dimensions of structure or fixture to be fabricated.  ? Prepares layout using rule, framing square, and calipers. Marks cutting and assembly lines on materials, using pencil, chalk, and marking gauge.  ? Shapes materials to prescribed measurements, using saws, chisels, and planes.  ? Assembles cut and shaped materials and fastens them together with nails, dowel pins, or glue.  ? Applies shock-absorbing, sound-deadening, and decorative paneling to ceilings and walls.  ? Verifies trueness of structure with plumb bob and level.  ? Erects framework for structures and lays sub flooring. IT SD - ERP OPS Analyst Fresh Direct - Queens, NY June 2017 to July 2018 Excellent organizational skills with the ability to listen, follow up, attention to detail, and accomplish desired results verbally and/or in written form to appropriately document and resolve incidents.  ? User-Friendly and consistent customer support via Genesys IVR, Service Desk or email  ? Responsible for ERP Operations to successfully process over 16500 daily customer orders  ? Conduct pre-production checklist: including servers, systems & SCADA Controls to ensure systems reliability  ? Partnering with other technology teams to monitor and resolve incidents during critical production hours.  ? Ensure systems integrity by actively monitoring IT infrastructure: network, hosts, services, ETL jobs and SAP background jobs.  ? Coordinate with Plant management for seamless production of orders and incident mitigation procedures  ? Serve as the first line of support for IT Technology Services team, responsibilities include:  ? Work with IT team members to resolve and document problems through Service Desk  ? Plant control and data acquisition systems  ? Pick-to-light systems monitoring, configuration, and support  ? Desktop and network support for plant and corporate employees  ? Mobility Support: RF Terminal, Scanners, mobile handheld computers, laptops and mobile phones.  ? Document, resolve and escalate incidents as required  ? Troubleshoot and resolve SAP Printing Services Help Desk/ Field Technician JRM Construction Management - Manhattan, NY May 2017 to June 2017 Scanning and organizing documents to network folders  ? Printing Documents  ? Installing Software's  ? Phone support  ? Provide field service for multiple site locations, performing installation of network devices  ? Setup Docking stations  ? Run Network Switches  ? Setup Dual Monitor displays for client work stations  ? Provide support to client utilizing RDC  ? Telephony setups  ? Providing wireless printing capability connections to laptops Help Desk/Desktop support Medgar Evers College - Brooklyn, NY February 2013 to July 2013 To help with any technical problem that a student/staff may have such as  ? Desktop and laptop hardware installation and troubleshooting skills  ? Computer hardware and software technical support for college issued computers and laptops  ? Mobile support on iPhone, Android and iPad  ? Strong knowledge of Windows 7,8, 2010 Operating system, and Office 2013 and 2010  ? Experience working with an Active Directory and setting up users.  ? Classroom/Lab Technology Support Services  ? Printing documents  ? Microsoft power point, Excel, and Word  ? Along with supplying the printer with paper and other meaningful task that help students and staff in their day to day usage of the computer labs.  ? Ticketing systems: Kace1000 and Fresh Service  ? Faculty, Staff and Student email  ? Access and support for the CUNY Portal and Blackboard  ? Internet and Intranet Support  ? Accessing CUNY account information  ? Network and wireless connectivity issues hour Security guard Training 2008 MTA NYC 2010 to 2010 16 - hour Security guard Training 2008  Aerial work platform Safety course 2008  4 years of Carpentry apprenticeship 2007  UBC Aerial lift operator qualification 2006  HILTI - Powered actuated tools 2006  10 - hour OSHA Hazard awareness 2002  10 - hour OSHA construction safety 2002  Construction Skills 2000 pre-apprenticeship Carpentry program 2002 Apprentice Carpenter NY City District Council of Carpenter Labor Tech College - New York, NY August 2002 to June 2006 Responsible for assisting with constructing and maintaining residences and buildings, such as lay building foundations, mix and pour cement, frame building including doors and windows, put up siding, put up drywall, etc.  ? Constructs items such as furniture and stairs, making repairs to the internal and external structure and ensuring buildings are safe.  ? Perform minor electrical repairs.  ? Monitor and replace weather stripping.  ? Operate and maintain carpentry tools and equipment.  ? Assist with the delivery of other municipal services.  ? Keep a daily log of tasks. Education Harry Van Arsdale Jr. High School - Brooklyn, NY 2002