IT Director/Information Security Officer <span class="hl">IT</span> Director/Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer IT Director/Information Security Officer - Baylor, Scott, & White Hospitals Flint, TX To show that I am a proven Healthcare IT asset to any organization and gain knowledge from each new endeavor. Work Experience IT Director/Information Security Officer Baylor, Scott, & White Hospitals - Tyler, TX March 2016 to Present • Governance of all systems (Evident, FUJI, SSI, Interqual, DocuTap)  • Over $5M budgetary responsibility for new and current processes and engagements.  • Over $10M in assets across all locations  • Manage team of five for IT department  • Direct access to CEO and CFO for governance.  • Hospital leader for all information security standards.  • Revenue cycle leader  • Sat on executive compliance committee.  • Implantation of clinical software to providers  • Designed current workflow and processes with current EMR (Evident)  • Build and design EMR software for both clinical and financial departments Contract EMR CPSI EHR June 2015 to October 2015 Artesia General Hospital, NM  • Complete system implementation of CPSI Healthcare EHR to entire facility.  • Project lead on post-implementation integration with previous processes.  • Install and educate end-users on healthcare Revenue Cycle best practices including billing, patient access, case management, and revenue integrity.  • Delegate task to current hospital staff on CPSI Healthcare software.  • Weekly meetings with C-level leadership on statuses and goals.  • Evaluate clinical departments on Revenue Cycle best practices.  • Develop policy and procedures for use of hospital applications.  • 1:1 training and support to providers, nurses, and staff on multiple applications within CPSI clinical and Revenue Cycle Applications. Contract IT Analyst CPSI EHR January 2014 to February 2015 Jacobus Consulting, CA  • Assisted on Revenue Cycle Implementation Project for multi-facility health system.  • Develop project plans for each department on new practices.  • Served in leadership role on multiple projects.  • Use SQL and MS Access to extra CPSI Master Patient Index and Payroll information to interface with other EMR system(s)  • Optimize CPSI EHR system for all departments.  • Implement new practices for integration of different aspects of the revenue cycle throughout the healthcare district.  • Develop policy and procedures for use of hospital systems.  • IT support site wide. EMR Software Support Analyst CPSI HER September 2013 to November 2014 Thor Group  • CPOE Physician Application support for hospital during software install.  • Develop best practices for best system uses.  • Financial workflow analysis and revenue cycle support.  • Data retrieval from database.  • End-to-end go live support on clinical documentation.  • Extra data through SQL for advanced reporting. Contract Software Analyst CPSI EHR - Wahiaw?, HI March 2013 to August 2014 • Provide education on Medication Reconciliation to clinical staff and management.  • Use CPSI database to move databases to extract information for reporting for Administration team  • Elbow-to-elbow support on software and hardware related issues. This included CPOE, POC, Technical (hardware), Financial, and Ancillary departments.  • Create education documentation on software and technical issues.  • Project lead on multiple software and hardware projects. Network Specialist Labette Health - Parsons, KS January 2013 to June 2013 • Elbow-to-elbow onsite support on CPSI software and hardware. Worked on Clientware, CPOE, POC, Order Entry (OE).  • Provide remote support on software and hardware issues.  • Support education department on documents to be used site wide.  • Provide technical support and advised IT staff on site on any hardware issues.  • Meet regularly with clinical staff to discuss the direction of projects.  • Project lead on software and hardware project implementation including education, install, go-live, and legacy support. Senior Consultant/Lead Trainer, CPSI MaxIT Healthcare/Leidos Health June 2011 to December 2012 • Senior Consultant, Clinical Educator, CPSI at St. Mary's-Warrick Hospital (Indiana) and Labette Health (Kansas)  • Consulted with Business office and CFO on Revenue Cycle processes and best practices to market hospital and increase revenue and decrease profit loss.  • Worked with administration to see most cost effective areas and streamline practices to decrease expenditures.  • Project Manager for software and hardware implementation across all modules. This involved  drafting a project plan, financial analysis, coordinating with IT staff and department directors along with CEO on all impactful changes site-wide. This also involved managing a group of 10 in the IT department but overseeing the project of 500 end-users across the hospital campus and satellite clinics/facilities and their department directors and seeing the project through for the entire cycle.  • Technical liaison between vendor and site on procurement of all new hardware. Advised site on direction for systems.  • Advised current IT staff on current Change Management process along with workflow solutions.  • Managed department directors during implementations.  • Provided guidance on legacy system.  • Gave technical and clinical support site wide for system.  • System Admin for all vender related hardware.  • Implemented new policy and procedures through all departments of hospital.  • Project Manager for life cycle of all vendor related projects  • Service desktop support  • Educate all users and management on any and all software changes throughout facility.  • Created education documents for clinical/physician staff for new module going online hospital wide.  • Conducted one-on-one training for staff. Senior Support / Clinical & Technical Development Mobile, AL April 2009 to June 2011 • Developed clinical applications for use in hospital(s) all over the country  • Worked with physicians on clinical improvements on hospital software  • Created revenue cycle practices for hospitals to use CPSI applications to the Hospital's maximum  • Worked with HL7 teams to integrate multiple hospital EMR's through interface (HL7) messaging  • Installed Revenue Cycle Registration enhancements onsite to multiple  • Worked in Clinical R&D to develop best practice software for medical facilities.  • Conducted training sessions for providers, nurses, and revenue staff on software.  • Gave presentations to C-level staff to multiple hospitals on Revenue Cycle portion of cycle.  • Lead project teams with onsite installation of clinical and revenue cycle software.  • Upgrading current clients to Linux Red Had 5.4 Operating Systems along with installing new IBM X series servers  • Did this by an ssh data migration over the site's network to its new server  • Handling emergency situations with critical problems (including possible data loss) with systems  • Either via phone, VPN or traveling to site to find solutions with multiple problems either data, operating system, or software  • Assisted in program development in a COBOL/Java/MySql/Red Hat Platforms  • Building new servers and current servers with Unix or Linux Operating Systems for immediate use  • Traveling to the location and placing that system in line in a timely manner  • Worked with customers on Microsoft Active Directory with Windows Server 2003/2008 servers  • Working with product development on creating Virtual Images of our software for clients to use on their LUN/Hardware  • Created Virtual Redundancy servers for sites using cloud based solutions along with virtual  Servers on site.  • Also worked on improving and creating new methods of upgrading systems and streaming  approaches of current practices  • Worked day to day phone support for all customer's IT issues  • Handled after hours and weekend support for emergency situations  • Supported SCO Unix, Open 8 Unix, Unix 7.1.3/7.1.4, Red Hat Linux 5, CentOS 5.4, VMware Versions 4.0/7.0. Windows NT servers on several types of hardware configurations. Using RAID 0, RAID 5, RAID 0, and RAID 1 (VERITAS Mirroring) disk array setups  • Worked in team atmosphere and worked on problem solving situations with other employees in my department and company-wide  • Served an on-call 24/7 support for after hours emergency situations for all customers (approx 625)  • Set up Microsoft NT and Active Directory for customers ranging from 100 to 600 end users.  • Created virtual servers for sites using VMware and Hyper-V with Windows and Linux (CentOS and Red Hat 5.4 Operating Systems. Technical Administrator E-Graphics and Design, Inc - Mobile, AL February 2008 to January 2010 • Data implementation on all existing and new accounts/clients  • Set up and maintain all networking and computer hardware in office  • Deal with customers face to face and reply to phone calls and emails Sales Supervisor Lenscrafters, Inc - Mobile, AL June 2008 to November 2008 • Day to day store management  • Deal with all associate relations and boost employee moral  • Handle with customers face to face and reply to phone calls and emails  • Balance budget with payroll and sales projections based on previous sales achievements Account Executive MCR Concepts, Inc - Mobile, AL December 2007 to February 2008 • Face to face in store sales for major telecommunications company  • Handle customer complaints and all major questions  • Train new account managers in sales concepts and theories Assistant Manager Buckle, Inc - Mobile, AL June 2006 to June 2007 • Supervise and maintain store flow in the store  • Handle all customer related matters and/or customer complaints  • Merchandise and delegate tasks to other associates in the department  • Create budget forecasts and growth projections for future store earnings Assistant Manager Old Navy Clothing Company, Inc - Mobile, AL May 2001 to August 2002 • Supervise and maintain store flow through the men's department  • Merchandise and delegate tasks to other associates in the department Technical Director / Theatre Manager Murphy High School - Mobile, AL August 1999 to May 2002 • Conducted administrative functions for all activities in the theatre  • Acted as liaison between school and outside functions.  • Account manager for outside functions being held in department  • Handled payroll and Time & Attendance for department and employees Education Bachelor of Science in finance University of Alabama - Tuscaloosa, AL August 2002 to June 2007 Advanced Diploma Murphy High School - Mobile, AL August 1998 to May 2002 Skills Mysql, Sql, Css, Dreamweaver, Tomcat, Websphere, Html, Javascript, Ms project, Perl, Php, Scripting, Visual basic, Xml, Xml/xsl, Xsl, Aix, Apache, Linux, Linux/unix Additional Information Skills    Adobe  Dreamweaver  Adobe Photoshop  Adobe Flash  MS Office Suite  MS Project    CSS  HTML/XHTML  Java  JavaScript  Perl  PHP  Shell scripting  SQL  XML/XSL  Visual Basic    MySQL    AIX/Linux/UNIX  Red Hat  CentOS  Fedora  Windows Vista/XP  Windows 7  Windows R2  Windows NT  Active Directory    Apache/Tomcat  WebSphere Suite