General Manager General Manager General Manager - Intelemedia Premier Leads Morganville, NJ Work Experience General Manager Intelemedia Premier Leads - Plano, TX 2015 to Present Intelemedia acquired Pollcast, Inc. in 2015 to form Intelemedia Premier Leads which is the leader in on-air TV audience participation programs, & ad-serving platform.  ? Executive in charge of all aspects of third-party contract negotiations, market penetration strategies, revenue drivers and analytics.  ? Maximize profits through effective cost control, staff restructuring, expense monitoring.  ? Create marketing and advertising campaigns and partnership strategies, including mobile subscriptions, subscription shopping programs, and direct response ad campaigns, and analyzes LTV and sell-through ratios.  ? Maintains full responsibility for financial planning, budget management, cost control, IT, and HR activities.  Key Accomplishments:  ? Implemented strategic partnerships with new call platforms to increase revenue by 30%.  ? Restructured corporate operations and third-party relationships to improve gross margins by 10%. CFO & SVP Operations POLLCAST, INC - New York, NY 2010 to 2015 Champions on-air TV audience participation programs, generating tens of millions of calls to an Engagement / Entertainment Media IVR ad-serving platform to deliver pre-qualified leads to advertising partners; calls generated millions of dollars in revenue.  ? Drives profits and achieves cost savings by executing financial and metric-driven initiatives and managing third-party and contracted call center operations.  ? Expands company reach through strategic penetration of online markets.  Key Accomplishments:  ? Integrated an advanced call center with call routing capabilities to prioritize calls to sales agents boasting the highest close rates, delivering a revenue increase exceeding 25% for advertisers.  ? Established ad campaign management processes to incorporate call recording, sell-through tracking, and step-by-step conversion analysis. Director of Finance 2WAYTRAFFIC, INC - New York, NY 2008 to 2010 Managed $10 million in advertising revenue and directed financial operations across multiple television platforms.  ? Maximized ROI by collaborating with the General Manager to generate strategies designed to leverage company platform of matching television viewer interaction with advertisers.  Key Accomplishments:  ? Pinpointed key metrics and streamlined performance tracking by integrating business analysis reporting tools.  ? Minimized costs and improved compliance through the outsourcing of back-office accounting functions. Novartis Consumer Health Canada, Inc - Mississauga, ON 2006 to 2008 Maintained responsibility for a $90 million consumer product business with distribution throughout Canada.  ? Impacted key metrics by conceptualizing, executing, and monitoring strategic growth initiatives.  ? Facilitated performance and metrics tracking with the launch of improved performance management tools.  ? Streamlined and supervised processes related to financial and strategic planning, budgeting, accounting, purchasing, tax reporting, and SOX controls.  ? Ensured security of global corporate information assets by directing a risk-based program initiative.  Key Accomplishments:  ? Exceeded market share targets and achieved category growth with the launch of two major brands.  ? Reduced functional costs 5% with the implementation of a War on Waste program.  ? Secured significant growth and improved M&A activity by developing and executing a five-year strategic plan. CFO - Head of Finance & IT, Global Information Security NOVARTIS INTERNATIONAL AG - Basel, CH 1997 to 2008 Director of Financial Reporting & Accounting Novartis Consumer Health, Inc - Parsippany, NJ 2003 to 2006 Parsippany, New Jersey (2003 - 2006)  ? Oversaw Financial Reporting and Accounting for the North and South American regions.  ? Verified financial SOX compliance throughout the US region, facilitating internal and external audits.  ? Established and ensured full adherence to internal policies and controls within the finance department.    Director of Financial Reporting & Accounting - North & South America / Global Information Security (continued)  ? Directed Information Security initiatives and launched awareness campaigns across 60 global site locations.  Key Accomplishments:  ? Served a vital role in the acquisition of Bristol Meyers-Squibb, leading negotiations to secure favorable working capital and integrated financial reporting.  ? Optimized reporting and operations by spearheading the SAP post-implementation project team.  ? Streamlined the integration of SOX controls, testing, documentation, and attestation processes. Associate Director of Financial Reporting & Accounting Novartis Consumer Health, Inc - Parsippany, NJ 2002 to 2003 Led Accounting and Reporting functions for Novartis OTC, Gerber, and Medical Nutrition companies. Director of Financial Reporting & Analysis NOVARTIS INTERNATIONAL AG - Summit, NJ 2000 to 2002 Spearheaded the consolidation and analysis of financial results across all US-owned Novartis companies.  ? Maintained treasury and banking relationships by generating US consolidated results based on information compiled within the independent US Consolidated reporting database.  ? Communicated and ensured compliance of Novartis US companies with financial reporting requirements.  ? Collaborated with PricewaterhouseCoopers to develop consolidated US GAAP annual reports.  ? Directed corporate HR financial activities, including executive compensation, retirement plans, payroll, and benefits.  Key Accomplishments:  ? Eliminated costs related to orphan assets by initiating the disposal of two buildings in Chicago and New York.  ? Drove productivity with the development and implementation of a local consolidation tool enabling automated extractions from a global database. Manager of Financial Accounting 1998 to 2000 Senior Financial Analyst 1997 to 1998 Education Master of Business Administration in Finance RUTGERS UNIVERSITY - New Brunswick, NJ Bachelor of Science in Economics UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND - College Park, MD Finance HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL - Boston, MA Additional Information ? Accomplished executive experienced in the development and execution of financial and operational improvements.  ? Proven ability to generate substantial corporate revenue growth, streamline processes to add value to the bottom line, and plan strategically to achieve organizational goals.  ? Thorough knowledge in the provision of executive-level leadership on a global scale across multiple industries, including pharmaceutical, media, and consumer products.  ? Strong skills collaborating with cross-functional teams, key stakeholders, and external suppliers.