Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Analyst - UHAUL Inc Glendale, AZ Twenty five plus years experience in customer service, helpdesk call center, for front 1000 to 1500 staff in human service programs under DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC SECURITY, in areas of customer service, staff training, technical support and supervisor. With 17 years in first and second level helpdesk/call center support. Providing problem resolution for users in PC/LAN and mainframe systems. Excellent leadership, organizational skills, effective communication including conflict resolution, and had a great working relationship with cross divisional technical support teams and agency management and staff.  As a Public Assistance Eligibility Interviewer I interviewed customers, made financial eligibility determinations for cash assistance, food stamps and medical assistance. Work Experience Security Analyst UHAUL Inc - Phoenix, AZ January 2018 to Present At the Corporate U-Haul Monitoring Station I provide reliable, quick response time and we provide exceptional customer service. Monitor Burglary, fire, and holdup signals/alarms that are received. I handle incoming calls from our customers who may have requests, questions, or issues concerning a particular alarm system. I perform other duties required to maintain the reliability and integrity of our Alarm Monitoring Services. Sales Associate Kohl's Corporation - Peoria, AZ September 2017 to December 2017 Assisting customers, cashier. Stock merchandise. Customer Service IT Technician Arizona Industries for the Blind - Phoenix, AZ June 2017 to June 2017 to June 2017  Contract assignment reimaged machines for move to a new Domain, and assisted with helpdesk assigning tickets and troubleshooting. Storage Counselor Open Tech Alliance - Phoenix, AZ January 2017 to June 2017 Taking inbound calls in a sales and service call center team via phone and onsite kiosks for Storage Facility owners. Assisting with onsite needs by processing payments and sending call notes to facility management. Specializing in guiding potential tenants and obtaining new unit reservations. Maintaining and exceeding daily and monthly company sales and service goals as well as call quality analysis expectations. Seasonal Associate Kohls - Glendale, AZ October 2015 to December 2015 85308 Responsible for greeting and offering assistance to customers as needed. The Sales Associate assists in the execution of merchandizing and operational functions to Company Standards within sales floor areas where assigned. • Utilizes and adheres to merchandise presentation standards in regards to the 5 Basics: replenishment, signing, sizing, clearance and clean store. • Assisted in utilizing monthly updates, communication books, etc. in accordance with Company merchandise presentation standards. • Assists with department fitting room recovery and sales floor returns in accordance with merchandising standards. • Shows initiative to work independently to meet presentation and recovery expectations. • Maintained fitting rooms, sales floor, and work areas according to Company best practices. • Followed Company merchandise presentation directives and standards while merchandising incoming truck freight and replenishing the sales floor. • Identified and communicates merchandising and sales floor operational opportunities to Supervisor, Area Supervisor or E3. • Arranged merchandise on fixtures and maintained non-promotional signs on the sales floor according to Company standards. Resolved ad issues as needed by changing signs to reflect current sale price. • Assisted in the maintenance of Company stockroom capacity and organizational guidelines by following best practices. IT Technician II Arizona Department of Economic Security/ Child Care Administration (CCA) - Phoenix, AZ March 2011 to December 2014 1789 W. Jefferson, SE 2rd floor, Phoenix, 85007  Information Technology Unit  IT Technician II  March 2011 to December 2014  Lead tech. I attended all LAN manager and DERS IT manager meetings. • I decided how Department of Technology Service (DTS) directives are completed. Testing and deployment. • Assigned and tracked assignments/projects to coworker. • Trained coworker, supervised, assigned projects and monitor. • Provided technical PC support to the CCA users, outside providers and Systems & Programming (S&P) unit. Used CA Service Center software to create, review and monitor CCA tickets. • Responded to and independently did troubleshooting to resolve customer help desk calls related to problems with the standard hardware, software application issues, operating system, network, terminal servers and Mainframe applications. • Maintained Child Care Program Internet and Intranet web pages using Content Management tool Ektron 8.70 for Internet and Ektron 8.50 SP1 for Intranet. • Use ITCM, Remote desktop and Management Console to connect to user's machines or Terminal Server sessions, to troubleshoot issues on Personal Computers, Network Computers, File Server and Terminal Servers. • Resolving network connectivity issues in a Windows XP and 7 environments, determine if network issues were machine, data line/jack or LAN issue. • Ensure the all CCA computers receive the appropriate Windows and MacAfee virus updates. • Upgrade OS software on machines, Install application software: Office, EXTRA, Rumba, ITCM, and McAfee. • Participate in systems studies by analyzing the current business system, organization, procedures, workflow, and information requirements. Develop objectives that meet the business needs of the CCA administration ensuring integration with the goals of the agency. Provide recommendations for IT needs including hardware, software, programming, etc. including comparison of related products, justification for the purchase • Make training recommendations for users, develop and design written training materials to send out to all CCA staff. Update documentation of operational procedures, systems practices, training materials, presentations, etc. • Maintain Group Polices, and Groups for Active Directory. Review, test, install, and complete upgrades and maintain all operating systems. Complete network data security functions, maintain accounts in ADESGOV domain, and OU group polices. Maintain all network and service accounts, setup users in the correct groups. Train users and outside entities on how to use Secure Id (fob) cards. Customer Service Support Call Center Arizona Department of Economic Security/Department of Technology Services (DTS) October 2010 to March 2011 IT Technician II  October 2010 to March 2011  Supervised a unit of 9 helpdesk technicians who provided front-line support for 1000 to 1500 Department of Economic Security, employees. Customer calls on all mainframe peripherals, thin client networks, personal computer networks and telephones for the agency requiring knowledge of all programs and business needs within the Agency. Was responsible to ensure we assessed unresolved issues and problems and determine the need for escalation to level 2 or 3 technical assistance. Used my PC/LAN and mainframe systems experience to perform the assessment process, I also assessed problems reported to determine the scope of a potential outage that may have occurred with a given hardware, software, or application system and communicate this information to CSSC/DTS management. In this position I determined the priority of issues and problems for submission to higher level support units. Assisted other DES programs to ensure their users received the assistance needed, including training a unit in FAA on how to use the Shadow Tool in Management Console. Supervised the after-hours staff that supported the CPS and AHIT hotlines. Public Assistance Eligibility Interviewer Arizona Department of Economic Security/DBME/FAA-ISO - Phoenix, AZ January 2011 to January 2011 IT Technician II Arizona Department of Economic Security/ Child Care Administration (CCA) - Phoenix, AZ August 2007 to October 2010 1789 W. Jefferson, SW 3rd floor, Phoenix, 85007  IT Technician II  August 2007 to October 2010  Information Technology Unit • Lead tech. I attended all LAN manager and DERS IT manager meetings. • I decided how Department of Technology Service (DTS) directives are completed. Testing and deployment. • Assigned and tracked assignments/projects to coworker. • Trained coworker, supervised, assigned projects and monitor. • Provided technical PC support to the CCA users, outside providers and Systems & Programming (S&P) unit. Used CA Service Center software to create, review and monitor CCA tickets. • Responded to and independently did troubleshooting to resolve customer help desk calls related to problems with the standard hardware, software application issues, operating system, network, terminal servers and Mainframe applications. • Maintained Child Care Program Internet and Intranet web pages using Content Management tool Ektron 8.70 for Internet and Ektron 8.50 SP1 for Intranet. • Use ITCM, Remote desktop and Management Console to connect to user's machines or Terminal Server sessions, to troubleshoot issues on Personal Computers, Network Computers, File Server and Terminal Servers. • Resolving network connectivity issues in a Windows XP and 7 environments, determine if network issues were machine, data line/jack or LAN issue. • Ensure the all CCA computers receive the appropriate Windows and MacAfee virus updates. • Upgrade OS software on machines, Install application software: Office, EXTRA, Rumba, ITCM, and McAfee. • Participate in systems studies by analyzing the current business system, organization, procedures, workflow, and information requirements. Develop objectives that meet the business needs of the CCA administration ensuring integration with the goals of the agency. Provide recommendations for IT needs including hardware, software, programming, etc. including comparison of related products, justification for the purchase • Make training recommendations for users, develop and design written training materials to send out to all CCA staff. Update documentation of operational procedures, systems practices, training materials, presentations, etc. • Maintain Group Polices, and Groups for Active Directory. Review, test, install, and complete upgrades and maintain all operating systems. Complete network data security functions, maintain accounts in ADESGOV domain, and OU group polices. Maintain all network and service accounts, setup users in the correct groups. Train users and outside entities on how to use Secure Id (fob) cards. Customer Service Support Call Center Arizona Department of Economic Security/Department of Technology Services (DTS) - Phoenix, AZ February 2006 to August 2007 February 2006 to August 2007  IT Technician III Provided technical support to Divisions under the Department of Economic Security (DES) throughout the state for problem resolution of customer help desk calls related to problems with the Network, standard hardware, software application issues, operating systems, domain and Divisional applications, such as Childs, AZTECS, and Focus, this includes resolving network connectivity issues in a various Window's environments. Troubleshoot & resolve issues via phone or remote control using Proxy, Management Console and Remote Desktop and create service requests in Remedy for elevation as needed. Work with other technical staff to provide support to DES users. Troubleshoot issues to determine problems for Network Computer (NC) users, determine if the problem is with users account profile or terminal servers. Assign secure ID cards, trouble shoot issues with fob cards enabling synchronzing them add or remove membership groups. Instructing user on how to login, add printers, and change settings in Outlook etc. Work account administration in the AZDESGOV domain and in the mainframe. Create network accounts, setup in correct division ou, add groups as appropriate. Create mainframe accounts for DTS and non DES users; forward J-125 to appropriate areas for additional access. Trouble shoot group membership's issues and terminal services profiles. IT Technician III and acting IT Manager Arizona Department of Economic Security/Office - Phoenix, AZ September 2000 to February 2006 85012 (602) 274-7101 IT Technician III and acting IT Manager Supervised the OPE It unit while continuing the IT Technician III LAN technician duties. Supervised OPE Security technician, 1st level helpdesk technician, and systems technician. Provided technical PC support to the OPE administration, local Food and Nutrition Services (FNS) administration, and Systems & Programming (S&P) unit assigned to OPE as the LAN manager for OPE. Responded to and independently troubleshooting to resolve customer help desk calls related to problems with the standard hardware, software application issues, operating system, and OPE applications, such as QUEST intranet application, OPE file and database servers. Used Proxy and Remote desktop to troubleshoot issues on PC and Servers. Including resolving network connectivity issues in a Windows 2000 environment, determined if network issues were machine, data line/jack or LAN issue. Maintained and monitored the tape backup for file servers using ARCSErve software. Ensured the servers and computers received the appropriate Windows and MacAfee virus updates. Participated in systems studies by analyzing the current business system, organization, procedures, workflow, and information requirements. Developed objectives that meet the business needs of the OPE administration ensuring integration with the goals of the agency. Used Remedy to view OPE tickets. Made training recommendations for users, developed and designed training materials and provided the training. Continually updated documentation of operational procedures, systems practices, training materials, presentations, etc. Provided recommendations for IT needs including hardware, software, programming, etc. included a comparison of related products, justification for the purchase and keyed and monitored orders in DARTS. Utilizing Peregrine Software reported Inventory for Gita Reporting. Researched and prepared documentation to support analysis, design and planning of projects. Maintained Group Polices, and Groups for Active Directory. Review, test, install, and completed upgrades and maintained all operating systems and vendor supplied software on the Microsoft servers. Completed all network data security functions, created accounts for IS and AZDESGOV domains, Groups and OU group polices. Maintained all network and service accounts, setup users in the correct groups. Trained users and outside entities how to use Secure Id cards. Management Analyst I and Acting Administrative Assistant III Arizona Department of Economic Security/Family Assistance Administration - Phoenix, AZ January 2000 to September 2000 85012 (602) 274-9818 Management Analyst I and Acting Administrative Assistant III Supervised three clerical staff that supported the AZTECS helpdesk team. I mentored, trained, and guided clerical staff to achieve their fullest potential. Maintained personnel records and data for PACE documents. Performed a variety of complex administrative tasks under the direction of the Systems Manager. Coordinated and scheduled meetings, prepared personnel actions following Personnel policy/procedures, conducting research as needed for manager, responded to questions from policy, coordinated administrative matters between systems units, composed documents such as correspondence on a variety of subjects. Interpreted and explained organizational rules/procedures. Assigned and tracked assignments to systems supervisors for the manager. Prepared a variety of reports. Prepared and took minutes for meetings. Reviewed test folders as the Quality Assurance representative. Management Analyst I Arizona Department of Economic Security/Family Assistance Administration August 1998 to January 2000 Under general supervision, responsible for identifying and analyzing procedural problems and determine effective solutions by using Family Assistance Administration, Systems such as AZTECS, Natural, Arizona Guide System and FAA online documents; by providing technical assistance to system users by way of help desk services; to troubleshoot concerns/problems. Evaluate existing and proposed policies and procedures, documented findings, prepared reports and made recommendations for system changes to coordinate implementation of improvements by testing specific applications for effectiveness and validating results. Represented the help desk on the Quality Assurance team. Reviewed test cases for accurate formatting and correct procedures as backup for the Quality Assurance representative. Manually worked food stamp proration worksheet, adding members to the case as requested by supervisor for the field. Reviewed and completed requests from the Program Managers, Assistant Program managers and supervisors daily, sent through sysm (faa.systems), 3rd sanctions for AFDC, CA/GA/FS counter changes and other requests. Public Assistance Unit Supervisor Arizona Department of Economic Security/DBME/FAA April 1995 to August 1998 Supervised an Assessment Unit consisting of five to 10 Assessment Specialists and a Unit Technician. Organized at a DES local office. Monitored, mentored, trained, and guided personnel to achieve their fullest potential. Maintained personnel records and data. Utilized available personnel to achieve timely and accurate completion of Intake and review Public Assistance applications. Held monthly conferences monthly with each employee to inform them of their progress and determine their training needs, assist them with concerns, updating each individual PACE monthly. Met with Local office manager and personnel to complete the necessary disciplinary actions as required. Interviewed potential hires, hired staff and trained new staff. Assisted other areas within the office as needed. Developed, wrote and conducted unit training on a weekly basis. Developed, researched and wrote procedures for unit quality initiatives. Assigned to several work-groups within the office to facilitate, organize, and implement necessary changes to local office procedure and policy such as the development of front desk procedures, application and appointment procedures, development of a second front desk, and utilization of a Director of Client Affairs. Left as Acting Local Office Manager when needed. Assessment Specialist Arizona Department of Economic Security/DBME/FAA - Phoenix, AZ April 1994 to April 1995 Assessed and determined appropriate combination of benefit programs that the client is entitled. Applied multiple program knowledge, critical listening techniques, And investigative and eligibility interviewing skills to produce a well defined plan for Delivery of services to the client, as well as determination of benefits for Integrated Multiple programs. Cross-trained in a variety of eligibility services Including Foodstamps, AFDC, medical assistance, child care assistance and JOBS Orientation. Interacted effectively with other agencies to assist clients in achievement of self-sufficiency Information Processing Specialist I AZ Dept. of Transportation IMVD - Phoenix, AZ July 1990 to April 1994 July 1990 to April 1994  Accurate and timely determinations of family assistance applicants eligibility for benefits and medical programs In accordance with federal, state regulations Maintained large caseloads of multiple barrier clients, made sure the clients were enrolled in all possible programs. Assisted In covering vacant caseloads Maintained daily reports. Completed changes. Assisted Spanish speaking clients. Translated for other workers. Assisted other workers In Interpreting policy and procedures. Participated on the Quality Enhancement Initiative Team. Acted as unit supervisor when supervisor was out of the office.    AZ Dept. of Transportation IMVD - Phoenix, AZ  Information Processing Specialist I Public contact in person and by phone Arizona State Statutes July 1989 to June 1990 July 1989 to June 1990  Determined eligibility of customers requesting investigation for reinstatement of driving privileges in accordance with Arizona State Statutes. Review of Investigation packet to ensure completeness. Provide information to customers. Utilization of data entry skills to maintain accuracy of Motor Vehicle/Diving records. Public contact in person and by phone. Translated for Spanish speaking customers as needed. Purchase Order Management Clerk Goldwater's/Robinsons - Phoenix, AZ February 1987 to March 1989 Resolved discrepancies in merchandise received/ordered in accordance with Company rules and regulations. Verified information with Buying office, upper management, and vendors to ensure accuracy of purchase order corrections. Utilization of CRT for data inquiry, updates, and documents creation. Returned merchandise to vendors Supervised group at inventory every 6 months, helped key tickets in Ticketing and worked manifest on receiving dock when short on personnel. Trained new employees. Reconciled transfer and price change journals monthly. Checked off journals, researched and corrected errors. Salesperson J.C. Penney Park Central Mall - Phoenix, AZ November 1985 to February 1987 Sold shoes on commission; stocked merchandise; worked advertisement book to set up displays; trained new employees; transferred merchandise to other stores and contacted customers on special orders and sales. Education High school or equivalent Skills testing, security, access, Active Directory, HTML