Senior Cyber Security Engineer II/ISSO Senior Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer II/ISSO Senior Cyber Security Engineer II/ISSO Colorado Springs, CO A highly competent and organized Cyber Security Engineer with experience in Information Assurance, Vulnerability Management, Threat Analysis, & Administration. To direct, establish, plan and implement the policies and procedures to support an organization's Cyber Security department. Proven record of evaluating vulnerabilities in order to recommend security improvements as well as improve efficiency while aligning business needs. Extensive knowledge of scanning, detecting, monitoring and controlling data to ensure compliance and security. Capable of working under pressure and quickly adapting to changing environments. Work Experience Senior Cyber Security Engineer II/ISSO Raytheon - Peterson AFB, CO December 2015 to March 2019 • HBSS and Symantec virus signature updates.  • Built several ACAS servers (VMware and RHEL) and implicated into networks.  • Stood up compliance and vulnerability suite for security monitoring for over 1,500 systems.  • Unix/Windows patching and administration.  • ACAS/Nessus/SCAP SME for vulnerability scanning and assessments.  • Patched and updated versions for Nessus, Security Center and RHEL.  • System configuration to enable scanning across the networks while viewing event logs, performance monitor and network traffic to ensure network stability.  • Coordinate with DISA regarding best practices with security tools.  • Assisted C&A engineers in completing and researching information assurance controls to help complete DIACAP and RMF packages.  • Running the SCC tool for STIG compliance along with STIG Viewer.  • Manual STIG checks on operating systems, applications and switch gear.  • Threat analysis to provide improvements while staying operational and compliant.  • Created Security Implementation Guides for vulnerability assessments and scanning.  • Created batch scripts to reduce time.  • Conducted vulnerability assessments to determine computer and network improvements.  • Managed a team of 5 and trained them on day to day operations.  • Access management operations. Cyber Client System Admin Northrop Grumman December 2014 to December 2015 • SCAP scanning to ensure system baseline security is up-to-date and pushing out required patches to lock down the system.  • Application of STIG and certificates to meet compliance IAW DIACAP.  • Assisted DIACAP engineers in completing and researching individual information assurance controls to help complete DIACAP process.  • Responsible for creating and proofing various documents and reports used to report information security findings to higher-level organizations.  • Remote imaging with Ghost imaging software.  • Managed and created machines with VMware.  • Managed ACAS & Nessus scanner and applied patches.  • Client support on Windows and Linux machines.  • Reconfigured servers and clients to meet training needs.  • Assisted in converting to RMF.  • ACAS and SCC lead/SME for vulnerability and compliance scanning. System Administrator/ Process Manager Abacus Technology January 2014 to November 2014 • Maintained internal site Unclassified and Classified Networks to include Windows Server 2000/2003, MS Exchange, McAfee/Symantec Antivirus, Active Directory, configuration Management, SSP, and Disaster Recovery.  • Monitored overall increases and decreases in network performance and protected network computer systems against the treat of network intrusion and unauthorized access.  • Used CommVault to backup and recover data.  • Used VMware to manage clients and servers.  • Set permissions, added and managed users/groups, PKI resets, password resets in Active Directory.  • Maintained security cross-domain on several government networks. Availability, Demand, Continuity and Capacity Manager Abacus Technology April 2013 to January 2014 • Created reports related to Availability, Demand, Continuity and Capacity.  • Report findings to government officials bi-weekly and addressed any concerns.  • Used WUG, Active Directory, SCSM, Windirstat, to gather information about network.  • Followed standards set by ITIL and policies made by government to provide exceptional support.  • Improved reporting matrix to provide a better representation of uptime/downtime.  • Held meetings and presented annual and quarterly reports to government officials.  • Supported the team in failover and disaster recovery operations.  • Assisted in writing SLAs and SOPs. Tier 1 Service Desk Analyst Progressive Insurance - Colorado Springs, CO October 2011 to April 2013 • Software Supported for all Progressive customized software/applications.  • Supported over 25,000 Progressive employees with computer related problems.  • Troubleshoot hardware, printers, copiers, air cards, routers and cameras.  • Troubleshoot vendor applications; Java, Microsoft products and SharePoint site.  • Diagnosis connection issues such as VPN, WLAN, WWAN and LAN.  • Complete work tickets from utilizing the Remedy system and escalate as needed.  • Communicated with team to get issues dealt with in a timely manner.  • Routinely exceed call-handling goals, closing an average of 30 calls daily (20% above quota) with an 80% first-call resolution and an average talk-time of 4 minutes (average 6minutes).  • Performed password resets for several servers (2008 R2) when needed by escalation techs.  • Set permissions for users to access servers on the network.  • Troubleshoot Microsoft Lync issues. IT Administrator Ray - Allen, Colorado, US February 2006 to October 2011 • Installed all new hardware and software/OS on computers.  • Troubleshoot computer issues and set them up on the network.  • Setup new user accounts and assigned permissions in active directory.  • Maintained servers (Server2003/2008) availability to assure network was up and running.  • Pushed out patches to workstations across the network. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Colorado Technical University June 2013 Associates of Occupational Studies in Computer Technology in Computer Technology IntelliTec College February 2009 Master of Science in Information Assurance in Information Assurance Regis University Skills Cisco, Router, Vmware, Nessus, Splunk, Wireshark, Firewall, Symantec, Solaris