Adjunct Faculty Adjunct Faculty Ballwin, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Adjunct Faculty John E. Simon School of Business - St. Louis, MO June 2017 to Present St. Louis, MO June 2017 - Present  Nationally recognized private institution with an enrollment of 9,100 students from all 50 states and 55 countries whom may choose from more than 90 degree programs.    Adjunct Faculty  Conducts course for graduate students in MBA, Cybersecurity, and Management & Leadership degree programs.    ISYS-650 Information Technology Management: Presents the concepts needed to effectively manage information technology resources. This course specifically focuses on the role a CIO plays, the planning, scheduling and risk considerations, along with the strategic role that information technology systems play in an organization.    Key to IT Results; Strategic Planning; Project Management; Business Process and IT Outsourcing; Corporate and IT Governance; Collaboration Tools; E-Commerce; Enterprise Systems; Business Intelligence and Big Data; Knowledge Management; Cyber-crime and IT Security; Ethical, Legal and Social Issues of IT.    ? Successfully educates learners from diverse backgrounds in an online setting.  ? Facilitates course using the Canvas Learning Management System.  ? Leverages real-world examples to enhance course concepts. Senior Analyst, IT Operations Anheuser-Busch InBev SA - St. Louis, MO November 2008 to September 2016 St. Louis, MO November 2008 - September 2016  Leading global brewer, and one of the world's top 5 consumer products companies with nearly 200,000 colleagues in over 50 countries, and a diverse portfolio of over 500 brands generating annual revenues in excess of $56 billion (USD).    Senior Analyst, IT Operations  Multi-faceted role consisting of daily operational responsibilities as well as continuous improvement projects geared toward increasing customer satisfaction, reducing turnaround time and enabling growth in the department's scope.    • IT System Access: Operational responsibilities.    ? Simultaneously managed SAP R/3, Cognos, Business Objects, Unix, and Mainframe security access administration queues for North American operations.  ? Provided SAP Emergency Access Management 'Firecall' and 'Firefighter' security access to employees and off-shore developers for extraordinary situations.  ? Performed SAP R/3 security role creation.  ? Liaised with internal and external auditors for security access audits (SOx).  ? Contributed to annual off-site Business Continuity (disaster recovery) exercises to help ensure all priority systems were successfully restored and operational within required timeframes.    • Special Projects: Increased customer satisfaction, reduced turnaround time, and enabled growth in the department's scope.    ? Analyzed, standardized and automated processes across the team to facilitate cross-training and increase efficiencies following 50% staff reduction pre/post-merger with InBev.  ? Conceived and implemented a process to eliminate interruptive status update requests from customers (via help desk). SAP team achieved 100% on-time delivery and 100% customer satisfaction following implementation.  ? Reduced security access management process complexity for 10 'miscellaneous' applications which enabled the system access department to outsource their administration and allow the team to take on more 'high-complexity' work.  ? Successfully gathered Position-Based SAP Access requirements for the North American Business Services Center to speed-up staff onboarding and reduce licensing requirements.  ? Participated in the project to migrate the Mainframe system from an in-house data center to an off-site vendor facility. Senior Specialist, Information Protection and Security Anheuser-Busch Companies June 2006 to November 2008 Multi-faceted role consisting of daily operational responsibilities as well as continuous improvement projects.  • IT System Access: Operational responsibilities.    ? Managed security access for AB's internal sales and marketing staff and over 600 independent wholesalers.  ? Streamlined ABMarketing.com security access request process reducing staffing requirement by 75% (2.0 FTE to .5 FTE).    • Special Projects: Worked with department management to establish and monitor metrics and reporting.    ? Developed Business Objects reports and dashboard.  ? Implemented electronic ticketing process for team. Program Manager Anheuser-Busch Companies April 2004 to June 2006 Appointed to take on overall responsibility for the second iteration of the global desktop computer replacement effort.    ? Increased scope 23% to more than 22,000 PCs  ? Expedited Statement of Work with 400 fewer hours of business unit participant effort than the previous project.  ? Completed deployment, under budget, 6 months faster and increased customer satisfaction by 2% (to 94%) than the previous project.  22,000 PCs Replaced Senior Specialist, IT Operations Planning Anheuser-Busch Companies March 2002 to April 2004 Collaborated with IT leaders of other St. Louis-based companies in the development of an 'Output Strategy' (print, copy, fax consolidation, and standardization).    ? Participated in the computer incident tracking software replacement project.  ? Participated in the Asset Management database rewrite project. Assistant Program Manager Anheuser-Busch Companies February 2000 to March 2002 Provided centralized leadership for matrix-organized projects relating to this comprehensive global IT program.    ? $80.6MM project was completed on-time, under budget.  ? 92% "very satisfied" customer rating.  ? $20.2MM savings over the 3-year life of the PCs.  ? Project replaced approximately 17,000 PCs world-wide.  ? Performed regular status updates to CIO and subsidiary IT VP's and Directors.  ? Authored Desktop Strategy Recommendations based on lessons learned collected from team members, customers, and end-users. Specialist, IT Finance and Planning Anheuser-Busch Companies July 1998 to February 2000 Hired into A-B's Corporate IT Finance and Planning department ( IT Strategy Group) to help develop and implement a singular Desktop Strategy across all of A-B's corporate and subsidiary business units worldwide.    ? Performed Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) analysis for A-B's Desktop computing environment.  ? Led benchmark effort for the Desktop, Midrange, and Mainframe computing environments worldwide.  ? Hired an external vendor to validate the TCO model and benchmark against the industry.  ? Assisted with the capital investment analysis to standardize the Desktop infrastructure hardware, operating system and office suite software.  ? Assisted with the development of the business case which helped influence business leaders to "buy-in" to the program concept of refreshing the environment on a 3-year cycle. Training and Process Improvement Manager Color Associates, Inc - St. Louis, MO July 1995 to May 1998 St. Louis, MO July 1995 - May 1998  Nation's largest single-site graphic arts color separation and pre-press company with divisions dedicated to Publishing, Commercial art, Packaging, and large format film separations and Trade Show graphics.    Training and Process Improvement Manager  Recruited to start-up a training program to cross-train conventional graphic arts professionals to do their job on computers. Expanded role to bring Lean Six Sigma manufacturing practices to all production departments.    • Process Improvement Program: Led efforts to reduce waste, improve turnaround time, and bring efficiencies to the manufacturing and customer service aspects of the business.    ? Planned, documented and executed film waste reduction program which resulted in savings in excess of $100,000 monthly.  ? Established a 'Pre-flight' department to ensure that a job bag had all necessary items (files, fonts, instructions) before releasing to the plant floor. Reduced 'false starts' of jobs by 97%.  ? Established Key Performance Indicators (KPI's) and measurement processes  ? Designed and implemented a rework tracking and reporting system to identify training opportunities, reduce rework and related labor and material waste, and reduce job turnaround from days to hours.  ? Worked with a database developer to establish a barcoded workflow tracking and reporting system.    • Launched In-House Training Department: Developed a comprehensive program consisting of classroom training and 1:1 'live-job' support.    ? Completed company's request to convert 50 conventional film 'strippers' to do their job on a computer 6 months ahead of schedule.  ? Conducted 'Lunch and Learn' sessions for management and sales and customer service staff to keep abreast of the rapidly changing business and technical environment. This led to more accurate job quotes and customer satisfaction. Freelance Self-Exmployed - St. Louis, MO May 1994 to July 1995 Independent computer graphics expert.  Training, Consulting, and Freelance  Performed training, consulting and freelance services for St. Louis' premier advertising, public relations, and graphic firms.    ? Produced first 'all-digital' storyboards for D'Arcy Masius, Benton & Bowles' "Elements of Man" Super Bowl commercial. Budweiser - client. Co-Founder and Operations Manager New Horizons Computer Learning Centers - St. Louis, MO February 1993 to May 1994 St. Louis, MO February 1993 - May 1994  Franchise location start-up for this Santa Ana, CA-based IT training and certification company.  Co-Founder and Operations Manager  Started-up company and ran daily operations including; accounting, procurement, scheduling, payroll, facilities, and staffing.  ? Planned and executed start-up activities for this franchise.  ? Awarded "Franchise-of-the-Year" in second year of operation.  ? Won major contract for PC training from Defense Mapping Agency (Department of Defense). Training Manager Advanced Systems And Peripherals October 1992 to February 1993 Took on overall responsibility for the department.    • Growth: Expanded course offerings to include office automation software on Windows-based PCs and tripled revenues in the second year. Training and Development Specialist Advanced Systems And Peripherals January 1991 to October 1992 Selected to help start-up a training and consulting department for this Apple Authorized value-added computer reseller initially serving the high-end graphic arts, advertising, pre-press, and printing industries.    • Classroom and Beyond: Established traditional and customized classroom training as well as one-on-one consulting.    ? Developed all courseware for beginning, intermediate and advanced levels of instruction.  ? Expert in QuarkXPress, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  ? Invited to be a guest demonstrator at numerous seminars for Apple Computer, St. Louis. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Maryville University - St. Louis, MO Bachelor of Arts in Management Webster University - St. Louis, MO Links http://Linkedin.com/in/johnpgallina Certifications/Licenses Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Present Credential ID 39346541 Project Management Professional (PMP) March 2021 Credential ID 2175783 ITIL v3 Present Credential ID 3153384 Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) October 2020 Credential ID 000844057