IT Director, Security Officer <span class="hl">IT</span> Director, <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer IT Director, Software Development Manager, Security Officer Chapel Hill, NC, 27517, US Work Experience IT Director, Security Officer Epividian - Chapel Hill, NC January 2012 to July 2019 • IT Director  ? Led highly functional agile teams, including employees and offshore, outsourced members, in the development and delivery of technology solutions:  * Business intelligence portals and mobile apps supporting the healthcare operations of clinics across the United States  * An observational data warehouse of patient medical records supporting epidemiological studies resulting in over 30 peer-reviewed publications and presentations over past 5 years (http://www.epividian.com/research-publications/abstracts-posters/)  * Integration of 8 of the major Electronic Health Record systems on the market into a common data model, receiving daily or weekly data feeds from over 80 clinics in the United States consisting of the longitudinal medical records of over 1 million patients  • Security Officer  ? Created, maintained, and enforced the privacy and security policies and procedures to ensure that Epividian protected patient data (Protected Health Information) at all times (in motion and at rest) in compliance with the HIPAA regulation and HITECH act  ? Collaborated with an external cybersecurity vendor to perform external security risk assessments, security architecture reviews, system penetration tests, vulnerability tests, phishing and pretexting campaigns, and tabletop tests  ? Worked with the Privacy Officer to assess the identifiability of data in reports delivered from the observational database to ensure that protected health information was not released to 3rd parties without the proper contracts and controls in place  ? Created and managed the Risk Management, Incident Response, and Corrective Action Plans  ? Led the assessment of clinic EHR databases for Protected Health Information and the creation of a de-identification ETL process to produce de-identified databases for use in the development and testing of the Epividian products and services  • Vendor relationship manager  ? Collaborated with and managed vendors for helpdesk support, cybersecurity, application development, and server hosting, ensuring that each complied with the requirements of federal and state data privacy regulations  • Product Owner/SCRUM Master/Technical Architect  ? Collaborated with users and stakeholders, and led the business analysis, design, and development teams through the SCRUM development process to deliver high-quality, data-driven products:  * The Epividian solution for CMS Merit-based Incentive Payment System (MIPS), part of the CMS Quality Payment Program, enables participating clinics to improve the quality of their healthcare delivery throughout the year and attain a higher payment on covered professional services provided to Medicare Part B patients.  * The Epividian Ryan White Data Service; interfacing participating clinics' EHR data into the software required for use by Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program recipients eliminating the standard practice of double data entry.  * The CHORUS Clinic Portal and companion CHORUS Mobile App that provide healthcare operations reports, quality improvement metrics, and composite patient risk scores to healthcare providers and clinical staff for use in population and disease management, and clinical decision support.  * The Ensemble Mobile App and lightweight Ensemble SMS/HTML tool to engage patients in their healthcare, enabling communication with their providers and providing valuable information to clinicians between visits via patient reported outcomes and surveys.  * The OPERA observational, longitudinal database used by Epividian's epidemiologists, statisticians, and data analysts for clinical and health economics and outcomes research led by participating physicians. Independent Consultant Ising Informatics - Chapel Hill, NC January 2012 to April 2014 Worked with the Pharmacovigilance Department of a large pharmaceutical company to streamline their Adverse Event Reporting and Signal Detection processes.  • Successfully collaborated with the IT department to deliver a new reporting platform in a fraction of the time projects of this size are usually delivered.  • Worked closely with the business users to identify and prioritize their reporting needs.  • Developed the first set of new reports for the reporting platform, which saved hundreds of work hours and reduced reporting inaccuracies by improving and automating the reporting processes.  • Developed a reporting SOP and associated templates for the Pharmacovigilance Department in collaboration with the company's QA department to ensure that regulated report output generated from the reporting platform meet all necessary regulations. Business \ Systems Analyst Bloodhound Technologies \ Verisk Health - Durham, NC August 2010 to January 2012 Provided analysis, support, and development support while integrating health plans claims processing systems with the Bloodhound Convergence Point claims editing system.  • Developed expertise in the ASC X12 4010 and 5010 transaction sets for Electronic Data Interchange. Specifically, the 270,271, 278, and 837 formats.  • Collaborated closely with a major laboratory company in designing a lab prior authorization, claims editing and pricing system utilizing the Bloodhound Convergence Point system.  • Developed processes and procedures to standardize the Bloodhound technical documentation so that the client sales and implementation processes could be streamlined. Data Architect \ DBA \ Software Engineer \ Analyst Proventys - Durham, NC August 2008 to August 2010 Provided analysis, database architecture, and software engineering expertise in the development of a predictive modeling platform for clinical risk assessment applications. The initial product, FN PDx (Febrile Neutropenia), a Web 2.0 application regulated as a medical device, was successfully delivered for the pre-revenue startup while under intense pressure and deadlines.  • Developed the data model, created the physical database in Oracle 11G, and developed the data application programming interface (API) in PL/SQL and SQL.  • Assumed responsibility for the product and software requirements analysis and documentation efforts. Worked closely with the clinical group to define the work flow and requirements of the system, and with the development team to help them interpret and implement the required functionality.  • Key contributor in the development of the Proventys Quality System in compliance with 21 CFR Part 820 (the Quality System Regulation), HIPAA, and 21 CFR Part 11 (Electronic Records; Electronic Signatures).  • As the QA Automation Engineer, maintained, enhanced, and executed the automated test harness implemented using Selenium RC in Java and JavaScript, and the automated verification test cases implemented using the TestNG testing framework in Java. The automated regression testing allowed weeks to be cut from each formal verification phase.  • Subject matter expert for the application lifecycle management tool creating reports and tools in JavaScript, Java, Ruby, and JRuby on Rails to extend the functionality of the ALM tool by utilizing the tool's Web Service API. Senior Systems Analyst; Sales Solution Delivery GlaxoSmithKline - Durham, NC March 2007 to August 2008 Lead analyst supporting the Learning Management System (LMS) used by the US Pharmaceutical Sales Representatives:  • Project Manager/Technical Lead for the Compliance Training Tracking (CTT) application. CTT integrates data from three LMSs, the PeopleSoft HR system, and the GSK strategic enterprise directory to track the compliance of workers in training mandated by state and federal laws and regulations. CTT is an ASP.NET web application written in C# and Oracle 9i.  ? Managed the development team in a major release of CTT. This was the largest offshore development project undertaken by the department to date and was delivered on time and on budget.  • Lead IT analyst representing the US Pharmaceuticals business unit in the global sourcing project for the selection and implementation of a new LMS to support GSK's global learning needs.  ? Worked with US Pharmaceuticals customers to define and refine business and system requirements.  ? Developed the technical specifications for the migration of the legacy LMS data and the integration of bespoke dependent applications with the new system.  ? Participated in the RFI/RFP vendor selection processes. Database Administrator A4 Health Systems\Allscripts - Cary, NC January 2006 to March 2007 Development database administrator for the HealthMatics/Allscripts Professional Electronic Health Record (EHR).  • Managed the database projects implemented by the development team in SQL Server 2000 and 2005, and Oracle 8i and 10G  • Managed the changes to the EHR database physical model, tuned the database and data API, and managed the database releases.  • Developed database programming standards to ensure optimum database performance. Team Lead GlaxoSmithKline - Durham, NC March 2001 to January 2006 IT Team Lead for the Collaborations in HIV Outcomes Research, US (CHORUS) Project, a data warehouse of patient medical data used for HIV outcomes research. The CHORUS observational database was world-renowned in the HIV community for the quality and depth of its data, directly attributable to the accomplishments of the Information Technology and Data Management ( IT/DM) team.  • Built the IT team and managed the team in the rewrite of the custom ETL tool and data warehousing projects.  • Elicited business requirements from internal and external customers for new or enhanced functionality in the system.  • Supported customers by providing user documentation and metadata, and conducting training sessions  • Led and managed all phases of data management activities. Coordinated with customers on data inquiries and issue resolution.  • Created design specifications and use cases, and led design review meetings with customers and the development team.  • Defined and managed the projects to create standard processes for loading, cleansing, and verifying of patient medical data.  • Liaised with vendors to ensure their products met requirements and that customizations were on-time and per specification.  • Developed the SDLC followed by the team based upon GSK's SOPs governing IT quality for validated systems.  • Redesigned and developed the CHORUS system to be stable, scalable, and in compliance with 21 CFR Part 11 and HIPAA.  ? Developed an RFI for vendor data management services and led the vendor selection process.  ? Designed and led the .NET (C#) and Oracle development of the Extraction, Transformation, and Load (ETL) tool. Manager / Lead Developer ProMedex - Raleigh, NC April 1999 to March 2001 Led and managed a team responsible for the design, development and support of Interactive Voice Response (IVR) disease management surveys using PL/SQL, VB, HTML, JavaScript, and telephony packages. Business Analyst / IS Consultant Carolina Power & Light - Raleigh, NC June 1997 to April 1999 Consultant and Business Systems team member of the Nuclear Information Technology Unit at the Shearon Harris Nuclear Power Plant and the Nuclear Generation Group at the CP&L corporate office. Systems Analyst Science Applications International Corporation - McLean, VA March 1996 to May 1997 Supported the modeling and simulation efforts of the Chief of Naval Operations.    Technical Skills  Database Packages/Tools: SQL Server RDBMS, SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Server Reporting Services (2008R2, 2012, 2017); Oracle (8i-11G) RDBMS, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, Oracle Text, TOAD    Programming Languages: SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, .NET (C#, VB), XSLT, VBScript, JavaScript, HTML, Java, Ruby on Rails, JRuby, PowerShell, UNIX Shell Scripting    Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows (Desktop and Server), Linux (Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, Ubuntu), UNIX    Platforms/Applications/Tools: Azure, AWS, Microsoft SharePoint, Office 365, Azure DevOps, Microsoft Office, Project, Visio, Subversion, Hibernate, Maven, Selenium RC    Terminology Catalogs/HIT Standards: ICD-10-CM, LOINC, MediSpan, First Data Bank, RxNorm, CPT, HCPCS level II, SNOMED CT; Continuity of Care Record (CCR), Continuity of Care Document (CCD), HL7, FIHR Education B.S. in Applied Mathematics in Applied Mathematics University of Virginia - Charlottesville, VA Skills Database Architecture, Database Development, Data Management, Master data management, Devops, HIPAA, It Security, Compliance, Information Security, Database Administration, Application Development, Scrum, Software Development Management, Electronic Health Records, Data Warehousing, Business Intelligence Certifications/Licenses HITRUST Certified De-Identification Professional January 2019 ScrumAlliance® Certified ScrumMaster® March 2012 to May 2020 Additional Information Areas of Expertise    • Agile Development  • Project Management  • Process Improvement  • Product Development  • Systems Integration  • Business Intelligence and Reporting  • Database Development & Management  • Master Data Management  • Application Lifecycle Management  • Data Warehousing  • Vendor Management  • Quality Assurance