Tier 2 Technical Support Tier 2 Technical Support IT Specialist Flossmoor, IL I'm a methodical IT Specialist skilled at resolving complex network and PC issues. I'm a confirmed critical thinker who addresses customer support issues quickly and who consistently exceeds performance standards. I physically show numerous ways to be successful in software/hardware infrastructure, data communications and employee supervision.    Keen Analytical Skills Project Management  Asset Management Mobile/Tablet Support  Optimization/Performance Enhancement Network Administration  Telephony Support Remote Applications Support Work Experience Tier 2 Technical Support Leidos - Chicago, IL February 2019 to August 2019 Provide technical (Help Desk) support to learning management systems users. Advise and help in implementation of technology during curriculum development. Develop and support methods and procedures for synchronous technology adoption into curriculum (video conferencing, VoIP, Chat) Develop and create documentation and support materials for curriculum and instruction technologies. Provide technical support for Student Information System. Maintain learning management systems including course content, enrollment data, customer data, etc. Provide remote troubleshooting solutions for computer or operating system issues that affect course delivery. Work closely with other departments for collaborating IT projects. Train other staff and stakeholders on technical issues as needed. Provide technical support to web conferencing system users. Provide remote troubleshooting solutions for computer or operating system issues that affect course delivery. Light design and programming work related to file transfers or automated scripting. Analyze complex computer systems, identify problems, and develop and implement logical conclusions and effective solutions. IT Consultant PC DOCTOR - Flossmoor, IL December 2007 to August 2019 Provide network and technical insight on Information Technology. Schedule times and visits to fix issues relating to IT services. Install equipment and remove viruses. Setup wireless networks and devices. Xsport Fitness Fitness Insructor - Matteson, IL June 2016 to September 2016 Provide nutritional and exercising tips for clients. Instruct clients on how to utilize exercising equipment correctly. Sign up potential clients to join Xsport Fitness. Computer Instructor/ Security Officer JOB CORPS - Chicago, IL January 2016 to April 2016 • Evaluated the performance of the students & helped them in attaining their goals and objectives.  • Adept at creating classroom and web-based training and instructional materials, teaching aids, and devices  • Proctored certifications and exams for students and faculty to excel within Information Technology.  • Superior communication, diagnostic, technical, and presentation skills.  • Trained and instructed students on Hardware/Software skill sets. Provided course material to study and practice. Administered practice exams on computer repair and installs.  • Demonstrated the use of a computer network and other technical devices such as Apple and Android. Network/System Administrator NCC Media - Chicago, IL November 2014 to November 2015 Supported and managed enterprise Virtual Server environment using VM Ware    Deploys, administers, troubleshoots and monitors Cisco Routers, Switches (2906, 2960s) and Client  Cisco Call Manager.  Excellent Customer Service, verbal, written and analytical skills. Supported Apple and Android devices.  Developed documentation and SOP's to allow management of multiple tasks.  Supported Citrix using Xen App, Xen Server, Xen Desktop and Citrix Cloud Computing  Assist users with setting up employee VOIP phone extensions, including mobile device accounts  Supported users with AD account and EMC email account creations.  Installed and configured LAN/WAN/SAN. Configured EMC, Avaya and Backup servers Technical Support Analyst III Witt/Kieffer - Oak Brook, IL April 2012 to September 2014 Monitor, analyze and address reliability and performance issues. Lead on various Project Management tasks.    Recover data from hard disk drives and/or perform data migrations. Network administration and  Developed plans, policies, methodologies, and architecture solutions that establish the framework Managed networks and IT programs. AD account management, Installed Apple and Android devices  Citrix Support, Exchange mailbox Management, File share/print management. Provided technical assistance in migration of Client computer systems from Windows XP to Windows 7 platform, ability to troubleshoot hardware, software and mobile equipment, support remote access for virtual private network (VPN), network computing device (NCD) and wireless communication of laptops Desktop Support Technician III BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATES CORPORATE - Chicago, IL October 2011 to January 2012 Provided technical support by phone, on-site and remotely, aided in Project Management    Manage repair and disposition of damaged products. Migrated PC's from Windows XP to Windows 7. Used SCCM to create and deploy images. Supported Android and Apple devices for Executive Management and users    Develop, maintain, and update procedures to ensure proper execution of all warranty repairs; including spare part handling, timely and accurate claim filing and receipt of warranty reimbursement funds.    Active Directory and Citrix Support to over 5,000 end-time users, Evaluated the impact of changes in business needs on current Engineering IT services, conduct feasibility studies, identify solutions, and present recommendations to management. Systems Support Specialist Redbox Automated Retail, LLC - Oak Brook, IL September 2010 to June 2011 Provide administrative and technical support to the field staff.    Supported VPN & KASEYA software to remotely access and troubleshoot over 50,000 PC kiosks. Used phone support and Remedy ticket system and provided support to over 3000 users.  Researched issues on various computer systems and databases to resolve complaints and answer inquiries. Supervisor GEEK SQUAD CIA - Clarksville, TN March 2009 to March 2010 Diagnosed computer and electronic equipment and solved technical problems.    Supervised and Trained employees on all hardware repairs and software support by the SOP.    Imaged computers and configured phone equipment such as Blackberry's, PDA's and Smart phones.    Updated software, Backed up Data, Windows Migration/Deployment and Warranties on equipment.    Developed IT strategic vision and drove key departmental objectives. Senior Information Systems Specialist U.S. ARMY - Fort Campbell, KY October 2003 to December 2007 • Established network communications, supervised email and application accounts.  • Managed over 10,000 users with collaboration of other IT Units.  • Monitored network traffic and performance, Instructed employees on Job Performance.  • Instructed IT classes to all users for training and support with Help Desk/Desktop Support Education Bachelor's in Technical Management and Criminal Justice Kaplan University 2016 Associate's Miller-Motte Technical College 2010 Bachelor's in Criminal Justice DeVry University-Chicago Skills ANDROID (10+ years), CITRIX (3 years), EMC (10+ years), CSR (10+ years), MS OFFICE (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Servers (10+ years), Hardware (10+ years), Software (10+ years) Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-4 Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified Network+ Security+ Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Customer Service Project Management Professional (PMP) Additional Information Skills/Certifications Experience Total Years Last Used  MS OFFICE, AD, EMC, CITRIX, SLA, CSM, CSR, APPLE, ANDROID Advanced 12 Current