Mid Level Computing Security & Information Protection Specialist(ISSO) Mid Level Computing <span class="hl">Security</span> &amp; Information Protection Specialist(ISSO) Network Security Engineer/ Analyst Colorado Springs, CO Network Security Engineer, Information Systems Security Analyst, Vulnerability Analyst  Security Clearance: Active DoD TS/SCI Work Experience Mid Level Computing Security & Information Protection Specialist(ISSO) The Boeing Company - Colorado Springs, CO February 2017 to Present Develop, deploy and/or maintain enterprise-wide computing and information security requirements, policies, standards, guidelines and procedures for a stakeholder organization or program/sub program. Advises on a broad range of compliant information security and data protection requirements. Determines acceptability of unique configurations and verifies security parameter placement. Investigates and resolves security incidents. Participates in security assessments and audits. IT Systems Engineer 3 Century Link - Colorado Springs, CO June 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities  IT Systems Engineer III- Deploys maintains, and troubleshoots firewalls, Intrusion Detection/Prevention devices, vulnerability assessment tools, event and log analysis, security change tracking and other network security systems and devices. Installs, documents, and manages security software/system tools, configurations, and tests/verifies processes to ensure standard and secure implementation and use of systems, tools, and processes. Provides recommendations and engineering solutions for new security systems and procedures as well as modifications to current configurations. Troubleshoots and analyzes security software/system tools to ensure compatibility and integration with hardware systems. Reacts quickly and competently to identify, track, document, escalate, and resolve immediate network vulnerabilities/threats. Customizes security system software based on research and customer needs as appropriate. Coordinates and facilitates communications with engineering and security departments and commercial vendors to identify, investigate and resolve security vulnerability matters. Communicates status of security system, processes, ongoing malicious activity, and possible vulnerabilities with management and customers. Acts as technical lead on new security system initiatives or countermeasures Responds to the escalation of trouble reports by isolation of problem and mobilization of resources capable of affecting a resolution in a manner which least disrupts customer service within acceptable security risks. Network Security Engineer 3 NORTHROP GRUMMAN INFORMATION SYSTEMS - Schriever AFB, CO March 2013 to June 2015 Network Security Engineer 3- Member of the MDA CERT Protection team, performing vulnerability scanning with eEye Retina Network Security Scanner, protection analysis of subscriber network vulnerability scan results, determining the impact to network operations, reviewing corrective/mitigation actions, coordinating corrective action reports, and assisting with residual risk analysis. Monitoring Anti-Malware Alerts and warnings to subscribers, responding to subscriber reports of malware, and assisting subscribers in implementing protective/anti-malware measures. Disseminating, monitoring, and tracking of IAVM notifications to subscribers. System Administrator ACRO SERVICE CORP - Colorado Springs, CO January 2013 to March 2013 Colorado Springs, CO, 1/2013 to 3/2013  Subcontractor for Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc.( HTSI), working as a System Administrator. Responsible for performing vulnerability scans on multiple systems, using eEye Retina Security Scanner, Nessus, Gold Disk, and SCAP( Security Content Automation Compliance Protocol Checker) for DISA STIG compliance. Provide documentation on vulnerabilities and STIG compliance. Perform vulnerability scans and STIG checks for compliance of newly imaged systems. Systems Engineer (VLMS Engineer) NCI INFORMATION SYSTEMS, INC - Peterson AFB, CO September 2011 to January 2013 Peterson AFB, Colorado Springs, CO, 9/2011 to 1/2013  DOD contractor working at Peterson AFB as a Systems Engineer (VLMS Engineer). Perform administration, maintenance, remediation, troubleshooting and vulnerability scanning, using the VLMS suite of security tools for multiple Air Force bases. The tools used for these tasks include Retina Enterprise Manager (REM), Retina, McAfee Remediation Manager, and Enterprise Scanner for multiple Air Force Bases. (Carry-over from previous contract with General Dynamics) Senior Network Administrator GENERAL DYNAMICS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY - Peterson AFB, CO August 2010 to September 2011 for the Vulnerability Lifecycle Management System (VLMS Engineer) Perform administration, maintenance, remediation, troubleshooting and vulnerability scanning, using the VLMS suite of security tools for multiple Air Force bases. The tools used for these tasks include Retina Enterprise Manager (REM), Retina, McAfee Remediation Manager, and Enterprise Scanner for multiple Air Force Bases. Network Security Analyst TRAWICK & ASSOCIATES - Peterson AFB, CO October 2005 to August 2010 for McNeil Technologies at Peterson AFB. Network Security Analyst-Responsible for performing vulnerability scans on all network devices at all Air Force Space Command bases using various network vulnerability assessment tools, such as Retina Security Scanner, ISS (Internet Security Scanner), and NMAP, for TCP/UDP port scanning. Responsibilities include Creating custom retina policies, and customized registry checks, due to NOTAMs and TCNOs. REM centralized administration and management of over 20 retina scanning servers. Basic windows system administration of the scanning servers, including vulnerability mitigation/remediation, and processing the resulting reports in VMS(Vulnerability Management System). Collaboration with the System Administrators to assist them in vulnerability mitigation/remediation, and re-scanning to verify fixes have been applied. Other tasks include working with Base POC's and the DISA CCRI Audit teams to assist the respective bases in meeting the necessary compliance for their yearly CCRI scans. Senior Help Desk Specialist TRAWICK & ASSOCIATES - Peterson AFB, CO November 2004 to October 2005 for Trawick & Associates working as a Senior Help Desk Specialist responsible for operating the Air Force Space Commands Enterprise Help Desk. Providing level 1 support to local customers and level 2 support to customers from all Major Operating Bases consisting of approximately 40,000 users and 15,000 exchange clients. Services provided include Client standardization, PC troubleshooting, trouble ticket management, Active Directory account creation, assigning file privileges and the escalation of problems to level 3 support agencies. Technical analyst COMPUTER GENERATED SOLUTIONS - Colorado Springs, CO February 2004 to October 2004 Colorado Springs, CO, 2/2004 to 10/2004  Subcontractor working at the HP site in Colorado Springs, CO through CGS. Technical analyst- Responsible duties included over the phone hardware and software troubleshooting support for HP/Compaq desktop and laptop computers, the configuration of MS Windows 5/98/NT/2000/XP. Resolution of network problems, and with any of the programs in MS Office. Technical analyst HEWLETT-PACKARD - Colorado Springs, CO July 2003 to February 2004 responsible for duties including phone hardware and software troubleshooting support for HP/Compaq desktop and laptop computers, the configuration of MS Windows 5/98/NT/2000/XP. Resolution of network problems, and with any of the programs in MS Office. Technical Associate II for Hewlett Packard TAC WORLDWIDE COMPANIES - Colorado Springs, CO September 2002 to July 2003 Perform hardware and software troubleshooting over the phone on HP/Compaq Desktop and laptop computers, including the configuration of MS Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP. Resolution of network problems, and with any of the programs in MS Office. Technical Support Engineer COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP - Colorado Springs, CO January 2000 to August 2001 TSE) Performs hardware and software troubleshooting over the phone for customers, on Laptop, Network, and handheld PC problems, including the setup, installation, and configuration of Microsoft Windows 95/98/NT/2000/3.1/CE. Technical Support Engineer for Compaq Computer Corp CORESTAFF SERVICES - Colorado Springs, CO June 1999 to January 2000 TSE)- performed hardware and software troubleshooting over the phone for customers, on Laptop, Network, and Handheld PC problems, including the setup, installation, and configuration of Microsoft Windows 95/98/NT/2000/3.1/CE. Education Associates in Applied Science (AAS) Pikes Peak Community College August 1991 to December 1995 Skills Information Security (10+ years), Siem (2 years), Cissp (7 years), Cybersecurity (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses CISSP January 2018 to January 2021 Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP), ISC2 (Certification#:347057) CompTIA Security+ Present Security+ (Career ID#:COMP10374329) CompTIA Network+ Present Network+ (Career ID#:COMP10374329) MCP Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP), Microsoft (MCP ID#:2248630) ITIL V3 Foundation Present IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) v3, EXIN CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA A+ (Career ID#:COMP10374329) C|EH December 2014 to December 2020 Certified Ethical Hacker (C|EH) EC Council, (Certification#:ECC13783154665) TS/SCI clearance Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems: Windows (XP/Vista/7/Server 2003/2008), Exchange Server 2003/2007    Hardware: Workstations, desktops, laptops, rack mounted servers, RAID, Universal Power Supply (UPS) devices, laser/inkjet printers, repeaters, scanners, multi-function machines, Bluetooth, consumer level routers/access points, software firewalls, CAT5/patch/crossover cables    Application Software: Microsoft Office 2000/XP/2003/2007 (Word, Access, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Visio), Antivirus (McAfee, Symantec, Trend Micro, etc), Remote Access Software (Microsoft Remote Desktop Connection (RDP), Remedy    Networking / Protocols: Active Directory, Group Policy Objects (GPO), TCP/IP, FTP, DHCP, DNS, LAN/WAN, File/Print Server, WLAN/Wi-Fi (Wireless Fidelity) 802.11x    Security Tools: DISA's Gold Disk, Vulnerability Management System (VMS), eEye Retina Security Scanner, eEye Retina Enterprise Management (REM) Server, REM Security Management Console, V.A.L.I.A.N.T., Internet Security Scanner (ISS),Tenable Nessus, NMAP, Tenable ACAS(Assured Compliance Assessment Solution), Proventia Enterprise Scanner, McAfee HBSS(Host Based Security Solution) McAfee Remediation Manager, NMAP, Wireshark, Splunk, ArcSight