Network Administrator/ Lead Network Administrator/ Security Analyst Network Administrator/ Lead Network Administrator/ <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Caro, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator/ Lead Network Administrator/ Security Analyst Gemini Group - Bad Axe, MI January 2018 to Present • Security Analyst  • Feb 2019 – Present  • I am responsible for digital forensics, incident response, threat detection, and analysis. I work with AccessData FTK, FortiGate firewalls, FortiManager, FortiNet EMS, and FortiNAC. In addition, I am also responsible for user account VPN with two-factor authentication, configuring and implementing Forti Single Sign-On, and deep packet inspection. I also utilize Microsoft CloudApp Security for monitoring and alerts, ATP,and have worked with Azure Sentinel SEIM.    • Lead Network Administrator  • Jun 2018 – February 2019  • I was responsible for the planning, design, implementation, and administration of the enterprise LAN/ WLAN/ WAN utilizing Cisco switches, FortiGate firewalls for routing and traffic policies, and FortiAPs and Ubiquiti radios for wireless LAN/ WAN connectivity. I still maintained the Skype for Business phone system, as well as the full SolarWinds suite for monitoring and alerting, and implemented and maintained FortiNET EMS to manage FortiClient endpoint protection. I also have managed servers utilizing Nutanix hardware hosting VMWare with ESXi.    • Network Administrator  • Jan 2018 – Jun 2018  • I was responsible for design, implementation, and management of the corporate LAN utilizing Cisco switches. I was also responsible for managing the Microsoft Skype for Business VoIP phone system,with UC Commander for provisioning. In addition, I was also responsible for administration of the full SolarWinds suite of products. Hosted PBX and Managed Network Services Support BluIP - Longmont, CO January 2017 to November 2017 Troubleshooting/resolution of VoIP customer tickets to include:    • VoIP Call Routing/Quality TCP/ IP, SIP, UDP protocols  • In-bound/Out-bound call processing  • Firewall, Router and Circuit problems  • Working with ISPs for inter-domain Internet problems.Working with customers to ensure timely problem resolution.    In addition, I helped grow a new business unit: Managed Network Services    • Gather information and customer requirements on their current infrastructure and environment.  • Design, plan, configure, and install managed network edge services to include Cisco switches, routers, and firewalls, using BGP, OSPF, MPLS and SD-WAN.  • Provide on-going monitoring and support of edge infrastructure and services. Police Officer Greeley Police Department - Greeley, CO June 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Provided public safety by responding to calls and emergencies, protecting people and property, enforcing laws, promoting community involvement  • Conducted investigations, collect evidence, and make arrests or issue summons when appropriate  • Provided testimony in a court of law  • Responded to accidents and provide aid to victims with physical injuries  • Assisted with procuring and implementing new computer aided dispatch and record management software for Weld County.  • Assisted the Northern Colorado Regional Forensics Lab with obtaining and analyzing digital media evidence from computers and devices using FTK Imager, Cellebrite UFED, Magnet Forensics IEF  • Acted as SME for IT-related issues for patrol operations IT Specialist URS Federal Services - Pueblo, CO January 2014 to May 2014 • Responsible for the maintenance, operation and planning of information and technology needs including network, servers, virtual environment, VoIP services, data backup and disaster recovery, data security, and telecommunications at the Pueblo Chemical Agent Destruction Pilot Program (PCAPP) at the U.S. Army Pueblo Chemical Depot.    • Installed, maintained and monitored the operation of the LAN/ WAN, internal networking equipment and fiber infrastructure.    • Troubleshot complex problems to avoid costly down-time and service outages.    • Tested and evaluated hardware and software in QA environment to determine efficiency, reliability, and compatibility with existing system, and made purchase recommendations.    • Maintained, configured, upgraded and ensured the integrity of the company's computer hardware, software, VoIP and other systems.    • Monitored all systems, servers and networking devices via Solarwinds products.    • Performed and analyzed packet captures via Wireshark to determine network degradation of database performance or connectivity issues with devices on the network.    • Developed, recommended, and implemented information systems policies and procedures    • Conducted daily meetings with project team to facilitate resolving recurring technical issues and address new problems.    • Responded during off duty hours for emergencies as part of on-call rotation. Client Support Engineer Blackboard Inc. - Phoenix, AZ June 2011 to December 2012 Provide on-going design recommendations and support for the Transact product suite.    This includes:   • Prox and magnetic stripe door access,   • Identification badge design, printing, and issuance  • Supporting stored value transaction accounts for major universities.  • Supporting Oracle and Access databases   • Working in both VMWare and Citrix environments  • Using Wireshark to determine network failures  • Maintaining PCI compliance for the customer Network Administrator Bechtel - Glendale, AZ February 2006 to November 2010 • Responsible for the maintenance, operation and planning of information and technology needs including network, servers, virtual environment, VoIP services, data backup and disaster recovery, data security, and telecommunications    • Installed, maintained and monitored the operation of the LAN/ WAN, internal networking equipment and fiber infrastructure.    • Troubleshot complex problems to avoid costly down-time and service outages.    • Tested and evaluated hardware and software in QA environment to determine efficiency, reliability, and compatibility with existing system, and made purchase recommendations.    • Maintained, configured, upgraded and ensured the integrity of the company's computer hardware, software, VoIP and other systems.    • Monitored all systems, servers and networking devices via Solarwinds products.    • Performed and analyzed packet captures via Wireshark to determine network degradation of database performance or connectivity issues with devices on the network.    • Developed, recommended, and implemented information systems policies and procedures    • Conducted daily meetings with project team to facilitate resolving recurring technical issues and address new problems.    • Responded during off duty hours for emergencies as part of on-call rotation. Education Bachelor's in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Western Governors University July 2018 to July 2021 POST Certification in Police Academy Pueblo Community College - Pueblo, CO August 2013 to December 2013 Skills Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Active Directory, Vmware, Incident Response, Digital Forensics, Project Management Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) November 2016 to November 2019 Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician (MCDST) Present ITIL v4 Foundation March 2019 to March 2022 CIW Site Development Associate February 2019 to February 2022 Additional Information • Information Security experience, with digital forensics, incident response, and threat monitoring and analysis  • CCNA with routing and switching experience in an enterprise environment  • Experience with FortiGate, FortiManager, FortiNet EMS, and FortiNAC products  • Solarwinds NPM/ NCM/ SAM/ IPAM/ Device Tracker and NetPath/ NetFlow experience  • Cisco Call Manager, Broadsoft Broadworks, and Skype for Business VoIP and UC experience  • VMWare and Nutanix experience  • O365 Admin experience