(Lead) PC Break-Fix Team Member / Secondary Mac Support Technician / [Full SDLC Support] (Lead) PC Break-Fix Team Member / Secondary Mac Support Technician / [Full SDLC Support] PC Break-Fix Team Member / Secondary Mac Support Technician / [Full SDLC Support] - The Aerospace Corporation Long Beach, CA With experience in IT project management, systems administration, networks, and IT security, I am a talented senior technology professional seeking to build upon my career even further. Throughout my history, I have been instrumental in building, maintaining, and enhancing a complex, high-performance business technology environment, focused on delivering the systems, software, server, and network services required for optimal business functionality while outperforming service goals for availability and reliability. My technical insight and leadership has resulted in a robust, secure technology architecture capable of evolving to meet the constantly changing requirements of a rapidly growing business, leveraging the latest in IT best practices, new industry developments, and emerging technologies to ensure best-in-class performance. My background is not limited to IT alone however; I have worked in the healthcare industry for approximately 13 years & counting through varying job titles and branches of medicine and have been a liason between administrative staff and healthcare workers as well through my work as a Kaiser employee and SEIU-UHW union steward. Prior to this I have managerial experience by assisting the daily operation(s) of PYP Records. Not only managing artists, scheduling tours, studio time, payroll, contract negotiations, etc. but by assisting in running a spin off clothing label and assuring the personal needs and safety of the artists were met on a daily basis themselves. Work Experience (Lead) PC Break-Fix Team Member / Secondary Mac Support Technician / [Full SDLC Support] The Aerospace Corporation - El Segundo, CA January 2019 to Present El Segundo, CA. 1/19 - Present  (Lead) PC Break-Fix Team Member / Secondary Mac Support Technician / [Full SDLC Support]  • Conduct physical repairs on both desktops and laptops after troubleshooting and diagnosing specific hardware failures, ordering the required part(s) from vendor, installing (reimaging as required), recovering systems from BSOD's, & running updates returning clients to a fully operational state including BIOS updates, drivers, firmware, & patches.  • Conduct installs & configurations of corporate iPads, iPhones, and troubleshoot any related issues.  • Conduct installs and follow all DoD protocol's within SCIF's as well as address security leaks / breaches following departmental protocols first determining the affected hosts and completely disabling network connectivity before implementing wipes / sanitization and migrating user's data safely offline. Intermediate Desktop Technician & Customer Support Specialist (Rover Team) The Aerospace Corporation - El Segundo, CA August 2018 to January 2019 • Full System Development Life Cycle Support & technical troubleshooting "white glove / VIP" for The United States Air Force & Aerospace Industry (Aerospace Corporation, SpaceX, NASA, LAAFB).  • Assist w/ acquiring of all computer devices and peripheral related equipment including receiving from warehouse transport to stockroom delivery, asset tagging and tracking through Service-Now.  • Onsite survey of network port configurations for activation.  • Scheduling of system requests including make & models all spec's inclusive directly from client interviews confirmed in Outlook for phone, e-mail, & onsite (face-to-face) communications; for a variety of systems ranging from Laptops, PC's, iMac's, Cisco VoIP, & iPhones.  • Tabulating & relaying costs / expenditures, & working w/ vendors of direct product lines to provide suitable substitutes when specifics requests are not available.  • Obtaining authorized approvals for costs and ordering from requestor by the appropriate managerial approver.  • Validating software license(s) for non-standard software requests.  • Pickup of surplus equipment, conduct security sanitization process based on use of classified information including removal of HDD, SSD, C-MOS, and RAM removal before transporting securely to destination site for bonding (destruction).  • Pre-configuration of system BIOS prior to imaging along with ghosting of various stores for up to 25 devices at a time via KVM Switches and User State Migration Tool. Installation of Windows 10 & Office 365 Suite, as well as McAfee Endpoint Encryption on all laptops. Conduct all software installation requests after validation whether opensource web based, CD install, or digital download via Ivanti Management Software Portal.  • Set up of user access controls including Administrative rights & role access-based controls determined via least privilege on laptops and authorized desktops.  • Conduct data migration & shared drive transfers via LANDesk Remote Desktop, Microsoft User State Migration Tool, or manually. Setup of e-mail and printer configuration along w/ driver updates. (Lead) IT Clinical Support Specialist Pacific Dental Services - Irvine, CA June 2018 to August 2018 • Provide Tier 3 technical support for over 700+ dental offices regarding their specialized networks, dental software, instruments, and machines.  • Provide technical support for all clinical application incidents reported throughout the company, I.T. help desk, and if needed decide where the incident tickets should be passed to if not a support issue for Clinical IT.  • Provide support to assigned personnel including mentoring, retention, training for the company's I.T. support team members and general assistance as needed.  • Create and conduct the training and documentation of clinicians, support staff and other personnel on the proper use of integrated equipment and software applications within offices.  • Provide technical support to Operations Managers, Clinicians, Field Services, and other support teams regarding the resolution of product hardware, software and operating system issues via phone or remote access for all supported applications or products.  • Assist I.T. field service team and clinicians with new installations as well as provide technical support ranging from repairs, replacements, and upgrades for integrated clinical equipment within the field offices.  • Maintain appropriate records of client contact through the CRM system.  • Ensure case notes thoroughly detail the problem/resolution, are comprehensive of the issue, and are professional.  • Use Knowledge Management database to locate solutions to issues when available.  • Collaborate with other teams on a frequent basis to ensure any changes and/or frequent complaints from end users are addressed and properly communicated.  • All requests are sent via escalation from the standard help desk support team and often coincides working with outside vendors based on the device, instrument, and/or application.  • Responsible for all Server / Clientside Installs & Maintenance, Patches, Break-Fix, & System Updates. Administrative Account creation & maintenance for user privilege & access. (Lead) Information Security Business Analyst UCLA Allied Health, (S3) - Westwood, CA October 2017 to May 2018 • Responsible for cataloging inventory of all wired / wireless medical devices that transmit electronic Patient Health Information (ePHI) across the medical network. Sites include 2 Allied Health hospitals, 76 clinics, all clinical laboratories, & anatomical labs in the Los Angeles & Orange County Service areas.  • Specific focus on gathering technical specs of each device through a user interface, software application portal, and/or after conducting 1-on-1 interviews w/ medical staff / technicians on device operational usage.  • Provide weekly reports to decision makers, daily updates to directors, & assist w/ updating database.  • Regarding remediation efforts: consult & provide recommendations for software patches, system upgrades, repairs, equipment replacements, etc. Assist network engineers in conducting discovery of all required system specs, providing crib notes, reports, and images (onsite pictures) to management, and assist with physical removal & installation of devices in instances where my feedback given to directors and managers are implemented to make safety changes to ensure hospital compliance w/ JCAHO & OSHA.  • Provide feedback on in the field findings & assist information security team w/ Micro-segmenting specific devices on the network to improve overall security to 4-Factor Authentication on private VLAN's.  • Extract & import all information & technical specs from Excel workbooks into ServiceNow database. Independent Consultant Los Angeles, CA November 2016 to October 2017 • System installs & live deployments for clients ranged from small owned to corporate sized level divisions.  • Hardware and software setup, peripheral scanner & audio visual installations. Multi-functional RICOH / HP all in one printer installs.  • Network troubleshooting, printer & home drive mapping, MS Outlook email account & archive restoration.  • VPN troubleshooting, password and remote desktop recovery support.  • Checkpoint Symantec install and cyber security maintenance.  • Active Directory Administration including GPO modifications for new user access rights to existing networks & software applications. System Administrator (Info Sec III) Wells Fargo Dealer Services - Irvine, CA February 2016 to October 2016 • Provisioning and de-provisioning systems access for all Wells Fargo Dealer Services team members.  • Responsible for coordinating access requests and administering internal, vendor, Microsoft, Unix, Unisys, SAS & SOX audited, web-based and server based applications (approximately 50-100).  • I.T. representative in new platform implementation from beta to rollout.  • Information Security / business representative & technical advisor for communicating business process requirements needed when acquiring new software or system(s) access; both in-house and externally.  • Technical communicator and advisor to all invested parties and staff on secure & efficient system usage as a whole.  • Administrator for all Identity & Access Management accounts for all users; inclusive account maintenance, termination & security.  • Active adherence in administering, modifying, and removing access to SOX & SAS audited applications; working with internal Technology managers and outside teams to continuously uphold corporate & federal audit requirements at all times.  • Responsible for creating & maintaining documentation (print & electronic format) of step-by-step process provisioning & de-provisioning methods for all system access on a per system basis.  • Direct support for Tier II ticket requests as a Level III advisor; available to companywide operational support staff both internal & external as well as help-desk staff for inquiries and system issues that are currently unresolvable.  • Work within defined information security departmental policies & procedures, while upholding all corporate guidelines mandated by the business at the strictest of confidentiality.  • Responsible for making operational decisions that fit within the scope of corporate business decisions including working with developers, programmers, engineers, and computer scientists on software / network issues that affect company production (bottom line $) at any given point of crises while keeping management informed through the process for decision making unto a resolution.  • Responsible for disseminating information to management via reports for any system queries or operational processes.  • Active Directory Administration of all associated user accounts, groups, memberships, & security policies within a Windows based system environment.  • Creation of BoK's & Oracle ID's for interfacing Unix, mainframe, & multiple green screen legacy applications with newer state of the art technologies.  • Responsible for providing a seamless interface for users via digital portals / platforms for data to communicate between legacy technologies and state of the art servers during data transition to modern technology, & amidst server upgrades.  • Creation & maintenance of access to mailboxes both individual & shared on Exchange servers.  • Provisioning access to company distribution lists on SharePoint intranet based sites.  • Creation/Disabling/Termination of network accounts associated ID's and passwords including resets.  • Coordinate and provision bulk access requests as needed.  • Responsible for meeting defined service level agreements, and complying with all set internal policies and procedures.  • Representing System Access Administration on project activities (on-boarding new applications).  • I.T. Project management activities including the ability to create and update procedural documentation, representing a team in project meetings, and making decisions on go forward processes, and providing training to peers.  • Fundamental understanding of audit processes, adherence to all guidelines to minimize risk to systems and infrastructure and enforcement of all policies both regulatory, security, and IT controlled.  • Obtainment of necessary approvals and documentation for all system access.  • Creation of system access requests and follow through on removal for approvals on limited time frames as well as active cooperation with audit teams to correct any access issues that fall outside of guidelines within a specified timeframe of correction.  • Use of Excel spreadsheets for tracking, reporting, and administering access information to customers such as bulk log in instructions, ID's, passwords, and system requests status on current levels of access.  • Administering 70+ applications that range from front end web GUI, Active Directory, some OS (Unix, Unisys), Windows Server 2008. System Analyst V.A. National Service Desk - Long Beach, CA July 2015 to February 2016 Moderate Risk / (MBI) Public Trust Security Clearance  • Analyze and resolve support requests 3-4 per hr. 30- 40 cases per day.  • Logging and documenting calls within ticketing system with clear concise language.  • Troubleshooting the cause of problems not just the symptoms, taking actions to prevent them from recurring.  • Keeping customers informed of global problems (server / application failures), scheduled downtime, & progress on tickets that cannot be resolved at the initial point of contact.  • Documentation of solutions and data in a knowledge pool database and updating it.  • Continuous training to stay informed of technological advancements particularly those that provide quality support for customers.  • Participation in both training and audits for technical and interoffice skills.  • Troubleshooting in multi-operating systems Windows, MAC, Linux, UNIX, multiple VPN portals.  • Assignment of printers and various devices to networks using DHCP and TCP/IP.  • Password resets, monitoring of accounts and enabling or restricting of access & controls through Active directory.  • Repair and troubleshooting of Fax machines, phones, and multifunctional printers.  • Support continuous monitoring of systems and addressing system security deficiencies.  • Identify & assist with implementation when approved of resources, both tangible and informational with regards to I.T. and security.  • Administer access to VPN portals and applications on multiple remote DNS servers via FOB / RSA tokens as well as triple authentication measures as required.  • Provide telecommunication support for mobile apps and PKI.  • Provide after hour and on-call emergency support for all system access for managers in need outside of help desk hours. Software Support Technician Ledgent Technologies - Buena Park, CA April 2015 to July 2015 • Provide end user support onsite or remotely including PC hardware, software, tablet, and Smartphone.  • Assist network administrator in maintaining the networking hardware and software.  • Install, configure, upgrade for new or existing desktop and laptop software and hardware for orders ranging from $20k-$80k.  • Maintain company user authority through active directory and intranet. Manage and monitor backup jobs on various systems (Windows Server, Solaris).  • Maintain the cell phone and telecom billing as well as assist with ordering of accessories.  • Assist with maintenance of onsite desktops, printers, copiers, and fax machines.  • Assist with maintenance of Windows Servers 2003 and 2008.  • Recommend and assist with ordering of additional desktop hardware, software and peripherals. IT Consultant Electronic Wholesaler - Long Beach, CA September 2011 to April 2015 • Computer hardware and software installation, system deployment, desktop troubleshooting.  • Android and Apple software app tester, data recovery and data migration between systems for upgrades and storage replacements.  • B2B sells. Specialization in the purchase and resale of wholesale computer electronics in bulk to local stores and major businesses.  • Contract negotiations and procurement. Logistics & supply. Help Desk Technician Kaiser Permanente Hospital - Hollywood, CA August 2004 to August 2012 • Video conferencing including audio visual troubleshooting for medical staff meetings  • Defining system problems and developing technical and operational solutions within the system parameters.  • Revising the process for scheduling in EPIC application including administrative tasks.  • Hardware maintenance: printers, copier, computer connection to peripheral equipment.  • Encryption & cryptology of medical records, data transfer, and handling while adhering to HIPPA guidelines. Help Desk Technician CSULA/CSUDH University Student Union September 2003 to May 2008 • Desktop support and troubleshooting PC/MAC  • Virus protection: Norton, McAfee, Symantec, Kaspersky  • LAN for 4-20 desktops onsite. Responsible for updating and maintaining system software operation and protection. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in niche California State University Dominguez Hills - Carson, CA August 2013 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Landesk, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vpn, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Maximo, Network security, Remedy, Database, Ms access, Css, Sharepoint, .net, Case tools Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Systems: Office 365, MAC OS Sierra  • Database: MS Access, Sugar, SAP, Relational Databases  • Languages: Visual Basic, .NET, CSS, HTML, Java, C  • Software: MS Server, Azure, Active Directory, Exchange, SharePoint, MS Office, Outlook,  Lync, Skype, MS Project, Developer, MS Project, MS Publisher, MS Visio, MS CDRDICOM 4.1+, EagleSoft 16.1+, Patterson Imaging 16.1+, SIDEXIS 2.5.6+, Ami Pro, Adobe Photoshop, Lotus Notes, OPAS, KCCMS, RIS, EPIC, Cadence / Health Connect, CASE Tools, Visible Analyst, AD Supporter, Remedy, Service Desk Manager, Service Now, Remote Desktop Connection, GoToAssist, Team Viewer, IP Angry Scanner, DHCP/DNS TCP/IP & VPN, Cisco VoIP Phone, Cisco Gateway, Cisco Telepresence, Citrix, Maximo, EVN, WebEx. I-CAT FLX, SmartScan STUDIO, .NET Framework, McAfee Total Protection for Endpoint, MS USMT, LANDesk Management Suite, Ivanti Management Software Portal  • Asset Management, System analysis and logical design, full engagement of the entire SDLC from design and implementation through decommissioning, Business programming, Data communications, LAN & WAN, Firewalls and computer network security.