IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - RevSpring Blandon, PA Work Experience IT Security Analyst RevSpring - Oaks, PA February 2019 to Present • Works as part of a security operations team: working on incident response, vulnerability management with Tenable/Nessus Security Center, risk analysis, firewall configuration and rule review/audit, and overall security enhancement.  - Working to configure/enhance the SEIM (Logrhythm) to properly handle events in the organization.  - Vulnerability Management: Working with Nessus/ Security Center and Qualys to mitigate vulnerabilities enterprise-wide.    Customers Bank, Phoenixville, PA April 2017 - January 2019  Threat Intelligence Manager  • Strengthen the security posture of the organization by identifying factors that will lower the risk and mitigate them.  Subscribed to different threat intel feeds.  Took different initiatives to secure up any "holes" in the security posture of the organization.  *Wasn't at that specific position too long, took another job before any substantive resources arrived, such as TI platforms, etc.  Network Security Analyst  • Works as part of a security operations team: working on incident response, vulnerability management with Tenable/Nessus Security Center, risk analysis, firewall configuration and rule review/audit, and overall security enhancement.  - Worked configuring the SIEM (Radar, by BTB Security) to improve upon event collection and incident response.  - Vulnerability Management: Worked with Nessus/ Security Center/Tenable.io to reduce/manage vulnerabilities enterprise-wide.  - Phishing: Worked with CoFense/Phish-Me to create monthly scenarios to help train employees and get them properly trained to recognize phishing attempts.  - Established MFA across the enterprise (Using DUO). Established it on the VPNs, Databases, FWs, and other sensitive areas of access.  - Work with McAfee Endpoint Protection for an antivirus solution.  - Worked, with others, to help secure the Azure environment of our organization. Manage accounts, create VPN keys, manage access to the environment, etc.  - Help manage the FWs with a FW appliance: Firemon. Using Firemon, help make the rule sets more efficient, as well as protect our internal network from external threats.  - Help organize/imporve our security policies/standards/procedures by reviewing and changing when necessary.  - Assisted with risk assessments and SOC II evaluations of outside vendors and clients.  - Managed our Pen Testing engagements (had to use 3rd parties). Dealt with the vendors, and the IT teams to mitigate any findings.  - Helped manage the Static Code Analysis Tool for testing code and mitigating vulnerabilities therein. Adjunct Professor Valley College September 2018 to Present Teaching Information Security courses Adjunct Professor Marywood University January 2017 to May 2017 Taught Digital Forensics IT Security Analyst Department of Defense - Tobyhanna, PA July 2004 to April 2017 • Traveled to Aberdeen Proving Grounds, MD to learn various systems to be able to acquire project needs to duplicate system at Tobyhanna; Ft Meade, Maryland to upgrade computers and servers at the military hospital.  • Work within the Cyber Security Division of Production Engineering.  • Perform vulnerability scans on various military systems; perform the necessary patches/upgrades to the system followed by a system test to ensure the system performs correctly; create/update any corresponding testing documentation.    Electronic Integrated Systems Mechanic  • Overhauled/restored military systems/networks.  • Traveled to various OCONUS locations to perform network upgrades and various other implementation activities.  • Restored various types of Satellite Communication Systems.  • Used Lean & 6S techniques to develop/modify project documentation. Education Masters of Science in Information Security and Assurance in Information Security and Assurance Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT August 2017 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Central Penn College - Summerdale, PA December 2014 Associates of Electronic Engineering Technology in Electronic Engineering Technology Lincoln Technical Institute - Allentown, PA May 2003 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/adamwojcicki Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) Security+ Computer Hacking Forensics Investigator CCNA Routing and Switching Network+ A+ Certified Third Party Risk Accessor