IT Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Analyst Portsmouth, RI Highly experienced Systems/ IT Analyst with over 15 years' experience in Information Technology. Ability to  resolve customer complaints, meet deadlines and apply professional diplomacy. Served as the local expert for  the evaluation of proposals for new IM systems. Demonstrates superior technical and communications skills.  Possesses excellent written, verbal and presentation skills. Work Experience IT Analyst Environmental Protection Agency October 2015 to August 2017 • Resolve technical problems in support of internal customers  • Implement and maintain Regional Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) within each REOC  • Support desktop/laptop and mobile devices within the Regional REOC and alternate REOC  • Support ALL IP, satellite, HF, VHF communications in the REOC and in the field  • Support the staff deployed to and in support of REOC with any IT requests  • Conduct periodic and daily testing of systems to ensure full functionality and reliability  • Perform limited GIS mapping, infrastructure and data routing support  • Assist EPA personnel with computer modeling, hardware and network infrastructure  • Assist EPA personnel with cable and wireless routing support  • Assist EPA with response software operation and data management in general  • Local lead for all IT support at the Emergency Operations Center and COOP Site  • Day-to-day operations to ensure readiness and operability  • Daily checklist to ensure all equipment is operational  • Lead during activations, and exercises including support as needed from IT Analyst and additional  staff    1|Page Systems Administrator United States Army August 2014 to November 2015 • Responsible for installing, maintaining and upgrading servers.  • Implemented, configured, coordinated, and conducted troubleshooting of the development of specialized systems and diagnosed production problems.  • Performed basic system security administration functions, including creating customer profiles and accounts, monitoring and manage system resources, performed systems backups and recovery  procedures, author or modify basic scripts to resolve performance problems, and maintain system  documentation and logs.  • Monitored the network health by providing application security.  • Continuously review new security and network monitoring technologies, applicable laws, and regulations and communicate as needed.  • Expert working in the following environments: Windows Server 2003, Netapps, VMware, Commvault, Dameware, Solarwinds, Exchange 2007, WSUS, and SharePoint. Service Desk Supervisor November 2012 to August 2014 • Chief of IT support & plans.  • Maintained four separate regional networks (with both classified and unclassified status) - all in MS  Windows environment with more than 30 servers.  • Managed accounts and security implementation on each server and client.  • Conducted several NATO military exercises in various locations and managed the installation teams  for Information Management & Communication support.  • Participated as a member of senior leadership team supervising 14 subordinates.  • Designed, installed & repaired NATO Cryptographic communication equipment to ensure end-to-end  network security measures. Information Technology Specialist ARFORGEN January 2011 to October 2012 Provided tactical signal functional area and Mission Command Systems (MCS) integration oversight  of FORSCOM units based on Army Force Generation (ARFORGEN) priorities.  • Supported the Cyber Security Assistance Team / Mission Command Assessment Team (CSAT/MCAT)  missions through focused assessments on IA Management; policies and procedures; and tools/application management on associated IA software such as: QTip, RETINA, Flying Squirrel,  System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM), Army Training and Certification Tracking System  (ATCTS) operations, Windows Server Update Services (WSUS), Host Based Security System (HBSS), and Antivirus solutions.  • Collaborated with the FORSCOM COMSEC Office to focus on the COMSEC Line of Effort (LOE) in order to strengthen units with the latest materiel and non-materiel solutions to meet the evolving  challenges of the operating environment.  • Provided readiness assessments of COMSEC Accounts and Hand Receipt Holders (HRH)/Local  Elements (LE) to ensure efficient and sustainable key management solutions in support of the Warfighter.  • Provided tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) and observations, insights, and lessons (OILs)  feedback to FORSCOM units, Combat Training Centers (CTC), and TRADOC.    2|Page Technical Support Supervisor September 2007 to December 2010 Received, processed and documented trouble calls and identified and diagnosed hardware or software  problems in a combined senior Desktop Support / Helpdesk model.  • Analyzed equipment and software reliability and utilization reports to identify and correct problem  areas and to establish computer performance levels.  • Documented, debugged, and prepared user procedures; contributed on a regular basis to living  documents and the daily operations manual for the client site.  • Performed user node backups, data migrations, and hardware deployments.  • Ensured compliance of all laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures; also ensured timely  and accurate authorization and posting of current material, and appropriate links with associated  programs, and guidelines. Communications Security Account Manager August 2005 to December 2007 • Supervised the issuing, receipt, custody, special possession, transfer, safeguarding, accounting and destruction of COMSEC material up to the level of TOP SECRET.  • Maintained over five thousand items of classified material, performed supply operations, management, and control.  • Streamlined annually Communications Security Operations by permanently eliminating classified  material no longer required.  • Supervised and conducted inventories on the Local COMSEC Management System (LCMS).  • Provided advice and guidance on COMSEC matters to the Group Commander, Battalion Commanders, and all element staff personnel.  • Troubleshoot Secure Terminal Equipment, Data Transfer Device and Simple Key Loader with small  technical problems. Information Management Officer November 2003 to February 2005 • Developed networks composed of Blade Servers, Cisco switches/routers, Cisco pix firewalls, and VOIP phones.  • Performed system integration and administration and implement Information Assurance programs to protect and defend information, computers, and networks from disruption, denial of service,  degradation, or destruction. Alternate COMSEC Custodian COMSEC April 2000 to October 2003 • Supervised the issuing, receipt, custody, special possession, transfer, safeguarding, accounting and destruction of COMSEC material up to the level of TOP SECRET.  • Maintained over five thousand items of classified material, performed supply operations, management, and control.  • Streamlined annually Communications Security Operations by permanently eliminating classified  material no longer required.  • Provided advice and guidance on COMSEC matters to the Group Commander, Battalion Commanders, and all element staff personnel.  • Maintain TACLANE systems, SIPRNET systems and Video Teleconference Centers with the proper  electronic fill.  • Prepare COMSEC material for shipment thru the Defense Courier Service and pick up material.    3|Page Education Master's in Cybersecurity Technologies University of Maryland-University College - Adelphi, MD July 2019 to Present Bachelor's in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity University of Maryland-University College - Adelphi, MD August 2016 to May 2019 Associate in Livestock & Poultry Management NC State University - Raleigh, NC August 2017 to December 2018 Skills Active Directory, ITIL (4 years), Microsoft Office 365 (3 years), Microsoft Server 2012 (3 years), Switches (2 years), IT Management (8 years), System Administration (10+ years), Network Administration (8 years), Network Security (7 years), Information Security (5 years), Information Technology (10+ years), Leadership Development (10+ years), Administrative Skills (10+ years), Linux (1 year), SQL (3 years), Sharepoint (4 years), Desktop Support, It Specialist, Help Desk Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SFC October 1994 to October 2015 Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/laqym6eisqnzmgbf Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Strong knowledge and understanding of information security practices and policies, including  Information Security Frameworks, Standards, and best practices  • Strong information security technical skills  • Top Secret Security Clearance  • Developed networks composed of VMware ESX Servers, Cisco switches and routers, VOIP  phones, and Taclanes Inline Network Encryption devices  • Hardware knowledge of PCs, Printers and copiers  • Software knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Symantec End Point  Protection, Symantec Client security, Big Fix patch management, Active Directory, Bit Locker,  and Microsoft Deployment Tool (MDT).  • EPA standard COTS applications (Microsoft Windows desktop and server OS, Microsoft Office  suite, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Symantec End Point Protection, Symantec Client security, and  HF and Satellite Radio