IT Auditor /Cyber Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Auditor /Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Auditor /Cyber Security Analyst - LTS Temple Hills, MD Work Experience IT Auditor /Cyber Security Analyst LTS February 2017 to Present • Performing audits using COBIT, COSO, PCI DSS, SSAE 18, HIPAA SOX and Cyber security Frameworks.  • Have in depth experience performing audit with IT general controls (ITGC) such as; access control, change management, IT operations, disaster recovery and platform reviews (Windows and UNIX OS).  • Coordinating with IT department and external auditors during SOX IT testing  • Work with Engagement Team to identify and resolve client issues discovered during Audit and Review Process.  • Testing and documentation of key SOX and IT General controls leveraging a defined process compliance monitoring process.  • Assisting with walkthroughs and held meetings with client to discuss areas to be tested: Access, Risk Management, Configuration Management, Identity and Access Management, Incident Response, Contingency Planning, and Security training  • Understand and report on control exception and deficiencies  • Produce automated work papers clearly documenting work performed  • Serving as the principle advisor to the Information System Owner and Authorizing Official on all matters involving security of the information systems;  • Develop Security Assessment plan (SAP) according to NIST SP 800-53A.  • Determine security controls effectiveness (i.e., controls implemented correctly, operating as intended, and meeting security requirements) using the three basic methods of assessment - Examine, Interview and Test (EIT).  • Assess existing security policies, processes, and templates against NIST guidance.  • Perform on-site security testing using vulnerability scanning tools such as Nessus.  • Document findings in the Security Assessment Report (SAR) and Conduct risk assessments regularly; ensured measures raised in assessments were implemented in accordance with risk profile, and root-causes of risks were fully addressed following NIST 800-30 and NIST 800-37.  • Develop NIST Compliant vulnerability assessments, technical documentation, and Plans of Action and Milestone (POA&M), and Address System Weaknesses.  • Ensure customers are in compliance with security policies and procedures following NIST 800 53 and NIST 800-53A. E-Business Officer, Payment & Settlement Access Bank Limited July 2016 to January 2017 • Prepared E-zwich, E-tranzact and Gh-link schedules based on reports received from GhIPSS.  • Settled of Visa transactions as well as E-zwich, E-tranzact and Gh-link transactions.  • Monitored and reconciled General Ledgers  • Prepared daily reports on card transactions which have been settled.  • Advised branches daily on card transactions posted into their General Ledgers.  • Cross selling of the Bank's different accounts types as well as educating customers on E- Products of the bank  • Reconciliation of General Ledgers Education MSc. in Management Information Systems University of GH Skills UNIX (1 year), EXCEL (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT WORD (Less than 1 year), SHARE POINT (Less than 1 year), WORD (Less than 1 year) Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS:  • Microsoft word, Excel,  • Share Point Based System  • Operating Systems (Windows and UNIX),  • Teammate