Admin/ Shift Lead Admin/ Shift Lead Desktop Support Technician - CompTIA A+ Certified Palmetto, FL Desktop Support / Global Account Management / Systems Administration Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Admin/ Shift Lead HCL America Inc April 2016 to January 2019 Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for providing Deskside IT support for CHEP site (1000+ users) in Orlando, USA.  ? Incident Management - Troubleshooting issues related to hardware, software and Executive support.  ? Asset Management - Facilitated in setting up global asset tracker for all regions.  ? SLA monitoring for US DSS/RDS tickets to meet SLA's and escalate issues to Tower Manager attention.  ? Suggested process improvements in ticket assignments to improve the MTTR and followed up with team on ticket updates.  ? Maintenance of Checklist compliance check for Deskside Support build tickets  ? Maintain and utilize PXE Boot environment (via SCCM) transitioning Win7 environment to Win 10  ? Executed IT PC refresh for Orlando users on out of warranty computers. (Model upgrades)  ? Provide mobile support for Apple end users via MDM (Admin portal)  ? SCCM Pilot testing and support for Desktop Engineering team.  ? Facilitate Executive conference and availability of IT equipment.  ? Maintains and exceeds Customer Service expectations - multiple commendations for excellent service demonstrated.  ? Assists Offshore Network, Voice, Wintel (GAM), Data Center, onsite when necessary with diagnosis, configuration, maintenance, patching, and network devices in problem resolution. Maintain and Support the onsite Video Conferencing room and equipment. Technical Lead - EUC/GAM HCL America Inc February 2014 to March 2016 Team Size: 8  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Technical Lead - 8-members team for Chevron.  ? VC Administration via OSS, and Cisco Tandberg Scheduler (TMS).  ? Staff audits to ensure adherence to SLA  ? CSAT/DSAT measurements and action plan.  ? Suggested process improvements in ticket assignments to improve the MTTR and followed up with team on ticket updates.  ? Checklist compliance check for EUC track tickets  ? Process creation & training.  ? Global Account Mgmt. Admin. for SharePoint, Exchange, and domain security groups. Technical Lead - EUC/SD HCL America Inc April 2012 to February 2014 Team Size: 18  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Incident Management - Troubleshooting issues related to hardware, software and Executive support.  ? SLA monitoring for EUC/SD tickets to meet SLA's and escalate issues.  ? Transitioned from contract to FTE - SD Analyst to Global Acct. Mgmt. Lead  ? Supervised 2 GAM Analysts for daily GAM account creation, support, escalations.  ? Transitioned 6 person SD 1st level support to an 18 person multi -level SD.  ? Created and vetted business processes according to contracted SLA. Account creation systems: Windows AD (2003/2008 Servers) - AS400 account creation. Lead - Service Desk Analyst Modis (Contractor) HCL America Inc November 2011 to April 2012 Team Size: 6  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Handling Calls, chat and email requests.  ? Achieve KPI's - ASA, Abandon rate, First call resolution (FCR)  ? Call back and follow up on open tickets  ? Troubleshoot issues related to hardware, software, networking, and other computer-related technologies. IT Support Lead Advantage Tech & contract companies June 2010 to November 2011 Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Computer Consulting / Support managing and maintaining client computer systems.  ? On-Site Business Services include Network Design and Implementation, File, Mail, Database storage Servers (Windows XP, Vista, Windows 7, Win 2003 & 2008 Server/SBS);  ? Enterprise Hardware / Software Upgrades  ? Data Migrations Disaster Recovery & Backup Solutions;  ? Wireless Networking, VPN Setup & Security; Systems Administrator G&M PC Solutions March 2009 to June 2010 Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Contracting and sub-contracting services for small scaled businesses and personal computer/laptop support. Server, network, workstation support, and all app functionality.  ? Remote and onsite support, and administrative support. System Administrator Progressive Employer Services May 2008 to March 2009 Roles and Responsibilities:  Responsible for all systems administration, connectivity, maintenance, service, upgrades, and configuration. Inclusive of servers, network hubs and routers, wiring, workstations, and all networked printers. Network Tech./Administrator The Sylint Group - Sarasota, FL April 2007 to July 2007 Roles and Responsibilities:  Responsible for multiple tasks is a small firm that provided Information Security, Intelligence, and Analysis for legal firms, and engineering groups. Web based server hosting, and web based 3rd party support applications for support and back up of client network data. Client networks customized per client. All systems administration, upgrades, maintenance, and connectivity monitored. Data Security HIPAA Compliance Analyst Sarasota Memorial Hospital - Sarasota, FL February 1999 to April 2007 Domain: IT Infrastructure Support Period: 02/99 - 4/07    Roles and Responsibilities:  Data security analysis, design, maintenance and education. HIPAA investigations on all potential and actual incidents; Evaluates data security environment and ensures network, application, and physical security. Conducts periodic system audits/reviews and maintains proper data security controls and procedures. Vendor evaluation providing input relating to information security in the vendor selection process. Duties inclusive of all duties assigned to LAN Administrator position; HIPAA compliance.  Additional Roles:  LAN Administrator: Assigns, documents, and maintains computer login codes, passwords, and access profiles for software applications, network access, and telecommunications systems.  Sr. Desktop Technician: Responsible for second level support PC desktop/laptop environment of approximately 3000 nodes.  Help Desk Specialist: Answers, evaluates, and prioritizes incoming telephone, voice mail, e-mail, and in-person requests for assistance from users experiencing problems with all HW/SW issues. Education Incomplete (2yrs) in Computer Science Fordham University - Bronx, NY Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Customer Service Certifications/Licenses Driver's License