Manager Risk Advisory Services - Consultant/Auditor Manager Risk Advisory Services - Consultant/Auditor Hercules, CA I have over 15 years of experience as an IT director in the health information technology area, serving as a HIPAA Security Officer for 10 years. As a manager in the risk advisory practice area I help various entities develop information security management programs and perform information technology audits to ensure proper safeguards are in place to protect the confidentiality and integrity of information. I perform emergency preparedness assessments, HIPAA security risk assessments, HITRUST validated assessments, SOC 2 audits, breach investigations and develop governance programs to maintain regulatory compliance.    My background as an IT Director and HIPAA Security Officer have helped me become familiar with technological and risk environments in a variety of industries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manager Risk Advisory Services - Consultant/Auditor Wipfli LLP - Oakland, CA August 2017 to Present As a part of Wipfli's risk advisory team my job is to understand the technical and non-technical complexities involved with regulatory compliance. My goal is to assist entities of all sizes confirm and certify they have proper safeguards in place to protect the confidentiality and integrity of sensitive information. I work as a technical auditor for HITRUST Validated Assessments and SOC 2 Type 2 engagements and a consultant for Emergency Preparedness Program Development (hospitals and clinics), HIPAA Security Risk Assessments, Information Security Risk Assessments, and Cyber Security Assessments. I'm Familiar with NIST, ISO, Cobit and HITRUST frameworks among others. I develop and deliver presentations about various information security and compliance related topics to large and small groups, internally and externally.  Assistant Instructor Hercules Karate Dojo - Hercules, CA July 2017 to Present Teaching Wado-Ryu (a traditional Japanese hard style of karate) to children ages 7 to 12 years old. I enjoy the opportunity to teach and mentor children in my community. Senior IT Analyst Wipfli LLP - Oakland, CA August 2016 to August 2017 Deeply Involved with assisting clients with regulatory compliance for HIPAA, HITRUST, NIST and ISO among others. My goal is to assist entities of all sizes confirm and certify they have proper safeguards in place to protect the confidentiality and integrity of sensitive information. IT Director/HIPAA Security Officer HFS Consultants - Oakland, CA February 2005 to July 2016 IS Director, HIPAA Security Officer, Practice Leader    Director of Information Systems, responsible for creating the company wide technology vision in alignment with the firm’s overall strategic growth initiatives and business objectives. Develop IT strategic and operational plans for all Divisions, Departments, and Branch offices. Budget and forecast for all technology related spending. Create policies, procedures and best practices to ensure the integrity and security of all information systems. Oversee all technology-related staff, external consultants, and supplier partners to ensure that IT operations effectively meet HFS Consultants standards.    •Software Development: development team leader; create custom applications to add efficiency within existing business processes. Identify opportunities for new functionality; select language technologies and manage software development cycles.     •Project Management: interdepartmental communication, ROI calculations, budget proposals, human assets coordination, contract negotiation, equipment procurement, strategic phased implementation plans, milestone meetings, final presentations.    •External Consulting: acts as technical consultant or liaison for various company engagements. Coordinates with other IS departments to facilitate secure data flow. Recommends transitional timelines and migration schedules.    •Health Industry Software: 3m Coding & Reimbursement, AHA Coding Clinic, Eweb Coding, CPT Assistant, HFS Soft Medicare Cost Reporting Suite, KPMG Reimbursement Suite, Wincare, Meditech, IVANS, and Raintree among others. IT Manager/Network Administrator HFS Consultants - Oakland, CA February 2001 to January 2005 Management of day-to-day IT Operations. Project management and Vendor relationship management.    •Network Administration: plans and builds multi-server LANs, mulit-site VPN WANs and custom Extranets. Maintains user accounts and monitors server conditions. Manages wired and wireless routers, Switches, and Internet Security Appliances. Adapts network infrastructure to be compliant with the changing security standards imposed by HIPAA    •Technical Support: natural prowess for diagnosing problems and comforting troubled users. Manages team of 3 who trouble shoot common and specialty applications for 130 employees. Writes technical instructions & documentation. Delivers presentations and conducts training sessions.      •Networking: LAN, WAN, Wifi, WLAN, TCP/IP, WINS, DHCP, DNS, Active Directory, OC3, T1, Layer 2 & 3 routing, High Availability frameworks, BGP, Packet Inspection Utilities Education Bachelor's in Cognitive Science: emphasis in Computer Science UC Berkeley - Berkeley, CA September 1997 to December 2000 None Skills Inventory Management, Powerpoint, Inventory, Word, Logistics, Sales, Security Frameworks, HITRUST, NIST, ISO, SOC 2, Compliance (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) (In Progress) Additional Information Spark Program, Advisory Board Member- 9 years active  Spark is a national nonprofit that provides life-changing apprenticeships to youth from disadvantaged communities. Spark one-on-one workplace apprenticeships empower young people to succeed in their education and beyond.