Project Manager - Information Security Analyst Project Manager - Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Project Manager Seattle, WA Earned PMP and ITIL certification.   Noted for the ability to expertly drive processes while successfully supervising, training,   and motivating teams. Skilled in planning new and changed IT services including cost/schedule estimations and operational   impacts and actively monitor service delivery and customer satisfaction to maintain a high standard of service Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Manager - Information Security Analyst Ellucian/Seattle University - Seattle, WA July 2017 to June 2019 Provided direction to project management initiatives for the team while managing risk tolerance. Assisted in managing the security compliance program. Established appropriate assessments for IT management and system owners. Led efforts to gather IT security compliance requirements. Ensured compliance with security processes and controls. Collaborated across multiple organizational units while implementing security measures and reactive solutions that met business/ security needs.  Key Achievements:  • Gained specialized expertise working with Microsoft as a vendor to help implement security initiatives using Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection.  • Oversaw all aspects of a Cherwell Service Desk Management System project.  • Managed and tracked risk mitigation and remediation activities.  • Communicated with slack, zoom, and webex to conduct meetings.  • Delivered compliance program results to senior management, which influenced business decision-making.  • Volunteered as the Co-Chair with the Office of Diversity & Inclusion while implementing and managing diversity and inclusion initiatives within the Information Technology Department. IT Lab Manager Ellucian/Seattle University - Seattle, WA 2015 to 2017 Managed technical and operational matters within multiple labs across campus. Supervised and trained student lab assistants. Coordinated groups and events using lab equipment. Authored technical documentation for hardware and software use. Documented and presented technical processes in easy to understand formats. Provided recommendations on lab equipment upgrades and contributed to purchasing decisions associated with computer hardware and software. Maintained lab equipment supplies and inventory. Facilitated end user training sessions and aided in defining proposed business processes.  Key Achievements:  • Charged with accountability for making important decisions and driving decision-making across projects.  • Project managed successful equipment deployments on campus within established deadlines.  • Developed status reports, cost estimates, and resource plans.  • Recipient of multiple awards for performance excellence including Grow Together Award - ITIL v3 Certification (2016), Grow Together Award - Building Team Unity (2016), On the Spot Award - Amaze & Attract (2015), and On the Spot Award - Enabling Customer Greatness (2015). Technical Support Specialist Ellucian/Seattle University - Seattle, WA 2013 to 2015 Maintained sole accountability for providing IT service delivery and connectivity support for Seattle University systems in an academic environment. Managed troubleshooting and technical support services while ensuring proper functionality of all technical components. Installed hardware and peripheral components including monitors, keyboards, printers, and disk drives on user's premises. Coordinated deliverables across multiple departments while providing high-quality customer service and status updates. Facilitated end user training tasks. Utilized remote desktop management technology and tools.  Key Achievements:  • Served as the primary point of contact concerning system operations, diagnoses, and problem resolution associated with system hardware, software, and operator problems across several labs on campus.  • Tested and evaluated proposed hardware and software while determining efficiency, compatibility, and reliability with existing computer systems, peripherals, and the network.  • Supervised, coached, and motivated student workers in executing moves, computer imaging, and troubleshooting. System Services Representative (SSR) IBM - New York, NY 2007 to 2013 Charged with accountability for providing IT service delivery and connectivity support for Reuters Market Data systems in a fast-paced, real-time financial management environment. Performed project management initiatives including deliverables, reporting, and budgeting. Served as a key team contributor for numerous projects from inception through completion. Executed project plan associated with site readiness, hardware procurement, and post job completion reporting. Tracked change management process to ensure team was updated on all issues. Migrated away from old servers to new servers and validated configurations. Oversaw migration to ensure new network performed smoothly. Ensured high-quality customer service while providing status updates to Service Delivery Managers. Performed due diligence prior to on-site service visits. Achieved Cisco certification at a higher level than required to enable territory to meet its contractual obligations. Earned IBM Means Service Award.  Key Achievements:  • Acknowledged for performance excellence involving client support with the IBM 2011 Means Service Award.  • Championed efforts to avoid lapses in coverage and potential customer satisfaction issues by developing a method to communicate with customers while extending support service through maintenance contracts.  • Led efforts to resolve connectivity problems for LAN/WAN, VPN, Cisco 2600 series routers, Cisco 2900 series switches, hubs, lateral patch panels, workstation wall ports, and cabling.  • Managed computer and application enhancements, maintenance, and workstation repairs.  • Implemented hardware/software upgrades of network devices at client locations for Internet Protocol project.  • Performed system administration tasks associated with installing, configuring, troubleshooting, and maintaining the network communications system.  • Led efforts to upgrade 300+ servers across multiple US locations.  • Upgraded matching service application that provided financial institutions with direct market access via a prime broker for price discovery, trade execution, and straight-through processing. Education Associate of Arts American Academy of Dramatic Arts Skills training, Project Management (5 years), Process Improvement (5 years), Scheduling, Outlook Certifications/Licenses PMP July 2016 to July 2022