Incident/Queue Manager Incident/Queue Manager IT Project Manager/ Incident Manager Atlanta, GA A Diligent Project manager/ Incident manager with hands-on skills and a proven track record in project/incident management in delivering results on time, on budget and to specification. Possessing strong scheduling, leadership, analytic, communication, and interpersonal skills. Establish on 10+ years of experience in managing all the phases of ICT projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Incident/Queue Manager VITA - Chester, VA August 2018 to Present ? Monitoring queues performance incidents and ensuring tickets are assigned to appropriate resources for troubleshooting, and resolution of incidents and problems within accepted SLAs.  ? Ensuring proper categorization and prioritization of tickets and assignment of tickets as well as  facilitation of resource allocation based on workload  ? Coordinating resources with teams across disciplines (2200 Locations, 60k users, 100k Assets) to  ensure SLA targets are met and escalation of tickets.  ? Perform root cause analysis and problem management to investigate incidents that develop to  problems, their resolution and corrective/preventive actions to provide durable solution. IT Project Manager/Incident Manager INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (ICRC) April 2015 to April 2018 Regional Offices (Cameroon, Eq. Guinea, Gabon, Congo, Angola, Tchad) Date: April 2015 – April 2018     ? Project manager for the Connectify Project: The project scope was to build a robust redundant network with 13 VSAT terminals, Fiber optic or ADSL line where applicable plus unified communication for all the 13 sites, for the ICRC regional delegation and sub-delegations in five countries in Central Africa. The project was costed at $5 million and was delivered for $4.15 million and two months off schedule due to numerous changes in scope.  ? Project Manager; MRO Sub Delegation Computer Networking, the project was costed at $1.2 million and delivered by benchmarking, a month earlier saving $160,000.     2.2 Incident Manager Responsibilities:    ? Ensure that activities within a process are being performed at a high level of quality and that it meets its associated Service Level Agreements or Operational Level Agreements  ? Responsible for assigning incidents within a group or division  ? Responsible for communicating with the process manager. Directly works with Tier 1 Support to ensure proper recording of incidents  ? Determines if an incident needs to be escalated according to priority and the of issue.  ? Ensure that assigned Incidents toeir Support Groups are resolved and that service is restored  ? Monitor the Incidents and manage workload in their respective queues to ensure that Service Level Agreement and Operational Level Agreement are respected  ? Identify incidents for review and participate in the review meetings.    2.3 Change Management Responsibilities    ? Overseeing and leading any change management projects, including the researching, implementation and assessment from start to finish  ? Managing the communications and views internally  ? Creating and conducting the coaching and training sessions, including e-learning for various audiences, including customer management and leadership.   ? Ensuring project goals are met and executed by working with internal/external resources  ? Mentoring and supporting junior team members and assigning tasks where relevant   ? Long term relationship building with both clients and colleagues   ? Ability to acknowledge and address any client issues and resolve these with the intent of meeting client expectation  ? Identifying suitable communication strategies and building on these, reviewing the plans and delivering reports to the executives ICT Security Specialist/ ServiceDesk Analyst Halliburton Energy Service - Douala January 2012 to February 2015 Provide prompt 1st/2nd line technical support for initial fault diagnosis to the user  community via telephone, email, remote assistance software, or in person. Liaising with customers throughout to ensure satisfactory resolution of problems  ? Diagnose and resolve technical hardware and software issues, ensuring users are kept  updated / advised of appropriate actions.  ? Monitoring and troubleshooting of both wired and wireless network installations.  ? Installation of operating system and configuration of client systems in compliance to Halliburton IT  Policy. Plus preventive maintenance and repair of computer system  ? Network monitoring and configuration ensuring 99.9% connectivity and access to all  servers and IT resource, plus troubleshooting in case of network disruptions.  ? Providing ad-hoc induction and general training on IT systems and procedures as required  ? Ensure all tickets are attended too, tracked and escalated as appropriate, using the HP  Service Manager software Sr Network/Network Security Consultant (Practice Manager) Quanteq Technology Services, Ltd July 2008 to August 2011 Management Responsibilities    ? Responsible for the design, configuration, development, integration, implementation of network  solutions.  ? Develop architectures that enable common platform and consistent network environment.  ? Lead teams to provide advanced design, architecture and diagnostic support.  ? Responsible for the architecture, design, and development of all elements of network plans/  strategies that include: the physical/network layout, wiring schemes, open systems, product interfaces and implementation plans.  ? Provide consulting on product interfaces, vendor products, and industry standards.  ? Design and deploy distributive network solutions to ensure system functionality, interoperability,  availability, timely use and business continuity.    Networking / Network Security Engineer Responsibilities  ? Good understanding of OSI Model, TCP/IP protocol suite (IP, ARP, ICMP, TCP, UDP, SNMP, FTP, TFTP).  ? IP addressing & subnetting,  ? Routing Concepts(OSPF, BGP), VLSM/CIDR  ? Switching and In-depth knowledge of L2 technology and protocols like VLANs, VLAN Tagging (IEEE  802.1q), LACP, VLAN trunking, STP (IEEE 802.1D and other 802.1 implementations).  ? Good working knowledge of Security related products like Firewalls, IPS/IDS, UTMs like URL Filtering,  AV, and Anti-Spam.  ? Strong knowledge of VPN: Design, Implementation Scenarios, Connectivity troubleshooting and other  algorithms such as DES, 3DES, MD5, SHA, PKI, IPSec Site to Site & Remote Access VPN  ? Security, Firewalls, access and perimeter control, vulnerability management and intrusion detection.  Strong knowledge of various attacks like SYN flood,  ? Good working knowledge of Application layer protocols and functions such as FTP, DHCP, DNS,  SNMP, HTTP/HTTPS, LDAP, Radius, User Authentication Mechanisms, SMTP etc.  ? Proven knowledge and practical application of Firewall Security, implementation scenarios,  configuration and troubleshooting of Firewall related issues. Education MBA in IT Management and Operation Management National Institute of Business Management August 2014 to August 2016 Graduate Diploma in Management Information Systems Association of Business Executives September 2011 to June 2013 Diploma in Business Information Systems Association of Business Executives February 2010 to June 2011 Diploma in Computer Networking and Systems Administration Zoom Technologies Inc - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana March 2006 to November 2007 Skills FIREWALL (5 years), SWITCHING (7 years), SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (8 years), LINUX (7 years), MICROSOFT OFFICE (2 years), Routing (7 years), Virtualization (3 years), Network Administration (10+ years), Microsoft Server Administration (8 years), VSAT Mounting, and Dish pointing (3 years), Project Planning (3 years), Project Planning (3 years), Windows 7 (4 years), Windows 8 (5 years), Linux (5 years), PM, Waterfall, SDLC, PMP, Incident Management, Itil, Cissp, Itsm, Cyber Security, Scrum Master, Information Technology, Project Management, CSM Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/carl-mbus-mbock-ikomi-0860b562 Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) 2008 to 2011 Cisco Certified Network Associate (routing and switching using cisco devices) Cisco Certified Security Professional (CCSP) 2009 to 2011 Securing networking with Cisco ASA firewalls and network security devices Red Hat Certified System Administrator March 2008 System administration Red hat Linux Server and client operation system Red Hat Certified System Engineer March 2008 System administration and server configurations Red hat Linux Server and client operation system International Computer Driving License June 2013 Certification on the proficient use and skills to train others in Office Application such as Microsoft (word,  excel, powerpoint, access, publisher, browsers/ internet Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) in Server 2008 2008 System and network administration with Microsoft client and server operating system, including  messaging and collaboration. GVF510 ED2: Core Skills for VSAT Professionals 2018 GVF521: Practical Skills for VSAT Professionals 2018 GVF: Advance SATCOM Professional Certification 2018 GVF: Marine SATCOM Operator Sea Tel Specialist Certification 2018 ITIL v3 2017 ITIL v3 is the third version of the Information Technology Infrastructure Library, a globally recognized  collection of best practices for managing information technology ( IT). Additional Information ? IT NETWORK/ SECURITY ENGINEER  o Routing::- Installation, configuration and backup of Routers to perform OSPF, BGP, GLBP, CEF, HSRP on routers    o Switching: - Configuration and troubleshooting multilayer switching services and protocols (VTP, RSTP, HSRP, and VLAN).    o Security: - Configuration of Firewalls to perform high-level security and intrusion detection and prevention, IPSec VPN, and Asymmetric Routing.    ? SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION  o Installation, configuration, and management of server and client systems such as DHCP, DNS, AD and DC, Web Server, Application Server, Exchange Server, and Lotus.    ? TELECOMS SPECIALIST:  o Installation, configuration and maintenance of BTS for mobile technologies (GSM/ CDMA)  o VSAT, HF, VHF mobile radio, radio room and antenna installation and configurations