Executive/Business Analyst Executive/Business <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Executive/Business Analyst - Quantitech, Incorporated Decatur, AL Work Experience Executive/Business Analyst Quantitech, Incorporated January 2019 to Present Cargo: Provide executive support to the PM and DPM of Cargo Helicopters, Modernization. Continuously reviews and updates complex, daily, administrative functions that affect the systematic and overall efficient flow of work. Staffs documents and keeps Strategic Calendar updated and coordinates with POC for updates like key milestones, major reviews and recurring appointments. Responds collectively to issues and inquiries. Composes, proofreads and prepares a variety of correspondence for accuracy and routing in a timely manner. Regularly prepares travel packets, authorizations and vouchers in Defense Travel System (DTS). Coordinates conference room calendars, visitor requests and escorting of visitors. Proficiently manage high-volume phone communications, ensuring delivery of quality customer service in directing calls, responding to inquiries and relaying detailed messages. Maintain a strong proficiency in Army Regulation 25-50, DTS, APACS, ATAAPS and SharePoint. Executive/Operations Support Total Computer Solutions, Incorporated August 2017 to 2019 UHPO: Provide exceptional executive support and operations to two separate Product offices that directly support O-6 and GO level tasking's/requirements, which are not co-located. Support various administrative processes and functions within MODs/OGA and MEDEVAC Product Offices. Continually review and update daily complex administrative functions that may affect the systematic and overall efficient flow of work. Staff documents and track status throughout PM UH. Support outside organizations after coordination with PD/Deputy. Keep Strategic Calendar updated and coordinate with POC for updates like Key milestones, Major reviews and Recurring appointments. Responds collectively to issues and inquiries. Compose, proofread and prepare a variety of correspondence, reports and briefing materials for accuracy and routing in a timely manner. Regularly prepares travel packets, authorizations and vouchers and Serves as a reviewing official in Defense Travel System (DTS) for CONUS and OCONUS travel. Coordinate conference room calendars, visitor requests and escorting visitors. Proficiently manage high-volume phone communications, ensuring delivery of quality customer service in directing calls, responding to inquiries and relaying detailed messages. Maintain a strong proficiency in Army Regulation 25-50, DTS, APACS, ATAAPS, TopView, E-Collab and SharePoint. Executive Assistant Sigmatech Incorporated November 2015 to August 2017 USASAC: Provide exceptional Executive support to the Deputy Chief of Staff, G8. Support various administrative processes and functions within G8. Continually review and update daily complex administrative functions that may affect the systematic and overall efficient flow of work. Provide Human Resource Support on personnel, appraisals, personnel actions, payroll and hiring actions. Independently reviews timekeeping methods and entries for the collection, verification, and certification of Government labor/leave/compensatory time charged in ATAAPS. Responds collectively to issues and inquiries. Compose, proofread and prepare a variety of correspondence, reports and briefing materials for accuracy and routing in a timely manner. Regularly prepares travel packets, authorizations and vouchers in Defense Travel System (DTS) for CONUS and OCONUS travel. Coordinate conference room calendars, visitor requests and escorting visitors. Proficiently manage high-volume phone communications, ensuring delivery of quality customer service in directing calls, responding to inquiries and relaying detailed messages. Maintain a strong proficiency in Army Regulation 25-50, DTS, APACS, ATAAPS, E-Collab and SharePoint. Executive Assistant Sigmatech Incorporated August 2013 to November 2015 SAMD: Provided exceptional Executive Assistant support to Attack Systems Division. Support various administrative processes and functions within the division and branches. Continually review and update daily complex administrative functions that may affect the systematic and overall efficient flow of work within the Division. Provide Human Resource Support on personnel, appraisals, personnel actions, payroll and hiring actions. Responds collectively to issues and inquiries, as well as resolve a variety of conflicts regarding processes among the Division. Compose, proofread and prepare a variety of correspondence, reports and briefing materials for accuracy and routing in a timely manner. Developed system for tracking, monitoring documents and information. Developed and maintains retrieval system for all signed documents. Regularly prepares travel packets, authorizations and vouchers in Defense Travel System (DTS) for CONUS and OCONUS travel. Maintains APACS for the Division, and ensuring that all required training and immunizations are completed prior to departing. Compiles all weekly reports for dissemination. Provides calendar management and scheduling of meetings for the division and branches. Coordinate conference room calendars, visitor requests and escorting visitors. Oversee all facets of the Attack Systems Division Task Tracker and all internal suspense actions, further illustrating multitasking and prioritization abilities. Proficiently manage high-volume phone communications, ensuring delivery of quality customer service in directing calls, responding to inquiries and relaying detailed messages. Maintain a strong proficiency in Army Regulation 25-50, DTS, APACS, ATAAPS, PEO Aviation Enterprise Service Platform, Army Records Information Management System (ARIMS), E-Collab and SharePoint. Administrative Assistant Sigmatech Incorporated June 2012 to August 2013 USASAC: Actively collaborate with senior management team in driving projects, administrative operations, and scheduling to meet critical timelines, specifications, and goals. Provided exceptional management support to Centcom Regional Operations, including assisting COL, his Deputy Director and Staff with CONUS and OCONUS travel requests. Ensuring Passports and Visa applications are completed. Proofread and edited Memos. Uploaded Documents into Share Point and E-Collab. Maintained COLs, Deputy Directors Calendars and scheduled meetings with Command group. Input all timekeeping for the directorate into ATAAPS for payroll. Maintain a strong proficiency in ATAAPS, DTS, APACS, GFEBS and Max Security Portal. Administrative/ Security Specialist Colsa/DigiFlight Incorporated May 2010 to June 2012 RTC: Provided administrative and general office management support to, Redstone Test Center (RTC), Dynamic Test Division. Identified problem areas and initiated appropriate actions. Performed a variety of administrative and support duties to include supported travel, administration, training, file management, Human Resources, time and attendance, security access and credit card purchases. Performed analysis, evaluations, developed and maintained program budget. Reviewed travel requests for content such as conformance to applicable regulations/policies, validity, justification and proper funding. Prepared proper official documents for signatory approval, composed and edited correspondence and memoranda. Served as a liaison, between departments and operating units in the resolution of day-to-day administrative and operational problems. Performed security functions via Max Security Portal; obtained all visit authorization requests (VAR) for approval to gain access to restricted area at Dynamic Test Division. Created all badges and swipe access for test area; to include government and contractors that support a government customer. Scheduling Manager, Medical Records Manager, IT Support Clearview Cancer Institute - Huntsville, AL May 2002 to May 2010 Managed a scheduling and Medical Records department of 12 with scheduling for 8 physicians. Overseen patient flow and the daily operations of the scheduling department. Responsible for the day-to-day administrative tasks required to keep the scheduling department running smoothly. Established staff schedules, allocation of staff, and assured effective patient care. Trained and rotated office staff through various office duties to ensure cross coverage in all job areas. Assessed staff performances. Completed a 30, 60, 90 day review on all new hires and annual review on established employees. Overseen inventory and ordering of office supplies for the department. Verified all timesheets for salaried employees were sent to Human Resources for processing. Managed and coordinated a system for safeguarding and updating active and inactive patient medical records. Recommended and implemented operating policies and procedures for Medical Records. Monitored the accurateness of patient records and documentation of patient visits. Trained and supervised medical records personnel in the daily operations of the medical records department. Evaluated performances, implemented corrective action on areas needing improvement or re-training. Applied and acquired a strong knowledge of the Electronic Medical Records (EMR) software and served as a primary liaison between end users and OncoEMR Project Manager. Applied planning, critical thinking, created a positive work environment and management skills toward consistently achieving critical deadlines while maintaining high quality standards. Conducted regular day-to-day communications with Project Manager to review software development status, worked closely with the Project Manager and the end users to tailor the system to fit our organizational needs. Provided key support and assistance for meetings and conferences, operated conference automation tools and projection systems. Conduct technical responsibilities such as password resets, email account changes, Windows Server administration functions (permissions), remote log-ins and technical support for Microsoft Office software. Evaluated patient information for accuracy, integrated enhancements in scheduling system, and implemented policies and procedures to streamline workflow. Tracked internal procedures that were used in conjunction with EMR applications and conducted in-depth analyses of workflows, data collection, report details and other technical issues. Resolved scheduling conflicts, monitored room utilization, and maintained clinic patient flow.    Areas of Expertise  Defense Travel System (DTS) ATAAPS APACS  GFEBS SharePoint Microsoft Office  Human Resource Support Adobe Customer Service Calendar Management ARIMS Security Support  Office Operations Management DAI E-Tasker    Security Clearance  Active Secret Security Clearance Education High School Diploma American High School - Lansing, IL Skills Security, Sharepoint, Customer service, Operations, Operations management, Calendar management, Microsoft office