Systems Administrator/Cyber Security Engineer Systems Administrator/Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Systems Administrator/Cyber Security Engineer - Duckhorn Wine Company Work Experience Systems Administrator/Cyber Security Engineer Duckhorn Wine Company 2019 to Present • Experience with Azure, KnowBe4 and Meraki  • Known Software platforms, Solar Winds, Crowdstrike, Monday, Forticlient, Fortigate,  • Mimecast, Egnyte, TankNet, Patch Manager  • Systems backup and Recovery, AD, Virtual Network, Azure  • Pen Testing, Threat Intelligence, Malware Analysis and Forensics Contract Job for CSIS, Security Consulting, Director of Cyber Security Engineering Cyber Security Investigative Services 2008 to Present • Red Team Operations, Testing and Entering 4 Networks across 4 countries.  • Testing API  • Pen Tester and Threat Intelligence Analyst NOC/ Security Engineer KLH Consulting 2017 to 2017 1018  • Monitor Health of customer network. Perform adds/changes/deletes on customer network.  • Troubleshoot, remediate and resolve issues with the customer networks.  • Follow established processes for assessing and prioritizing workflow, including remediation and escalation paths to ensure that the issues are dealt with promptly.  • Perform Security Audits, manage Phishing campaigns, Vulnerability assessments and Penetration Testing. Network Technician Santa Rosa Junior College 2016 to 2017 • Managed network systems and assisted with desktop support at the SRJC Petaluma campus.  • Managed security issues and recovered 2/3 data lost from a Ransomware attack. Student IT Analyst CSU, Chico BITS California State 2013 to 2016 Information technology and security support for business and finance California State  University Chico.  • Troubleshoot hardware, software and systems administration. Sales Manager / IT Security Officer Chico Web Work Comcast 2011 to 2013 Xfinity North Bay Area 2011-2013  • Sold IT Business Class for Comcast in the East Bay Area.  • Web based marketing.  • Sales Manager / IT Security Officer Chico Web Work. Computer Tech PCI Computer Services Systems Networking with Mac 2011 to 2012 Windows and Unix/Linux.  • Hardware Updates and Computer System builds and Imaging. Senior Company Corpsman Charlie Co 1996 to 2001 supervised junior Corpsman for 4 platoons with 1st  Battalion 5th Marines.  • Team member with STA/SS, surveillance and target acquisition/ scout sniper unit. Cyber  intelligence (Unconventional Warfare.) Combat Medicine [18 Delta] Education California State University May 2016 Bachelor of Science in Administration in Management Information Systems College of Business Associate in Science & Surgery Field Medical Combat School - San Diego, CA Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/aj-sivalingam