Senior Technical Analyst-IAM Infrastructure Senior Technical <span class="hl">Analyst</span>-IAM Infrastructure Senior Technical Analyst-IAM Infrastructure - Wells Fargo Frisco, TX Information Technology and Security professional with over 15 years' experience; 4+ years' experience in supporting Identity Management (Sail point Identity IQ, OIM, CyberArk), Provisioning and De-Provisioning/Identity Workflows, Access Management, RBAC(Role-Based Access Control), Certification, Compliance and Auditing Technologies, User Acceptance Testing in Enterprise System Architecture.    Persuasive verbal and written communication skills compliment a strong ability to multi-task, maintain an organized approach. Work Experience Senior Technical Analyst-IAM Infrastructure Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC March 2019 to Present • Responsible for provisioning/de-provisioning access to applications, infrastructure and operating systems as per established policies, standards and procedures.  • Work with Active Directory, LDAP/UNIX groups, Networks, Human Resource systems for Identity and Access Management.  • Develop and manage Role Based Access Controls, including role management, role mining, role remediation, and role re-certifications.  • Assist with troubleshooting unique/complex tickets by working with other teams, vendors or users in diagnosing and resolving access issues.  • Utilize IDM & various other tools to create & administer end user accounts, role based access controls (RBAC), password management, etc.  • Assist in the development & maintenance of access control related processes & procedures to identify access control gaps.  • Perform entitlement analysis on different roles in organization.  • Perform data analytics to ensure data is accurate prior to staging and activating certifications.  • Administer Active Directory (AD) domains and related services supporting 260K users.  • Assign level of privileges to different administrators, both local and domain administrators.  • Maintain user, group, and computer accounts for the Wells Fargo enterprise network. Senior Sail Point Implementation Analyst Highmark - Pittsburgh, PA March 2018 to March 2019 Responsible for design and implementation of Sail Point IIQ 5.x/6.x IT Security Analyst CVS - Irving, TX August 2017 to March 2018 - User Provisioning / Application Access  • Performed "heads-down" provisioning activities throughout the business day with focus on speed, accuracy and policy & regulatory compliance.  • Created and modified user ids on various applications (including Active Directory, MS Exchange, Mainframe, UNIX, Tandem, Oracle  • Administered identity and security access globally for CVS accounts across multiple systems and applications. This included on-boarding/off-boarding, incident/problem management associated with access entitlements and terminations as well as Emergency & Privileged Access Management.  • Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders while effectively managing a high volume of requests.  • Created user accounts within Windows Active Directory, IAM, RACF for Mainframe  • Provided access to network resources via active directory & other tools, including departmental shares, folders, applications & databases in PROD and Non-PROD environments.  • Monitored/maintained Identity Management servers and Active Directory domains and software. Identity and Access Management Administrator First Republic Bank - Manhattan, NY May 2015 to July 2017 • Provided Role Based Access Control (RBAC) to individual users and perform recertification based on segregation of duties and role.  • Performed cross platform audits of Active Directory (AD) objects and user permissions  • Managed User Accounts on WindowsNT and UNIX Platform (Creation, Deletion, Permissions, and VPN Access).  • Worked with technical specifications to independently develop test scenarios to test and verify Identity and Access management solutions. Tested custom configuration of Sail Point Identity IQ and out of box Workflows as per the business needs.  • Administered 13 Active Directory (AD) domains and related services supporting 145K users and 97K clients.  • Developed organizational units in Active Directory (AD) and managed user security with group policies  • Created various reports in Identity IQ like Orphan Account reports, Account Discrepancy reports, Role composition report, Identity Reports and Applications attribute reports.  • Performed various Sail Point Certifications (Manager, Application Owner, Entitlement Owner, Account group, Role, Identity).  • Performed configuration and development of Sail Point Life Cycle Events (LCM).  • Evaluated various functionalities such as User Provisioning, Reconciliation, and Orphan Accounts Cleanup, Work Flow management for Approvals, Re-Certification and Audit Trials. Identity and Access Management Consultant Capital One - Rolling Meadows, IL March 2012 to May 2015 • Utilized IDM & various other tools to create & administer end user accounts, role based access controls (RBAC), password management etc.  • Collaborated with oracle database team to define & implement roles and responsibilities in Oracle apps\ERP.  • Provisioned end user accounts for new employee & consultants, including transfers.  • Created & analyzed security reports while utilizing established toolsets.  • Provided application architecture & integration strategy for authentication, single-sign-on and entitlement requirements for existing and new applications.  • Worked with environments such as Tuxedo, WebLogic, Control M and PeopleSoft Technical Consultant Discover Financial Services - Riverwoods, IL April 2011 to February 2012 • Configured access management policies for customer applications using enterprise level identity management tools.  • Worked on leading IAM concepts such as Least Privilege, Privileged Access, Roles and Data Mining, Segregation of Duty and Role Based Access Control (RBAC).  • Worked on Identity Governance including User Provisioning, Access Certifications, Access request, Workflow, Delegated Administration and Password Self-Service. Identity and Access Management Consultant National Able Network - Chicago, IL March 2010 to April 2011 OIM/OAM)  • Deployed Microsoft Active Directory (with password sync), Oracle Internet Directory (OID) and Microsoft Exchange, Database and Oracle e-Business Suite connectors.  • Involved in the evaluation of various functionalities such as User Provisioning, Reconciliation, Orphan Accounts Cleanup, Work Flow management for Approvals, Re-Certification and Audit Trials.  • Configured Active Directory provisioning and reconciliation as a target system.  • Assisted in the administration of MS Active Directory such as user administration, user provisioning and reporting through Active Directory Users and Computers. Infrastructure Technical Consultant Lawson Software - Saint Paul, MN November 2007 to September 2008 • Responsible for maintenance of Lawson Internet Architecture, including WebSphere. Worked with DBA team for production moves, migrating code bases, and applying patches. Developed functional and technical specifications and performed administrative duties.  • Installed, configured and tested Lawson software on Windows and UNIX platforms.  • Created and maintained internal customer accounts for a variety of applications.  • Planned and implemented Oracle and Lawson Software installations, upgrades and patches.  • Installed and deployed the Lawson Web Sphere, TDS and Lawson Applications. Education BS in Accounting Northeastern Illinois University MBA in Finance Roosevelt University Skills Jdbc, Oracle, Sql, Virtualization, Active directory, Ldap, Vmware, Remedy, Linux, Unix, Racf, Rsa, Saas, Weblogic, Websphere, Html, Javascript, Xml, J2ee, Jsp Additional Information Technical Skills    Identity and Access Management Sail Point Identity IQ, Oracle Identity Manager. OID  Directories Microsoft Active Directory (AD), LDAP  Privileged Access Software Cyber Ark, Lieberman  SAAS Software Workday  J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC  Web Servers Oracle WebLogic, IBM WebSphere  Web Technologies XML, HTML, Javascript  Databases Oracle, Access, SQL  Virtualization Tools VMWare, Oracle Virtual Box  Miscellaneous Tools  Remedy, Service Now, HPSM, Putty, Active Directory, Windows PowerShell, Hyena 8.8, RSA Secure Auth/ AS400 I Series Administration, Bean Shell Script, RACF/TSO, Unix and Linux Operating systems