Sr IT System Support Administrator Sr <span class="hl">IT</span> System Support Administrator Sr IT System Support Administrator - ZIMMER BIOMET NAM Toa Alta, PR Focused, dedicated and highly motivated Information Technology ( IT) professional with over 19 years  experience offering solid contributions and a diverse computer systems background. Budget and time-  conscious individual with a strong business sense to design IT solutions and maintain multiple user  networks. Exceptional dedication to growing with cutting-edge technologies and achieving beyond  expectations. Motivational leader, training facilitator and communicator. Quick to analyze and define  solutions and create corresponding documentation. Track record for maintaining information flow with  minimum down-time. Fully bilingual, Spanish and English. Work Experience Sr IT System Support Administrator ZIMMER BIOMET NAM August 2017 to Present Sr IT System Support Administrator, Providing Technical Support for Zimmer Biomet Medical Device Corporation for the CLA Region Managing Servers, computers, Laptops, Networks, IP phones, Peripherals and corporate application programs & solutions, Managing local IT projects, production applications, Quality programs, Vendor management and   Digital Signage content management implementation & support.  IT Security Administrator SANTANDER BANK PUERTO RICO July 2016 to August 2017 • Monitoring, tracking, and remediating system vulnerabilities.  • Monitoring logs and alerts from network and system security technologies, such as Data Loss  Prevention (DLP) and Intrusion Prevention systems (IPS).  • Reporting, tracking, escalating, mitigating, and resolving security events.  • Working closely with system owners to quickly mitigate and resolve security events.  • Facilitating effective communication among relevant CSIRT team members, system owners,  datacenter personnel, and third-party associates.  • Providing consultation for projects and initiatives associated with risk mitigation.  • Advocating security awareness as it pertains to incident prevention and risk mitigation.  • Responsible for detecting threats and vulnerabilities in target systems, networks, and applications by conducting systems, network and web vulnerability assessment / security testing.  •. Penetration Testing (e.g., internal, external, wireless, physical, social, etc.) Post vulnerability  assessment, work with various stakeholders to provide remediation to the identified risks and bring the same to closure  • Conduct walk-through of the assessment report to the stakeholders and help define remediation plan  • Follow a standard methodology to identify and/or detect threats to the IT infrastructure, applications  and other information assets  • Work with various teams to follow a pre-assessment plan/ and assessment schedule for every  assessment, conduct threat assessment, and deliver an assessment report  • Perform technical security assessments (e.g., Windows, UNIX, firewalls, routers, oracle, SQL server,  • Perform web application security assessments (e.g., exploiting web app vulnerabilities such as SQL  injection, cross-site scripting, parameter manipulation, session hijacking, etc.  • Responsible to conduct vulnerability assessment on the target IT Infrastructure, applications and related information assets Information Technology Analyst BAXTER HEALTHCARE SALES & DISTRIBUTION CENTER March 2011 to April 2016 Provides IT support in one or more of the following technical areas: desktop, telecom, networks,  servers, messaging, LAN, security, and job scheduling. This includes monitoring, testing, and deploying  these environments.  • Implement Abacus Software application with Exactamix compounders for Baxter PRGU Pharmacy ISO  5-7-8 and provides IT support for the largest compounding center in the CLA region.  •. Microsoft Active Directory, Exchange, and Outlook, Remote desktop support, VPN knowledge  •. User account creation and maintenance such as account lock, password change  •. Microsoft Exchange 365 implementation and cloud solution application programs  •. Manage projects and tasks deliverable commitments, system changes and application  rollout/upgrades. Partner with business and other IT teams to complete work. Resolve complex system  problems.  •. Interact and leverage acquired business knowledge and contact(s) to analyze and support business  application or solution.  •. Provide training & develop training materials for customers, clients and other IT support teams  •. Provide support for production systems. Use problem-solving skills to assist in resolution of business  problems. Proactively monitor call queues and prioritize daily activities. Provide routine support on hardware and software problems. Install, test, and maintain software and hardware components.  Document system/environment changes. Monitor system activities and assist in various local projects.  •. Respond to and resolve more complex business and technical problems. Identify root causes for problems and propose solutions to prevent recurring problems.  •. Forge long-term business relationships to better understand the needs of the business.  •. Partner with other IT teams to ensure tasks are implemented using IT standards.  •. Continue to work with business vendors to resolve day-to-day problems or make process changes. Provide Technical Support Zimmer Biomet Medical Device Corporation 2008 to 2012 for the CLA Region  Managing Servers, computers, Laptops, Networks, IP phones, Peripherals and corporate application  programs & solutions, Perform System Backups for 8 Local Servers and 3 remote Servers from Server  2008 to 2012 OS. Managing local IT projects, production applications, Quality programs, Vendor  management and Digital Signage content management implementation & support. Work with Service  Now Ticketing System and deploy OS Images & application software using LANDESK Global Portal. Asset  management, hardware refreshes and printing Supply management.  • Manage and Support Content Management DHR's Servers running IBM Kofax On Demand Db2  Database and managing project migration to Oracle WebSence.  • Manage and support security control access and security cameras for Zimmer Biomet. Manage control  access ID cards for employees and visitors.  • Assist Business with all Quality Control validation process in reference to IT including FDA compliance  and all new initiatives that require QA validation in Hardware & Software applications.  • Work directly with Managers, Finance, Purchasing, Production, Shipping and Receiving departments  to engage in Projects and new initiatives to help the business using technology.  • Create IT Knowledge Base articles 15 per year for the organization, IT Members and Service Desk  support group. Systems Administrator/ IT Field Engineer ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS (EDS), an HP Company December 1998 to December 2009 Manage, maintain and operate diverse IT systems environment for the consumer /retail,  communications, transportation, government industries such as American Airlines/Eagle, US Airways and United Airlines.  •. Provide business and technology solutions to the client to improve their business performance.  • Microsoft Active Directory, Exchange, and Outlook, Remote desktop support, VPN knowledge  •. User account creation and maintenance such as account lock, password change.  •. Manage projects and tasks deliverable commitments, system changes and application  rollout/upgrades.  •. Maintain the infrastructure for the server performance, daily status checks, backup and recovery,  proactive system management and IT security.  • Act as liaison between the customer, suppliers and other technical groups to coordinate projects  and/or resolve high-tension application management issues.  •. Ensure all IT solutions are effective and efficient, consistently meeting all uptime and response and performance commitments.  •. Provide high level support & training on standard software applications packages and the environments and platforms in which the business operates (desktops, laptops, servers, LAN/WAN,  remote access).  •. Asset Management and inventory control and validation reports for EDS clients.  •. Manage Cisco wireless implementation project and site survey reports for AA and US Airways airport  terminals for the CLA Region. Education Associate Degree in Electronic Technology Technology College of San Juan - Hato Rey, PR 1987 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory