IT Support Technician II / IT Field Technician <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Technician II / <span class="hl">IT</span> Field Technician IT Support Technician II / IT Field Technician - Advantage Rent-A-Car Saint Cloud, FL Recently graduated Strayer University with Bachelor's degree in Computer Science for a major in Networking Technologies. Completed my Associate's degree in Network Systems Administration from ITT Technical Institute with a 3.63 GPA. Dedicated and self-motivated. Great team player. Microsoft Office / Suite experience. Windows Server 2008/2012 experience. Network and troubleshooting experience. AD/DS knowledge. 7+ years in the United States Army. Retain exceptional verbal and written communication skills as well as excellent mathematical skills. Ability to accomplish any task with minimum supervision. Work Experience IT Support Technician II / IT Field Technician Advantage Rent-A-Car - Orlando, FL September 2017 to Present • Create, disable, and modify users AD accounts, KACE accounts, RezCentral accounts, and Risk Accounts.  • Use Jira Ticketing System to keep track of computer and network issues for all of the sites across the U.S.  • Track company phones, tablets, and other mobile devices using MaaS360 software.  • Create and disable email accounts using the Exchange Admin Center and in AD.  • Setup employee email accounts on computers and on mobile devices.  • Troubleshooting the Internet connectivity issues for all locations across the US including Hawaii that range from Internet outages to power cycling various Cisco Meraki switches, Cisco routers, and other network devices that a location may have.  • Traveling across the U.S. resolving and/or replacing the sites IT Equipment and resolving other IT issues that they may have.  • Using the Meraki Dashboard to view the locations networking equipment status to see what devices are operational or not.  • Working with the Network Team to deliver network equipment to locations to improve their Internet and wireless capabilities.  • Working with Toshiba to monitor and maintain all of the locations printers.  • Working with Tempus Technologies to troubleshoot and resolve all types of issues that may occur with the locations ISC250 model Tempus devices.  • Setup up and install Snapshell ID Scanners software on computers at locations and replace the devices that don't work anymore.  • Setting and taking down workstations for employees.  • Imaging and re-imaging computers to Windows 10 OS and installing appropriate software to the computers before redeploying them out again. Tier One Technical Support Convergys - Orlando, FL August 2017 to October 2017 for Apple  • Troubleshot and resolved Apple iOS devices such as iPhones, iPads, iPod touch, and AirPods in a call center environment.  • Used iLog ticketing system to gather the appropriate information to figure out what was going on with the customer's device(s).  • Used a variety of tools to assist in the troubleshooting process and to figure out what was wrong with each device for each customer.  • Escalated cases to the appropriate departments for the different kinds of Apple products such as Apple computers, iTunes transactions, and other departments as needed. PC Refresh Technician / Software Install Technician Lockheed Martin - Orlando, FL March 2017 to June 2017 • Refreshed and maintained employee and customer PC's and other computer devices to perform at peak proficiency.  • Setup of new employee workstations and VoIP phones throughout the complex.  • Update employees EOL devices with new, improved computers and other devices.  • Conducted Break / Fix computer swaps for clients all over the complex for defective devices and computers.  • Install or reinstall employee's software and hardware depending on which department they work for and what the employee needs specifically at their workstation(s).  • Backup and restore user's data and other information using the Migration Utility Tool or other means to get the all of the user's data from HD to HD. Tier One Security Systems Analyst Orlando Health - Orlando, FL October 2016 to February 2017 • Vast knowledge of AD/DS.  • Citrix experience.  • Monitor the Security Database for incoming ticket requests or incidents involving access to files/folders in the company's share drive(s).  • Resolving complex issues that involve email accounts and Exchange.  • Assign devices to be auto-logged into by other doctors or staff members.  • Using scripts to make resource boxes and PG groups so employees can send and receive emails Tier One Technical Support Ellucian - Maitland, FL July 2016 to August 2016 • Tier One Technical Support for numerous colleges and universities around the U.S.  • In charge of troubleshooting a variety of issue regarding computers, printers, touchscreen, projectors, Outlook and Gmail accounts, and password problems for students, staff and faculty members.  • Used ServiceNow (SNOW) ticketing system to keep track and update all information from the customers that called in for their IT problems.  • Escalated complex IT issues to the proper department for further troubleshooting of issues. Tier One Technical Support Specialist ZIVELO - Scottsdale, AZ October 2015 to April 2016 • Setting up and/or resolving VoIP phones, printers, and computer issues for all employees, both new and current.  • Recorded all troubleshooting issues both internally and externally into the Desk ticketing system.  • Escalated client and employee issues to the appropriate levels in regards to the complexity of the issues.  • Received and returned client products that needed to be troubleshot or returned back to the client's location for business use again and kept them up-to-date on shipping details.  • Resolved various IT issues within the company such as adding new employees to the company domain and resolved issues with AD.  • Creating, adding and taking away AD groups for employees.  • Kept track of IT inventory on a regular basis. Network Support Engineer Netfusion Services LLC - Phoenix, AZ March 2015 to May 2015 • Completed a 3 month internship for Netfusion Services LLC at Phoenix IO Datacenter.  • Experience with the use of a ticketing system.  • Configured servers and switches to client specifications. Cargo Specialist United States Army September 2006 to November 2013 • Forklift and RTCH (Kalmar) operator  • Loading and unloading equipment with cargo-handling units both overseas and in-country. Education Bachelor's degree in Computer Science Strayer University - Orlando, FL October 2016 to June 2018 Associate's degree in Computer Science in core ITT Technical Institute - Phoenix, AZ March 2014 to March 2016 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, EXCHANGE, CITRIX, NETWORK TROUBLESHOOTING, MICROSOFT OFFICE Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-4 / Specialist