Badging Official Badging Official Arvada, CO Work Experience Badging Official Securitas/ CenturyLink - Broomfield, CO May 2019 to July 2019 Printing new hires photo and vendors temporary and employee permanent badges with the merger with CenturyLink and Level3. Help in deleting over 2000 personnel in 6 different databases that quit or reassigned. Valkyrie Resources February 2019 to March 2019 SNI contracted me as an IT Help desk for a company move. PC/LAN Analyst ll/Desktop Service Support Technician Adobe/Marketo November 2018 to November 2018 merger 11/2018-11/2018  Reconfigure 400 PCs/Macs with 14 other technicians for one week ending 11/17. Windows 10.    PC/LAN Analyst ll/Desktop Service Support Technician Election Security Judge Denver Election Division October 2018 to November 2018 4/2019-5/2019  I drove a van to collect votes from 3 SW Denver voting locations until November 9, 2018. Two locations are 24- hour boxes and 2 voting centers that I helped set up and broke down. After the collection, I help sort and then validated voter's questionable marks intent. Part time work at Foothills Behavioral Health Partners Beacon Health Options August 2017 to May 2018 Care of any IT needs in the office. mostly networking issues. Given an International sticker to provide customer service Passenger Access Service January 2017 to July 2017 1/2017-7/2017  Help roll wheelchair travellers and luggage in DIA airport terminals. Given an International sticker to provide customer service for international passengers. This is NOT my career; not IT. This is a job to get me by with full time employment. No benefits; flight, health, or dental. Looking for IT.. IT Contractor - Insight Global TEKsystems December 2011 to December 2016 IT Contractor - Insight Global, Lewan Technology, Barrister Global Services Network, TEKsystems  HP, DirecTV, Chipotle, Bridgestone Tires, Denver Public Schools, Private Users/Companies 12/2011-12/2016  • KG Clean - Cleaned Westview Recreation Center twice a week.  • LaborSMart - Moved cars for dealers auction, moved boxes into storage, moved furniture, etc  Network Administrator  • Travelled to schools installing/running Windows 7 over Windows XP, Active Directory, named PC, domain,  antivirus, etc Uploading new Operating System and software on Apples.  • At the new St Joseph hospital, advanced tracking and installation of the 1600 PCs and printers on the network.  • At the NREL in Golden, physically replaced motherboards, heat sinks, and battery in purchased computers.  Desktop Support  • Prepare PCs to migrate from the HQ Domain to the LA Domain; DirecTV  • Traveling US upgrading Chipotle Restaurant PCs to Windows 7 with either a new hard drive or new pc. POSS.  • Move PC users to new machines by moving personal documents, Outlook email, company programs for a commercial tire manufacturer; Bridgestone.  • At Whiting Oil & Gas, used McAfee to deduce valid or blocked emailed to copy in Excel spreadsheet.  • At IBM, IT Help Desk for the US Forest Service; POSS then another account Visa. Stocker, Facing, Front End Sunflower Farmers Market - Arvada, CO October 2008 to March 2010 • Helped stock new store at 77th & Wadsworth, particularly the Natural Living and Grocery areas.  • Replaced broken baby cart seat belts on over 60 carts. Daily bagged patrons' grocery with store's  literature and kept up with bag supply/cashiers' rags/carts. IT Contract - GSD Analyst ID Network Administration Spherion/IBM/Hess Oil&Gas - Boulder, CO April 2008 to September 2008 • Tier 1 and 2 network support to shorten computer downtime.  • Dealing with Active Directory, Maximo, passwords, software access/mapping. Network Administrator/ IT Coordinator PETROGULF CORP - Denver, CO May 2005 to March 2007 Only IT person supporting 70 IT users onsite and remote employees with 2 servers.  Network Administrator  • Ran Symantec daily back-ups/recovery, retrieved back-up files and gave support in Desktop, WAN / LAN, TCP/IP for 70 users.  • Maintained a Dell Mail Server vncViewer through Red Hat under Linux OS with Symantec Mail Security SMTP for 70 users and 6 groups, and a Dell Symantec Data Server.  • Upgraded back-up system (Symantec (Veritas) Backup Exec 10d for Windows Servers) on desktops, notebooks, and to save two servers, Windows 2003 Server, Linux Server; 241 GB. Small Business Server Suite.  • Managed all software installation and updates for 15 software packages for all servers and computers.  • Setup/maintained wireless with SMTP, TCP/IP.  • Managed all security for user accessibility, software components/passwords through Active Directory.  IT Coordinator  • Supported 70 PC users/3 Servers - Mapped in Excel, buy/discard PCs/notebooks, and installed/deleted users on network.  • Replaced CISCO hardware router connections.  • Set up new computers, printer, PDA (Blackberry) on the network.  • Setup Windows XP Operating System and MS Office.  • Setup remote office for well data using SCADA on DSL  • Migrated Outlook email from a Linux server to Exchange server in NT01. Engineering Assistant, Engineering & Exploration Technician, Computer Support, Developer/DBA HS RESOURCES/KERR-MCGEE ROCKY MOUNTAIN CORPORATION - Denver, CO October 1998 to June 2004 Denver, Colorado 10/1998-6/2004  Database Developer/Engineering Assistant  • Defined requirements, collected data, and developed software solutions.  • Converted Excels spreadsheet to MS Access database with SQL and Visual Basic. Developed and maintained to improve engineers' ability to answer various relevant queries from well attribute tables more readily.  • Built an Access GUI database for the Marketing Department for customers location and initial gas usage.  • Trained engineers and management how to use the exploration and marketing databases.  • Scanned and analyzed depth register well logs in preparation for engineers' review.  • With an economist lead, helped maintain an Aries database on newly drilled prospects and developed Excel spreadsheets to prepare reserves estimated cash flow.  • Trained summer-time support in Record Management.  • Expanded SQL, PI/Dwights, Aries, P2000, PowerTools, VB, VBA, AFE, ArcGIS, and PowerPoint skills.  • Attended risk analysis software training.  Computer Support 10/1998-7/2000  • Built Excel spreadsheets including formulas and charts which contain geologic and engineering data on newly discovered oil & gas wells to allow for successful exploration of additional reserves.  • Digitized reservoir boundaries using GeoGraphix. Computer Support/Transmission Technician PRIMERA/EXEMPLA HEALTHCARE - Denver, CO October 1996 to August 1998 • As a sole contributor, implemented and refined electronic transmittal system in the new Patient Business Services  • department.  • Managed and transmitted over 1,000 medical claims, daily.  • Provided application/desktop support using Novell, Netware, HECET, and GroupWise. Education Certificate Colorado School of Mines - Golden, CO October 2004 CCNA Tuliva Academy B.S. in Computer Science Metropolitan State University at Denver - Denver, CO A.S. Front Range Community College