Chief Security Architect Chief <span class="hl">Security</span> Architect Chief Security Architect Windsor, CT Cyber Security Architect, experienced in IT Security Architecture, Integration, Operations, Export, Governance, Compliance, Systems and Network Architecting and Administration, Data Management and Analysis, New and Emerging Technology, and Mobile Platforms Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Chief Security Architect Cognizant Technology Solutions - Windsor, CT October 2017 to Present • Consulting client during divestiture, migrating applications to new cloud platforms and infrastructure  • Analysis on security solutions’ viability, applicability, and value propositions  • Aligned security solutions and risk exposure corresponding to security best practices, regulatory requirements, and customer’s risk tolerance.  • Reviewed capabilities to integrate Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud solutions, such as AWS API Gateway, Security Groups, and integration with AWS IAM for access controls on applications  • Provided insight to customer on viable controls for zone traversal and integrating solutions like web application firewalls with TLS inspection capabilities  • Identified constraints with integrations of Azure and AWS and traditional pass-through authentication limitations within these environments  • Composed requirements to migrate from several security platforms to new security platforms using newer technology (e.g. Reverse Proxy and Agent authentication migrating to Federation)  • Created analysis of current customer maturity gaps in regards to NIST 800-53, as well as opportunities to address those gaps and establish a more secure environment  • Represented customer security requirements within Cognizant organization and translated these requirements into technical specifications  • Identified existing risks and vulnerabilities and remediations as well as the strategies to address those across infrastructure and application changes  • Worked with customer in defining security requirements for remediating over 500 applications to meet various regulatory requirements, security risks, and non-compliance findings  • Established change management, internal security review process to better review risks and understand pending changes and interdependent effects.  • Communicated specific security findings to application teams filtering scope to individual teams to address and remediate applications for those specific findings  • Analyzed data sets and aligned projects with contract requirements and defined statements of work to meet customer expectations  • Interpreted security risks, customer requirements, and contract requirements for executive management in order to better inform management in decision making process Cyber Security Engineer Lockheed Martin - Stratford, CT September 2015 to October 2017 Engage with projects and programs to define security standards and requirements to reduce risk, provide visibility, and secure data.  ? Analyze legacy technologies and non-standard solutions from the business and drive business to adopt standard technologies and standards in new endeavors and as technologies approach their  viability limits.  ? Stay abreast of new technologies, regulations, and adversaries that would potentially disrupt business  and find solutions to mitigate potential impacts.  ? Defined gaps and solutions to migrate Sikorsky acquisition into the corporate policy structure.  ? Identify requirements to securely integrate third-party solution providers and partners, as defined by business requirements  ? Subject Matter Expert for RMS ISO organization on various disciplines of Cyber Security.  ? Provided architectural direction for securing Sikorsky IT systems, including secure authentication, authorization, transmission, storage, and coding  ? Analyzed NIST 800-171 standard, in conjunction with DFARS 204.73 requirements, in order to identify potential gaps and solutions to protect controlled, unclassified, information  ? Provided historical and architectural knowledge of existing Sikorsky and UTC infrastructure, for assisting in the migration from legacy systems into Lockheed Martin Corporation enterprise solutions  ? Created enhanced policy reporting system, for easy dissemination of IT Policies  ? Created an enhanced exception system for allowing the self-disclosure of policy gaps, mitigations and gaining management approval to accept the risk mitigations  ? Implemented security database for consolidation of critical IT information from multiple sources to allow cross-reference, reporting, and exception alerts  ? Participated in Department of Defense supplier, inter-company security collaboration group Security Lead, IT Security, Compliance and Export UTC Aerospace Systems - Windsor Locks, CT August 2011 to August 2015 Managed the provisioning and access requests of Active Directory and LDAP identities for 48,000  UTAS employees and business partners  ? Architected security solutions to mitigate risks of non-compliant and insecure systems  ? Performed on-site audits of IT systems to confirm policy compliance and secure configurations  ? Interpreted contract language and other legal requirements into security solutions, identified gaps and mapped requirements, including NIST 800-53, to internal policies  ? Created and managed processes for requesting accounts, admin rights on both desktops and servers, and access to data on file servers (requiring data owner approval)  ? Managed, configured and deployed tool to provide restricted admin rights, including a process to allow a user to install very specific pieces of software with manager approval and a security audit  ? Created processes and procedures to extract users, servers and granted rights across multiple  authentication and access systems to correlate in a central security database  ? Supported internal security investigations  ? Participated in Department of Defense supplier, inter-company security collaboration group Supervisor, IT Security United Technologies Corporation - East Hartford, CT 2009 to 2011 Technology and Architecture  ? Established IT Security, Technology and Architecture lab for consulting on and testing of new  technologies at UTC; focusing on security risks, business benefits and integration into UTC  ? Investigated risk and tested mobile technologies for use at UTC, including iOS, Android, Symbian, BlackBerry & Windows Mobile 6.5, with conclusions establishing policy for use of these devices  ? Evaluated, piloted and released a production infrastructure of a FIPS certified encrypted containerized  email solution, securing UTC data on 2000+ mobile devices  ? Evaluated and chose new endpoint protection product to be deployed to over 100,000 computers at UTC; including analysis of the effects on the wide area network, computer performance, ongoing  management and reporting aspects of the product  ? Reviewed security and the ability to authenticate UNIX and OSX to existing Active Directory  infrastructure utilizing third party management tools Supervisor, IT Security Operation Center United Technologies Corporation - East Hartford, CT 2006 to 2009 Created Security Operations Center to monitor and report compliance and event anomalies on more  than 6,000 servers  ? Managed three contractors monitoring anomalies, debugging client issues and creating reports  ? Designed and deployed reporting system to enable business units to find and review servers, in order  to determine configuration issues that were not considered anomalies  ? Designed and deployed system to report patch status for 93,000 desktops and servers  ? Administered Corporate IT Sarbanes-Oxley testing and answered questions about compliance  activities, for the 7 financial IT departments and for the compliance office in general Senior Analyst, Applications Technology United Technologies Corporation - Farmington, CT 2002 to 2006 Managed 95,000-user Plumtree Portal environment with international footprint, enabling UTC to coordinate communications, collaborate across business units, countries and functions  ? Worked with offshore teams to create application requirements and then managed deliverables for several applications hosted through the portal environment  ? Designed several integration points between systems utilizing SOAP and generic XML Web Services  ? Leveraged software and hardware infrastructure including: Plumtree Portal, Apache, IIS, SiteMinder, LDAP, Active Directory, Oracle, Windows, Solaris, Linux, and Network architecture  ? Developed business case to outsource help desk and support activities to Egypt; secured corporate  support for the plan; led transition team; and directly saved more than $250,000 a year  ? Created and manage Sarbanes-Oxley compliant production software deployment procedure Supply Chain Management Systems Analyst United Technologies Corporation - Hartford, CT 1997 to 2002 Facilitated melding of requirements from UTC's five business units to form a shared data warehouse  leveraged to save millions of dollars a year in supply costs    ? Defined, cleaned and worked with outside suppliers to scrub data to best reflect the proper total  spend with a company and its subsidiaries.  ? Established and documented processes for offshore consultants to administer the application, within security policies remotely, saving over $100,000 annually  ? Collected, validated, processed, analyzed, and distributed a legacy Purchasing Database that  recorded $13 Billion in annual expenditures. The data encompassed suppliers, commodities, and costs, and was used to save over 10% of UTC's total spend Contractor Modem Media Inc - Westport, CT June 1997 to August 1997 Converting artistic concepts into web pages.  ? HTML Development work on, Delta Airlines, Compaq Computers, Citibank Education Bachelor's in Acoustical Engineering University of Hartford - West Hartford, CT 2000 Skills SECURITY (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (10+ years), LDAP (8 years), AUTHENTICATION (6 years), Cissp, Nist, Information Security, Siem, Cyber Security, It Security, Information Assurance, Cybersecurity, Network Security, Linux Certifications/Licenses CISSP Additional Information Competencies - Mobile Platforms: iOS, Android  - Networking: TCP/IP, OSI, LAN, WAN, WLAN, Routing, VPN, NAC, SDN, Firewalls, IPS  - Database Platforms: MS SQL, Oracle  - Application Infrastructures: Active Directory, LDAP, Apache, SiteMinder, IIS  - Programming Languages: SQL, VBScript, DOS & BASH Shell scripting, HTML  - Security Tools: Vulnerability scanning, eDiscovery, Forensics, SIEM, Identity Management  - Encryption Technologies: Public-Key Infrastructure, PGP, TLS, IPSec, Full-Disk  - Authentication Technologies: Multi-Factor Authentication, Federation, 802.1x, Privileged Access  Management, Single Sign-On, Virtual Directory Services