Risk & Information Security Consultant Risk &amp; Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Consultant Information Security, Risk & Compliance Norwalk, CA • Strategic and results-oriented leader in the information security and risk management field providing expert leadership assisting diverse organizations develop and define enterprise level governance of information security programs, risk management strategies and regulatory requirement assessments.  • Experience as an information security professional developing and applying IT security strategies, performing information security assessments, developing organizational policies and providing security advisory expertise to senior management, management and staff.  • Integrate core elements of security, cyber defense and effective risk management identifying key KPI's into an effective governance program to senior leadership establishing awareness to the organization's risk exposure and accountability.  • Extensive knowledge of regulatory requirements such as HIPAA, PCI, GLBA, GDPR and hands-on experience developing compliance/governance strategies in support of industry accepted information security frameworks: ISO27001, COBIT, OWASP, CIS and NIST.  • Implementation experience of enterprise information security program for corporate data and systems, and the data entrusted by partners and customers establishing country-based privacy compliance.  • Expertise in conducting Information Security & Business Process Audits, Network Security Planning and management for streamlining IT operations. Proficient in understanding business process, conducting Risk Assessment / Control Self-Assessment, preparing Risk Treatment Plan  • Extensive experience in Information Security Management and enhancing operational effectiveness of IT and Networking related functions using the layered security model. Experience in building reliable processes to manage information security technology environment relating to NIDS, HIDS, DLP, SIEM and NAC.  • Possess strong security cybersecurity architecture skills in a cloud working environment  • Authored security architecture design documentation and standard operating procedures  • Introduced use of security metrics to mitigate vulnerability by analyzing historical threats, addressing risks/gaps/violations and implementing improved protocols  • Elevate risk awareness and empower employees (first line of defense) thru comprehensive security and awareness training program keeping the people side of the security equation strong  • Good interpersonal and communication skills as well as demonstrated ability to manage multiple priorities in a fast-paced environment    TECHNICAL PURVIEW  ISO 27001 ISMS Implementation and Audit  IT Security Framework Design/Implementation  Information Security Risk Management  Information Security Metrics, Measurement & Reporting  Information Security Program & Policy Design  Cybersecurity threat management  Computer Digital Forensics  Application and Database Security design and implementation  Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Work Experience Risk & Information Security Consultant CISOSHARE November 2018 to June 2019 Collaborate with IT and business stakeholders for providing security engineering guidance to support the merger and migration activities.  ? Assist to define or configure preventive and detective technologies, protocols, and services.  ? Developing and presenting technology configuration recommendations, implementation plans, designing and suggest changes to security tools and safeguards.  ? Serve as a subject matter expert on security technology initiatives, projects, and procurement events.  ? Triage critical security program, policy and process enhancements to drive projects with acquisition teams across multiple geographies. Data Privacy Analyst Pacific Premier Bank March 2018 to November 2018 Program supervision of the company-wide Data Management Program.  ? Assess existing data controls for efficacy and compliance with policy requirements.  ? Quality Control and granular data testing.  ? Use of Cylance and Dell Secureworks for threat management.  ? Review of data management best practices.  ? Management of business continuity planning and execution.  ? Development, maintenance, and implementation of business continuity and disaster recovery program, governance, strategies and solutions including risk assessments, business impact analysis, strategy selection, documenting business continuity and disaster recovery plans and procedures, coordination of business continuity and disaster recovery testing and incident response.  ? Training of staff on data privacy, data security, business continuity functional exercises activities, and tabletop exercises activities.  Oracle, USA. Sr. IT Compliance Manager Security Tools March 2017 to January 2018 Support company-wide Information Security and IT Risk Management, Security Tools, Application and Database Security programs.  ? Implement quality and security processes to govern data life cycle within data classification context  ? Manage global program for ISO 27001, SSAE 16/ISAE 3402/SOC 1, SOC 2, and NIST 800 both internal and external interactions for Audit and reporting  ? Implement GDPR program with review of internal and external privacy engagements and contracts  ? Conduct audits for resiliency program in various regions to present and discuss program, identified trends, learnings and improvements IT Risk Specialist NCR Corporation April 2016 to August 2016 Support company-wide Information Security and IT Risk Management programs.  ? Support the administration of NCR's IT Risk management program including self-assessment programs.  ? Collaborate within Global Information Security, IT and NCR lines of business to assess risk and drive appropriate resulting actions  ? Assist and support the continual refinement and improvement of the NCR IT Risk Management program.  ? Refine and improve automation of IT risk management workflows, processes and procedures.  ? Create awareness (and feedback) of Risk Management process with all verticals through trainings/meetings especially for risk assessment methodologies  ? Conduct annual global information risk assessments for all verticals  ? Triage and conduct joint projects with Global Security, Internal Audit, Compliance, Business Continuity, Operational Risk on Information Risks  ? Assist solution architect with designing security implementation techniques and best practices based on organizational security standards  ? Assist in vendor risk management assessments  ? Support Information Risk Initiatives by Penetration Testing, External Audits, Internal Audits, Security Officers and GIS department Principal Consultant Cloud Edge International July 2014 to March 2016 Conduct Information Security Audits to identify health of security programs to define a path forward.  ? Provide consultancy services  Projects Conducted:  • Identity Management - Project planning, Data creation, Oracle Identity Manager and CA Identity Manager. Analysis of the existing technology infrastructure framework: server environments, data storage centers, networking platforms and account management strategies  • Privilege access management - Establishment of procedures for Privileged Account Management Functions and implementation using CA Privilege access manager  • Information Security Assessments - Security Architecture, Security tools vs policies and procedures, PCI-DSS  • ISO 27001 - Controls gap assessment  • Information Assurance - Effective implementation and monitoring of processes to formally manage data assets throughout the enterprise data life cycle - CIA, privacy and non-repudiation  • Security Metrics - implement a Security Metrics program based on business security strategy  • ORACLE encryption - establish DB encryption and access accounts Sr. Manager - Information Security & Business Continuity Bank of America Continuum India Ltd August 2006 to June 2014 Manage, communicate and report status on the open items in the Information Risk register. Interact with Business Units to mitigate the identified resolutions based on timelines. Engage the Operational Risk team to provide status reporting.  ? Governance and communication of Data Governance, Information Security and Business Continuity program health (metrics) for Global Delivery Center of Excellence locations (Costa Rica, India, Mexico and Philippines), RISK and compliance teams  ? Implement quality and security processes to govern data life cycle within data classification context  ? Use of end consolidated multiple security reports (Firewall, IPS, Exchange server, network, desktops, access control(s)* and data classification compliance into single view for CIO - CIO Dashboard  ? Supporting teams across delivery centers located at offshore and near shore locations with governance initiatives, requirements and implementations  ? Leading process reviews of DG, IS & BC framework with senior management and steering committee to identify and mitigate threats proactively  ? Conduct periodic awareness programs and road shows for users including on-boarding programs.  ? Communicate with all levels of Management to incorporate Information Security Awareness into all Bank operations and functions  ? Conduct engagement routines with application development and database internal groups to improve security practices of information  ? Use of security standards and controls from frameworks defined by COBIT (ISACA), ISO27001, ISO 27002, ISO 27005, ISC2, NIST and industry best practices. Controls identified were to determine the extent of vulnerabilities, remediate, inclusion in development standards and provide ongoing auditing to monitor remediation. Processes were put in place to cover the SDLC cycle, integrated testing, deployment, data identification, data classification and data life cycle  ? Attend routine calls with various regions to present and discuss program, identified trends, learnings and improvements  ? Lead audits to ensure robustness of Information Security, Business Continuity program and Information Assurance  ? Ensure user access creation, access and revoke policies for data ownership and assets for terminated employees. Review logged issues with managers based on walk trough's  ? Conduct periodic scans on servers and desktops for data privacy compliance  ? Support external audits conducted annually by Federal Reserve and OCC, including adhoc requirements  ? Policy creation and maintenance  ? Implement policies, procedures and standards as per Bank's Global Security and Compliance Framework. Include related data of incidents, audit and business changes, IT, baseline for security metrics, data governance and archival requirements  ? Annual review of Policies and procedures - Data Governance, Information Security, Business Continuity  ? Regulatory compliance to FFIEC, FEDRAMP, HIPAA, NIST 800, FISMA, PCI, EU Data Protection Directive, Safe harbor, and APEC  ? Manage a comprehensive Data Security Project, for overall implementation of security protocols throughout the Bank considering data privacy regulations, access authorization, data quality through the life cycle  ? Established a reporting process for data team managers and application development teams summarizing incidents related to Information Security and Data Governance. Identify improvements to work with application and technology team to implement Projects/Processes for data life cycle improvements  ? Incident response ensuring incident investigation, incident handling services, digital forensics and follow up to closure. Reporting learnings for review to policy and procedures and CIO dashboard.  ? Coordinate with inter-dependent support functions in developing a comprehensive emergency response plans and procedures  ? Support global team with compliance to forensics processes  ? Investigate regional EOI related logs: NIDS, HIDS, DLP, SIEM and NAC  ? Spearheaded implementation of LDRPS in India, Philippines, Costa Rica and Mexico  ? Monitor Archer for testing gaps for resolution  ? Closing gaps that are present between the current organization strategy and the ability of the IT security dimensions to support it, including vendor management and security controls in contracts  ? Establish internal and external reporting and communication channels that support information security  ? Necessary upgrades and replacements that must be made to the IT security architecture based on supplier viability, age and performance of hardware and software, capacity issues, known or anticipated regulatory requirements, and other issues not driven explicitly by the organization's functional management. Configuration management  Information Security and Business Continuity Projects:  • LDRPS - Transition from paper plans to automated tool  • HARMONIZATION between CFCI and BOA - Conversion of Information Security and Business Continuity program to Bank of America standards  • Completed a 22-month assignment on implementation of security for a major change to banking software platforms and networks. Phases included change of firewalls, routers, network integration to ring topology with new circuits, IP range, DNS changes, DMZ's, IPS/IDS software, network monitoring tools  • Conducted feasibility study for Seclore's products Seclore FileSecure  • Member of five person team that won an award for developing an Information Security Productivity toolset that was rolled out worldwide (India, Costa Rica, Philippines, Mexico) to reduce contractor onboarding cycle time, reduce defects, drive vendor loyalty Head - Group IT and Business Solutions Group IT and Business Solutions - Mumbai, Maharashtra October 2005 to July 2006 Develop and manage Infrastructure and Development teams to operate business centers with 700 seat production capacity (Mumbai, Goa and Mexico)  ? Local and remote 24/7 support for Sales and Production centers  ? Inhouse development team for Airline Ticket auditing applications  ? Data Warehouse and Business Analytics for fraud detection  ? Responsible for new technology initiatives to improve ROI and seat cost optimization  ? Implement a robust Information Security program based ISO27001 frame work  ? Redefining product architecture based on new requirement and tools available Software Manager Orient Information Technology Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2004 to September 2005 Manage Web Application development for internal and external client projects  ? Ensure infrastructure design, planning, availability is governed with external vendor at hosted data center  ? Spearheading Information security project implementation and consulting domain. Ensured implementation of proper software tools for code safety and security with Microsoft tools General Manager IBS Publishing - AE November 2003 to February 2004 Manage infrastructure team to enhance operational support for infrastructure  ? Banking BI systems consulting Project Manager/Technical Manager MAERSK - Hudd Distribution Services Inc November 2001 to March 2003 Providing database administration support and projects for Informix, Oracle and SQL Server  ? Optimizing reporting  ? Maintaining data integrity in the database, over automated EDI data feeds Informix DBA/Technical Consultant Infogain Corporation - Los Gatos, CA July 1999 to June 2000 Designing and implementing Web based solution architecture with infrastructure design of 24/7 systems availability  ? System Audits and consulting for web based solution optimization and redundancy  ? Manage project and team resources for project coordination and implementation  ? Effective technical account management and support for DBA (Informix, Oracle) and Veritas services DBA Encodex Technologies, Inc - Portland, OR November 1998 to June 1999 DBA client based consulting services for Informix & Specific performance identification and solution  ? Client site support for DBA services for operational systems  ? Team member in application and database migration project to multi node IBM SP2 server achieved through no downtime to business transactions  ? Provided infrastructure design, application support, client connectivity, data modeling, physical and logical design, design implementation, backup and recovery, performance and tuning, etc Manager - IT Godrej-GE Appliances Limited October 1995 to October 1998 Application design and support for Manufacturing and R&D departments  ? Responsible for study of Manufacturing, Service & Financial modules of BPCS for ERP implementation (BPCS), for month & year end reporting of financial data of the Service branches all across India. Feasibility of available ERP solution and business process reengineering were key areas of focus for progress.  ? Individually responsible for all Informix database design and developer Informix support & project activity planning at modular level and synchronizing with organizational and department timelines