Help Desk Lead Help Desk Lead Help Desk Lead - Yoh Services, USMC Beaufort, SC Work Experience Help Desk Lead Yoh Services, USMC - Parris Island, SC March 2016 to Present Provide Customer support to over 1500 local users.  Lead a team of help desk professionals, earning a reputation for productivity, complex problem resolution and professionalism. Proactive self-starter known to initiate process and system improvements to increase system stability and staff productivity.  Lead a desktop support team of 3 technicians, assigning and prioritizing tickets. Send technicians out to work tickets, resolve issues, and support the customer.  Processed customer requests for hardware/software moves, add, and changes.  Create new user accounts, request account moves for users transferring in from previous commands, move transferring accounts to appropriate container in Active Directory. Project Manager Leidos - Beaufort, SC May 2016 to June 2017 Ran the AHLTA CHCS programs, for over 600 employees. Cyber Security Specialist MILVETS, USMC - Parris Island, SC May 2015 to January 2016 Using knowledge of information systems security, principles and concepts, maintain a security program designed to anticipate, assess, and minimize system vulnerabilities and threats.  Utilizing XCATA maintain a Certifications and Accreditation program to ensure the security of all networks located with on MCRD Parris Island.  Establish and maintain a System Authorization Access Request (SAAR) form program to ensure all customers have approved access to Marine Corps networks. Verify all Cyber Security training is completed and recorded.  Using BIGFIX application, push security patches and updates to all MCRD Parris Island computers.  Using ACAS application, scan all computers for security vulnerabilities and OPDIR compliance. Help Desk Representative CareCore National - Bluffton, SC June 2014 to June 2014 May 2105  Provide customer service to over 3200 local and remote users.  Develop walkthroughs and policies for all new account configurations, hardware configurations, and issuing of equipment to new hire personnel.  Prepare hardware for end users, to include, configuring thin clients, imaging computers, and programming Cisco VOIP phones  Setup end user computer peripherals and create new user accounts in multiple systems.  Work incoming help desk calls covering a myriad of technical incidents including resetting passwords, verifying connectivity, as well as application issues, identify and recommend solutions to enhance performance of systems.  Determine performance and effectiveness of upgraded systems to verify new technologies processes and procedures. IT Specialist/Assistant Contract Technical Representative Yoh Services, USMC - Beaufort, SC September 2011 to March 2014 Interacted with peers to resolve hardware and software problems. Provided technical assistance to personnel involved in system design, programming, hardware selection and adapting commercially available software to meet the needs of the customer.  Worked with Propitiatory government systems. Actively worked in new computer applications, quickly learned new procedures and programs on a regular basis.  Assisted the Incident Manager with managing Help Desk activities. Researched, evaluated, and provided feedback on problematic trends and patterns in customer trouble tickets.  Responsible for performing a combination of duties, to include Help Desk phone support, desk-top technical support, and bench-top computer diagnosis and repair in accordance with established policies and standard operating procedures.  Diagnosed and resolved problems in response to customer reported incidents via REMEDY trouble ticketing system; escalated problems to the S-6 Incident Manager as needed. Processed customer requests for hardware/software moves, add, and changes.  Approved and tracked MACs from submission to completion. Ensured customers were notified of status of all MAC requests. Contract Technical Representative Jacobs & Dept. of Defense, USMC - Beaufort, SC September 2009 to September 2011 Provided help desk customer support to MCAS Beaufort personnel by processing all Station Add, Move, Change Requests in the proprietary HP NMCI Enterprise Tool  Completed three base wide computer asset replacements, transitioning over 1450 computers. Maintained accurate computer asset location information and updated database in HP NMCI Enterprise Tool. Coordinated with EDS and customer to provide schedule for deployments.  Ensured all Government Off the Shelf Applications (GOTS) and Commercial Off the Shelf (COTS) were verified in Integrated Solutions Framework (ISF Tools). Jr System Analyst/ Assistant Contract Technical Representative EDO Corporation/ITT Corporation - Garden City, NY September 2007 to September 2009 Provided help desk support for over 100 district headquarters personnel by diagnosing and resolving problems in response to customer requests.  Collected data manually and via BELARC auditing software to include computer make, model, serial number, service tags, company asset ID number, software / programs installed on computers, software CD keys & licensing information.  Imaged, configured and troubleshot over 100 new computers for technical computer replacement for the District headquarters. Maintained computer systems and performed memory upgrades. Managed system resources, monitored performance, availability and capacity.  Analyzed monthly reports for receipt of services and verified requirements were with limits prior to CTR submitting orders to EMarketplace from NET. Sales Representative/Database Administrator Unique Distributors, Long Island, NY - LaVergne, TN, US June 2003 to September 2007 Responsible for the timely and accurate entry of sales & marketing data into companywide, web based data repository.  Entered over 3000 products in to the database, this data included product description, details, cost per unit, cost with markup and all manufactures data. Created a multitude of queries to facilitate the generation of hundreds of sales related reports.  Converted all paper process to an online document management system, trained all sales employees on using new system.  Tracked and maintained all vendors and clients, updating all personal contact information, ensuring that all forms are correctly filled out based on vendor or client type and level of agreement. Content Manager/Administrative Assistant to CEO Online Benefits - New York, NY September 1999 to December 2002 Managed web based human resource related content & information, including forms, health benefits packages, plan descriptions and brochures for posting on the Internet.  Ensured web content conformed to established company policy and verified information for 100% accuracy. Responsible for maintaining a database of over 300 Health Care Providers, 2000 health care forms, and over 100 live websites.  Developed and implemented a robust forms database, using Adobe Acrobat to create and Microsoft Access to record all data. Edited and modified interactive forms for on-line use.  Performed companywide hardware & software computer inventories & auditing. Entered collected data into Microsoft Access & SQL databases. Education AJ Dimond High School - Anchorage, AK 1987 Skills Service Desk, Active Directory, Help Desk, Tech Support, Desktop Support, Helpdesk Support, Comptia, VPN, MSP Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: DC1(SW)