Buyer Contract Analyst Buyer Contract <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Contract Analyst/Buyer Baltimore, MD Highly skilled, motivated, and detail oriented Procurement Specialist and Contract Analyst ensuring excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Buyer Contract Analyst City of Baltimore Robert Half July 2018 to Present (City of Baltimore) Department of Finance  • Procurement specialist managing the procurement planning process to determine agency needs, conduct pre-bid meetings, evaluation meetings and presentations, negotiations, bid openings and debriefings.  • Prepare solicitations statement of work and detail specifications of the scope of work for IFB, RFQ, RFP, RFI, review and analyze drafts and drawings for continuity of the scope of procurement, conduct market research and cost analysis to develop financial models, manage the budget by financial forecasting assessing needs and profitability, identify and initiate application of living wage and local hiring and MBE/WBE for compliance and contract participation, contract evaluation, contract award recommendations, maintain and release purchase orders and vendor management through contract life cycle.  •Analyze, draft, negotiate terms and conditions of various agreements, Assignments and Legal Letters identifying the rights, responsibilities and obligations while maintaining ethics and compliance and protecting confidential proprietary information.  • Buyer and procurement contract analyst utilizing procure to pay ERP/Oracle/CitiBuy for bids, purchase orders, change orders, track invoices and releases, evaluations, negotiating and award.  • Ensure compliance with procurement laws, regulations, and verifying justification and authorizations forms.  •Draft and send correspondence to officials, contractors, and vendors.  • Prepare technical evaluation, and conduct contract administration, vendor and evaluation committee meetings, cost analysis and proposal reviews, offer, and debriefing documentation, prepare contract documentation and Board Letters for the City's Board of Estimates.  •Contract Administrations management executing contract and managing contract from initial requisition to contract closeout.  •Financial and Accounts Management and assigned applications of accounting of funds approved by Buyer, City Purchasing Agent, and the City's Board of Estimates. Government Contractor Robert Half Management Resources April 2017 to July 2018 •Project Manager and Contract Administration managing various business and procurements accounts.  •Performed operational compliance meetings and reports.  •Analyze contracts providing guidance and contract interpretation.  •Draft and send correspondence to officials and vendors.  •Analyze, draft and negotiate terms and conditions of contracts identifying responsibilities and obligations and the protection of propriety information.  •Ensure compliance of local and federal laws and regulations.  •Financial, Accounts, and Portfolio management and compliance.  •Technical writing assessing the needs of product and developing the objectives and narratives. Contract Administrator Project Manager FEMA Robert Half October 2016 to April 2017 • Assistant project manager responsible for employee management, scheduling, training, and briefing while managing operational compliance and monitoring call quality assurance, regulatory meetings and operational compliance.  • Contract Administration liaison between contractors, subcontractors, and client/agency, developed executive summaries, situational reports monitoring quality of terms and conditions, investigated, analyzed, mediated, and resolved complex discrepancies for the integrity of the contract.  •Project management of Chicago breadth closeout and debriefing. Procurement Analyst Logistician Aberdeen Proving Ground Threat Defense, LLC March 2016 to October 2016 • Procurement and data analyst responsible for the management of life cycle and progress of contract, utilized electronic ticketing system ETS, systems applications products SAP, bar scan, material requirement planning MRP, assisted with accounts reconciliation and procurement to include purchase requests.  • Implemented knowledge of defense GSA federal acquisition regulations FAR, and government purchase cards P-card to include supply schedules, award schedule, plan procurement, conduct procurement, administer procurement, close procurement.  •Contract management of schedule of deliverables, process and inventory, and contract closeout. IT Analyst Alorica Staffing Agency March 2015 to March 2016 Verizon)  • Experienced IT technical support and troubleshooting customer logistics management, multi-tier/multi-level Technical Support utilized CRM and electronic records management and data management programs performed PII Verification of customer account information to assess and identify needs and solutions, technical support, consultative communication.  • Analyzed operations of one or more organizational segments to meet program requirements and objectives while practicing procedures, regulations, policies and processes. Government Health Care Enrollment Specialist Symphony Placements April 2013 to April 2014 • Engaged in government health care enrollment and case management that used multi-tier/multi-level (T2), HIX system to administered account verification, data entry, invoicing, PPI/SPI/PII verification, health information exchange (HIE) electronic records management and updated records for legal guidelines and quality assurance.  • Demonstrated accurate interviewing, follow up interviews and reports management while performing outreach functions and social resource qualifications and special projects, documented interviews, and evaluated the relevance of information collected to the problem described by the client, develop initial tentative conclusions as to appropriate referral sources or recommended treatment to the staff, conduct regulatory staff meetings. Dental Contract Administrator Buyer Cosmetic Dentistry Staffing April 2008 to April 2013 • Experienced procurement and data analyst, administered, planned, managed, tracked and provided accounting support for inventory and supplies and records management, preparing and submitting daily office reports of staff and contractors time charges, maintains personnel time records, and procure and orders office supplies and forms.  • Worked at a fast paced, high monthly production and deadline quotas dental office as administration performing account verification, data entry, billing, invoicing and insurance verification utilizing electronic records management. Dental Procurement Administrator Northside Dental January 2007 to April 2008 • Performed administration, account verification, data entry, billing and invoicing utilizing electronic records management, experience writing and issuing advisories and addendums to employees, contractors, timekeepers, or supervisors about changes, procedures or common problems.  • Procurement, contract and vendor management, and cost analysis. Government Security Supervisor Transportation Security Administration Homeland Security April 2005 to August 2006 • Supervised 20-30 Employees on daily rotation responsible for comprehensive personnel management, training and development, responsible for employee scheduling coordination and distribution, prepared daily end of duty reports while managed organizational training and project management.  • Experience in synthesizing sensitive data and enters pertinent portions into appropriate management information system and the suggestion security program log, maintaining situational information in support of operations at the Federal, State, or local level. Government Dental Supply Technician US Air Force May 2002 to April 2005 • Assisted procurement management, utilizing federal acquisition regulations; maintained records, inventory and data management planned, managed and tracked supplies inventory in logistics management system, responsible for supply inventory, information management and administrative duties which included data entry and account management.  • Experience establishing and maintaining office files and performing general office functions to include scheduling and preparing and submitting office reports. Education Associate's Degree in Business Administration and Law Chattahoochee Technical College Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration and Interdisciplinary Studies University of Baltimore Skills Information Technology, Procurement, Supply Chain, Forecasting, Excel, ERP and SAP Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E3 Certifications/Licenses Dental Radiology Additional Information Certified Dental Assistant