Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cybersecurity Professional Detroit, MI Interested in cybersecurity, threat hunting, pen testing and cyber investigations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst City of Detroit Public Safety - Detroit, MI February 2017 to Present • Lead Cyber Security Team Meetings  • Lead for IRS Federal Tax Audit  • Started Vulnerability Management Program  • Conduct internal vulnerability assessments  • Create Remediations Plans based on Vulnerability Assessments  • Work with DHS to perform annual penetration test  • Monitor 3rd Party SOC for intrusion attempts  • Conduct investigations and create reports on inappropriate use of City computers and/or networks  • Provide expert advice in matters of Information Security  • Identify vulnerabilities in the City of Detroit network Founder/Owner Hoop Coach LLC - Detroit, MI January 2007 to Present Built online community of over 18K registered members  ? Started daily newsletter with 26,000 subscribers  ? Created online basketball plays software  ? Started online job board for basketball coaches Cyber Security Metrics Analyst General Motors - Detroit, MI October 2016 to February 2017 Work with cross-functional teams to develop/maintain specific, measurable, actionable, realistic, and timely metrics  Extract, load, and transform data into metrics that show gaps and can be used to drive remediation efforts  Collaborate with security subject matter experts to understand the data and define criteria needed for effective metric dashboards.  Manage a catalog of security data, business intelligence, and dashboards that can be tailored for audiences such as, but not limited to (e.g. technical, business, executive, and operations)  Automate data extraction, manipulation, and visualizations that meet the frequency needed to support ad-hoc request  Participate in POCs to create new ways to ELT data to meet customer’s needs.  Develop a deep understanding of data trends, identify outliers, exceptions, and data inconsistencies Assistant Director of IT - Cybersecurity Detroit Zoological Society - Royal Oak, MI December 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities  Responsible for cybersecurtiy and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of Detroit Zoological Society information assets. Director of Technology and Web Design Teacher Divine Child High School - Dearborn, MI June 2004 to December 2015 Network Administrator for over 1500 users  ? Manage core Windows and Linux servers in a virtual environment  ? Managed cabling projects throughout our campus  ? Managed Aerohive Wireless Network Installation  ? Responsible for network maintenance, firewall, network appliances and backup  solutions.  ? Maintain school information database  ? Desktop support for 250+ devices  ? Manage technology budget including new equipment purchases  ? Teach Web Design class encompassing HTML, HTML5 and CSS Co-Founder Detroit River Sports - Detroit, MI September 2012 to May 2015 Secured funding to purchase fleet  ? Filed necessary paperwork to operate as a business in Detroit  ? Operated a cash flow positive rental and tour business  ? Built website and social media presence  ? Moved ticketing system online Application System Analyst, Associate Dept of Defense and Detroit-Mercy - Detroit, MI May 2009 to August 2009 Assisted in research and fact-finding pertaining to Software Assurance Common  Body of Knowledge Database  ? Assisted in detailed analysis and preparation of findings from which real-world  applications can be developed  ? Analyzed and revised existing knowledge elements and documentation as necessary EDI Certification Team/Label Team Lead Delphi Corporation - Troy, MI May 2002 to June 2004 Label Certification Team Lead/Desk  ? Responsible for certifying suppliers to meet EDIFACT Standards  ? Responsible for certifying suppliers to meet Delphi AIAG Label Standards  ? Used SAP to actively monitor suppliers inbound/outbound data  ? Created requirements PowerPoint presentation  ? Presented to suppliers at Supplier Conference in New York  ? Conducted interviews to create Label Team  ? Created Divisional Reports for Upper Management Education Bachelor's in Information Systems Wayne State University - Detroit, MI 1998 to 2003 MS in Information Assurance University of Detroit Mercy - Detroit, MI Skills Vulnerability assessment, penetration testing, network forensics, investigation (5 years), Information Security, Cyber Security, Nist, Cybersecurity, Information Assurance, It Security, Comptia Awards Richard H.L. Marshall Award 2010-04 Graduate student most likely to contribute to National Security Certifications/Licenses Security+ August 2015 to August 2018 Certified Vulnerability Assessor Present Certified Penetration Testing Engineer January 2016 to January 2019 C)ISSO Certified Information Systems Security Officer Certified Digital Forensics Examiner November 2016 to November 2019 The Certified Digital Forensics Examiner vendor neutral certificationis designed to train Cyber Crime and Fraud Investigators Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) May 2016 to May 2019 Computer Hacking Forensic Investigator September 2017 to September 2020 Forensics | Incident Response | Case Building GIAC Continuous Monitoring Certification (GMON November 2017 to November 2020 GIAC Network Forensic Analyst November 2018 to November 2021 The GNFA certification is for professionals who want to demonstrate that they qualified to perform examinations employing network forensic artifact analysis. Candidates are required to demonstrate an understanding of the fundamentals of network forensics, normal and abnormal conditions for common network protocols, the process and tools used to examine device and system logs, wireless communication and encrypted protocols Additional Information Not looking for temporary contacts or to relocate.