Senior Industry Marketing Manager, NA Senior Industry Marketing Manager, NA Senior Industry Marketing Manager, NA - Aras Corporation Detroit, MI Energetic and innovative marketing manager with experience in project management and development. Creative problem-solver with sharp instincts and expertise in team collaboration, strategic pricing initiatives, and writing savvy marketing plans. Work Experience Senior Industry Marketing Manager, NA Aras Corporation - Detroit, MI May 2017 to Present Oversee campaign strategy, planning and development of coherent campaign execution plans for recognized target industries including automotive, industrial products, aerospace, electronics and medical. Direct strategic campaigns that encompass a marketing mix of tactics to integrate lead generation, response planning, digital and social plans, paid media, digital and industry events. Identify and anticipate technology and industry trends.  • Led multi-touch marketing programs delivered across digital inbound and outbound channels using data-driven insights for optimization to drive engagement resulting in $4M in sales for 2018.  • Collaborated with Executive Marketing team to establish marketing process frameworks, Automotive Industry POV, Account Based Marketing strategy and metrics, as well as solution development to meet AUTOSAR, NHTSA and J3016 autonomous standards.  • Coached marketing team on engagement funnel, buyer journey, persona development, and content creation in order to build effective campaigns to drive marketing engagement. NA Industry Marketing Manager IBM, South East, MI August 2016 to May 2017 Presided over campaign strategy, planning and development of cohesive campaign launch plans including Account Based Marketing for Connected Vehicles, Internet of Things (IoT) for Automotive/Electronics/Connected Products and Services and Connected Manufacturing. Created local plans that joined making recommendations to merge lead and response planning, digital/social plans, paid media tactics and events.  • Presided over $1M annual budget to an expected ROI and achieve and exceed program objectives.  • Delivered 20% of revenue and marketing influence and create targets.  • Supervised a team of 5 marketing professionals to attain expected ROI on campaigns.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE, CONTINUED Global Marketing Manager IBM, South East, MI January 2016 to August 2016 South East, MI  Collaborated with IBM partners using Go-to-Market strategies to develop and drive business to IBM IoT Solutions and the IoT platform. Worked with Enterprise Companies (OEM's, Tier One's) to create joint marketing activities including events, campaigns, and content creation. Joined forces with the extended team to originate an outreach plant to universities and colleges in North America to increase our IoT solutions to their Computer Science and Engineering programs.  • Shepherded IBM team throughout their work with the University of Michigan Solar Car team in the development of the technology used in their solar car which placed 4th in the American Solar Car Challenge 2016.  • Pioneered and drove strategy to bring IoT to life at IBM Insight Conference. This included creating content and messaging along with IoT demonstrations to tell a story while providing an experience for customers. Global Marketing Manager IBM, South East, MI - Detroit, MI July 2014 to January 2016 Accountable for analysis, strategy, and execution of the Go-to-Market approach for the IoT, continuous engineering and analytics solutions in industry markets. Wrote content supporting automotive marketing focusing on IoT for Automotive, IoT for Electronics, and Connected Vehicles which included topics on cybersecurity in automotive and SAE J3016 standards. Authored marketing campaigns including content, events (digital and face to face), social media, thought leadership, collateral, writing, asset management, and web strategy. Denoted market entry points for the automotive industry solutions establishing the advancement of marketing campaigns and key industry messages.  • Partnered with the Global Events team to create messaging for speaking events within the company's IoT Zone at IBM Interconnect conference with 20,000+ attendees.  • Initiated influencer marketing strategy to promote company subject matter experts, resulting in a 20% increase in speaking events and blogging for two executives and one SME. North American Marketing Program Manager IBM, South East, MI - Southfield, MI October 2012 to July 2014 Controlled demand generation campaign marketing development and comprehensive plan execution for the IBM Rational brand, supporting embedded systems within aerospace and defense, automotive, energy, utilities, and electronics industries.  • Championed over 20 regional events to develop and drive customer deals, resulting in closing $5M in new business for the sales team.  • Promoted Continuous Engineering activities at IBM Innovate 2014, driving attendance to sessions, keynotes, and surround activities resulting in an impressive increase in client attendance. Information Security IT Compliance Auditor IBM, South East, MI - Detroit, MI July 2011 to October 2012 Conducted audits and compliance activities for infrastructure and applications guaranteeing essential controls were secured and accurate processing, change management, disaster recovery, physical and logical securing, ACL's and both server and network device configurations.  • Built and oversaw annual audit plan for IT functions including infrastructure and application audits.  • Developed audit scope, project plans, communications, and final reports, to achieve company audit aims, resulting in action by the auditee to introduce improved controls. Information Security Analyst EDS March 2000 to January 2007 Developed and executed communication plans across global division for information security policy and practices, assisting with security audits of applications and systems, business continuity planning and disaster recovery planning, performed security investigations, vulnerability research, and management of remediation activities.  • Reduced audit comments by 80% across global division  • Created headquarters communications plan for business continuity plan and conducted quarterly testing  • Implemented communications to end users to educate on Information Security Policies & Practices  • Collaborated with Executive team on development of annual certification on security policies & practices for employees and contractors  • Developed and executed test plans for UNIX based systems used in automotive manufacturing plants for Y2K compatibility Education B.A. in Audiology & Speech Pathology Michigan State University - East Lansing, MI Skills Marketing, Content development, Marketing communications, Thought leadership, Search engine optimization, Social media marketing, Optimization, Search engine, Crm, Html, Java, Ads, Microsoft office Links https://linkedin.com/in/kimnuttle Certifications/Licenses UNIX System Administration & C Programming February 1998 to Present 6 month course taken at Marygrove College in Southfield, Michigan. The course covered UNIX System Administration on multiple UNIX systems as well as programming in C. Online Marketing and E-Commerce, Walsh College January 2000 to Present This certification was taken as graduate level coursework. Coursework covered marketing concepts and applying concepts to Internet Marketing, as well as E-Commerce concepts in a B2C environment. Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    • Account Based Marketing (ABM)  • Social Media Marketing  • Thought Leadership  • Content Development  • Search Engine Optimization  • Marketing Communications  • Channel & Demand creation framewoks    TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Software: Adobe Creative Suite, Microsoft Office Suite, CRM Tools, Demandbase (ABM), Google Ads & Analytics, Hubspot, Hootsuite, Net Results, ShareSpring, Email Marketing software (various), Unica  • Programming Languages: HTML, C, Java