Mid-Level Business/Requirements Analyst/ Software Test Engineer Mid-Level Business/Requirements <span class="hl">Analyst</span>/ Software Test Engineer Mid-Level Business/Requirements Analyst/ Software Test Engineer - Defense Security Service Stafford, VA • Experienced Agile based Business Requirements Analyst/ Quality Assurance Software tester in different domains.  • Experience working in an Agile Scrum environment with extensive experience in gathering requirements, designs solutions, preparing test plans, test reports, test cases and executing them to meet application specifications.  • Skilled in HP Testing Suite (Quick Test Professional, Quality Center).  • Expertise in creating documentation of business requirements for application upgrades and implementation.  • Experience in creating application workflow processes through build and deployment.  • Expertise in testing of client/servers (web-based applications)  • Results-oriented individual with strong knowledge in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Skilled in bug reporting and tracking using JIRA and HP Quality Center/ALM.  • Involved in GUI, Regression and Data Driven Testing. Expertise in Positive, Negative, Configuration and Functional Testing. Actively involved in Usability. Work Experience Mid-Level Business/Requirements Analyst/ Software Test Engineer Defense Security Service - Quantico, VA April 2016 to Present Quantico, VA April 2016 - Present  Mid-Level Business/Requirements Analyst/ Software Test Engineer  • Collaborate with the development team, remote Program Managers, Product Owners (POS) to facilitate meetings and requirements gathering sessions.  • Translate high level business requirements into user stories, acceptance and done criteria using Agile methodology.  • Conduct system demos to a large audience and business stakeholders  • Develop Test Plans, UAT and Test Cases for test events.  • Ensure project-related deliverables adhere to policies and meet requirements.  • Demonstrate system features to end users and business stakeholders to track user stories, defects and traceability to produce meaningful reports  • Work closely with Developers, Business Partners to ensure requirements and design are completely understood  • Execute defects tracking via JIRA.  • Conduct Post-Test Acceptance Review (PTAR) meeting and write UAT test reports.  • Escalate risks and issues related to testing. Transportation Security Administrator TSA - Annapolis Junction, MD January 2014 to February 2016 Business Requirements Analyst/ QA Software Test Engineer  • Translate high level business requirements into user stories, acceptance and done criteria using Agile methodology.  • Elicit specific business requirements from end users.  • Assist product owner and manage product backlog  • Work closely with developers to ensure requirements/ user stories are understand  • Participate in Scrum planning and review meetings and manage product backlog and product roadmap.  • Create user stories and acceptance criteria to express requirements.  • Document epic/stories/features and acceptance criteria in JIRA in a fast-paced agile environment.  • Identified, reported and recorded defects.  • Evaluate the client's business issues and data challenges and provide recommendations for improvement  • Work with developers and test leads in an acceptance test-driven development environment  • Tested the applications and ensured they were developed to meet the business requirements.  • Clearly communicate design solutions, requirements, status updates and outcomes to all stakeholders.  • Documented Problem Reports (PR's) for all bugs detected during UAT Testing and tracked the bug fixing process with, Bugzilla to completion.  • Used Quality Center for logging defects. Junior QA Tester/ Jr D.A.M. Solutions, Inc - Herndon, VA December 2012 to November 2013 BA  • Served as a member of the User Acceptance Team. Executed test scripts on various tests applications, including Unit Testing, Regression Testing, System Testing and UAT Testing.  • Responsible for organizing and documenting the test process. Developed test conditions and test scripts.  • Involved in UAT Testing, Interface Testing and Integration Testing.  • Tested the application and ensured sure it was developed as per the client's business requirements.  • Tested user interface inconsistency and application functionality.  • Analyzed and reviewed Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM). Mapped test cases and scripts to documented requirements. Managed all Problem Reports (PR's) for all bugs detected during the UAT Testing.  • Tracked bug fixing process upon (PTAR) Post Test Acceptance Review.  • Verified all issues via JIRA Bugzilla, or HP ALM to completion.  • Used Quality Center for logging defects.  • Tested Application Structures and Functionalities.  • Served as Quality Assurance Analyst in several concurrent projects. HR Benefits Associate/ IT Recruiter USAID - Washington, DC February 2009 to September 2012 • Conducted a variety of tasks associated with federal job posting, recruitment, screening and selection of new employees. Monitored and coached call center professionals with job posting on Monster.com and USA jobs.gov.  • Provided directions, including managing monster posting for single and multiple job listing.  • Gave instruction and direction on account creation, user name and password resets.  • Facilitated via telephone how to fill out the specific job information as it related to the position federal positions.  • Participated in facilitating via telephone and e-mail tutorials for federal HR staff on monster employer site products and services and navigation for job postings. Casualty & Mortuary Case Manager, HR Benefits Specialist U.S. Army Casualty & Mortuary Affairs Operation Center - Alexandria, VA November 2006 to December 2008 Alexandria, VA November 2006 - December 2008  Casualty & Mortuary Case Manager, HR Benefits Specialist  • Responsible for analyzing and reporting notifications, verification of benefits and entitlements, family travel planning and rendering of honors.  • Counseled officers and enlisted personnel regarding various personnel actions and conducted briefings to military officials and survivors on status and outcome of cases.  • Served as the main point of contact for the casualty and mortuary department.  • Ensured that all facets of casualty assistance and mortuary benefits were applied and implemented in accordance with regulatory and DoD guidelines. Education Indus IT Training School - Herndon, VA 2012 to 2013 Bachelor of Science in HR Management in HR Management/International Business Rowan University - Glassboro, NJ 2009 Skills Jira (4 years), Unit testing (7 years), Asp, Sharepoint (5 years), Remedy (4 years), Virtualization, Optimization, Vmware, Clearcase (6 years), Clearquest (8 years), .net (3 years), Mapping (3 years), Technical specification (6 years), Rtm (6 years), Test cases (6 years), Validation testing (6 years), Cases (6 years), Regression testing (6 years), System validation (6 years), QA (6 years), Java, Quality Assurance (6 years), Selenium, Selenium Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ February 2018 Certified Scrum Master June 2019