Risk Analyst Risk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Professional/ Security & Compliance Clayton, CA Experience with global standards of NIST 800, ISO 27000, PCI-DSS/PCI-PIN, SOX  compliance. Development of cybersecurity incident response processes and compliance  and security programs. System and process auditing. Windows desktop and server  administration. Windows and application troubleshooting. Sharepoint administration. Basic  scripting (Office VB, windows batch). Experience in HTML, PHP, Java, SQL. Technical  writing and standards documentation development.    ? Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Risk Analyst PayPal - San Jose, CA February 2019 to June 2019 Primary area of focus involved participating in risk assessment meetings, gathering data around the functional area and documenting our findings to be loaded into a proprietary GRC tool. Other duties involved coordinating the team’s work and following up where needed. Participated in user acceptance testing (UAT) and working with the developers to properly document any identified bugs. Contract end date June 30, 2019 Sr. Compliance Analyst NetSui - San Mateo, CA May 2018 to July 2018 Short term project on the GDPR process inventory documentation by conducting interviews with business process owners and documenting the results in a standard Excel worksheet. Retail IT Security & Compliance Lead Chevron Global Downstream, LLC - San Ramon, CA January 2015 to November 2017 PCI-DSS/PCI-PIN compliance subject matter expert. Managing internal and external audits.  Cybersecurity incident response lead. Cybersecurity technical lead. Development and implementation of cybersecurity incident response processes in alignment with industry  standards. Maturing of internal compliance program in alignment with industry standards,  including developing and documenting standard procedures. Relationship manager with internal and external business partners around PCI and cybersecurity. Technical analyst for  applications and tools used to secure the environment (system logging, file integrity  monitoring, vulnerability scanning, penetration testing, wireless (802.11) monitoring).  Primary team Sharepoint administrator and coordinator for migration to Sharepoint Online. Business Relationship Manager / IT Business Chevron Global Downstream, LLC - San Ramon, CA January 2013 to December 2014 Relationship manager for gift card acceptance between the business and IT. Business  analyst for the Safeway Loyalty program and tester (onsite in the Chevron lab and offsite at Chevron retail locations). Assisted with primary deployment of the Loyalty program to the  Verifone point-of-sale product at the retail locations. Business analyst and application  subject matter expert for three business applications used to track fraud, equipment and broadcasting application updates to our retail locations. Assumed PCI-DSS/PCI-PIN and  information risk management compliance duties after an unexpected job vacancy at start of  2014. IT Audit Coordinator / IRM Solution Chevron Information Technology Company - San Ramon, CA January 2011 to December 2012 Coordination of internal audits with IT teams, validating that all IT audits were conducted in a similar manner. Review of responses to internal audit validating remediation time is  appropriate and aligns with other IT teams. Collaborated in designing a manual process to identify, classify, inventory, and secure data repositories company-wide in an effort to better  understand what information was being retained. Consulted on identifying future  technologies to help maintain this process with automation and user-training. Sharepoint  subject matter expert for the project team, developing Excel documents, Sharepoint pages    and documentation on achieving goals. Participated in a guest auditing assignment of the credit card IT retail team, identifying concerns and assisting in developing remediation plans. analyst for internal audits Chevron Information Technology Company - San Ramon, CA May 2008 to December 2010 SAN RAMON, CA  Administration of Windows Server NT4, 2000, 2003, 2008 including server building,  decommissioning, patching, troubleshooting. Active directory, root DNS and virtual  machines administration. Managing SOX compliance for in-scope systems, technical  analyst for internal audits. Documentation of changing internal standards (e.g.  build/decommission documentation, troubleshooting guides). Lean-Sigma process  improvements for requesting and building and supporting Windows servers. Training of support personnel in Manila, Philippines (on-site in the USA and remote training via  conference calls). BMC Remedy subject matter expert for initial rollout to Chevron server  support team. BMC Remedy metrics development. IT Intern Chevron Information Technology Company - San Ramon, CA May 2007 to August 2007 Dedicated end-user support for Chevron Upstream and Finance groups. Administering and troubleshooting desktops and laptops and peripherals. Intern Berlex Biosciences - Richmond, CA June 2003 to 2006 Shipping and receiving of hazardous materials. Managing inventory of chemical  compounds. Managing inventory of California regulated chemicals. Handling of hazardous  materials and coordinating for their collection and proper disposal. IT database support for medicinal chemistry.    ? Education Bachelors of Science in Information Systems California State University - Chico, CA May 2008 Skills BeyondTrust Retina CS Vulnerability Scanner (2 years), Business Partnership (3 years), EMC RSA Archer (4 years), High Security Modules (HSM) (2 years), HP Fortify (1 year), IBM QRadar (2 years), Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) (9 years), International Organization for Standardization (ISO) (3 years), Microsoft Desktop OS (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Microsoft Server OS (10+ years), Microsoft SharePoint (7 years), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) (3 years), PCI-DSS (4 years), PCI-PIN (4 years), Documentation (10+ years), SOX (1 year), SCCM (2 years), System Administration (5 years), Tripwire (4 years), Payment Processing (4 years), ITIL (9 years), ISO (3 years), SOX (1 year), Auditing (5 years), Cybersecurity (5 years), Penetration Testing (1 year), Vmware (1 year), Active Directory (3 years), Sharepoint (7 years), Sharepoint Designer (5 years), Risk Management (4 years), Risk Assessment (4 years), PowerPoint, GDPR (1 year), Compliance, Assessment, AD Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/russell-teicheira https://russteicheira.net Certifications/Licenses PCI-P September 2016 to September 2019