Sr. Project Manager & VP Information Security Sr. Project Manager &amp; VP Information <span class="hl">Security</span> East Meadow, NY A versatile, achievement-oriented Leader and Management professional with over 20 years of Business, Technology and  Compliance experience including -  • Program & Project Management (Planning, Managing Risks-Resources-Issues, Budgeting, Continuous Improvement).  • Healthcare IT, Pharmaceutical-BioTechnology & Medical devices, Life Insurance, Annuities, IT Business operations,  Privacy, Security, Governance, Risk Management and Compliance experience.  • Developing enterprise-wide GRC program across IT, Finance, Operations and Legal.  • Developing GRC solutions including policies and procedures for Risk management, Vendor management, Incident  responses, Threat and Vulnerability management, Business Continuity, Disaster recovery & Compliance Audits.  • Establishing & Leading Project Management Offices (PMO), Program & Project Portfolio Management (PPM).  • Using PMBOK, SEICMMi and Six Sigma based frameworks for Project Life Cycle Management (PLC).  • IT Software solutions development, legacy systems replacements, maintenance and systems support.  • Business Analysis, Software Analysis & Design, Quality Assurance, Testing, Verification & Validation, systems  implementation, post-implementation reviews, production application support and change management.  • Developing software proposals, statements of work, responding to RFPs, RFI, RFQs  • Conceptual and practical knowledge of technology and its applications.  • Vendor management, Contracts management, Internal IT Audit, Business & IT Training  • Experience in HIPAA Privacy and Security Compliance, HITECH and Breach notifications  • Knowledge of Privacy, Security and GRC standards & frameworks such as HIPAA, NIST 800-53, FISMA, SANS, ISO  27001/27002, PCI DSS, OWASP, COBIT, HITRUST CSF, GDPR and 21 CFR Part 11. Work Experience Sr. Project Manager & VP Information Security RiskPro - New York, NY August 2018 to Present • Responsible for Client engagements with HIPAA, GDPR, 21 CFR Part 11 and ISO27001 Compliance Assessments and Implementation.  • Collaborate with and coordinate cross-functional teams to achieve project goals.  • Support and Manage Business development, Pre-Sales, proposal design and response to RFIs, RFQs and RFPs.  • SME for functional process improvement within multiple Compliance domains. Sr. Project Manager & Compliance Officer AK Systems Inc - New York, NY January 2018 to August 2018 • In a Client-facing Compliance Lead role, Responsible for CSV (computer systems validation) projects for Pharmaceutical clients regulated by US- FDA. Oversight of CFR 21 Part 11, ERES compliance for IT systems.  • SME for development and implementation of Information security policies and controls.  • Develop and maintain Standard Operating Procedures, Project plans & Validation processes for IQ, OQ & PQ.  • Track, schedule and manage development of Validation Plans, Business Process models, Requirements and Design  Specifications, various levels of software test plans for IQ, OQ & PQ, Traceability Matrix, and Validation Reports.  • Provide Business domain Consulting and guidance on Quality and Compliance validation processes, applicable  security testing, using a risk-based lifecycle approach to IT and QA projects.  • Provide support as a Business domain and Compliance SME and guide for URS, Requirements development,  technical specifications through plans for System retirement - End-to-End Technical documentation management. Project Manager & Sr. GRC Analyst NY State Department of Health - Albany, NY March 2017 to December 2017 Sage IT Consultant  • Responsible for managing a team of 5 Security and Privacy Analysts to develop a compliance structure for NY  Medicaid Management Information System, that replaced its legacy system eMedNY.  • Collaborate with Information Systems Officer to develop and execute Project plans, provide status reporting, RACI  chart development, management & reporting, within a matrix organization.  • Perform Privacy & Security Impact Assessments, create Security and Privacy artifacts as prescribed by NIST.  • Develop Security & Privacy policies & procedures for NYMMIS, based on NIST SP 800-53 Rev.4 Security & Privacy  controls, HIPAA & HITECH. Identify supporting evidence repositories & accountabilities for defined controls.  • Suggest compensating control alternatives where security requirements could not be met.  • Conduct Risk assessments, provide interpretation of compliance results & remediation recommendations.  • Develop POA&M and CAPs based on Security Assessments.  • Gained familiarization with Medicaid Enterprise Certification Toolkit (MECT) and Medicaid Information Technology  Architecture (MITA); initiatives sponsored by CMS. Program Manager & HIPAA Privacy Officer AFTRA Health & Retirement Funds - New York, NY March 2008 to February 2017 Responsible for establishing and leading the PMO. Developed & implemented a hybrid, scalable Project  Management framework. Introduced & developed a projects portfolio management (PPM) mechanism.  • Managed competing priorities and concurrent IT programs within cross-functional, matrix-based organizations  under Healthcare domain supporting Premium Billing & Invoicing, Claims processing & Member management.  • Function as the liaison between the business line, operations, the technical areas throughout the project cycle  • Responsible for conducting Feasibility studies, supporting development of Business cases for new implementations.  • Facilitate business process engineering/design workshops using data analysis, data mappings & process analysis.  • Chair Steering meetings to review Projects and Portfolio statuses with Executive sponsors and Directors.  • Responsible for Vendor Management and Compliance including Risk assessments, SLA reviews and management.  • Took ownership as HIPAA Privacy Officer to establish & manage HIPAA Project Office.  • Implemented robust procedures and controls for continuous improvement towards HIPAA compliance.  • Responsible for continuous improvements in Security and Privacy aspects of IT and Business operations.  • Designed and managed a streamlined process of delivering Legal Subpoena responses with timeliness and accuracy.  • Ensured HIPAA Compliance based on policies and procedures, automated HIPAA Privacy Information management  • Streamlined Business Associate Agreements Management and related Vendor Management functions  • As a HIPAA SME, provided consultation, guidance, issue resolutions & supported Training department.  • Performed Incident Response, Risk Assessments, define corrective action plans and preventive action plans. Project Manager/Sr. Business Analyst Guardian Life Insurance - Bethlehem, PA June 2004 to March 2008 Patni Consultant  • Responsible for projects supporting Life Insurance, Annuities, Market Compliance & Corporate Business- IT Services.  • Lead a team of Business Analysts for Requirements Management and QA for Straight Through Processing system.  • Develop business requirements, functional design documents, test cases, process models & traceability matrices.  • Participate in design reviews, manager Functional, Regression, User Acceptance and Performance Testing.  • Manage and develop solutions to track and report Audit findings for Market Compliance Team.  • Report Project status to Corporate PMO, perform Business Impact Analysis and develop Business cases. Program Project Manager Patni Computer Systems June 1996 to June 2004 • Responsible for Account Management of large client accounts and IT consulting service delivery teams.  • Responsible for Pre-Sales support - development of responses to RFPs, RFIs, RFQs.  • Global IT Consulting experience with clients in UK, Germany and United States.  • Worked extensively with General Electric and its subsidiaries - GE Capital, GEFA, GEIH and Guardian Life Insurance.  • Primarily worked on Life Insurance, Annuities, Travel Insurance and Pet Insurance domain areas.  • Deep IT experience from progressively responsible positions from Software Engineer through Program Manager.  • Concurrently managed multiple complex projects within multiple programs.  • Managed all aspects of SDLC in addition to Business Analysis, Quality Assurance & User Acceptance Testing  • Manage a team of over 50 Offshore as well as Onshore members.  • Managed Virtual teams - Onshore & Offshore IT Development, Customer Support, QA & QA Test automation teams.  • Manage SDLC - software analysis, design, development, testing, defect resolutions & knowledge management.  • Develop effort estimation, project plans status updates.  • Manage projects by ISO 9000 and SEICMMi quality systems. Design & Track metrics in compliance with CMMi.  • Conduct Six Sigma Training for Green Belts, support and mentor Six Sigma projects execution.  • Conduct internal audits to assure compliance of processes and procedures.  • Interview, hire and conduct performance management for IT resources and junior Project Managers. Project Leader Software Engineer Rane Consultancy - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 1994 to May 1996 Lead a team of software engineers and DBA to Analyze, Design and Develop IT projects. Trained and mentored the IT Team on SQL and Oracle SME for Oracle, SQL & PL/SQL. Software Trainer & IT Analyst Sofrecom Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 1992 to May 1994 Conduct trainings on Oracle, C, Unix, FoxPro and Computer Business applications Mentor & Support in-house IT  development projects Customer facing role of trouble-shooting and IT application issue resolution at client-site. Education PMI Project Management PMBOK Training S.P. Jain Institute of Management Studies June 2001 Diploma in Computer Programming and Applications in Computer Programming and Applications Sir Ratan Tata Computer Centre December 1992 Bachelors of Commerce in Financial Accounting and Auditing Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra April 1991 Skills Oracle (3 years), PL/SQL. (2 years), Security (10+ years), SQL (2 years), Unix (1 year), Cyber Security, Information Security, Nist Certifications/Licenses PMI- PMP April 2019 to April 2022 Project Management Professional Certification from Project Management Institute. Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) July 2011 to Present Certified Information Systems Auditor by ISACA. Certified HIPAA Privacy Security Expert (CHPSE) Present Certification by HIPAA Training.net. ITIL v3 Present ITIL V3 Certified ISMS ISO 27001:2013 Lead Auditor This course, certified by IRCA guidelines teaches participants to lead, plan, execute and report on an audit of an ISMS in an organization assessing its conformance with ISO/IEC 27001:2013.