Sr. Cooperative Vulnerability and Penetration Assessor (CVPA) Sr. Cooperative Vulnerability and Penetration Assessor (CVPA) Sr. Information Security Manager / Engineer Pensacola, FL Work Experience Sr. Cooperative Vulnerability and Penetration Assessor (CVPA) SOFTWARE ENGINEERING SOLUTIONS, CORP - Bellevue, NE October 2018 to May 2019 Bellevue, NE  Assigned to 346 Test Squadron Lackland AFB, TX  US Government Contractor  Supervisor: Greg Hoffmann  Sr. Cooperative Vulnerability and Penetration Assessor (CVPA), October 2018 - May 2019  • Conducted vulnerability assessments using NESSUS and NMAP on AF Mission Systems as directed by the AF Test Squadron (TS) Mission Commander.  • Advised Mission Partners on finding mitigations while mapping back to Risk Management Framework (RMF) controls.  • Briefed Finding and Mitigation reports to senior leadership and recommended course of actions (COAs).  • Authored CVPA assessment instructions on Microsoft Active Directory (AD) and Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP).  • Provided clients with DISA SCAP findings and STIG compliancy on a variety of STIG Categories. Information Systems Security Officer ALPHA-OMEGA CHANGE ENGINEERING - Williamsburg, VA November 2017 to September 2018 Williamsburg, Virginia  Assigned to USAF Kirtland AFB Aircrew Training and Rescue Simulation (ATARS)  Albuquerque, New Mexico  US Government Contractor  Supervisor: Jerry Gibson  Information Systems Security Officer, November 2017 - September 2018  Assigned to the Simulator Common Architecture Requirements and Standards (SCARS) team.  • Engineered security architecture to perform Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS) scans on multiple helicopter simulators simultaneously.  • Developed test plans to test ability to perform ACAS scans while the simulators are being operationally used by instructors and students.  • Collected artifact data to show impact of scans against simulator subcomponents. Collected CPU, Memory, Disk IO, and Network IO in normalized and scanned environment.  • Wrote comprehensive reports to government customer to assist in Program Manager (PM) decisions on scanning and future simulator requirements. Sr. Cyber Security Analyst / Assessor QUALIS CORPORATION - Huntsville, AL May 2017 to November 2017 Huntsville Alabama  Assigned to Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center - Operating Location - Kelly Texas (AFOTEC OL-KT)  Albuquerque, New Mexico  US Government Contractor  Supervisor: Joseph Derrico  Sr. Cyber Security Analyst / Assessor, May 2017 - November 2017  • First contractor hired as AFOTEC OL-KT transition's from Lackland AFB, San Antonio, TX to Kirtland AFB, Albuquerque, NM.  • Establishing continuity processes as additional employees on-board in the Albuquerque location.  • Traveled to US Pacific Command (PACOM) to support Cyber Assessment Program (CAP) planning activities and exercise execution on major weapon system programs. As a key analyst and subject matter expert, provided recommendations to the US ARMY PACIFIC (USARPAC). USARPAC is a new participant in PACOM cyber exercises and clear direction were vital. Consultant type recommendations were provided to USARPAC and the Regional Cyber Center (RCC).  • Authored documents detailing CAP status and reports to AFOTEC and Director, Operational Test and Evaluation (DOT&E).  • Briefed senior leadership on finding details and recommended course of actions (COAs).  • Participated in Joint/service exercise planning, actively developing test strategies for upcoming assessments.  • Assisted with on-boarding contractor and sub-contractor personnel.    LOCKHEED MARTIN SPACE SYSTEMS COMPANY (LM SSC)  AEROTEK CORPORATION  Albuquerque, NM  Space Missile Command  US Government Contractor  Supervisor: Adolph Perea Sr. Information Systems Security Engineer ISSE February 2016 to May 2017 Note: Brought on to LM SSC after one year contract-to-hire with Aerotek)  • As lead Sr. ISSE was assigned to Multi-Mission Space Operations Center - Ground Systems Architecture (MMSOC GSA), responsible for all cyber security related issues.  • Coordinated with SMC ISSE staff to allow for team continuity.  • Provided periodic risk assessments to Government ISSM and ISSO. Identified risk areas of concern and recommended mitigation, if possible. Assured rigorous application of information assurance policies, principles, and practices. Recognized extreme attention to detail.  • Authored detailed ISSE Assessments for all requested additions to the systems, providing analysis and risk assessments to the US Government Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO) and Information Systems Security Manager (ISSM). Recommended risk mitigations.  • Attended system Configuration Control Board (CCB) and briefed ISSE risk assessment and mitigations to upper management and key development personnel to include Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) personnel.  • Worked with key sub-contractors to provide understanding, management, and implementation of Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs).  * Traveled to sub-contractor location to develop strategies to improve the cyber security posture on a key application that had serious category 1 (CAT I) findings.  • Maintained Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service (eMass) Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Program (DIACAP) package. Updated artifacts and verified control compliance. Recommended mitigations to reduce overall risk to the ISSO/ISSM.  • Preparing transition from DIACAP to Risk Management Framework (RMF).  • Prepared and briefed Information Assurance (IA) team status to LM SSC Program Manager (PM).    QUALIS CORPORATION  Huntsville Alabama  Assigned to AFOTEC OL-KT, Lackland AFB, TX  US Government Contractor  Supervisor: Henry Hall Validation Analyst Remediation April 2015 to February 2016 • As Team lead conducted Vulnerability Verification Review (VVR) on DIACAP/RMF associated controls, and provided remediation / mitigation guidance.  • Provided in-house training on VVR assessments.  • Established VVR tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP).  • Prepared and delivered oral presentations of high level findings.  • Documented findings in comprehensive reports that were submitted to AFOTEC and Defense Operation Test and Evaluation (DOT&E) leadership.  • Developed, staffed, standardized, evaluated, commented, and provided corrective actions on internal and external program documentation.  • Supported and documented Incidence Response (IR) training at Hickam AFB, HI. Provided consultant type recommendations to the training audience.  • Supported and documented Opposing Force (OPFOR) Red team activities during cyber exercise event. Consulted with Red team members, establishing strategic methods to meet exercise requirements. Sr. Information Assurance Manager - III US Army Civilian (GS) - Fort Sam Houston, TX September 2010 to April 2015 Fort Sam Houston, TX  Assigned to 106th Signal Brigade  US Government Civilian - GS-13-2210 (INFOSEC)  Supervisor: Patrick Gillilan  Sr. Information Assurance Manager - III, Sept 2010 - April 2015    • Direct-hired to GS-13 (2210- INFOSEC) position from Northrop Grumman contractor position.  • Senior Information Assurance Manager, responsible for direct management and oversight for (9) nine western US Network Enterprise Center's (NECs) Information Assurance (IA) Programs. Established, managed, and assessed the overall effectiveness of the IA Computer Security (COMPUSEC) program IAW AR25-1, and AR25-2.  • Led and represented the Brigade on a large variety of IA projects. Action Officer on several TASK Orders including SIPR PKI implementation. Managed large number of simultaneous deliverables to the subordinate NECs and higher headquarters.  • Provided detailed reports, situational reports (SITREPs), and briefings to Brigade commander and higher headquarters. Presented at several Army cyber security conferences at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.  • Conducted DIACAP validations in sister Brigade (93rd Sig Brigade) area-of-responsibility (AOR). Authored detailed reports that were submitted to the Designated Approving Authority (DAA) for ATO determinations. Recommended mitigation strategy.  • Requested by name to conduct and document IA preparation for Command Cyber Readiness Inspection (CCRI) outside the Continental US (CONUS) at Fort Shafter, Hawaii. This was outside the normal Area of Responsibility (AOR).  • Prepared NECs for validations and CCRIs. Recognized as key player / team lead with US Army Civilian Achievement Medal by Fort Campbell NEC Director, Dr. Webb. Kept NEC focus on security principles and focus from absolute top down personnel was recognized in all subordinate customer reviews. Established compliance matrixes to ensure information assurance procedures were consistently met and appropriately reported.  • Authored and submitted scorecards, Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms), and wrote supporting artifacts.  • Assisted NEC staffs with software / hardware selection and preparation of Army Certificate of Networthiness (CON) documentation. Evaluated proposed systems and software for cyber risks.  • Conducted General Officer briefs and executive summaries. Established IT vulnerability reporting criteria that was adopted by higher headquarters.  • Action officer (AO) for 106th Signal Brigade SIPR PKI implementation. Provided lessons learned and status reporting to 7th Signal Command (Theater). Coordinated efforts with sister Brigade.  • Compiled Vulnerability Management System (VMS) reports and worked with NEC personnel to implement fix actions in an expedient fashion.  • Managed the Brigade Ports, Protocols, and Services programs on behalf of the Signal Command. Considered a SME on PPS documentation and submission.  • Trained and mentored Brigade personnel on Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) and Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) certifications.  • Full spectrum cyberspace operation experience from systems, operating systems, network devices, and system architecture.    Northrop Grumman Corporation  Los Angeles, CA Sr. Information Assurance Engineer 106th Signal Brigade - Fort Sam Houston, TX October 2009 to September 2010 Oct 2009 - Sept 2010    • Provided Senior Information Assurance Engineer support for NECs throughout the western US.  • Developed and recommended technical solutions to meet AR25-2 requirements.  • Fly away team lead to prepare NECs for validations and CCRIs. Wrote Standing Operating Procedures (SOPs) and other artifacts to meet Army IA requirements demonstrating technical writing ability.  • Coordinated Operations Order (OPORD) implementation and documentation as Brigade Action officer providing command level reports to 7th Signal Command and NETCOM. Sr. Information System Security Engineer (ISSE) Overwatch Systems - Austin, TX October 2008 to September 2009 • Implemented STIGs and provided test artifacts of Overwatch developed software.  • Principle advisor to development staff on security application and remediation of vulnerabilities.  • Coordinated security test and evaluation (ST&E) with US Army, US Air Force, and National Security Agency IA teams.  • Subject matter expert on JAFAN 6/0, DCID/JAFAN 6/3, DCID/JAFAN 6/9 and Joint DODIIS/Cryptologic SCI information standards.  • Provided technical documentation and artifacts for Department of Defense Technology Security Certification and Accreditation Program (DITSCAP) and DIACAP. Government Contractor / Consultant W&K Solutions - La Vernia, TX March 2003 to October 2008 • Provided consultant services to nineteen different corporations doing US Government industrial security work.  • Implemented National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM) guidance.  • Implemented US State Department FAM security guidance  • Provided 24/7 on-call support.  • Conducted ISSO training.  • Supported clients on-site when having Defense Security Service (DSS) or other agency audits.  • Developed security test plans and documentation. Completed accreditation documentation for DCID 6/9 systems.  • Provided IT support for Secret SAP systems.  • Provided expert SME level consultation on systems, network devices, and system architecture. IT Security Manager Zachry-Caddell Joint Venture - San Antonio, TX September 2002 to March 2004 Sept 2002 - March 2004    • IT Security Manager for US Embassy construction project in Beijing China.  • Provided IT support for ZCJV HQ in San Antonio, TX.  • Managed budget and implemented cost saving solutions in support of global operation.  • Provided COMSEC support of KIV and STE devices.  • Performed audit reviews of ZCJV network devices, servers and US State Department workstations.  • Performed daily backups.  • Trained sub-contractors and provided oversight throughout the US.  • Presented recognition from US State Department Division chief. Technical Instructor Air Force - Okinawa, JP July 1982 to September 2002 • Multiple supervisory level jobs that span entire Air Force career (July 1982 - Sept 2002).  • Completed all levels of Professional Military Education.  ? Received "John L. Levitow" Honor Graduate certificate- NCO Academy, Kadena AB, Okinawa.  • Honor graduate from HM4118/407L Computer Maintenance Course.  ? "Pipe-lined" as Technical Instructor for the course.  • Non-Commissioned Officer In Charge (NCOIC) AWACS Trainer Maintenance Office.  ? Provided direct supervision of 12 Airman. Wrote performance evaluations and mentored entry level airman and technicians.  ? Maintained operating budget for $1.6M training system.  ? Oversaw training management of assigned personnel.  • Selected as 47th Flying Training Wing (Laughlin AFB) Airman of the Year (1986); Technician of the Quarter 1st Quarter 1985, 4th Quarter 1997.  • Selected as 2nd Airman in Computer Network Defense / Computer Network Exploitation (CND/CNE) Cadre.  ? Developed training matrix for Cadre.  ? Attended Naval Network Vulnerability Technician.  * Honor graduate.  • Course Manager and Lead Instructor - Cisco Router Management course (NT253), National Cryptologic School, National Security Agency.  ? Supervised four instructors and six adjunct instructors.  ? Provided global support to all service components.  ? Developed course that directly supported end users. Electronic Computer and Switching Systems Craftsman United States Air Force - Fort Meade, MD 1998 to 2002 Computer Maintenance Technician United States Air Force 1982 to 2002 Retired 2002)  Work / Assignments: Electronic Computer and Switching Systems Craftsman United States Air Force 1993 to 1998 Electronic Computer and Switching Systems Craftsman United States Air Force - Biloxi, MS 1988 to 1993 Avionics Instrument Systems Craftsman United States Air Force - Del Rio, TX 1983 to 1988 Education M.S. in Information Security Capitol College - Laurel, MD August 2013 B.S. in Information Systems Management Park University Associates in Applied Science in Applied Science Community College of the Air Force Skills SECURITY, CISSP, MENTORS, SYSTEM SECURITY Additional Information • DoDI 8570 IAM/IAT certifications:  • Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP) Certification  • Writes test questions for ISC2's CISSP Test Bank.  • Mentors coworkers on CISSP preparation.    REFERENCES ARE AVAILABLE ON REQUEST