Information Technology Specialist\Contractor Information Technology Specialist\Contractor Deployment Technician\Systems Analyst Flower Mound, TX Work Experience Information Technology Specialist\Contractor Vaughn Enterprises, Inc - Flower Mound, TX April 2015 to Present serving the following companies in the indicated roles: Substitute Teacher Lewisville Independent School District - Flower Mound, TX November 2013 to Present Serving as a relieving teacher in secondary Business, Health, Industrial Arts, Reading, Social Studies and Technology at multiple locations. Deployment Technician\Systems Analyst Vaughn Enterprises, Inc May 2017 to September 2018 Serving as a member of the Microsoft team responsible for upgrading and deploying point of sale systems for the Army Air Force Exchange System (AAFES). Major area of responsibility has been preparation of and tracking the shipment of all staged hard drives to numerous national and international sites.  Additional duties included the staging and imaging of point of sale hard drives and preparation of kitchen display drives. PC Deployment Specialist Dell February 2016 to April 2016 Working with a refresh\deployment team, I was responsible for imagining Dell desktops and laptops with a current version of Microsoft Windows 7 for Texas Health & Human Services. The re-imaged desktops and laptops were deployed to 8 remote locations. Data and software from the old workstations was migrated to the new equipment. Training was provided to the end user on the new configurations. The project was completed on time and on budget.  *STAAR Test Proctor - Completed state mandated end of course testing for approximately 200 home schooled students. Refresh Team Leader CompuCom - Westlake, TX October 2015 to March 2016 Working with a team of 5 technicians, the refresh\deployment, which consisted of imaging new units, migrating software and files from old units to new units, which were either Dell 7020 or 7040 mini Desktop Towers and assorted Dell laptops, was completed on time and on budget in a 5-month timeframe. KForce April 2015 to August 2015 PC Deployment Specialist ARC July 2015 to July 2015 Working as the lead technician with one support technician, we imaged 162 Dell laptops in a three week time frame with a current version of Microsoft Windows 7 for the Texas Department of Aging & Disability Services. The newly re-imaged laptops were then deployed to 3 remote locations providing updated inventory documentation to the local IT supervisors. The project was completed on time and on budget. Retired March 2013 to October 2013 Transportation Security Officer Transportation Security Administration - Dallas, TX October 2011 to March 2013 After completion of certification training, I assumed the responsibilities of a Transportation Security Officer as a member of the transportation security team at Dallas Love Field. Additional duties included Collateral Duty Safety Officer and Safety Committee membership. Retail Sales Merchandiser ACOSTA - Irving, TX March 2011 to October 2011 ACOSTA Sets and Projects  Served as a retail sales merchandiser\representative for various corporations to retail grocers in the Dallas-Ft. Worth metropolitan area. Educator Certification Field Specialist Region XIII, ESC - Austin, TX July 2010 to July 2011 Served as contractual field support to Region XIII Career and Technology Education interns in the Dallas area during the 2010-2011 school year. Responsible for providing timely reports on the intern's progress towards educator certification. Information for the periodic reports was obtained from direct observation of the interns activities and input from their direct supervisors. Teacher Denton Independent School District - Denton, TX January 2004 to June 2010 Served as the teacher of record for the Career and Technology Education - Electronics department at Ryan High School and LaGrone Advanced Technology Complex, providing instruction to 9-12th grade students in introductory and advanced Electronics plus Biomedical Equipment Technology. Extra duties assigned were:  * Campus Leadership Team (CLT) President-member  * International Society of Certified Electrical Technicians (ISCET) Certification Proctor  * OSHA Instructor/Coordinator  * Pre-Engineering Team Leader  * SkillsUSA Advisor  * Technology Integrator  * Field Supporter, Region XIII, Education Service Center, Teacher Preparation and Certification Consultant Frito Lay, Inc - Plano, TX May 2005 to August 2005 for the purpose of upgrading the Kronos Timekeeping system from DOS version 8D to web-based, Work Force Central. Responsible for the refurbishment of 500 time clocks plus the installation and setup of the time clocks on the corporate network. Additional duties included ongoing direct support to all remote sites and training of off-site support technicians. Teacher Cedar Hill Independent School District - Cedar Hill, TX January 2003 to January 2004 Served as the teacher of record for Computer Literacy II at W. S. Permenter Middle School, providing instruction to 8th grade students in Basic Computer Information Systems. Software systems taught included Microsoft Word, Excel, Publisher, Paint and PowerPoint.  Extra duties assigned were: * Technology Support Liaison * Study Island (TAKS Preparation) Administrator The Insource Group - Dallas, TX March 2002 to January 2003 Substitute Teacher Lewisville Independent School District - Flower Mound, TX November 2001 to January 2003 Served as a relieving teacher in secondary Business, English, Industrial Arts, Social Studies and Technology at multiple locations. ClubCorp, Inc - Dallas, TX August 1998 to October 2001 Regional Technology Manager ClubCorp, Inc 2000 to 2001 Resolved Help Desk calls from users, provided telephone and on-site technical support to troubleshoot and fix PC system and application problems, including Windows 2000 Professional/NT 4.0/98/95, Microsoft Office97/Word/Excel/Access, Lotus Notes, Oracle, Aloha and ProphetLine POS. Managed network accounts and securities for all users of assigned locations. Trained end users on the basic functionality of software, hardware and Internet use, as well as advised users on software and hardware purchases and/or upgrades. Maintained LAN (local area network) and WAN (wide area network). Managed technology implementations and enhancements at clubs and regional offices, including vendor and resource management and network design. Served as the primary technology contact and coordinator with internal corporate departments and field sites.  Responsible for the overall integration of any new and enhanced field technology including the planning, design and installation as well as coordination of corporate IT staff to support the implementation. Additionally, responsible for technical architecture and recommendations related to the LAN/WAN environment. IT Implementation Specialist 1998 to 2000 Responsible for the installation and implementation of hardware and software systems for retail points of sale within local area networks. Additional duties included on and off-site training and support of the end users, Help Desk support and field support of system installers. 80% of the activities of this position were performed at remote locations without direct supervision.  Accomplishments:  * Completed installation and implementation of two different networked retail point of sale systems in over 120 locations.  * Established IT systems\hardware management program for control and update of existing inventory, as well as, future replacements. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Management University of Central Oklahoma - Edmond, OK Masters in International Affairs U.S. Army JFK Special Warfare Center - Fort Bragg, NC Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Major Certifications/Licenses Teaching Certificate Additional Information * Secondary Business Composite (6-12) Certification  * Vocational Trades & Industry Pre-Employment (6-12) Certification  Introductory and Advanced Electronics