Systems Support & Integration Specialist (System Administrator IV) Systems Support &amp; Integration Specialist (System Administrator IV) Experienced IT professional with a natural and enthused mindset towards customer service and team building Round Rock, TX Skilled IT professional experienced in help desk administration, desktop support, systems administration and network security with a track record of exemplary end user issue resolution. Always a proponent of teamwork and documenting processes for increased resolution efficiency regarding future issues. Always aiming to become a better asset for my employer as well as a more experienced professional for myself. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Support & Integration Specialist (System Administrator IV) Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) - Austin, TX December 2018 to Present Administrator of the TCEQ ambient air monitoring data acquisition system including user account maintenance, performing system and network troubleshooting, implementing and testing hardware/software installations and configuring data acquisition software. Utilizing Linux and bash scripting to administer remote equipment communication with various Red Hat server environments internally. Serving as project manager regarding various modifications and vendor maintenance regarding the data acquisition system. IT Security Analyst I Texas Water Development Board - Austin, TX December 2016 to December 2018 Assisting the Help Desk through End User Support; tracking all incidents through the Help Desk ticketing system. Provide server support; physical and on-site rack servers as well as virtualized server solutions through Amazon AWS. Implement and maintain ongoing knowledge base documentation for both IT staff and end users. Maintaining user access and ensuring full compliance with the State Comptroller financial systems. Create, install, configuring and maintain; Active Directory users, groups and computers. KACE endpoint management systems for both the K1000 (patching) and K2000 (imaging) servers. Sophos endpoint protection. Websense web filtering protection. Printer Installer printer management platform. Reporting Analysis “live”, daily, weekly and monthly checking any possible threats against the network. Managed migration of systems from Websense, on-site network appliance to the cloud-based ForcePoint web filtering platform. Systems Administrator III Texas Water Development Board - Austin, TX July 2016 to November 2016 Provided desktop support to hardware and software; desktops, laptop, monitors, printers, operating systems, COTS, proprietary, etc. Provide SME-level support for Office 365 products. Maintained knowledge base documentation for both IT staff and end users. Installed, configured and maintained KACE endpoint management systems and active directory users for functionality. Systems Administrator City of North Las Vegas - North Las Vegas, NV May 2015 to June 2016 Maintained user and workstation policies and access through Windows Active Directory. Managed file and folder permission through Access Control List (ACL). Generated and worked reports Utilizing PowerShell scripting. Constructed and sustained various servers, domain controllers and various systems and programs (Google Apps-email. Ensured proper syncing through vendor scripting. Working with general firewall definition updates, custom white and blacklisting through McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator, virus definition updates through McAfee Endpoint Protection. Performed file backup and restorations. Properly documenting all ongoing processes and procedures in order to create detailed tutorials to properly train other workers. IT Technician VI State of Nevada (Department of Welfare and Social Services) - Las Vegas, NV February 2012 to May 2015 Configuring and maintaining user and workstation policies and access through Novell ZENworks Configuration Management as well as Novell Storage Management. Creating and deploying all Windows, Java and Adobe hotfix patches remotely to every. workstation via Novell Patch Management. Building, configuring and maintaining VMware ESXi host servers as well as virtual Novell Enterprise Server (OES) platforms through the SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES) operating system. Ensure that all daily and monthly server backup and restore operations are completed via ArcServe. Maintaining all field office server rooms with proper documentation, patch panel and rack organization and installation and configuration of environment tracking equipment (AVTech). Also, handling the installation and configuration of Dell Remote Access Controller equipment. Maintaining and updating content within the agency website (dwss.nv.gov) utilizing vSphere, SUSE, FTP, HTML and JavaScript. Properly documenting all ongoing processes and procedures in order to create detailed tutorials to properly train other workers. IT Consultant/Technician Unity Baptist Church - Las Vegas, NV March 2006 to December 2013 Responsible for recommending the IT equipment that provides the best efficiency at the best economical value. Responsible for maintaining the IP security camera system, implementation and security of the WLAN and the configuration and maintenance of all computers, network printers and the master business-class copier. Linked Games Support Specialist II Bally Technologies - Las Vegas, NV July 2011 to February 2012 Monitors and supports Bally systems. Records and tracks system problems as per trouble ticket procedure. Reports abnormal occurrences to supervisor in a timely fashion. Generate non-typical reports using various software products. Assist with product development and testing. Observes and enforces security procedures at all times. Desktop Support Technician Clearwire - Las Vegas, NV July 2010 to July 2011 Managing and resolving all Service Desk incoming phone calls, emails, and tickets received while maintaining a high degree of professionalism and attention to end user support. Remote assistance and hands on support for Windows 2000/XP/7 systems, Microsoft Office suite, Outlook/Exchange, PDAs, print/scan/fax, Avaya IP phones, Oracle applications & internal web applications. Administration tasks, including projects, server builds, server room builds (racking/un-racking of server and networking equipment) moves/adds/changes of nodes to Windows AD and other internal applications. Microcomputer Technician Las Vegas Clark County Library District - Las Vegas, NV August 2008 to February 2009 Installed, configured, and integrated network hardware, software and peripheral equipment. Used diagnostic tools, utilities, and equipment to troubleshoot and repair computer and network related problems. Researched support contracts and coordinated equipment repairs with vendors. Dealt heavily with remote desktop support and Telus web software. Education BS in Information Technology University of Phoenix-Online Campus - Las Vegas, NV 2011 to 2014 Skills Operating Systems - Windows (XP, 7, 8, 8.1, 10), Windows Server (2003, 2008 R2, 2012 R2), Linux (SLES, Red Hat, Debian, Mint, CentOS), Mac OSX, Android, iOS (10+ years), Software and Services - Group Policy, Active Directory, PowerShell, DHCP, FTP, NFS, SMB, VMWare vSphere and ESXi, McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator and Endpoint Protection, Dell iDRAC Management, NetBackup, Google Apps, Novell ZENworks (10+ years), Hardware - Dell PowerEdge and Compellent servers, Cisco UCS, Shoretel and Avaya switches and VoIP equipment, AVTech environment monitoring (10+ years), Information Security, It Security, Linux, Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses CompTia A+ Certification September 2014 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) May 2011 to Present Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician June 2011 to Present