Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/ IT Audit SME Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/<span class="hl">IT</span> Audit SME Charlotte, NC To gain additional management experience in multinational global organizations. Work Experience Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/ IT Audit SME Wells Fargo and Company Senior SOX November 2015 to September 2016 • Executed regulatory reporting program compliance to ensure the adequacy of the financial and IT control environment in conformity with PCAOB AS-5 and with conformity with SOX 302 AND 404 and enterprise COSO and ICFR compliance.  • Updated the IT applications for risk assessment mapping and ITGC control framework to comply with CoBit 5 standards.  • Performed quarterly testing on application controls and information technology controls within multiple lines of businesses.  • Assessed adequacy of risk coverage around business process and ITG controls for control validation, design effectiveness and remediation efforts.  • Conducted audits within Change management Logistics Analyst J.C. Penney, Inc October 2014 to 2015 Performed control gap analysis around the fulfillment process to address best practices within a large distribution center. Addressed process gaps around logistic efforts manual and technological for multiple distribution centers to address transport inefficiencies. Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/ IT Audit SME International Brand Energy and Infrastructure Services July 2014 to September 2014 Reported to the Director of Internal Audit, program management around integration of corporate policies and procedures following recent M&A of infrastructure services and re-branding of legal entities. Design and deployment of corporate wide best practices, due diligence preparation for year one SOX 404 compliance and SEC filing of new registrant. Audits on various ERP systems. Fulfillment analyst Amazon Fulfillment Center, Indiana April 2014 to July 2014 Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/ IT Audit SME Robert Half April 2013 to March 2014 • Project manager year one AS-5 SOX compliance reporting, deploying best practices and process improvements. American Commercial Lines ($1Billion in Revenue) is in commodities transport and inland waterway barge transport. Performed IT and financial audits to ensure accuracy of percentage of completion contract accounting.  • Substantial use of Oracle 11i and PeopleSoft in all modules. Project Manager for a South African January 2012 to December 2012 Engineered retail location and realigned the logistics operations. Presented business proposals to the Nigerian government in Steel Mills to reduce in country import cost burden. Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/ IT Audit SME Seaboard Corporation March 2011 to September 2011 Operational and financial auditing and risk management reviews of Africa milling and commodity trading operations. Worked in various locations in Africa. SOX compliance testing and key control design work, system controls review of CXL commodity trading platform and People Soft integration. Various financial reporting ERP's whereby IT audits were conducted around procurement and revenue recognition at commodity milling sites. Senior SOX August 2010 to February 2011 Supported many consulting agency initiatives as subject matter expert around compliance matters to provide information for client bid/proposal process. Assisted in business development practices. Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/ IT Audit SME Summer Infant, Inc. Rhode Island March 2010 to July 2010 Year one SOX SEC section 404 compliance reporting under AS-5. Use of Navision and FRX consolidation pack. Financial statement risk assessment performed to scope in accounts and ITGC analysis. Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/ IT Audit SME Katanga Mining Ltd and Glencore-Xstrata PLC May 2009 to December 2009 Implemented best business practices to establish an onsite internal audit function to create the appropriate control and risk assessment climate (in accordance with IPPF). Addressed control gaps around ten business cycles including supply chain and vendor management and conducted supply chain and vendor audits to reach agreement on improvements. Documented and designed the mining site internal control framework. Billion software developer Nuance Communications, Inc - Burlington, MA October 2008 to March 2009 Senior Manager Revenue Assurance  • Worked with and advised the internal legal to design an improve contract management and work flow process system platform. Addressed operational post acquisition and systems integration work on Philips Speech Recognition Systems in Austria, Germany and Spain for Belgium shared service integration. Project Manager Harsco Corporation Inc - Camp Hill, PA June 2007 to September 2008 Camp Hill, PA, Leatherhead, UK, Poland, Romania and Greece, industrial conglomerate in rail, access, steel mills, metals and minerals (An employee) June 2007-September 2008 Project Manager  • Global corporate tax reorganization project. Working closely and ensuring coordination with US and European Finance Directors, Legal departments, Tax Directors, Treasury Directors, Global external legal advisors, External valuation advisors and Global PWC to support a 200 legal entity restructuring encompassing debt analysis and debt push down transactions, assessing entity valuation computations, analyzing transfer pricing issues and addressing new company HFM configurations and transaction input. Worked with the Treasury department on debt assessment and FX movements. Prepared closing pack on the 20 new legal entities in HFM including journals for accruals and any reserve provisioning. Effected the reduction in global tax provision by 3%. In order to assess legal entity valuation, substantial work was executed around shared service financial planning department in order to calculate 10 year forecast and enable DCF and market value entity valuation. Analysis of CFC entities, Fin-48 and SFAS-109 and check the box assessment matters. Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/ IT Audit SME A Resources Global Professionals - Dublin January 2007 to May 2007 Year one SOX SEC section 404 compliance reporting under AS-5. Use of Navision and FRX consolidation pack. Financial statement risk assessment performed to scope in accounts and ITGC analysis Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/ IT Audit SME Royal SunAlliance, PLC June 2006 to January 2007 Assisted the Program Director in the documentation and control/fraud testing effort on over 500 key business controls and 50 processes for the UK entity. Directly responsible for delivering complete documentation and testing of controls within the Financial Statement Close Process. Various financial reporting ERP's whereby IT audits were conducted around policy commitments. Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/ IT Audit SME The Bank of Ireland - Dublin March 2006 to June 2006 Supported the remediation effort on a 200-staffed SOX project including addressing control documentation and design issues with 28 business units. Evaluated deficient key controls on impact scoring for assessing potential 20F disclosure. Reviewed and assessed risk on 1000 key business and IT controls and the related testing of controls. Multiple disparate systems feeding SAP. Various financial reporting ERP's whereby IT audits were conducted around procurement and revenue recognition at commodity milling sites. software developer in security McAfee Ireland Ltd - Cork June 2005 to February 2006 Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/ IT Audit SME  • Assisted the Vice President of Internal Audit, the PMO and the Finance Director in supporting the company EMEA SOX effort in Ireland  US subsidiaries for a software developer and Antivirus, security solution provider. In Key Control testing, assisted the BPO in complete cycle documentation, Key Control identification, and process flow diagrams. Documentation included benchmarking control objectives to control activities, reviewing, assisting management in remediation effort, and testing effort with Deloitte. IT risk aid information security assessment within the SAP enterprise. software developer Trintech Technologies - Dublin March 2005 to May 2005 Senior SOX/Risk/COSO/ IT Audit SME  • Assisted the Finance Director in supporting the company EMEA SOX effort in Ireland and US subsidiaries for a Card scanner, reconciliation software developer solution provider. Conducted full cycle documentation, risk analysis and scoping evaluation for year on compliance reporting. Revenue Controller and SOX PM Robert Half May 2001 to March 2005 Projects May 2001-March 2005  Motorola Inc., Long Island, NY, $4 billion mobility technology manufacturing group, Revenue Controller and SOX PM.  Exelon Group, PECO Energy Philadelphia, PA, $20 billion global utility group, supported multiple internal audit initiatives.  LCC, Inc. and LCC Egypt Ltd, Northern, VA and Cairo, Egypt, Telecommunications/Cell Tower deployment, Financial Controller. Siemens Corporation, Woodbridge, NJ $40 billion conglomerate, Financial Controller. Cini-Little International, Inc., Washington, D.C., boutique architect firm. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Accounting in National Honorary Accounting Fraternity Audit and Tax. Old Dominion University Skills Risk assessment, Finance, Cobit, Information security, Change management