Application Security Engineer Application <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Information Security Engineer Pittsburgh, PA With 12 years of total IT experience, I look forward to contributing to your company while learning new skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Security Engineer BNY Mellon - Pittsburgh, PA October 2018 to Present ·        Create and deploy Internal and External SSO Federations  • Develop and participate in the analysis, planning, design, implementation, and maintenance of software pertaining to IT platform security environments (Active Directory, LDAP, Linux, Oracle, RSA, SQL Server, UNIX).  • Integrate new software and hardware into the current IT Security platforms.  • Evaluate and develop approach to solutions.  • Responsible for planning, creating, maintaining, and delivering user documentation, end-user manuals, training materials, tutorials.  • Responsible for monitoring reports, user requests, issue tracking.  • Responsible for gathering, reporting, and delivering  IT Security audit findings. Information Security Engineer - IAM HM Health Solutions - Pittsburgh, PA February 2017 to July 2018 ·        Created and deployed Internal and External SSO Federations that supported 250 customers with frequent collaboration  ·        Orchestrated remediation project that cleaned two million files of sensitive data from corporate drives   ·        Pioneered new federation request process that brought multiple teams into accordance and was announced company-wide   ·        Migrated 400 connections from OAM 10G to 11G and collaborated with customers on process  ·        Analyzed Engineering processes and documented suggestions for improvement resulting in more support time of customers  ·        Illustrated Engineering procedures that were used by other teams  ·        Trained and coached progress of new employees Systems Analyst Via Oncology, UPMC October 2016 to February 2017 Full time, contract through OpenArc, hourly    • Engineer and administrate Microsoft Configuration Manager 2012 (SCCM)  • Active Directory administration of Organizational Units, users and computers and forests  • Windows Server 2012 administration  • Automated processes through Powershell commands Adult Learning Instructor Butler County Community College October 2014 to December 2016 Part-time, hourly, supplemental income  • Taught computer related courses to adult learners from community  • Chose learning objectives and course schedule  • Worked with students one on one to ensure they are comfortable with material Cyber Security Analyst Duquesne Light Company April 2016 to October 2016 Full time, contract through OpenArc, hourly    • Centralized Patch Management system that ensured compliance on all software running on CIP (Critical Infrastructure Protection) assets  • Introduced new Patch Management process to multiple teams after working with them to develop improved process  • Evaluated security related patches of SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) network and corporate networks involving Windows and Linux platforms and field devices  • Ran Patch Management system according to the guidelines of:  ? NERC (North American Electric Reliability Corporation)  ? NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) 800-40  ? CIP (Critical Infrastructure Protection) CIP-007  ? GRC (Governance, Risk and Compliance)  • Authored technical documentation that explained procedures  • Cyber Security duties included:  • Evaluated software installation requests using hashdeep, Malwr and Virus Total  • Evaluated E-ISAC alerts (alerts from other power companies of security attacks)  • Cross checked vendor security patches using Secunia  • Used SourceFire to detect malware on corporate computers  • Used McAfee Mxlogic to search for keywords from E-ISAC alerts in our incoming email system Systems Administrator Tier Computer Science Corporation June 2014 to April 2016 3  Full time, permanent, salary    • Managed various servers for several accounts  ? Boeing  * Ensured user profiles and permissions were compliant to GRC standards  * Administration of Windows Servers 2008 and 2012, VMWare and RHEL 6 and 7 using PuTTy commands and SQL scripts  * Installed patches and ran system upgrades to Windows and RHEL servers  ? Westinghouse  * Managed user email accounts and mailboxes through Exchange Management Console on Microsoft Exchange servers.  * Maintained and upgraded Windows Server 2012  ? Textron  * Managed user email accounts and mailboxes through Exchange Management Console on Microsoft Exchange servers.  * Maintained and upgraded Windows Server 2012  ? Amgen  * Maintained user accounts in Cloud based servers    • Ensured information security was not being breached by ensuring user profiles and permissions were compliant to GRC standards  • Managed Windows Servers 2008 and 2012, VMWare and RHEL 6 and 7 using PuTTy commands and SQL scripts  • Safeguarded corporate security by installing security patches and running system upgrades to Windows and RHEL servers  • Performed troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose common system problems; documented system events to ensure continuous functioning IT Essentials Instructor Parkway West Career and Technical Center August 2013 to June 2014 Full time, permanent, salary    • Improved curriculum by investigating industry trends and making recommendations to school board  • Taught students in grades 9-12 the fundamentals of IT including hardware, software, networking and network security  • Prepared students for certifications in CompTIA A+ and Network + and Cisco CCENT and CCNA  • Used Cisco Network Academy for course curriculum  • Ensured that teaching certificate was in compliance with Pennsylvania Department of Education Product Support Specialist Tier 3 McKesson Automation September 2012 to May 2013 Full time, permanent, salary  Lay-off, accepted better opportunity    • Answered incoming support requests from internal/external sources  • Assisted tier one and two product support personnel  • Configured, maintained and upgraded Microsoft Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2012  • Managed Windows network (users, computers, printers, etc.) with Active Directory  • Installed network printers and drivers and troubleshot printer errors  • Troubleshot and resolved level two software, hardware, network, and database issues with all supported versions of MAH products. This involved dialing into customer sites to perform tasks such as analyzing the performance of the client system and database; reviewed scheduled tasks; and executed various scripts as necessary based on problems encountered.  • Properly documented all customer interactions and troubleshot actions into the department's case tracking system. Utilized prioritization and time management skills.  • Manage open calls to ensure appropriate resolution time. IT Support Technician Matthews International March 2012 to September 2012 Full-time, hourly  Contract expired, accepted better opportunity    • Processed issues and requests from end users via telephone, web system or email in a timely and courteous manner  • Performed hands-on fixes at the desktop level, including and installing software, installing hardware, implementing file backups, and configuring systems and applications  • Analyzed and performed problem solving and resolution on issues  • Documented all pertinent end user identification information, including name, department, contact information, and nature of problem or issue and the resolution  • Assisted with vendor support contacts to resolve technical problems with desktop computing equipment and software  • Ordered computer supplies from vendors  • Installed network printers and drivers and troubleshot printer errors  • Provided On-call support Technical Support Analyst Tier 3 K&L Gates August 2011 to March 2012 Full-time, hourly  Contract expired, accepted better opportunity    • Provided level three Help Desk assistance via telephone and provide desk side support to customers.  • Trained new employees in company procedures  • Supported Citrix XenApp, XenDesktop, and EupXenApp environments  • Gained experience in document management systems especially Hummingbird DM, locally installed and Citrix based  • Installed network printers and drivers and troubleshot printer errors  • Managed Windows network with Active Directory Engineering Technician Westinghouse Electric Company March 2011 to August 2011 Full-time, hourly  Contract expired accepted better opportunity    • Overhauled and maintained the group's SharePoint site.  • Designed Engineering Projects using Microsoft Visio, Project, PowerPoint, and Access.  • Edited and verified calculation notes and letters written by engineers.  • Ran Unix/Linux software programs that derived data analysis from nuclear power plants.  • Utilized Red Hat and Ubuntu 10.04 Server to perform team objectives  • Assisted in migrating data between Linux servers using the command line  • Provided analysis support. Technical Support Coordinator HVL/Douglas Labs August 2010 to March 2011 Full-time, hourly, accepted better opportunity    • Responsible for multiple task/projects including  ? Network schematic diagram  ? Email server migration to Exchange  ? Assigning new Fully Qualified Domain Names (FQDN) to assets for improved detection  ? Set up of VOIP ShoreTel phones and user accounts  ? New software image designed specifically for user's job description  ? Deploy new assets for new users  • Utilized Desktop Central to deploy patches, upgrades, installations and group policies  • Performed hardware upgrades  • Installed network printers and drivers and troubleshot printer errors IT Student Employee (Internship) Butler County Community College June 2010 to December 2010 • Took ownership of campus-wide Windows 7 upgrade assignment  • Coordinated scheduled of instructors receiving new image  • Performed hardware Installation i.e. Power Supply, Ram, Hard Drive, Network Cards.  • Data Management, i.e. Backups to hard disk or external devices, transfers and imaging.  • Installed new images on computers using Symantec Ghost Data Coordinator Technical Support Verizon Wireless June 2007 to August 2010 Full-time, hourly    • Promoted within six months of hire date to Data Coordinator in Technical Support  • Developed customer relationship skills  • Resolved diverse mix of customer's issues Education A.A.S. in Computer Information Systems-Network/PC Specialist Butler County Community College December 2011 A.S. in Secondary Education Butler County Community College May 2007 Skills Federation (3 years), SSO (3 years), IAM (5 years), Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Information Security, Splunk, It Security Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification