IT Computer Technician <span class="hl">IT</span> Computer Technician IT Computer NOC Network Operations Data Center Operator Server Systems Technician Bothell, WA More than 16 years Advanced Technical Support, 8 years NOC Technician-Operator-Engineer. 3 years Data Center Technician. 2 Years Linux Systems and Release-Support Engineer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Computer Technician Self-Employed - Mill Creek, WA October 2018 to August 2019 • Provided affordable & professional mannered residential computer service and repair as needed based on the client's needs in an efficient and courteous manner.  • Primary responsibilities included troubleshooting and diagnoses of non-functioning, poor or slow performing computer hardware and software. Supporting Mobile, PCs and Macs. Most operating systems: Windows, Mac OS X, Linux-Debian-Ubuntu. Various Android and iOS devices.  • Other services provided included modem, router and overall LAN network set up, custom made PCs, data recovery, printer set-up and configuration, troubleshooting and repairing network connectivity issues, hardware and display failures.  • Made hardware and software acquisition recommendations including helping customer assess needs and providing justification for equipment and services. NOC Network Operator-Systems Engineer Zillow Group - Seattle, WA November 2016 to September 2018 • Monitoring of various environment system graphs and alerts for various internal and customer facing features and services on the main Zillow website.  • Linux LDAP user administration. Account creation, modification, and decommission.  • Perform advanced system diagnosis, configuration, modification and troubleshooting of diverse environment Linux servers during service alarms or internal team requests-tickets.  • Maintaining team SLA's for a variety of incident, administration, change and outage tickets.  • Collaborated with different teams within the IT Ops department up to executive-level to resolve live outages, determine urgency, escalated to appropriate on-call engineers, update post-mortem incident documentation and communicate any down-time status notification updates to all stakeholders, occasionally company-wide.  • Release team support via updating all production hosts with new developer code for each service, monitoring for any errors or alarms during approved and scheduled test-to-production code updates and escalating accordingly, after-hours support if necessary. NOC Administrator Big Fish Games - Seattle, WA June 2014 to November 2016 • Primary responsibilities include responding to system alarms and Nagios service check alerts in a timely fashion to maintain SLA's and/or escalating to senior tiered IT Ops teams as required. Monitoring network traffic on various Linux Server environments/clusters and services. Collaborating with other Ops teams to troubleshoot servers responsible for live game data and real time revenue to resolve any production issues ASAP in a 24/7 environment.  • Live game server monitoring, which includes performing standard operating procedure steps for each critical alert. Escalating, conversing, and working with other IT Operations teams such as Senior Systems Administrators or Database Administrators using cooperative decision making to decide the best course of action to achieve resolution for advanced critical alarms.  • Providing Jr. level Systems Administration such as creating new hire credentials, unlocking and terminating access to Linux credentials and various company enterprise tools.  • Occasionally provisioning, and performing maintenance on various production server/networking/storage hardware in a highly secure off-site data center providing various data center server-hardware support & repair, installations (Rack and Stacks) and decommissions, Cat 5e-6 and fiber cabling, Power Management and OOB management configuration  • Performed front tier troubleshooting on Production Linux Systems and data gathering via CLI for any NOC alert with an emphasis on critical alert analysis and attention before escalation, since an on-call escalation would require a call to an on-call senior Ops team member at any hours for 24/7 critical production environments. IP Tech II National Activation, Security & Repair - Master Control Video NOC Technician Comcast Spotlight - Greenwood Village, CO October 2010 to March 2014 • (Master Control Video NOC Technician is a promotion role from the Comcast NASR IP Tech II team as described in next section below.)  • Support and correct quality and networking issues in regarding live local business commercials airing on the Comcast cable network in a 24/7 environment.  • Utilized Arris Sky Vision and Eclipse to monitor live real time commercial insertion and correct any scheduling conflicts or video description or fine print errors.  • Communication with various traffic teams to support any day to day and last-minute scheduling corrections for critical and time-sensitive commercial spots such as political or sweeps.  • Run various reports via Eclipse scheduling via remote desktop to account for successfully played commercial spots and to generate "make -goods" for re-air of commercial spots that were originally broadcast on-air with quality issues.  • "Eyes-on-Glass" monitoring of the live video network across multiple live channels to verify proper local commercial insertion, resolving ad spot scheduling conflicts or errors and converse on occasion with other partner teams such as the National Video NOC, Engineering, 3rd party cable providers and the Comcast Linear Master Control to escalate any relevant critical issues or communication.    1st Role. NASR IP Tech II National Activation, Security & Repair  Comcast. Greenwood Village, CO  • Perform advanced triage, network monitoring, and complex trouble shooting and resolution for voice, video, home security, wireless and high-speed data products in a National Tier II elite team.  • Troubleshoot digital telephone switches, carrier to carrier issues, Inbound and Outbound, On-hook, Off-hook, SIP, Peer to Peer, PSTN.  • Communicate with advanced technical teams such as XOC Service Desks, NOC Repair teams, and network engineering to resolve complex and on-occasion beta/test-market customer system or billing provisioning issues.  • Answer day-of-job calls from Comcast field technicians while on customer location requiring assistance for device troubleshooting connecting to Comcast data network or to complete device provisioning or change speed tier boot-file.  • Create, complete, follow-up and resolve National Tier II residential Digital Voice, Internet and Cable support ticket queues using Remedy ticketing platform. Senior Help Desk Analyst-NOC Technician TeleTech - Englewood, CO April 2010 to August 2010 • Short-term contract role for 2010 U.S. Census. Project completed successfully.  • Monitored and responded to alarms regarding network and call center dialer issues across the nation for the United States Census project in a NOC environment.  • Communicated with multiple departments in regard to site issue notifications. Trouble ticket creation, updates, completion and verification.  • Performed live Ad-Hoc requests to administer various language call queues across all project call centers. User account management.  • Monitored live agent call statistics and service levels to ensure stability across multiple project call center locations. Business Wireless Technical Support II Sprint/Nextel Wireless Communications - Englewood, CO January 2008 to November 2009 Business Wireless Technical Support II  Sprint-Nextel. Englewood, CO  • Performed troubleshooting for IDEN and CDMA 3G/4G cellular and data networks for business and government customer accounts via calls.  • Utilized over a dozen online tools for various troubleshooting such as Sprint network cellular data, voice, text and Nextel Direct-Connect provisioning.  • Performed IP configuration, set up and provisioning for Sprint network data air cards on Windows and Mac OS based PC's in addition to all Sprint cellular devices.  • Assisted new team members with learning troubleshooting tools, troubleshooting various cellular hardware and software issues, in addition to detailed quality assurance feedback after call completion.  • Subject Matter Expert for all compatible devices on the Sprint-Nextel network, phones and wireless data cards. Voice & cellular data programming, account set up, and all technical support. High Speed Internet/Digital Voice IP Specialist Comcast - Englewood, CO October 2005 to October 2007 • Provided technical support for all CDV/HSI and cable TV products, performing trace routes, pings and using proprietary Comcast tools to determine packet loss or connection failure information. Supporting all Comcast VOIP modems and other compatible devices paired with Windows or Mac computers.Prepared test plans and data, and user documentation for customer billing system.  • DNS, Network and TCP/IP troubleshooting for loss of internet service with customer. Performing pings, trace routes for customers firewalls and LAN diagnostics.  • Troubleshooting of Comcast proprietary DOCSIS broadband cable modems, performing computer diagnostics with customers over the phone for issue resolution of various hardware and software issues, while also answering customer support E-mails regarding technical questions and concerns from residential account clients.  • Triaged, and reported any network outages or anomalies on the Comcast IP or cable network by Remedy TTS ticketing system for escalation to relevant Engineering teams.  • Maintained top tier personal team statistics in a call center environment, constantly earned exceeds expectations feedback for issue resolution, quality assurance, one call resolution, and attendance. Education None in Electronics High Tech Institute - Phoenix, AZ July 1999 to October 2000 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DATA CENTER, EXCHANGE, NAGIOS, REMEDY, LINUX, REMOTE ACCESS, VM, ANDROID, IOS, JENKINS, Subversion, COMMAND LINE INTERFACE, SPLUNK, MAPPING, ORACLE, ECLIPSE, SHAREPOINT, SERVER SUPPORT, IMAGING, Desktop Support, Apple, Pc Support, Computer Repair, Help Desk Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Languages and OS  • 4 years Linux-Bash Shell Command Line Interface with an Emphasis on Troubleshooting and Administration of Linux Enterprise System Servers in Various Environments.  • Various brands of Linux/Ubuntu/Debian Server Support and Administration via Command Line Remote Access and Physical Data Center Repair, Installations, Imaging, and Configurations. Various Microsoft Windows versions, Mac OS X, iOS, Android, Active Directory User Administration.  Software  • Support, Experience and/or Administration for the following tools: ACSR, CSG, Neustar OrderPath, Support Soft, Eclipse, Port PS, Arris Sky Vision, Sharepoint, MS Office, Active Directory, Exchange, Remedy ITSM and Service Now ticketing tools, Racktables Data-Center Mapping, Confluence Wiki, Subversion, Nagios, OKTA, Keynote. Graphite, Cacti and Splunk monitoring. Keynote, Jira, Jenkins, GitLab, Oracle VM Virtual Box, RSA security, Slack, Zabbix, AWS CloudWatch monitoring, EMC Simphony.