IT Security Engineer/ Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer/<span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Engineer/ Analyst - SOS International LLC Woodbridge, VA • Over 20 years of Information Technology ( IT) and Security Engineering experience with a proven track record of delivering a wide range of IT Engineering solutions to commercial and government clients.  • In-depth experience in Cybersecurity, Data Analysis, Networks, Software Engineering, Project Management, CCTV, Access control, fire alarm and fire fighting systems.  • Technical advanced skills in MS Access, Excel, Word, Project, publisher, PowerPoint, SharePoint, Outlook, Data Modeling, SQL and writing scripts using different software.  • Advisory, technical and working skills in systems analysis and design, database technology, Data Research Methodologies, SDLC and Business Intelligence (BI) (Data Visualization, Dashboards and Reporting)  • Broad/In-depth understanding of IT regulations governing multiple technologies (FISMA, NIST, Risk Management Framework (RMF), UL, FM, VDS and EN-54)  • Technical proficiency in software including Retina, SEP, CSAM, Counteract, Edraw max 7.9, Riverbed Modular 17.5, SmartDraw CL, and Visual Studio, Wireshark, Nessus, Snort, Nmap, and Honeypots.  • Fluent in English/Arabic/Technical writing. Work Experience IT Security Engineer/ Analyst SOS International LLC - Washington, DC April 2019 to Present • Responsible for ensuring those CFTC digital assets are protected from unauthorized access through weeding through metrics and data to filter out suspicious activity, and finding and mitigating risks before breaches occur.  • Responsible for generating reports for the program managers to evaluate the efficacy of the security policies in place based on FISMA and NIST Standards compliance. They will then help to make the necessary changes for a more secure network.  • Responsible for reporting the CFTC security systems metrics and tools for all protective systems in place and creating the required documentation.  • Other specific responsibilities include:    a. Analyzing data generated from vulnerability testing and risk analysis as well as Windows Active Directory, CSAM (POA&M), PIV enforcement, Cyberark, etc.  b. Verifying the security of third-party vendors and collaborating with the team to meet the security requirements. FISMA Data Analyst SME ACTIONET - Germantown, MD October 2017 to Present • Designing and implementing consolidated FISMA data engine for quarter and annual reporting activities of Department of Energy (DOE) to the office of Management and Budget (OMB). FISMA data reported from DOE nationwide sites are verified and auto-migrated into one consolidated report.  • Designing and implementing auto-populated dashboards and data analytics trending reports for FISMA metrics.  • Designing and implementing scripts using different software, access databases, technical reporting and presentations.  • Maintaining/Updating procedures and designing tools required for FISMA data analysis and reporting related to preparing consolidated reports, data calls, SharePoint website, data trending, consolidated summaries, etc.  • Appling personal expertise of information assurance, network, cybersecurity, data analysis and data trending to identify discrepancies for trustworthy and accurate DOE FISMA Report end product.  • Preparing FISMA CAP reports and comparison sheets of FISMA metrics and DOE policies. Data Analyst / Engineer ManTech Corporation - Stafford, VA October 2016 to October 2017 • Designed Data Architecture for data handling and reporting based on analysis of business requirements and processes for the Marine Corps Combat Development Command.  • Calculated and developed the server hardware storage requirements for a big data project.  • Analyzed the sponsor data warehouse to identify enterprise wide data gaps and provide baseline data to the client.  • Data Mining and Modeling: Cleansed and provided data modeling and data analyses for structured and unstructured data.  • Dashboards: Created visually impactful dashboards in Excel. Use analytical tools of extraction, interpretation and data analysis to identify key metrics and transform raw data into meaningful, actionable information.  • Performed Queries using Access and SQL.  • Worked autonomously within a team of Data and Research Analysts, to analyze, review, update, edit, clean, translate, and ensure accuracy of customer data. Technical Consultant Sprint - Fairfax, VA February 2012 to February 2016 • Delivered trainings and presentations on mobile data insecurity and implementation of security solutions.  • Performed trouble-shooting functions using cold/hot testing and resolved customer issues.  • Regularly met or exceeded customer satisfaction requirements.  • Expertly managed different platforms including Windows, Mac and Android.    Stanley Convergent Security Solution Lorton, VA Customer Account Manager CCTV and Access Control Systems August 2011 to August 2012 • Supporting software and hardware solutions for CCTV and Access Control Systems from Honeywell ProWatch, Lenel, Gentec, Axis, Sonitrol, PACOM, PAC, PAXTON, PLAN, S2, C-Cure Software and Genetec in addition to Door Intercoms, Card/Proximity Tokens and Biometric recognition.  • Coordinating business development activities to win security projects at commercial and private businesses leading to the installation of equipment and ProtectionNet(TM) monitoring services.  • Developed channels of communication with clients to increase customer satisfaction.  • DCJS License. Department Manager, Technical /Sales Support Manager ORASCOM - Cairo, EG February 1999 to February 2011 • Department Manager:  ? Increased Department sales volume from USD 3 Million to USD 57 Million.  ? Handled all administrative areas that included inventory, freight and quality control, technical areas that included sites supervision and involvement in troubleshooting, business areas that included closing new deals and project management areas that included monitoring projects time frame/budget and revision and signing contracts and service level agreements.  ? Main Projects: Nile City Fairmount Hotel, Nile City Towers, Belton, HC, BNB Paribas, EFG-Hermes, Cairo Festival Mall, Mall of Africa, Orascom Hotels and Development and Egyptian Intelligence.    • Technical/Sales Support Manager:  ? Designed and recommended solutions to include product types, quantities and placement of equipment based on standards, specifications and requirements. Performed hardware calculations (RAID storage, routers, switches) for CCTV and access control projects.  ? Prepared submittals, schematics, workshop drawings, technical literature for client approval.  ? Executed troubleshooting, site(s) inspection, project monitoring, final assessment and completed preparation of the documents for project closing, prepared proposals, quotations, contracts and orders processing.  • Areas of Specialty: CCTV, Access Control, Fire and Burglar Alarm and Fire Fighting.  • Mastered Winmag Plus - IQ8C/M & Network (ESSER by Honeywell - Germany).  • Trained on ISO Standards, Quality Costs, Quality Improvement Tools and Internal quality Auditing (American University in Cairo) Technical Computer Assistant King Fahad National Guard Hospital - Riyadh, SA October 1994 to October 1998 • Data gathering and analysis for generating statistics and reports.  • Design and preparing presentations to higher management executives. Computer System/Network Engineer and Software Engineering Development Hewlett Packard - Cairo, EG September 1988 to September 1994 • Developed customer applications (Inventory, Payroll, Hotels, Insurance, Voice recognition and Medical Applications using C, C++, Powerhouse, and Informix under UNIX.  • Instructed technical courses to clients in UNIX, SCO UNIX, Powerhouse, Informix SQL and Networking.  • System Administration for UNIX, mastered LAN/WAN, TCP/IP and configuring routers and switches.  • Mastered IVR, SQL, Database Technology, FORTRAN, Advanced Basic and System Analysis and Design. Education Master of Science in Cybersecurity Stratford University 2016 Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Communication Engineering Cairo University 1988 Skills Security, access, Active Directory, Microsoft Office, SQL