Senior IT Specialist / SME, ACA File Transfer Infrastructure Support Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> Specialist / SME, ACA File Transfer Infrastructure Support Senior IT Specialist/SME, ACA File Transfer Infrastructure Support - Internal Revenue Service Washington, DC • Active MBI / Public Trust security clearance issued 02/04/2016 through IRS.  • Over 30 years experience with computer software for development and services in academia, media, government, insurance and financial institutions.  • Contributed within the configuration/environment team to the development and services of the IRS modernization projects (CADE/CADE2/Windows 7 Migration).  • Provided full support as Endevor Administrator for the IRS Tier 1 (Mainframe) configuration/software management team.  • Had sole responsibility over maintaining departmental configuration/change management, Endevor, for both host (IBM Mainframe) and client servers (Windows).  • Maintained schedules for departmental configuration/change management, Endevor, for both host and client servers.  • Performed the testing after the initial Endevor installation was completed; attempted to duplicate any potential programmer problems; performed parallel testing between the old and new versions to ensure that there were no negative impacts.  • Assisted the corporate project team to establish corporate standards and procedures for configuration/change management on the newly installed software management control system for host and client servers.  • Created and updated the ISO9001 configuration management documentation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior IT Specialist / SME, ACA File Transfer Infrastructure Support Internal Revenue Service - Martinsburg, WV February 2016 to Present Martinsburg, WV 02/2016-Present  Senior IT Specialist / SME, ACA File Transfer Infrastructure Support  Moderate Contractor Investigation security clearance (MBI / Public Trust)  • Transfer files to/from IBM, UNISYS, LINUX/UNIX and Wintel platforms utilizing numerous technologies.  • Provide support for ACA File Transfer Infrastructure development and support to the ACA development, testing and deployment  • Work as part of an Integrated Project Team (IPT) utilizing the Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) Enterprise Life Cycle (ELC) and/or Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) path and methodology. IT Specialist, EPA Windows Environmental Protection Agency - Washington, DC June 2015 to January 2016 7 Hardware Refresh Project  Moderate Contractor Investigation security clearance (Public Trust)  • Deployed Windows 7 operating system to all new and existing EPA hardware.  • Performed pre-migration activities to capture all files and programs to be migrated.  • Followed standard documentation to install applications, transfer user data, and record asset information.  • Performed post-migration activities to ensure all files and applications were successfully installed.  • Updated the status on Remedy for each machine as it was being migrated to Window 7.  • Provided Window 7 desktop support. IT Specialist Internal Revenue Service - Lanham, MD September 2012 to April 2015 IRS Windows7 Migration Project  Moderate Contractor Investigation security clearance (MBI / Public Trust)  • Deployed Windows 7 operating system to all new and existing IRS hardware worldwide.  • Performed pre-migration activities to capture all files and programs to be migrated.  • Followed standard documentation to install applications, transfer user data, and record asset information.  • Performed post-migration activities to ensure all files and applications were successfully installed.  • Updated the status on SharePoint for each machine as it was being migrated to Window 7.  • Provided Window 7 desktop support. Senior Mainframe IT Specialist Internal Revenue Service - Martinsburg, WV May 2012 to August 2012 IRS CADE2 Project  Moderate Contractor Investigation security clearance (MBI)  • Provided shoulder-to-shoulder operations on-site support at Martinsburg (MTB), WV, Memphis, TN (MEM) and Detroit, MI (DET).  • Provided shoulder-to-shoulder problem resolution support, technical documentation and mentoring and on call for problem resolution at MTB or other sites as requested.  • Provided support and assistance with AutoEdit Variables to the CSA's and schedulers.  • Provided technical advice and assistance on the CADE2 projects on the IBM Mainframe Systems and provided shoulder-to-shoulder support to IBM CSAs.  • Analyzed and resolved production and database problems related to CADE2.  • Provided shoulder-to-shoulder support and actively participated in problem resolution.  • Assisted in the interpretation as well as the usage of TMON/DB2 online monitoring.  • Evaluated Job Control Language (JCL) to assist in resolving production problems.  • Provided SME and technical feedback and assistance to operations, technical analysts, schedulers, and all technicians regarding IBM compatible products such as Control M, Control D, CA-Dispatch and Endevor, Control-M Enterprise Manager, Forecast, and Analyzer.  • Supported the development, testing, storage environments for the mainframe.  • Supported the production environments for mainframe.  • Developed triage and resolution documentation for P1/P2 incidents in the FIT and Production environments to be included in the SOCC knowledge database.  • Assisted in Disaster Recovery planning and documentation.  • Supported performance design, monitoring, tuning, testing, and problem resolution.  • Evaluated Assembler Language to assist in resolving production problems. Senior Mainframe Security Specialist Internal Revenue Service - Martinsburg, WV September 2009 to October 2010 IRS Security & Disclosure Branch/User Admin./Cybersecurity  Moderate Contractor Investigation security clearance (MBI)  • Moved the DSAS application programmed in REXX from IRS' Detroit Computing Center to Martinsburg Computing Center.  • Performed in depth analyses to identify, evaluate, and prepare reports or recommendations for new or improved goals, products and services controls or procedures.  • Provided technical assistance regarding security measures, safeguards, and requirements.  • Reviewed and analyzed audit trail (SMF data records) and /or security reports and identified and initiated investigations of security incidents.  • Troubleshot and resolved user's problems.  • Implemented new security features on new systems and applications.  • Reviewed security change on upgrade to hardware/software.  • Reviewed security interfaces with various software products.  • Applied National Office Directives to local applications systems.  • Met with oversight teams.  • Prepared monthly status reports for management.  • Documented all procedures.  • Demonstrated all procedures to government personnel.  • Provided any (and all) training necessary for the knowledge transfer process (i.e. created training documents, wrote technical manuals, and recommended formalized training programs).  • Shared technical knowledge with IRS personnel.  • Performed other TIER I duties (including RACF Administration and maintenance/support to the DSAS system) as needed using REXX language and DB2 concepts.  • Developed access matrix for an estimated 2000 dataset profile(s) against 800 group profile(s).  • Developed and documented the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for the access matrix.  • Traveled in support of the DSAS software move from ECC-DCC to ECC-MTB. Software Engineer Lead, CSC Federal-Civil Sector/O & M/Configuration-Environment Management Internal Revenue Service - Lanham, MD March 2007 to February 2009 Lanham, MD 3/2007-2/2009  Software Engineer Lead, CSC Federal-Civil Sector/O & M/Configuration-Environment Management  Moderate Contractor Investigation security clearance (MBI)  • Worked in a team of multiple contractors on the IRS CADE (Prime) modernization project.  • Provided IBM Mainframe z/OS support for the Production and 26 Testing environments.  • Coordinated closely with the Development, CM, QA, DB, Deployment, Release, and Production Support teams within CSC and IRS Martinsburg to insure successful software delivery to Production environment.  • Assisted Test Engineers with the successful testing of new software in all 26 Test environments, including UAT, SAT, and FIT.  • Maintained baselines within Endevor (test source code) and Sourcesafe (production source code).  • Performed build preparation activities using REXX programs for all environments receiving software changes.  • Performed environment deployment activities for different testing phases.  • Created installation instructions for all environments.  • Debugged development, DB2, CICS, MQ Series, Endevor, and Control-M problems encountered in Production and Test environments.  • Tracked the submission of Production and Test problem tickets in two Clearquest databases.  • Prescreened defects for distribution to appropriate departments for resolution.  • Worked to complete reports to management.  • Worked on network, general access, userid, and related issues. Senior System Support Analyst, BCBS Commercial Systems Blue Cross Blue Shield - Columbia, SC November 2006 to January 2007 • Made recommendations to management to adjust system performance parameters.  • Delegated problem resolution to other team members and conducted follow-up.  • Updated problem reporting systems.  • Provided design recommendations based on long-term IT organization strategy.  • Participated in the development of custom integration solutions.  • Participated in work sessions and walkthroughs for implementation.  • Acted as an internal consultant, advocate, mentor, and change agent. Data Center Operations Analyst, TWP The Washington Post (Pronto Solutions, Inc - McLean, VA June 2006 to October 2006 Information Technology Department  • Provided application, network, systems (UNIX), and server (Windows) monitoring; print management; data backup and restore capability (Veritas); job spawning; trouble ticketing; problem escalation; problem management and ad-hoc client requests in support of a 24x7x365 enterprise wide computing environment. Endevor System Administrator Internal Revenue Service - Lanham, MD February 2001 to October 2005 CA Services Federal Division  Moderate Contractor Investigation security clearance (MBI)  • Provided full administrative support of Endevor for OS/390 (Tier 1) within IRS configuration management ACS/ICS Operating Systems Section and IBM/Print Section. This included the transmission of change modules from the National Office to the Control Centers in Martinsburg, Detroit, and Memphis for access by the satellite offices nationwide.  • Assisted with design, implementation, and maintenance of Endevor for MVS environments.  • Implemented and managed the software development life cycle.  • Assisted with the installation of a new version of Endevor.  • Created and executed processors.  • Assisted management with concepts and techniques.  • Analyzed Endevor processors including symbolics and overrides for improvements.  • Compiled a listing of any client concerns, issues, questions, and suggestions with the Endevor product. Senior Systems Engineer Policy Management Systems Corp January 1996 to February 2000 Assisted with maintaining corporate configuration management, Endevor, for both host and client servers.  • Worked closely with programmers, QA analysts, systems engineers, DB administrators, and managers from other departments to resolve current problems, as well as prevent future ones.  • Assisted with the mainframe conversion, installation, and testing from PDS/Panvalet to Endevor as well as with the client server conversion, installation, and testing to Endevor.  • Assisted corporate project team in establishing corporate standards and procedures for configuration management.  • Created and controlled updates to ISO9001 documentation for defining software management system environments.  • Built DB2 databases shells and loaded them with test data.  • Resolved any problems for DB2 databases and software management systems for development and services.  • Tested new version of software management system; analyzed differences between the old and new version; attempted to duplicate potential programming problems.  • Packaged entire host and workstation deliverables for installations and assisted with system inquiries resolutions and packaging. Senior System Engineer Policy Management Systems Corp - Columbia, SC August 1983 to February 2000 Education BS in Business Administration University of South Carolina - Columbia, SC AA in Liberal Arts Anderson College - Anderson, SC Additional Information Technical Skills    IBM Mainframe Endevor OS/390 MVS JCL Veritas  Client Server Endevor Z/OS Zeke DOS Topaz  IBM Mainframe DB2 AS/400 UCC7 SCL Sitescope  Client Server DB2 UNIX QMF SQL Openview  Control-M / Control-O SDSF Remedy XML Patrol Explorer  JES2 IDMS DASD ABEND Aid Omegamon  IBM Utilities FileAid LAN/WAN COBOL Sourcesafe  TSO/ISPF IMS Wordperfect VSAM Clearquest  MS Office CICS Panvalet/PDS TMON Lotus Notes  Windows 7/Vista/XP/NT/98/95 MQ Series RACF REXX VPN