Heatmap Analyst Heatmap <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Heatmap Analyst - Robert Half Technology Lakewood, OH Proactive and results driven professional seeking a rewarding career in law enforcement and information systems technology. Expansive knowledge of crime analysis, digital forensics, and incident response. Strong investigative mindset along with critical thinking and advanced problem solving skills. Demonstrated leadership skills in crisis management settings coupled with a strong ability to plan, direct and organize project work. Core qualifications in:    • Project Management & Coordination  • Developing Business Relationships  • Research & Investigation    • Technical Analysis  • Teaching & Mentoring  • Proposal & Policy Writing Work Experience Heatmap Analyst Robert Half Technology - Cleveland, OH June 2019 to Present • Uses AirMagnet WiFi Analyzer Pro to create new field surveys and measure wi-fi signals with heatmapping.  • Isolates, monitors and troubleshoots WiFi connectivity and network performance issues.  • Creates survey analytics. Information Systems Security Analyst City of Cleveland - Division of Water - Cleveland, OH February 2019 to Present • Performed digital forensics investigations relating to using city computers, phones and resources for inappropriate and criminal activities.  • Ensured that information systems security policies, documentation and instructions were updated, implemented and maintained.  • Supported users with account administration, software installations, and system troubleshooting.  • Completed IT audit of all computer equipment, and replaced outdated computer equipment for all departments. Cyber Security Trainer DriveBytes Technology Solutions - Lakewood, OH July 2017 to Present • Instructed users on basic cyber security practices including how to defend against phishing, viruses, identity theft and other online threats.  • Instructed users how to use anti-virus software and anti-malware, along with how to use social media applications safely.  • Assisted users in cleaning machines of possible threats. IT Support Specialist Verizon Connect - Solon, OH November 2016 to January 2017 • Assisted with fleet GPS device issues: login credentials, menu navigation and administration, unit software setup and software bugs.  • Utilized Salesforce to research both hardware and software based problems in order to resolve user issues. IT Team Lead for Ohio Virtual Academy Robert Half Technology - Cleveland, OH August 2014 to October 2016 • Set up computers for students taking state tests and provided troubleshooting with the student computers.  • Supported connectivity issues, login issues, and user permission status.    IT HelpDesk Representative for Mercy Health/Summa Health  • Assisted in troubleshooting issues within the Mercy Health CarePath/EPIC application.  • Identified login issues, supported security application access and access permissions for restricted applications and in-house software.    IT Team Lead for Epiphany Management Group  • Provided strategic technology planning for Cleveland Heights/University Heights School District  • Established IT inventory and tracked all new hardware Substitute Teacher Educational Service Center of Cuyahoga County - Independence, OH November 2014 to March 2016 • Taught grades k-12 in a wide variety of content areas across multiple districts including: Parma, Rocky River, Bay Village and Avon Lake.  • Managed a calm classroom environment that promoted learning. Information Technology Online Support Representative Teletech - Amherst, OH November 2012 to August 2013 Tier 2)  • Triage and Tier 2 computer support by phone and hands-on remote access software using VMWare in a call center environment.  • Installed, configured, supported and performed troubleshooting duties on Windows XP and 7 desktop operating systems for consumers.  • Removed viruses, malware, spyware, adware, rootkits and performed backups, restores and uninstalls. Graduate Assistant - Training and Instructional Designer Cleveland State University - Cleveland, OH August 2010 to January 2011 • Designed and wrote a course on "Communication between Multiple Generations in the Workplace".  • Facilitated leadership programming and management courses for university employees to improve employee performance.  • Wrote and distributed internal HR communications, training assessments and university training schedule. Direct Sales Representative WOW Cable - Berea, OH August 2009 to April 2010 • Consulted with customers to help determine their cable needs.  • Went door to door and sold cable, internet and phone services to residential customers.  • Maintained an 85% - 90% closing sales ratio. Instructor Westwood College of Technology - Denver, CO April 2008 to July 2009 • Taught a Criminal Justice Policy course, Communications courses and an Introduction to Computers course.  • Managed departmental communications projects.  • Wrote and revised internal communications regarding policy and procedure. Special Education Teacher - Day Treatment Center & Residential Facility University of Colorado at Denver - Addiction Research & Treatment Services - Denver, CO September 2006 to May 2007 Denver, Colorado 9/2006 - 5/2007  Special Education Teacher - Day Treatment Center & Residential Facility  • Managed 60 learning disabled students and wrote assessments and goals for students along with lesson plans, progress reports and IEP's.  • Taught Math and Science at the Residential Facility for boys including: Math Refresher, Algebra 1, Algebra 2, Geometry, Pre-GED Math, and GED Math, Life Science, Biology, Earth Science, Chemistry, Pre-GED Science and GED Science. Long Term Substitute Science/ Special Ed Teacher Cuyahoga Hills Juvenile Correctional Facility - Highland Hills, OH June 2005 to November 2005 • Taught Science and English to learning disabled students.  • Wrote goals for over 50 students along with lesson plans and progress reports.  • Planned, supervised and participated in institutional treatment activities. Substitute Teacher - Special Education Board of Education - Multiple School Districts in Ohio September 2003 to May 2005 • Adapted course curriculum and worked with students individually to help them fully understand the subject they were being taught.  • Helped learning disabled students develop emotionally and be aware of socially acceptable behavior. Human Resources Assistant Manager Air Reserve Personnel Center - Denver, CO January 2002 to June 2002 • Managed Air Force assignments and separations for fifteen different commands.  • Assisted Program Managers by conducting position reviews and maintaining military files/ records in Oracle HR.  • Verified eligibility requirements were met, so Air Force IMA's could go to their next assignment.  • Ensured integrity of classified material. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Technology in Information Assurance Wilmington University - New Castle, DE Graduate Certificate in Management in Information Systems Cleveland State University - Cleveland, OH Master of Education in Curriculum & Instruction in Curriculum & Instruction Ashland University - Ashland, OH