IT Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Analyst Houston, TX Help Desk Support Analyst, offering LAN, VOip and desktop support with18 years related experience with significant expertise in the following areas:    LAN System Support: Tracing and Running Drops, Resolving DNS issues, TCP configuration, Active Directory account management (user and OU), IP troubleshooting, assisting in switch diagnostics and replacement, server backup using Veritas. MS Server support including storage consolidation/expansion, RIB replacement, Chassis and Rack installation and configuration, Network and Local Printer support. VOIP phone installation using Cisco, Nortel and Mitel equipment. Familiar with usage of Cisco and Mitel Admin Console.    Citrix Installation and Support: Configuring ICA/Web connections to Citrix Farm, Printer Diagnostics using Citrix, Storage maintenance, modifications of applications in Citrix Environment due to TCP/IP network changes affecting Citrix Farm and resolving Web access and printing via the print server.    Desktop and Laptop Support: Deskside training of users as request or conference type. Imaging with Symantec, SCCM, SMS, Ghost and Dell Kace Solutions and Alteris Solution. Migrating User Data, Implementation of Active Directory User/Computer Account creation and maintenance, Windows 8/7/ to Windows 10 migration, push of Group Policies. Replacement/upgrade of hardware in laptops and desktops, Resolving VPN (MS RDP, VNC, and Juniper), certificate installs and Remote connectivity. OneDrive and Office 365 connectivity. Installation/Repair of MS Office products. Installing BCP and SAP interface to MS Office. Trade floor support, installation/Support of JD Edwards in Unix environment by configuring Hot Keys, Resolution of Wireless connectivity in and outside of office environment. Initial SMS implantation training. Support of in-house software. Hardware deployment/recovery through inventory. Oracle and SQL TNS and end-point resolutions.    McAfee EPO Management: Push and pull of agents (Deploy), review of daily events, troubleshooting of machine policies. Working with Admininistrators during implantation of new policies by creating templates. Proactive deletion of malware and viruses remotely while working closely with System Admin to distribute new policies, patches using web consoles.    Symantec Altiris Imaging and packaging control: Imaging up to 15 computers at a time through scheduling over-appropriated VLAN, joining to appropriated groups and setting up Lotus Notes, pre-delivery with SCCM-Based Imaging process to computers that required such measures. Create and distribute reports for troubleshooting or security. Configuration Manager troubleshooting Work Experience IT Analyst JMS Technical, NY March 2019 to Present Client: Law Firm  • Roll out upgrade of 100 Windows 10 laptops and desktops from 1709 to 1803  • Training end users of new Outlook and MS Office products  • Responsible for assuring network policy distribution and connectivity to SCCM infrastructure.  • Assuring end-user connectivity to print server and other media appliances.  • Assured Software Compliance  • Security controls measures  • Global solutions due to migrations  • IDF management (PID, cable, trace)  • Inventory of site  • 3rd tier global solutions for Deskside Technicians Quality Assurance Analyst Compucom, TX March 2018 to November 2018 Client: SABIC  • Manage and assist a team of 19 techs in level 2 issues as they arise.  • Training end-users on new software and hardware.  • Responsible for assuring network policy distribution and connectivity to SCCM infrastructure.  • Assuring end-user connectivity to print server and other media appliances.  • Mandate Software Compliance to network infrastructure  • Security controls measures  • SOX compliance data management  • Global solutions due to migrations  • IDF management (PID, cable, trace)  • Asset security management  • Assist high-level managers in data management  • 3rd tier solutions for Deskside Technicians IT Deployment Team Leader End-point Backup solutions - Houston, TX November 2017 to March 2018 • End-point Backup solutions  • Troubleshooting Voip issues    MurTech, TX (contract)  11/2017 to 3/2018  Hired as Deskside ll for Compucom transferred to Quality Assurance Analyst    Client: SABIC  • Manage and assist a team of 19 techs in level 2 issues as they arise.  • Training end-users on new software and hardware.  • Assuring network policy distribution and connectivity to SCCM infrastructure.  • Assuring end-user connectivity to print server and other media appliances.  • Security controls measures  • SOX compliance data management  • Global solutions for migration of Windows 7 to 10  • Network management IP, cable replacement, trace  • Asset security management  • Assist high-level managers in data management  • 3rd tier solutions for Deskside Technicians  • Mandate all software conforms to security specs  • Troubleshooting Voip issues and installation    PatriotHRS/Insperity, Houston, Texas (contract)  7/2017 to 10/2017  IT Deployment Team Leader    Client: BASF  • Assignments to multiple sites, including Research, Corporate, and Plant operations.  • The rollout of 600 computers, Windows 7 to Windows 8 migration.  • SCCM-Based Imaging used on computers that required such measures.  • Daily updates with Project Manager and client.  • Manage and assist a team of 4 techs in level 2 issues as they arise.  • Training end-users on new software and hardware.  • Assuring network policy distribution and connectivity to SCCM infrastructure.  • Assuring end-user connectivity to print server and other media appliances.    United Protection Services, Houston, Texas  9/2014 to 7/2017  Security Guard Level 2  • Assignments to multiple high profile locations, including the Canadian Consulate  • Responsible for repair of 2 desktops and Silient© Camera System with 24 cameras and media server.  • Chain of custody control of network media and certification of evidence.  • Immediate report of instrumental issues to engineers and building management with hands-on remediation.  • Elevator operational inspection.  • Fire System inspection and first line response certified Fire Warden.  • Commission Level 2 firearms, conflict resolution, and tactical training.    Experis, Houston, Texas (contract)  7/2012 to 1/2013  Desktop III    Client: Technip  • Responsible for multiple sites. Responsible for local deskside and phone support.  • Responsible for completing Windows 7 migrations/MS Office 2010 with Outlook 2010.  • Image placement PXE with SCCM, RDP, imaging using Symantec Packages Solutions.  • Conduct approved Data/email migration, printer installation and troubleshooting, JD Edwards installation and printing issues.  • Resolved Citrix, Active Directory user/computer maintenance.  • Cisco 6270 and 6245 phone installations.  • Installation and support of various specialized software, Reauthorization of Packages, Lotus Notes 8.5.2 upgrades and installs/troubleshooting.  • Printer installation, driver management, troubleshooting hardware  • User Rights Management through Active Directory of software and hardware, active directory policies push to node    Robert Half, Houston, Texas (contract)  11/2010 to 1/2012  Desktop III    Client: Oiltanking  • Assigned to Administration Headquarters, while remotely supporting 5 US sites with some travel.  • Responsible for local deskside and remote support for remote users US wide.  • Completing Windows XP-7 computer migrations, McAfee EPO management.  • Image design, VNC/RDP, imaging using Dell's Kace with PXE deployment  • Creation and maintenance of ESXi VMware servers for the implementation of Citrix farms and deployment nodes.  • Local data migration, printer installation and troubleshooting  • Resolved Citrix issues timeouts/printing using Admin console, Active Directory user/computer maintenance.  • Network Admin Level I. duties in troubling shooting network connectivity issues, daily off-site backups and switch replacement.  • VoIP phone installations using Mitel solutions and console for 300 nodes.  • Installation and support of various specialized software, McAfee EPO management console, Lotus Notes 8.5.2 upgrades and installs/troubleshooting.    Sapphire Technologies, Houston, TX (contract)  10/2009 to 9/2010  Desktop II    Client: Bank of New York Mellon, El Paso Energy, Texas  • Responsible for 100% of the Business continuity project due to hurricane Ike flood (Disaster Recovery Site).  • Imaging using Altiris or Ghost 10.  • Direct collaboration with IT vendors.  • Data migration, printer installation and troubleshooting.  • Remediation of old computers and printer.  • Installation of rack appliances UPS and Cisco VOIP 6500 series router.  • Assisted in troubling shooting network connectivity issues with Network Administrators (Smart Hands).  • Installation of various specialized software including McAfee EPO agents.  • Lotus Notes 8.0 upgrades, installs, and troubleshooting.    BJ Services, Houston, Texas  10/1999 to 2/2009  Computer Site Administrator  • Responsible for a wide variety of IT services, including superior support for users in three district offices of a service provider to the oil/gas industry which included customer consultation to use propriety software.  • RIB replacement, Server, Chassis and Rack installation and configuration, Network and Local Printer support. Server, UPS, local network construction, security system admin for doors and cameras  • Consistently achieved compliance with required plus/minus 10% of established project budgets, primarily working independently.  • Research of latest technologies presented recommendations for management approval and routed orders to procurement while working closely with IT vendors  • Collaborated with vendors regarding implementation and configuration of building's security system.  • McAfee EPO virus protection and inventory management console  • Provided support for Blackberry-enabled Lotus Notes, and installation (PIM method)  • Distributed re-configured laptops following upgrades, warranty expiration and needed hardware repairs.  • Performed complex Oracle client installation to proprietary software, along with IBM client configuration for AS400.  • Provided troubleshooting of Citrix client and local IP switch networking.  • Installed and supported Windows 2000 and XP at three district offices.  • Provided installation of MS Office Suite for new employees and moves.  • Project Lead /Scheduler for MS Office 98 roll-out.    COLLEGE, CERTIFICATIONS, AND TRAINING Security Guard Level 2 United Protection Services - Houston, TX September 2014 to July 2017 • Assignments to multiple high profile locations, including the Canadian Consulate  • Responsible for repair of 2 desktops and Silient© Camera System with 24 cameras and media server.  • Chain of custody control of network media and certification of evidence.  • Immediate report of instrumental issues to engineers and building management with hands-on remediation.  • Elevator operational inspection.  • Fire System inspection and first line response certified Fire Warden.  • Commission Level 2 firearms, conflict resolution, and tactical training. Experis - Houston, TX July 2012 to January 2013 Desktop III    Client: Technip  • Responsible for multiple sites. Responsible for local deskside and phone support.  • Responsible for completing Windows 7 migrations/MS Office 2010 with Outlook 2010.  • Image placement PXE with SCCM, RDP, imaging using Symantec Packages Solutions.  • Conduct approved Data/email migration, printer installation and troubleshooting, JD Edwards installation and printing issues.  • Resolved Citrix, Active Directory user/computer maintenance.  • Cisco 6270 and 6245 phone installations.  • Installation and support of various specialized software, Reauthorization of Packages, Lotus Notes 8.5.2 upgrades and installs/troubleshooting.  • Printer installation, driver management, troubleshooting hardware  • User Rights Management through Active Directory of software and hardware, active directory policies push to node Robert Half - Houston, TX November 2010 to January 2012 Desktop III    Client: Oiltanking  • Assigned to Administration Headquarters, while remotely supporting 5 US sites with some travel.  • Responsible for local deskside and remote support for remote users US wide.  • Completing Windows XP-7 computer migrations, McAfee EPO management.  • Image design, VNC/RDP, imaging using Dell's Kace with PXE deployment  • Creation and maintenance of ESXi VMware servers for the implementation of Citrix farms and deployment nodes.  • Local data migration, printer installation and troubleshooting  • Resolved Citrix issues timeouts/printing using Admin console, Active Directory user/computer maintenance.  • Network Admin Level I. duties in troubling shooting network connectivity issues, daily off-site backups and switch replacement.  • VoIP phone installations using Mitel solutions and console for 300 nodes.  • Installation and support of various specialized software, McAfee EPO management console, Lotus Notes 8.5.2 upgrades and installs/troubleshooting. Sapphire Technologies - Houston, TX October 2009 to September 2010 Desktop II    Client: Bank of New York Mellon, El Paso Energy, Texas  • Responsible for 100% of the Business continuity project due to hurricane Ike flood (Disaster Recovery Site).  • Imaging using Altiris or Ghost 10.  • Direct collaboration with IT vendors.  • Data migration, printer installation and troubleshooting.  • Remediation of old computers and printer.  • Installation of rack appliances UPS and Cisco VOIP 6500 series router.  • Assisted in troubling shooting network connectivity issues with Network Administrators (Smart Hands).  • Installation of various specialized software including McAfee EPO agents.  • Lotus Notes 8.0 upgrades, installs, and troubleshooting. Computer Site Administrator BJ Services - Houston, TX October 1999 to February 2009 • Responsible for a wide variety of IT services, including superior support for users in three district offices of a service provider to the oil/gas industry which included customer consultation to use propriety software.  • RIB replacement, Server, Chassis and Rack installation and configuration, Network and Local Printer support. Server, UPS, local network construction, security system admin for doors and cameras  • Consistently achieved compliance with required plus/minus 10% of established project budgets, primarily working independently.  • Research of latest technologies presented recommendations for management approval and routed orders to procurement while working closely with IT vendors  • Collaborated with vendors regarding implementation and configuration of building's security system.  • McAfee EPO virus protection and inventory management console  • Provided support for Blackberry-enabled Lotus Notes, and installation (PIM method)  • Distributed re-configured laptops following upgrades, warranty expiration and needed hardware repairs.  • Performed complex Oracle client installation to proprietary software, along with IBM client configuration for AS400.  • Provided troubleshooting of Citrix client and local IP switch networking.  • Installed and supported Windows 2000 and XP at three district offices.  • Provided installation of MS Office Suite for new employees and moves.  • Project Lead /Scheduler for MS Office 98 roll-out.    COLLEGE, CERTIFICATIONS, AND TRAINING Education Bachelors of Information Technology in Information Technology Western Governors University Skills Active directory (10+ years), Cisco (3 years), Citrix (6 years), Juniper (2 years), Vmware (6 years), IT testing (10+ years), IT Security (1 year), IT training (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ August 1999 to Present The A+ certification is a basic certification that demonstrates proficiency with computer hardware and operating systems (OS). It is governed by nonprofit trade association CompTIA. The A+ certification helps prove the recipient's proficiency with the use of computers and related devices. CompTIA Project Plus July 2014 to Present Professionals who need to manage smaller, less complex projects as part of their other job duties but still have foundational project management skills. Project+ is more versatile than other certifications because it covers essential project management concepts beyond the scope of just one methodology or framework. CompTIA Network+ September 2009 to Present Network+ (Network Plus) is a mid-level certification for network technicians. This certification is designed to test the competency of a mid-level network technician in supporting and configuring TCP/IP clients in terms of network design, cabling, hardware setup, configuration, installation, support, and troubleshooting. CompTIA Security+ February 2010 to Present Security+ certification is an international, vendor-neutral professional certification provided by CompTIA for IT professionals who want to become certified in IT security.  The certification deals with various IT security topics such as cryptography and access control, as well as topics in the business-related IT subfields of risk management and disaster recovery. Security Guard Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fcd9jbhfkhsprj2f Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ika7c-7etcwnxwrj Customer Focus & Orientation — Proficient June 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sig-wddf7xluh5ab Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.