Licensed Benefits Counselor Licensed Benefits Counselor Licensed Benefits Counselor - Life & Health York, PA A creative and resourceful leader able to solve problems by unconventional means. Experienced at various levels of administration from data entry to work delegation. Skilled at working with others and autonomously. Discreet with confidential information and delicate issues. Ability to adapt, strategize and overcome stressful situations. Familiar with HIPAA and NIST SP 800 Series. Work Experience Licensed Benefits Counselor Life & Health - Urbandale, IA August 2017 to Present • Answer incoming calls to assist in enrollment.  • Provides a consultative experience & communicates accurate answers regarding products  • Handling inquiries by communicating in a clear, concise & confident manner in order to provide an excellent customer service experience in a fast-paced work environment  • Facilitate enrollment benefits package  • Enters all information related to the call for reporting purposes  • Works with internal business partners to achieve business unit results  • Resolve all inquiries that require research or additional information by utilizing the appropriate resources & provide timely follow up as necessary  • Ensure that all transactions are submitted in a timely & accurate manner  • Ensures carrier, state, & company guidelines are adhered to  • Act as a successful team member by being receptive to feedback/coaching, follow all standard operating procedures, display reliability & have willingness to develop & consistently improve  • Analyze process, approve & deny HRA claims for completeness & accuracy in a timely manner.  • Process & review retiree funding valuations, benefit calculations.  • Understand and effectively communicate retiree issues and potential solutions to tier 2.  • Develop and maintain retiree/ client relationships  • Build personal expertise while becoming a resource for others within the practice  • Inspire a collaborative team environment  • Encourage growth in other members of the team through knowledge and idea sharing Cyber Security & HIPAA Compliance Specialist, (REMOTE) Waukee, IA April 2016 to March 2017 External and Internal Vulnerability Testing and Reporting using a variety of security tools.  Web App Penetration Testing and Reporting using a variety of security tools such as Burp Suite  • Auditing to include interviewing staff, reviewing applications, OS system controls, and analyzing physical access to the system to ensure compliance with government and industry regulations.  • Remediation of technical issues found during assessments including software configurations, software updates, firewall rule updates, and process creation/updates.  • Conducted Kick-off calls & Executive Briefings over the phone. Sr. Email Security Analyst & Messaging Anti-Abuse Administrator MEDIACOM December 2009 to April 2016 • Protect e-mail infrastructure from blended threats including spam, viruses, denial-of-service & harvest attacks phishing. Monitor of RBL's, abuse, FBL's & Postmaster accounts.  • Push firmware, lock email accounts for phishing/spamming; unlock email accounts after education of violation, included identity access management (IAM).  • Tasked with the un-provisioning of modems for unsecured networks and/or abuse noting ACSR. Worked remotely off site on rotating shift using. I work closely with Cloud Mark and their Server Management Application and Zimbra's Admin Console. Sr. Help Desk Coordinator MEDIACOM March 2006 to December 2009 • As a Data Center Administrator I answered internal Tier I, II, & III trouble call tickets in a prompt and professional manner. I obtained necessary information using Broadband Access Center, MTA Inspector, Cable Edge, Diamond IP, Image Control Supervisor, Rumba 2000, Remedy, PTK, CEON IPS, CNR Cisco Network Registrar, C-COR, and CSG/ACSR, emails, LINKS, IMs, & other tools for resolution of Tier III tickets.  • My duties were performed as assigned, which included identity access management (IAM), voice over IP trouble calls using Remedy as admin, High Speed Data trouble calls, some rudimentary UNIX/ Solaris operating systems and SQL database user tasks. Technical Support Technician Sprint/Nextel January 2006 to March 2006 • Provided Tier 1 trouble shooting calls for the Hand Held Blackberry. Task to handle inbound calls, which consisted of trouble-shooting client's cell phone Internet connection and GPS Tracking.  • Set-up email and/or setting them up for the Blackberry Enterprise Server (BES).  • Responsible for resolving technical support request from customers. Took ownership of the customer's issue or request and achieved a resolution.  IT Related Professional Experience    Verizon Wireless  Sr. Technical Support Coordinator - April12 /2005 to June18/2005  Patriot Technologies, LLC IT Contractor Consultant Technician Security Finance August 2005 to January 2006 Sr. Technical Support Help Desk Tech Bridges of Iowa Inc October 2004 to April 2005 Sr. Program Support Technician August 2002 to September 2004 Education Bachelor's Degree in Security Kaplan University October 2013 to June 2015 Associate's Degree Kaplan University April 2013 to December 2013