Trainman Trainman Information Systems Technician Hammond, IN Work Experience Trainman Gary Railway - Gary, IN May 2019 to Present Currently working at United States Steel as a Trainman for Gary Railway working industries, spotting up the furnaces that produce liquid steel, as well as deliver and return freight from Canadian National’s Kirk Yard back to USS Tin Mill.  Technical Applications Analyst Canadian National Railway - Homewood, IL February 2017 to November 2018 Worked on the Locomotive OnBoard Support (LOBS) team. This team works on the analysis of the Train Management Computer system which is the computer portion of the Positive Train Control system where we analyze logs and support the Back Office Support and Testing Teams to ensure that PTC is functioning in a highly accurate and effective environment. This led to the accomplishment of having 20 subdivisions in revenue and service demonstration for the FRA. IT Analyst CSX Technology - Jacksonville, FL December 2015 to February 2017 Worked on the development and implementation of Positive Train Control. I worked on the Communications portion of the system, i.e. Wayside Radio, Locomotive Radio, 220 MHz Radio, and the development of Back Office Communications Servers. Also worked as a Liaison between Communications and Onboard Systems Support to troubleshoot and get firsthand knowledge of the Communications issues that has caused enforcements for our research and development trains that are currently running in Positive Train Control. Freight Conductor/Remote Control Operator CSX Rail Road - Chicago, IL July 2014 to July 2015 Supervise train crews on a freight train and coordinate switch engine crews.  Place cars to facilitate loading and unloading and the makeup and breakdown of trains in a rail yard, industrial plant, or similar locations.  USNORTHCOM Telecommunications Support to the Commander NORAD March 2007 to January 2010 1 of 4 IT's personally responsible for Communications Support for the Commander. Duties included System Administration, Information Security, Administrative and Logistical support to numerous deployments throughout the world. Systems/Network Administrator - Junior Information Security Specialist USS MUSTIN (DDG-89) Systems February 2004 to February 2007 Leading Cryptologic Communicator - Supervisor responsible for overseeing the processing and communications capabilities for the Sensitive Compartmented Information Networking System.  3M Manager (Maintenance Material Management System) - overseer of installation, maintenance, and operations of all the ships electrical systems which included, computers, satellite equipment, and antennas which lead to receiving two Battle Efficient certifications leading to two deployments. Systems/Network Administrator Seoul, KR November 2002 to December 2003 Assistant Supervisor/Watch stander/Training Petty Officer 2003 to 2003 provided cryptologic support, advice, and assistance to United States and Republic of Korea governments. Personally trained 14 new Sailors how to effectively and efficiently maintain the mission with 99 percent communications reliability. Selected as Performer of the Quarter 2003. Education 220 MHz Radio Training Meteorcomm, LLC - Renton, WA April 2016 to April 2016 REDI Training Center/Freight Conductor Training School - Atlanta, GA July 2014 to September 2014 BS in Computer Information Systems in Information Systems Security DeVry University - Chicago, IL October 2013 Leadership Course Center for Naval Leadership's Work December 2006 Skills SECURITY, ACCESS CONTROL, AUTHENTICATION, INCIDENT RESPONSE, SYSTEM INTEGRATION, Application Support, System Analyst Military Service Branch: United States Navy Service Country: United States Rank: Petty Officer Second Class March 2002 to February 2011 Various IT positions establishing secure and unsecure communications and networks for military and Department of Defense entities throughout the world. Commendations: Performer of the Quarter 2003  Sailor of the Quarter 2010  Navy Achievement Medal  Joint Service Achievement Medal  Joint Service Commendation Medal  Good Conduct Medal  Battle Efficient Medal Additional Information KEY SKILLS    • Network & System Security  • Risk Management  • Vulnerability Assessments  • Authentication & Access Control  • Project Management  • Incident Response    • System Monitoring  • Regulatory Compliance  • System Integration Planning  • Multitier Network Architectures  • Communications  • Railroad    RAILROAD EXPERIENCE    Canadian National Railroad February 2017 - November 2018  • Homewood, IL Technical Applications Analyst, February 2017 - November 2018  Worked on the Locomotive OnBoard Support (LOBS) team. This team works on the analysis of the Train Management Computer system which is the computer portion of the Positive Train Control system where we analyze logs and support the Back Office Support and Testing Teams to ensure that PTC is functioning in a highly accurate and effective environment. This led to the accomplishment of having 20 subdivisions in revenue and service demonstration for the FRA.    CSX Technology December 2015 - February 2017  • Jacksonville, FL IT Analyst I, December 2015 - February 2017  Worked on the development and implementation of Positive Train Control. I worked on the Communications portion of the system, i.e. Wayside Radio, Locomotive Radio, 220 MHz Radio, and the development of Back Office Communications Servers. Also worked as a Liaison between Communications and Onboard Systems Support to troubleshoot and get firsthand knowledge of the Communications issues that has caused enforcements for our research and development trains that are currently running in Positive Train Control.    CSX Railroad July 2014 - February 2017  • Chicago, IL Freight Conductor/ Remote Control Operator, Jul 2014 - Jul 2015  Supervise train crews on a freight train and coordinate switch engine crews. Place cars to facilitate loading and unloading and the makeup and breakdown of trains in a rail yard, industrial plant, or similar locations.