Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Multitask I.T. Specialist Clearwater, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Analyst Apex Systems - Tampa, FL 2018 to 2019 -Handled North America(Canada/U.S.), Latin America(Peru/Brazil/Argentina) and Asian(China) Mosaic Domain users' Microsoft Windows User Accounts.  -Created their Windows NT Accounts , provisioned their Emailbox/O365 Licenses on Azure(Exchange Servers), updated, granted and created permissions in Active Directory to other Mosaic Employees such as Directors, IT Department Employees such as DBA's, Helpdesk, Desktop Support, SAP Consultants, Maximo Consultants/Contractors, etc.  -Provided support to the Mosaic Global Service Desk in Florida, India and Brazil with issues based on their phone calls and email messages that the Global Service Desk would receive from all Mosaic Domain users.  -Coordinated with HR(Workday) in creating and updating employees' Mosaic Windows accounts.  -Supported Windows account migration/creation upon Mosaic buying out several mining companies in South America including their networks.  -On call one week every month on any issues that would come up in the Windows Security Permissions realm from North America to South America and China Mosaic Windows Domains.  -Sometimes users would have other accounts such as SAP Accounts, Maximo Accounts, Maximo FieldGlass, OIS, SiteHawk, IBP, accounts under the MS Windows accounts according to their position/title in the company that the Information Security Analyst would grant or take away permissions/roles/ security groups from.  -Mosaic GlobalServiceDesk Team requests/tasks submitted by Managers, Directors, etc. would be for gaining access to network resources and the correct/proper approvals would have to be in the requests otherwise they would be bounced back to the Global Service Desk.  -Granted or revoked Maximo Security Groups, SAP Roles with or without RBP(Role Based Provision) thru IBM Tivoli Management.  -Provided Server Admin rights access to Oracle(Servers or Databases), Windows Servers, Linux Servers' users thru CyberArk Vault, IBM Tivoli and MS AD.  -In charge of terminating users accounts in Active Directory thru Tivoli upon request.  -Mosaic requestors/users were kept in the loop when MyServiceDesk Tasks were completed by sending confirmation email messages to them on user access to such folders/directories, Service Accounts, Systems(Maximo, SAP, IBP, SiteHawk, FieldGlass) termination accounts, and Windows Servers/Oracle Servers requests for user access confirmation replies. System Support Engineer (Cyber Security) Malwarebytes (Intrusion Detection/Prevention System) - Clearwater, FL 2017 to 2018 -Provided Malwarebytes B2B Support to those companies that paid and used the locally managed Malwarebytes(MBES) version and or the Cloud(MBEP) version, being Malwarebytes Endpoint Security and Malwarebytes Endpoint Protection respectively.  -Helped other companies' I.T. Support reps with installing, deploying, and configuring the Malwarebytes Server/Client software by providing steps via e-mail, chat and or over the phone and thru remote connection tools such as Bomgar and Zoom in the U.S.A, Europe, Asia and Latin America.  -Remotely connected to Windows Servers, Desktops, Laptops, and MAC's to make sure their Windows/MAC environments were set up properly based on Malwarebytes' Software prerequisites to communicate with the Malwarebytes Local Server and/or Cloud accounts, for protection definition updates and scans.  -Specially made sure the Malwarebytes endpoint protection software was set up properly on Citrix Servers by gaining remote access to them and making sure the correct Malwarebytes switches were in place in the Malwarebytes Web Console/Dashboard.  -Due to Malwarebytes endpoint protection software and server communication issues, it was necessary to make sure the endpoints/machines and users of such endpoints were set up properly in the customers Microsoft Active Directory schema based on the fact that MBES(Malwarebytes Endpoint Security) server relies on MS Active Directory for computer discovery, deployment, endpoint protection logs/alerts and asset inventory.  -At times, after acquiring and researching the Malwarebytes logs on the users' machines, it was suggested to make changes in their MS Active Directory GPO or UAC so that Malwarebytes modules of protection would work properly on their networked machines/nodes.  -Created tickets and escalated them accordingly to different teams within the Malwarebytes company.  -Assisted other Malwarebytes Reps, with their tickets, chat sessions, etc.  -Made sure that certain Malwarebytes Alerts/Blocks, were legit by doing research with the Web Protection team(s) so that the customers reporting such Blocks or Alerts would be able to use their Websites and or Applications instead of having Malwarebytes Disable/Block them.  -Kept an open channel of communication with different companies' I.T. tech support members to make sure and resolve virus infections, false positive alerts, endpoint communication issues on a networking, application and account permissions level by gathering necessary logs.  -Rerouted tickets/cases to the Malwarebytes Sales Dept. for account updates if need be. Escalation CoreDesk Verifone - Clearwater, FL 2010 to 2017 -Routinely received phone calls, e-mail messages, webchat interactions on Verifone hardware/software issues from many Merchants/POS companies/Third Party Vendors nationwide.  -Researched merchant accounts in the Verifone Gateway for proper Network transmission, transaction processing, API and hardware provisioning.  -Contacted different processors and POS Vendors on the merchant's behalf to make sure the merchants accounts and or hardware were setup properly on their network thru Microsoft Active Directory so that their run transactions and settlements(bunch of transactions) would go thru properly and capture/approved at the processors to collect their money at the end of the day.  -Helped other POS/Hardware Vendors integrate their systems with Verifone's terminals(Vx/Mx).  -Researched logs for known or unknown issues and escalated/requested tickets/cases to other tech support teams for software Cert signing and or Software creation with the accurate Vendor's encryption.  -Worked closely with L3 reps for immediate ticket/case resolutions.  -Helped other reps overseas, and took ownership of many different tickets in tier 2, tier 3 queues for faster resolution.  -Created and assigned ERS requests to other teams for terminal replacements with the respective BID(Bundle ID/Applications Needed).  -Created KB(Knowledege Base) articles every so often for future reference for other help desk reps.  -Responded via e-mail to other Network(Trustwave), POS(PAR, YUM, Business Software Solutions, etc) companies on issues that needed to be looked into closely based on Verifone logs, or Verifone's PaywareConnect Gateway's logs.  -Helped merchants create their POS Inventory and or upload it on a template to their Global Bay Merchant account.  -Assisted POS tech support reps over the phone in upgrading Verifone Mx/Vx devices from our Citrix Server Software repositories and made sure the correct triggers/flags were enabled in the software updates on the Citrix Server(s) for the correct Vx terminal images to integrate them with their Registers/POSs on the merchant's LAN.  -Sent via Drop Box or Leapfile different software packages to merchants for PCCharge password resets, PaywarePC MS SQL functionality, Payware Mobile App iOS set up, and Mx configuration changes.  -Ran many SQL reports via Payware Connect Gateway Operations Console to solve Verifone Account Issues on a boarding level, to figure why transactions or settlements were not going thru and to find out if the processor and or the Gateway at Verifone were stopping the transactions/settlements.  -Worked with merchants to help them create recurring transactions in their Payware Connect Merchant Console. Endpoint / End User I.T. Support Home Shopping Network - Saint Petersburg, FL 2000 to 2010 -Provided tech support to 5,000 plus HSN employees via e-mail messages/requests, or phone calls.  -Handled Projects on Windows PC Imaging and deployment with the respective applications for different departments.  - Remotely assessed and deciphered many different issues on the fly from Windows, to Virus issues on a remote or a Desktop Support level.  -On a Security Level created and maintained Windows Accounts on HSN employees/users and on nodes/devices such as PC's, Laptops, Printers for proper network resource permissions and LAN/WAN communication using Microsoft Active Directory.  -Assisted and reset Windows /Unix Passwords for local and remote HSN employees alike.  -Escalated Server and Mainframe issues to other I.T. Departments.  -Worked closely and provided tech support to other I.T. Reps working from home using their Citrix Terminal Services account from an Oracle to Windows/Unix server levels.  -Watched over part of HSN Telecom broadcast for immediate Computer Operations assistance being that Help Desk/Desktop Support was in the Computer Operations Data Center building, in the event that Unix/Windows/Mainframe issues came up. Education A.A. in Engineering in Engineering St. Petersburg College - Clearwater, FL Certificate St. Petersburg College C.C.N.A. St. Petersburg College Bachelor's in Computer Science Techsherpas Training Center Skills Active Directory, Security, access, HTML