IT Support Technician <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Technician IT Support Technician - Nutramax Laboratories Heath Springs, SC I am a 20 year IT veteran, with advanced technical abilities, and world class customer/client relations skills. I perform well under pressure (ALWAYS with a smile), yet remain motivated in relaxed situations. I thrive both in group situations and in working alone, with or without supervision.    I seek a local position within roughly 50 miles of my home in Heath Springs (or a remote position) where my technical aptitude and strong communications abilities will prove to be highly useful. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Technician Nutramax Laboratories - Lancaster, SC July 2017 to Present • Provide technical support for 300+ internal and remote users via deskside, phone, and remote assistance sessions.  • Build and deploy desktop and laptop computers. Also deploy and support mobile devices.  • Manage assets and stock inventory via Manage Engine Asset Management system, powered by Zoho.  • Manage technical improvement and upgrade projects; such as conference equipment upfitting, Windows 10 deployment scheduling, and equipment recycling. Founder Canaanland Recordings - Heath Springs, SC March 2016 to Present • Provide music production, songwriting, composing, commercial jingles, theme music, soundtracks, publishing, promotions, voiceover/voice acting, and audiobook narration for production and publishing companies, as well as authors and independent content producers.  • Involved in recording content, mixing audio, editing audio, sales, and client relations.  • Produced commercial spots for Duracell Battery, Meckos Scandinavia, Movidiam LTD., Midrex Global Logistics.  • Produced audiobooks for USA Today Bestseller Shanna Hatfield, US Federal Court Judge Robert Wilkins, other independent authors. Systems and Applications Support Specialist Midrex Technologies - Charlotte, NC September 2011 to March 2016 RFL-Companywide layoff)  • Provided desktop and remote support with 200+ client user base, across 5 offices in 4 countries (US, UK, India & Russia).  • Provided expert level support of Windows operating systems (XP, 7, 8, and 10), as well as the Microsoft Office Suite (2007, 2010, and 2013).  • Administered network and profile security, as well as maintained active directory records.  • Performed disaster recovery backups of all file, database, email, voice, license, application, and development servers (physical and virtual).  • Provisioned virtual servers and zero client workstations using VMWare; managed virtual clusters and storage.  • Imaged machines using ImageX, Sysprep, and Acronis.  • Lead application support for SQL powered Microsoft AX business management ERP software, SharePoint, and Oracle/SQL based Smarteam lifecycle management (ELM/PLM) software.  • Trained users in best computing practices. Sr. IT Specialist Dewberry & Davis, LLC - Charlotte, NC March 2006 to August 2011 RFL-Midrex position)  • Provided in-person IT support regionally for a 70 person Raleigh office, a 20 person Charlotte office, and 40 person Danville, VA office through extensive travel.  • Also provided phone and remote access support to 40 other offices nationwide.  • Troubleshot and resolved issues related to desktop PC functionality, performance, and software integration.  • Administered network access and security. Also supported and administered various environments including JDE/Enterprise One, Citrix, SharePoint, and VPN.  • Built workstations and installed/supported business critical applications.  • Heavily supported Microsoft Exchange, troubleshooting client side general, mailbox, and connectivity issues.  • Performed data migration and file restoration.  • Performed system and server upgrades.  • Involved in large scale data migration and upgrade deployment projects.  • Also performed mass office upgrades to 2010 builds of currently deployed engineering applications. Computer Operator Compass Group North America - Charlotte, NC August 2005 to March 2006 RFL-Dewberry position)  • Monitored network servers, as well as network connectivity.  • Performed server based operations and programmed monitoring through SAP.  • Operated AS400 mainframe system; performing UNIX based operation s including storage and disaster recovery management through TSM.  • Monitored network of corporate internet and intranet websites.  • Escalated any connectivity, program, storage, or maintenance issus. Systems Support Analyst WAN client server environments for company NOC - Charlotte, NC March 1998 to August 2005 RFL-Companywide layoff)  • Maintained network servers and various application.  • Supported a wide area of users within a LAN/WAN client server environments for company NOC.  • Daily duties involved systems and network security administration, help desk support, software installation and maintenance, report distribution, database administration and maintenance, monitoring and resetting network tele-com lines, system and server monitoring, device and applications setup/ troubleshooting, large scale data migration, PC imaging and configuration and operations procedure development.  • Company had a major layoff after 9/11 incident from Nov 2001 - Nov 2002, I was not employed with them during this time. Digital Retouch Specialist St. John Photography - Matthews, NC January 2005 to May 2005 RFL-Companywide layoff) Photographer and Digital Media Specialist PCA National Corp - Matthews, NC July 2002 to November 2002 RFL-End of temp assignment) Temporary Teacher for Grades Victory Christian School - Charlotte, NC January 2002 to June 2002 6-12 (RFL-End of contract) Child Volunteer Charlotte Shelter for Battered Women - Charlotte, NC February 1999 to October 2001 RFL - Work schedule no longer favorable for volunteering) Security Lieutenant - First Citizens Bank Allied Security - Charlotte, NC November 1997 to March 1998 RFL - AXA position) Data Center Manager OAO International Corp, Wappinger - Falls, NY, US September 1996 to November 1997 RFL-Relocation to NC)  • Outsourced to manage and supervise data center operations various companies in the aerospace, information technologies and systems management fields.  • Involved personnel administration, employee hiring, training, and scheduling, console and peripheral device operations, quality control performance, disaster recovery, heavy client contact, shift work, and extensive travel between sites. Child Volunteer Hartford Interval House Battered Women's Shelter - Hartford, CT September 1996 to November 1997 RFL-Relocation to NC) Computer Operator Brandon Systems Corp - Stamford, CT January 1994 to November 1996 RFL-OAO position)  • Operated mainframe teleprocessing system and high volume peripheral devices for a technical services agency.  • Involved with corporate document printing and device maintenance. Education Technical Degree in Systems Management and Operations in Systems Management and Operations Computer Processing Institute - East Hartford, CT