Project Coordinator Project Coordinator Project Coordinator Nashville, TN Passionate in meeting the needs of those served. Productive in a fast-paced, stressful environment and known for a positive approach and impeccable work ethic. Meets and often exceeds client service expectations and uses data to identify and solve problems. A confident leader who is organized, detailed- focused, known as an outgoing innovator with strong interpersonal communication abilities, great attention to detail, fluency in Spanish, exceptional critical thinking, enjoy and value continued learning and continued improvement. Work Experience Project Coordinator JR Automation - Nashville, TN June 2019 to Present Temporary Administrator State of Tennessee - Nashville, TN January 2019 to March 2019 • Coordinate office activities, oversee operational efficiency while using strategic and tactical planning.  • Serve as the primary liaison between the company, staff, and office building management, providing information, answering questions, and responding to requests.  • Perform and supervise administrative staff by assigning responsibilities to ensure performance.  • Achieve organizational goals while maintaining efficient and productive results.  • Accomplish timely reports and detailed presentations. Project Manager Xtend Healthcare - Hendersonville, TN June 2018 to November 2018 • Participated in a 6 month rotational program including: leadership role, cash posting, claims resolution, monthly and quarterly reporting, client interfacing, goal-setting/productivity, and managerial soft skills.  • Served as a liaison between insurance company, patient, and hospital.  • Performed management responsibilities by relaying pertinent information, creating, and maintaining metric reports.  • Supported budgeting procedures.  • Educated staff on revenue cycle management and ensured monthly/quarterly goals were met.  • Co-managed hospital/client projects bringing 3 million dollars in revenue cycle for three hospitals. IT Business Analyst Intern Philips - Nashville, TN January 2018 to June 2018 • Shared knowledge and experience to resolve potential issues within the review process. Generated actionable quality data for product quality trends and improvement.  • Maintained confidentiality of all service records and pertinent information. Took ownership of complaints/potential complaints and worked on resolution with the BIU within the appropriate timeframes.  • Regulated the service delivery process for FDA.  • Developed and processed corrective preventive actions and assisted in handling and tracking of CAPAs. Assistant Manager Sally's Beauty Supply - Nashville, TN August 2016 to December 2017 • Scheduled staff for work based on their availability.  • Supervised staff and assigned responsibilities to ensure performance. Performed management responsibilities by relaying pertinent information, creating, and maintaining metric reports for daily, weekly, and monthly goals. Nurse Assistant/Administrative Assistant Seaport 17 Care Center - Santa Monica, CA February 2015 to August 2016 Documented actions by completing forms, reports, logs, and records. Scheduled staff for work based on their  availability.  • Maintained work operations by following policies and procedures. Protected organization's value by keeping patient information confidential.  • Maintained record availability by processing charts into the department, and retrieved medical records by following chart-out procedures.  • Provided patient care and maintained patient stability. Security Supervisor Universal Protection Service - Playa Vista, CA November 2011 to January 2015 • Documented daily reports and reported any unusual activity,  • Supervised staff by assigning responsibilities to ensure performance.  • Served as a liaison between company, staff and management of the building. Medical Intern Ronald Regan UCLA Medical Center - Westwood, CA January 2013 to February 2014 • Assisted Medical staff and patient care.  • Created summary reports and reconciliations based on the data collected.  • Created process documents and flowcharts for use by future interns.  • Documented acquisition project of new hospitals for outreach team. Lifeguard Citywide Aquatics - Los Angeles, CA June 2008 to July 2013 • Taught swimming classes and provided observational skills for possible drowning swimmers.  • Supervised other lifeguards and staff to ensure everyone was following procedures and regulations. Education Bachelor of Science in Health Care Administration and Planning in Health Care Administration and Planning Tennessee State University - Nashville, TN 2016 to 2018 Associate of Arts in Liberal Arts and Behavioral Sciences Santa Monica College - Santa Monica, CA 2009 to 2012