Sr. Archer Consultant Sr. Archer Consultant Sr. Archer Consultant - TUV Opensky Charlotte, NC Work Experience Sr. Archer Consultant TUV Opensky - Charlotte, NC November 2018 to Present Assist clients with implementing Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) monitoring and tracking solutions utilizing the RSA Archer framework GRC Business Consultant Allstate Insurance - Charlotte, NC September 2017 to September 2018 • Design, develop and implement of the out of the box as well as custom use cases within the Archer 6.x framework  • Manage every aspect of the SDLC including layout, workflow, reporting, notification, questionnaires, access controls, packaging, etc.  • Troubleshoot the Archer platform & end user reported issues within the established SLA's.  • Perform general platform administration tasks, access controls (Groups, Roles & Record permissions configuration), datafeeds, LDAP sync, etc.  • Enhance & maintain applications and solutions within Archer platform, including reports, dashboards and iViews  • Perform unit testing & migration of code into different environments  • Prepare formal project documentation including requirements specifications, system design documents, current & future state diagrams and user documentation  • Assist business users during UAT, analyze and resolve issues as needed Information Security Engineer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC September 2016 to June 2017 Developer for Enterprise Information Security process automation project at Wells Fargo  ? Implement the Incident Management and tracking solution in Archer tool  ? Develop and debug Archer to Archer datafeeds Third Party Risk Management Analyst BB&T Corporation - Charlotte, NC February 2016 to September 2016 Member of project team to develop and implement process for assessing high-risk third-party entities  ? Develop and implement vendor assessment reporting and tracking solution in the Archer tool  ? Create and implement third party risk metric reporting dashboards for senior management Archer Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC November 2015 to February 2016 Implement Audit and Compliance Management Archer solutions  ? Document business requirements and system design  ? Implement Archer datafeeds utilizing API  ? Coordinate design reviews with stakeholders Sr. GRC Consultant TUV Opensky - Charlotte, NC August 2015 to November 2015 Subcontracted to RSA Professional Services for project at Wells Fargo  ? Technical SME on Archer 5.x Enterprise Risk Management implementation  ? Install and configure Archer Risk and Compliance management and Audit Management solutions Archer Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC September 2014 to July 2015 • Member of the Archer Center of Excellence (ACOE) development team for Bank of America  • Technical Delivery Lead for Archer 5.x development project to simplify and modernize the Business Continuity (BC) solution  • Transition custom ODA's to out of box Business Continuity solution  • Responsible for managing all technical aspects of project from design and development to testing and production implementation Information Protection and Risk Management, GRC Technical Lead Ally Financial - Charlotte, NC August 2013 to August 2014 • Manage the enterprise Information Protection and Risk and Management (IPRM) solution based on the RSA Archer framework  • Interface with users to document requirements and implement on-demand solutions on the framework  • Coordinate Archer version upgrades/patching and regression testing  • Support and troubleshoot data feeds between Archer and other bank systems  • Address Archer user support issues/questions in a timely manner  • Interface with RSA support to escalate technical issues  • Prepare monthly compliance metrics reports for senior management and regulators  • Coordinate the annual GLBA/SOX/PCI application risk assessment process:  • Develop and implement ODA for application risk assessment  • Provide end-user training for Archer users Information and Technical Services, IT Security Consultant University of North Carolina - Charlotte, NC February 2013 to August 2013 • Document information security policy framework based on ISO 27002  • Serve as University Interim PCI Security Officer:  ? Coordinate university's annual PCI compliance validation process  ? Provide security awareness training for merchant personnel  • Consult with Business Affairs office on projects with potential PCI compliance implications  • Attain PCI Professional Certification (PCIP)  • Chair security task force to investigate and document information security incidents Global Information Security, PCI Assessment Analyst Bank of America - Charlotte, NC May 2010 to February 2013 • Coordinate PCI compliance audits and critically evaluate merchant and internal lines of business (LOB's) PCI compliance documentation (Reports on Compliance (ROC), Self-Assessment Questionnaires (SAQ), assessment artifacts, scan reports, etc.) to ensure compliance with PCI Data Security Standards (DSS).  • Consult with merchants and LOB's regarding interpretation of PCI DSS and actions required to become compliant.  • Provided training for LOB representatives on the impact of PCI compliance.  • Reviewed PCI vulnerability scan reports and consulted with merchants on actions needed to remediate issues  • Drive remediation of non-compliant merchants through ongoing consultation and regular status update meetings.  • Attain PCI SSC Internal Security Assessor (ISA) certification Third Party Security Assessor Global Information Security January 2005 to May 2010 • Perform information security assessments of third party vendors against Bank of America standards  • Member of team which developed and implemented onsite assessment process and questionnaire  • Perform application reviews of third party hosted applications to ensure compliance with bank standards.  • Partner with line of business representatives to drive remediation of findings uncovered during vendor risk assessments.  • Implement a technology-based solution to manage supplier assessment questionnaires on the Archer Technologies risk management framework.  • Coordinate with Supply Chain Management and internal business partners to ensure that all vendors are classified at the correct level based on risk exposure.  • Prepare quarterly compliance metric reports for senior management and regulators utilizing Archer data IT Security Consultant University Of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC November 2003 to January 2005 • Perform a risk assessment of the current information security program for the College of Information Technology and implemented changes to ensure compliance with university/state government requirements as well as industry best practices. Specific duties included:  • Develop information security policy framework.  • Chair the college's task force on information security and privacy/  • Perform an information security risk assessment of college's research lab infrastructure using industry guidance. Develop actionable remediation plans to mitigate risks.  • Evaluate, recommend and implement appropriate technical controls to improve the overall security of college infrastructure.  • Develop and implement incident response plan for all information security issues occurring within the college.  • Implement an information security awareness program targeted to college faculty/staff and students. Director, Information Technology & Resources University Of North Carolina at Chapel Hill - Chapel Hill, NC October 1998 to November 2003 Manage the IT infrastructure and operations function for the School of Business including development, design and implementation of initiatives to support the college's educational and research mission. Report to school's CFO. Supervise help desk support staff of approx. 10 FTE. Develop and publish IT policies and procedures; monitor and respond to information security incidents. Perform cost justifications and prioritization for all projects, providing sound financial documentation. Partner with college stakeholders on technical requirements to support IT initiatives. Manage the colleges IT operating budget.    Specific achievements included:  • Created the information technology organization and infrastructure, defined mission and developed policies and operating procedures  • Revitalized and refocused the Help Desk operations team to improve service quality and system reliability resulting in 25% increase in IT customer satisfaction in one year as measured by internal survey  • Member of planning committee for $20 million facilities project ($1.5 to $2 million technology budget). Served as technology project lead: developed potential options and proposed cost-effective solutions for this for this faculty supported by integrated technology.  • Architected (and provided lead technical support for) a Microsoft Windows-based client/server infrastructure supporting 2000 users, with approximately 25 servers, including Network Appliance NAS server, clustered IIS web and Exchange servers. Implemented centralized file storage using Dell SAN technology. Maintained server availability greater than 99.99%.  • Directed migration (and provided hands-on technical support) from Windows NT 4.0 server to Windows 2000 Active Directory/Exchange in a multi-domain forest, providing centralized account administration and increased interoperability with University's technology infrastructure.  • Architected and implemented secure wireless 802.11 Ethernet infrastructure.  • Developed and administered a comprehensive IT infrastructure backup/disaster recovery plan.  • Served as information security officer within the college. Developed information security policies/procedures and responded to incidents as required.  • Delivered formal quarterly presentations to the school's board of IT Partners providing status of IT environment and initiatives. Education Graduate Certificate in Information Security and Privacy University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC May 2007 M.S. in Computer Networking and Privacy North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC May 2003 Fuqua School of Business, Duke University - Durham, NC May 1996 Master's degree in Electrical Engineering in Bachelor of Electrical Engineering Villanova University - Villanova, PA 1984 Skills Vmware, Contractor, Splunk Military Service Branch: US Navy Service Country: United States Rank: O3 November 1982 to August 1989 Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) December 2003 to Present Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) June 2007 to Present RSA Archer Certified Professional December 2018 to Present