SENIOR BUSINESS ANALYST, IT SECURITY SENIOR BUSINESS <span class="hl">ANALYST</span>, <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> SENIOR BUSINESS ANALYST, IT SECURITY - SALESFORCE San Francisco, CA Work Experience SENIOR BUSINESS ANALYST, IT SECURITY SALESFORCE April 2014 to Present · IT business analyst for the Identity and Access Management program, Security Operations Readiness program, Incident  Response tool POC, and Project Spot.  · Led team through development process and rollout of two-factor authentication (2FA) to protect customer and employee  data, saving Salesforce more than 1 million dollars in capital and operational expenses.  · Oversaw stakeholder engagement and managed all communication for internal 2FA rollout to prepare employees and  increase adoption.  · Determine requirements for single sign-on system by analyzing current functions, identifying problems, and designing  modifications that are customizable to accommodate over 20,000 employees.  · Guide scrum team through agile release process by monitoring project progress, creating test plans with developers,  working with release managers, and coordinating with various stakeholders.  · Develop and maintain user guides, train end users on new technologies, and act as point of contact for internal support  teams.  · Create detailed project roadmaps, plans, schedules, and work breakdown structures best suited for each project Project Manager PEARSON EDUCATION January 2013 to April 2014 production for grades 2-12 math content for the Pearson Common Core System of Courses.  Led  • Communicated between internal editorial, studio, and technology teams as well as multiple outside vendors to ensure  everyone had the necessary tools to successfully deliver.  • Developed strategies for editorial and asset production teams to meet short-cycle project goals.  • Managed product's assets, including videos, interactives, and licensed images.  • anaged delivery schedules and workflows in order to meet aggressive deadlines that were aligned with the customers'  M  school year.  • Maintained the product vision by ensuring it aligned with Pearson's style and standards. PROGRAM COORDINATOR THE PEARSON FOUNDATION - Washington, DC May 2012 to January 2013 and New York, resulting in more than 100 classroom projects.  • Sourced, edited, and uploaded visual content to the project website to assist with the creation, conception, and presentation of social media strategy for the project and website.  • Communicated with members of the education community, which included more than 100 teachers, supervisors, and bloggers.  • Oversaw social media sites to increase community participation and address the needs of the product's community. Education B.S. in PSYCHOLOGY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE OF CALIFORNIA May 2012 Skills Salesforce, Agile, Project Management, Security, Scrum, Waterfall, JIRA Additional Information SKILLS/INTERESTS  • Agile methodologies, project lifecycle management, Jira, Scrum, Planview, Adobe Creative Cloud  • PMP candidate, Salesforce admin training  • Black Girls Code volunteer, Christian Service Internship Ethiopia volunteer, Star of the Sea School volunteer