Self Employed Owner/Operator Self Employed Owner/Operator Retired Network Engineer Ruskin, FL FL Security D & G licensed Work Experience Self Employed Owner/Operator Airbnb Host/Services - Apollo Beach, FL June 2018 to Present I own and manage a couple of Airbnb properties. Contractor- Field Services Engineer Boston Children's Hospital - Boston, MA January 2018 to May 2018 • Responsible for visiting multiple doctors' practices for issue's involving break/fix resolutions.  • Resolving issues involving peripherals such as POS systems Instamed/Dynapro/Mag and scanners, printers that are used in an Epic environment.  • Responsible for issues involving Epic related hardware issues and Pre TDR and TDR installs.  • Resolving other issues involving Windows 7, 10 and Microsoft software, and reimaging of OS's when needed.  • Complete support and implementation of Cisco Meraki network equipment at practices that require it.  • Made daily customer notations using Jira and Service Desk. Contractor - Client Services Analyst II Boston Medical Center - Boston, MA April 2017 to November 2017 Charged with creating Active Directory and Exchange accounts and troubleshooting various issues from VPN remote access to password resets. Managed Level II networking issues related to VPN, Cisco switches, and VLAN WAN troubleshooting.  • Supported applications such as Microsoft Windows and Office 2007, 10, VPN applications such as Junos Pulse, Cisco Connect, Epic, and other multiple software platforms.  • Boosted knowledge and maximized ticketing applications experience in Service Now, Heat, Remedy, and Checkpoint.  • Contributed support to rebuilding desktop and laptop devices and successfully resolved hardware issues with HP and Dell computer and printer's.  • Epic implementation with software and hardware installs including pre TDR's and TDR's with after go live support. Security Officer Universal Studios - Orlando, FL February 2016 to December 2016 Functioned as an officer part of park security.  • Identify and resolve any onsite issues and document results and outcome. Contractor- Engineer / IT Project Coordinator SeaWorld - Orlando, FL October 2015 to December 2015 Coordinated multiple projects including the upgrade of 160 POS Micro register systems throughout the park. Managed & tracked project budgets and presentations using Microsoft Project & SharePoint.  • Supervised the Merchant POS replacement project involving coordinating vendors and IT personnel for afterhour's deployment of the new POS systems.  • Oversaw nightly deployment team of 10-12 IT techs and coordinated location setups and testing.  • Created technical papers for process and implementation procedures with System Engineer's.  • Led weekly project meetings to update management and design teams with project statuses. Contractor -Wireless Engineer / Project Coordinator Publix Super Markets, Inc - Lakeland, FL June 2015 to October 2015 Collaborated on a project on a team of several engineers to upgrade Cisco 5500 wireless controllers to the new 7500 series and Cisco Wireless Access points 1100 series to the new 3700 model series at all 1100 Publix stores throughout the southeast.  • Coordinated with onsite technicians and store managers for AP upgrade installation and migrated Access Points to new assigned controllers. IT Project Coordinator / Infrastructure Engineer South Coast Hospital - New Bedford, MA September 2012 to May 2015 Managed several Cat 5 / OM3 fiber network upgrades throughout the organization, updated weekly RFI's and Submittals, and configured network equipment for deployment such as 3500-3700 series POE switches. Charged with submitting IT budget proposals for various projects at beginning of life cycle and facilitated weekly meetings between design team and upper management for project updates.  • Managed IT infrastructure related projects covering 2 hospitals and remote offices and coordinated with other Engineers in recent Network layer 1 & 2 upgrade across entire organization.  • Led and coordinated with IT vendors and hospital management for projects related to new network infrastructure projects.  • Oversaw and helped maintained the wireless infrastructure, VWLAN domains, and wireless network implementations.  • Hands on experience with Cisco Prime, Blue Socket, Air Magnet, Infoblox, and Microsoft Office Suite.  • Successfully met deadline for a long-term hospital wide network switch upgrade project to ensure POE capability for the new Avaya VOIP phone system.  • Completed a long term network team project to bring network redundancy to all network data closets and led the OM3 fiber repair and replacement project to reduce the chances of network failure and increased redundancy.  • Coordinated a multi-phase project involving cabling and network restructuring of Maternity and Family Care Unit at St Lukes Hospital.  • Implemented the network and wireless setup of the new Wareham Urgent Care Facility in Wareham, MA. Client Services Analyst Field Support Boston Children's Hospital - Boston, MA July 2007 to August 2012 Successfully implemented longer term tech rotations of the Newton Pavilion and Menino campus resulting in improved efficiency and public relations with the IT department. Decreased BMC IT department's replacement costs of Cisco IP phones by 25% by implementing in-house repairs.  • Managed daily IT infrastructure and resolved issues at the Menino Campus building.  • Supported all Cisco 7920 IP phones, Citrix apps on local workstations and wireless workstations.  • Led the replacement and repair of various end user equipment such as Pc's, printer's, Access points, Cisco switches, and other peripherals.  • Operated as IT support and assisted staff in various software configuration and technical support issue's. Security Officer Occasionally I work D/G temp contracts Security Officer Contractor per diem - Tampa, FL Occasionally take short term assignments from multiple companies. Education High school Skills Cisco (9 years), ITIL (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (2 years), MS OFFICE (2 years), VLAN (Less than 1 year), Field Service, Security D License, FL Security G License Certifications/Licenses FL Security D & G license Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES / AREAS OF EXPERTISE    HP Cisco Air-Magnet ITIL.v2 VLAN TCP/IP VWLAN  Tier 1 and Tier 2 support Windows 7 & 10 Microsoft Server 2003 Microsoft Office 365