IT Manager <span class="hl">IT</span> Manager IT Manager - Fenton & McGarvey Law Firm Louisville, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager Fenton & McGarvey Law Firm, P.S.C. - Louisville, KY November 2015 to Present Continued responsibilities from Systems Administrator/ IT Compliance and Security Administrator.    ? Manage team of 5 members, including EDI Technician, Help Desk Technician, and Network Engineer.  ? Plan and coordinate off site office transitions  ? Proactively tests information system controls to ensure functionality  ? Co-ordinate IT business objectives with 3rd party vendors Systems Administrator/ IT Compliance and Security Administrator Fenton & McGarvey Law Firm, P.S.C. (formerly M&P Collection, Inc.) July 2014 to Present Coordinates all internal and external IT audit related activities and efforts:  ? Serves as liaison and subject matter expert to external clients and internal audit department for information security related inquiries  ? Designs, implements and serves as control steward over information system controls to mitigate risk  ? Proactively tests information system controls to ensure functionality  ? Consults with management and senior leadership on control design and effectiveness  ? Manages mitigation and closure efforts for information system related audit findings  • Develops and maintains all company-wide IT policies and procedures:  ? Ensure control environment exceeds expectations and requirements for PCI DSS compliance  • Leads execution efforts with respect to systems administration including:  ? Administration and maintenance of key systems such as Kaspersky Endpoint Security, VMWare, MS Exchange 2010. MS Active Directory  ? Developed and maintains system for OS patches and upgrades on a regular basis  ? Maintains data center environmental and monitoring equipment to ensure environment is properly maintained  ? Runs ASV scans, pen testing, and vulnerability scans  • Ownership of key Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) for internal and external clients:  ? Maintenance of SOPs, rewriting of automation functions, and working with client managers on key deliverables.  • Maintains department budget including approvals and expenditures Help Desk Analyst M&P Collections, Inc March 2013 to July 2014 Responsible for executing help desk functions including:  ? Real-time ticket entry by utilizing, monitoring and managing the ticketing system  ? Follow up with users to ensure problems were resolved successfully  ? Ensured SLA ticket goals were met or exceeded.  • Implemented asset tracking  • Performed root cause analysis on tickets to identify and resolve issues  ? Conducted end user training on capabilities as needed  ? Write new and maintain company-wide technical policies.  ? Maintained IT knowledge base to document and track related issues  ? Wrote new technical self-help aides for end users and help-desk team for self-remediation  • Served as liaison between end-users and technical staff to communicate issues, problems, and questions.  ? Built strong relationship within all levels of internal and external leadership  • Maintain all systems, applications, security, and network configurations Deputy of Counter Intelligence Geek Squad City August 2006 to March 2013 Super Senior Counter Intelligence Agent Geek Squad City August 2006 to November 2006 • Successfully managed multi-million dollar warranty repair partnership with Sony  • Met and exceeded production and qualitative goals on a daily basis  • Managed, trained, and developed employees for upward mobility in a professional environment  • Effectively communicated with internal and external customers to effectively resolve computer issues  • Partnered with 3rd party business vendors for support and repair  • Provided leadership for external business networks to better the employee experience  • Provided qualitative and quantitative diagnosis of customer computers  • Assisted team lead in managing and developing team members  • Assisted and responded to customer inquiries as needed  • Provided insight for community relations on Viewpoint Committee  • Assisted team lead in managing and developing team members  • Assisted and respond to customer inquiries as needed  • Provide insight for community relations on Viewpoint Committee    Additional Experience Provided Upon Request Branch Sales and Service Representative National City Bank June 2005 to July 2006 High Speed Data Specialist II Charter Communications June 2003 to June 2005 Education History Harlaxton College Present B.A. in History Kentucky Wesleyan College May 2000 Courses Taken: Computer Hardware Fundamentals / Computer Network Fundamentals Sullivan University Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Auditor Currently studying for CISA exam Additional Information TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS    • Understanding of Microsoft based Operating Systems  • Ability to perform command line functions  • Troubleshoot hardware and software issues for end users  • Perform installation break-fix activities providing installation for warranty support  • Personal computer hardware and home networking installation and configuration  • Administration and setup of user accounts for 3rd party applications / websites  • Identify and learn appropriate software applications relevant to organization  • Understanding of TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP  • Proficient with Microsoft Office Applications  • Payment Card and Payment Application Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) experience    PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS    • Member of the Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA)  • Strong leadership, supervisory, and management skills  • Exceptional instructional and mentoring skills  • Self-motivated, detail oriented, and organized  • Outstanding presentation and public speaking abilities  • Work effectively alone or within a team  • Excellent written and verbal communication  • Personable/persuasive  • Work efficiently to meet deadlines  • ITIL experience