Senior Communication Manager Senior Communication Manager Senior Communication Manager - U.S. ARMY Killeen, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Communication Manager U.S. ARMY - Killeen, TX October 2015 to June 2019 • Developed a team responsible for system compliance for over 10000 users with policies governing communications security, Internet/email usage, access controls and incident response.  • Designed and implemented organization IT and IT security policies, needed assessments, work plans, and resource management.  • Ensured cybersecurity progress consistently met timeline milestones and budget goals.  • Led quarterly cybersecurity pre-inspections of subordinate organizations and prepared detailed reports of discrepancies leading to successful Department of Defense (DoD) inspections.  • Developed and managed the new cybersecurity awareness training program increasing general user competency by 90%. Information Systems Analyst U.S. ARMY May 1999 to June 2019 Over 20yrs of experience applying a unique mix of strategic analysis, operational management, personnel development, and marketing skills. I have abilities to quickly understand users' priorities and operating constraints to adapt systems for customer needs. Managed the separate domain collapses and migration between U.S. Forces in over 10,000 Information Technology ( IT) systems. Led the Windows 10 migration from Windows 7 in the United States. Adept at balancing operational, personnel and financial constraints when managing project.    U.S. ARMY ASSIGNMENTS & EXPERIENCE: (May. 1999 - June 2019) Research Developer Test Evaluator U.S. ARMY - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD October 2011 to October 2015 • Led a team responsible for the design, implementation, troubleshooting and security Command's strategic and deployed.  • Planned and coordinated Network Integration Testing of over 2,500 computers with upgraded systems increasing proficiency over 80%.  • Served as acquisition evaluator for Mission Command Post advising the United States Army of the capabilities and limitations on legacy systems and IT best practices. Tactical Systems Program Manager U.S. ARMY - Clarksville, TN July 2009 to October 2011 • Managed network servers, active directory, GPS technologies, long range network radio technologies, VOIP phones, and VTC sessions.  • Analyzed, planned and executed Communications Security support for all mission requirements within the command to provide reliable strategic communications. Data Systems Integrator U.S. ARMY - KR August 2008 to July 2009 S. Korea  • Managed five Communications Security accounts dispersed in four locations around Korea.  • Drafted communications security policies and ensured all Communications Security administrators were adequately trained on all Communication Security procedures to include disaster recovery plans.  • Planned, analyzed and executed Communications Support within the command to accommodate peacetime, transition to war and war time communications support between Joint and Army operations. Instructor/Writer U.S. ARMY - Augusta, GA July 2005 to August 2008 Updated systems and software, performing back-up and recovery and monitoring  entire system performance.  • Conducted incident responses with data spillages, assessing system to mission impacts and further replacing or restoring the system back to functional operations.  • Insured seamless operation of command multi-user computer systems and worked on a daily basis with the network administrators to set up accounts, maintain documentation for the systems and installing system wide software. Senior IT Manager U.S. ARMY - Clarksville, TN November 2002 to July 2005 IRAQ Army Deployment **  • Conducted information systems and software maintenance, applying OS, antivirus and patch updates.  • Coordinated the training, fielding, support, and automations equipment refitting of the Command's information systems valued in excess of $20 million to US Army Forces and Coalition..  • Supervised network communications section ensuring radio and network worldwide communications were reliable and operational with 99% uptime.  • Led a team responsible for planning, integrating, maintaining and troubleshooting all tactical systems within the 101st Airborne Division to include subordinate units at Fort Campbell and NATO forces while deployed to Mosul, Iraq. Personnel Security Manger U.S. ARMY - Frederick, MD November 2001 to November 2002 • Developed and implemented standard operating procedures ensuring 100% new personnel we properly in and out processed in compliance with the Standard Form 312 "Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement  • Maintained personnel records for over 400+ personnel; tracking clearance holders and facilitated termination of local access and release from JPAS Information System Maintainer U.S. ARMY - Bamberg, DE May 1999 to November 2001 Germany  • Oversaw the safety, discipline, training and welfare of three Soldiers.  • Advised on and directs force protection measures to assist in safeguarding combat Soldiers in war time scenarios.  • Served as communications maintainer /operator on a mission in Poland from May 2001-July 2001. Education Certification in Forensic Science American Public University 2012 B.S. in Business Management in Business Management Tiffin University 1998 Skills exchange, Vmware, Network Administration, Customer Service, Strategic Planning Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/milviakendrick Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Sergeant First Class