Apple Systems Advisor Apple Systems Advisor Windows/Mac Support El Paso, TX Experienced and dedicated IT professional with a strong work ethic seeking position as an IT Supervisor/Manager or Deskside Support Engineer. I am self-motivated with over 20 years in teaching, mentoring, troubleshooting and leadership skills in IT, including 3 years' experience as an IT Security Analyst. Strong knowledge of Windows and Mac systems. Work Experience Apple Systems Advisor IBM 2015 to Present * Application Support for MacBook's and iOS devices to IBM employees globally.  * Engaged in Agile training while creating documentation on training methods.  * Software issues including IBM Notes, Crashplan Code42, WebEx, Avaya, Jabber, Outlook, Box and other IBM internal applications.  * Train new advisors on our policies and procedures.  * I mentor existing employees and assist with questions and answers on resolutions to IT issues throughout the day. IT Systems Administrator Texas Mutual Insurance 2014 to 2015 * Assisted staff with hardware, software network and telephony related issues.  * Tracked incident with proper documentation, and escalated if needed.  * I used HEAT and SARC to push support tickets for support requests as well as new hire requests.  * Supported Windows and Mac operating systems and Avaya phone systems.  * Worked on network related issues including network port activations, network tracing. IT Security Analyst Apollo Group/University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ 2011 to 2014 * Performed daily system monitoring, verifying integrity and security of our networks by monitoring our organization's networks for security breaches and investigated an incident when one occurred to make sure it was benign  * We used resources to help us identify security threats to help us distinguish them between false positives and true events; created incident reports based on true events  * Conducted penetration testing, which is when our analysts would simulate attacks to look for vulnerabilities that would help us better perform our job IT Systems Administrator/Lead Tech Apollo Group/University of Phoenix - Austin, TX 2007 to 2011 * I worked with my manager to ensure all techs in my region were working efficiently and effectively.  * I ran weekly reports and ticket analysis for all techs in my region based on their weekly work.  * Daily meetings were done to ensure that the techs had everything they needed to do their job and to answer any IT related questions for that prior week.  * On a monthly basis, I coached and mentored my technicians on work and personal goals. Sr. Enterprise Desktop Support Technician Apollo Group/University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ 2006 to 2007 * I provided IT technical support for over 600 corporate staff in one major facility, which included most of our executive staff and consul.  * Repaired most computer systems, including Mac, Windows, Lenovo, Toshiba, Avaya VOIP, HP Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ 2002 Diploma in Network Operations Business Skills Institute - El Paso, TX 2000 Skills Avaya (7 years), Mac (7 years), Security (3 years), Training & Development (7 years), Windows 7 (9 years), Windows 10 (2 years), IBM Notes (5 years), Agile Training and Usage (2 years), Service Now (3 years), Webex (5 years), Office 365 (2 years), Cisco VPN (4 years) Military Service Branch: Army National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: E5 August 1987 to June 2007 • member of Artillery and Infantry units  • spent 9 years an an Artillery unit member  • spent 4 years as an Infantry unit member  • deployed to Afghanistan under ISAF forces in 2006 Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified Present Network+ August 2012 Security+ May 2013 Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wcm3-xaalg9ffspy Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ungdtzzkh6b6kwrd Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8jvilkjhznxqpr5n Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  Technical Skills: HPSM, Service Desk/Asset Management, VPN/RSA troubleshooting, Active Directory (managing accounts/access), Windows Server 2012 Active Directory, Group Policy, Avaya phone systems/VIOP conference troubleshooting, SharePoint, PowerShell 3.0, IT Security Operations/Procedures including traffic monitoring, TCP/IP, SCCM (managing and configuring software), Microsoft Office 365, Mac hardware/software troubleshooting, IBM Notes client, AS400 troubleshooting, ITIL basics, Mobile Computing, Low-Level Network Administration, HTML, C+., Crashplan Code 42, Avaya, Jabber, Box, Service Now, Slack, Agile training, Adobe Acrobat products, Splunk, Wire Shark, Xcode, SCCM, Arcsight, LANDesk, ITIL, Service Desk, JAMF, Cisco VPN