Health Information Technology PC Technician (Contractor) Health Information Technology PC Technician (Contractor) Qualified Technology Professional Park City, IL Qualified technology professional seeking new entry-level to mid-level opportunity as a subject matter expert supporting company software solutions. Open to training and mentorship. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Health Information Technology PC Technician (Contractor) Allscripts - NorthShore University Health System - Evanston, IL May 2017 to April 2019 EUC technician for major University health system located in Cook and Lake county. Supported four hospitals and remote sites for all medical and service staff, administration and vendors. Responsible for adds, moves and changes to secured devices connected to hospital network while adhering to SLA agreements, On-call assignment, HIPAA compliance and hospital training.    Software / Application Support (Installation and Troubleshooting)  MS Office 2007 | 2010 | 2013 | 2016  Windows OS Environment 7 | 8 | 10 | XP embedded | 7 embedded | Java | Chrome | IE | SoftID/SoftLab | Epic | Syngo | PACS | Dexis | Dragon | Xeleris XFL | Citrix Client | Checkpoint Endpoint | Trend Micro | Websense | SCCM  Hardware Support (Deployment, Installation and Troubleshooting)  Lenovo (x-series) | HP (Z-series, 800 Mini, Elite) | Dell WYSE | Premio | Advantech (All-in-one) | BARCO | Howard Carts (Workstations On Wheels) | Topaz (e-signature) | Imprivata (Finger Reader) |  Printer Support (Configuration and Troubleshooting)  HP | Intermec | Zebra (ZD500) | Dymo | Jet-Direct  Remote Support Tools (Installation, Configuration and Troubleshooting)  VNC | SCCM | RDP  Remote Access (Installation and Troubleshooting)  Citrix  System Imaging / Software Deployment  PXE | SCCM  Network Support (Configuration and Troubleshooting)  WiFi | Ethernet | Patching | LAN Drop  Scanner Support (Configuration and Troubleshooting)  Symbol | Zebra | Fujitsu (6000/7000 series)  Ticket Tracking / Asset Management  Landesk | Ivanti | Wasp Windows Deployment Technician (Contractor) Northwestern Medicine - Lake Forest Hospital - Lake Forest, IL September 2016 to December 2016 Deployed HP 800 Mini's, Wyse Thin Clients, and HP 8200 and 8300 series for a major medical hospital.  ? Performed site assessment  ? Installed base image  ? Setup and configured assigned department profiles for workstations and laptops  ? Installed and setup TapnGo for HP 800 Mini's  ? Installed applications using Runas Advertised Programs  ? Performed quality control to certify systems before deployment  ? Executed Bitlocker system command to allow use of external devices  ? Installed PACS application for specialty departments Windows 7 Migration Tech (Contractor) Societe Generale - Chicago, IL March 2016 to September 2016 Deployed HP 8000 series and Prodesk 600 G1 series workstations. Assisted and supported data and application migration for traders, financial advisors, support staff and developers to a newly implemented domain.  ? Responsible for interviewing users and acquiring system information, applications, and scheduling of system deployment and data migration  ? Initiated imaging process for basic system build and installed requested applications using Apps On Demand  ? Transferred user data using manual process and automated migration script. Verified migration details from generated log files  ? Utilized VLAN assignment tool to assign and capture data and voice IP addresses  ? Managed request process for system access for interviewed users  ? Troubleshooting, installation, and configuration of system hardware and applications such as Fidessa, AS400, Murex, UC4, Outlook, Lotus Notes, Oracle 12, MS SQL, Visual Studio  ? Used AD to view and reset user accounts and add users to groups  ? Installation and configuration of secure mail for Outlook  ? Trained staff on migration processes  ? Communicated concerns and suggested process changes to management Entry Level Technology Sales Consultant (Contractor) Total Control Business Solutions - Chicago, IL September 2015 to March 2016 Sales consultant for small technology firm with a focus on acquiring new business for cloud-based technologies in healthcare, retail, and manufacturing.  ? Utilized web resources (Craigslist, indeed, Google, LinkedIn) to acquire new business and present potential prospects to TCBS  ? Worked with TCBS staff to research new and existing technologies that support companies strengths POS Support Tech HOBO - Waukegan, IL September 2015 to October 2015 Provided major home improvement outlet stores with system upgrade and support.  ? Rebuilt Windows 7 profiles for kitchen and bath designers  ? Setup of new RF Gun's and synchronization with POS system  ? Updated Debit Pad Software for POS registers  ? Rebuilt RF Gun Restores and linked Gun's to thermal printers using IP over wireless network  ? Setup, configuration, and troubleshooting of local and networked printers  ? Applied system software upgrade for Epicor and Eagle browser  ? Upgraded IE browser for better functionality with online training system  ? Provided setup and support for Wyse thin clients. Ensured client profile setup and connection to POS system software, network connectivity, and printer setup  ? Initiated Terminal Services to connect to virtual machines End User Migration Specialist (Contractor) Feinberg School of Medicine - Chicago, IL June 2015 to August 2015 End user migration support for medical and clinical staff for Northwestern Hospital and Feinberg School of Medicine.  ? Inventory of all supported networked devices  ? Onboarding process for newly purchased Mac and PC devices (imaging, software installation, system updating)  ? Installation of Dell Kace client for network monitoring  ? Executed predefined script to migrate user profiles  ? Manual data backup and recovery  ? Hardware and software support for Mac and PC  ? Clinical Software installations  ? Printer setup and configuration  ? OS troubleshooting  ? Network configuration for wireless devices (Tablets and Smartphones)  ? Training and overview of HIPAA and PHI Windows 7 Deployment Technician (Contractor) CVS Health - Northbrook, IL March 2015 to June 2015 Windows deployment technician for major American retailer and healthcare company located in Northwest suburbs.  ? Migration of OS and data from Windows XP to Windows 7  ? Use of SCCM to apply base image  ? Hardware upgrades (RAM, HDD, etc.)  ? Software installations (Commercial and proprietary applications)  ? Use of data backup and transfer solutions (USMT, Windows Easy Transfer, and manual process)  ? Installation of Sophos endpoint and encryption solution  ? Installation of CommVault data and information management software  ? Re-image and repurpose of existing Lenovo laptops and desktops  ? VPN configuration  ? Printer setup and configuration  ? OS troubleshooting Windows 7 Deployment Technician (Contractor) Aurora Healthcare - Burlington, WI December 2014 to February 2015 Windows deployment technician for not-for-profit health care system headquartered in Milwaukee Wisconsin.  ? Imaging and setup of Dell and HP devices  ? OS quality reviews and hardware assessment  ? Utilized SCCM for installation and verification of core and licensed applications  ? Transferred user data from old device to new device  ? Troubleshooting of system hardware and software  ? Verified correct group assignment and policies for applications and printers within Active Directory  ? Updated proprietary asset management system with new and decommissioned hardware  ? Exposure to EPIC MyChart and understanding of how it is ported through Citrix IT Specialist (Contractor) Weiman Products LLC - Gurnee, IL June 2014 to October 2014 Windows desktop support and system administrator for medium size Products Company rated number one for premium brand surface cleaning products and polishes.  ? Administered and managed user access and system changes for AD, MS Exchange 2010, ESET Endpoint Security, Mitel, Right Fax, Call Express, SYSPRO (ERP), Windows Server 2010 (File and Print Server)  ? Provided desktop system administration and support for new and existing users. Support included Windows 7 deployment, Endpoint security protection deployment from Kaspersky to Eset, file and data transfer, imaging using Ghost server, application support for MS Office 2007, 2010, 2013, 365 and hardware support for Lenovo T431 ThinkPad's and HP Pro 3500 series and Dell desktops  ? Administered and provided support for Mitel IP-based phones 5330 and 5340  ? Provided printer support and account administration for Xerox Color Cube 9201/9203, Xerox 7835/560 and Zebra Barcode/Label Printers  ? Assisted with writing how-to documentation for system administration processes  ? Support for Apple iPhone and Blackberry smartphone. Email account setup and phone configuration  ? Deployed system software using NiniteOne Pro  ? Responsible for decommissioning of HDD using Kill Free data erase solution  ? Network cable patching and port activation  ? Viewed system backup status using Unitrends backup solution Windows 7 Deployment Engineer (Contractor) Aon - Lincolnshire, IL February 2014 to May 2014 Migrated existing users from Windows XP platform to Windows 7 platform for leading global provider of risk management, insurance and human resource solutions and outsourcing services.  ? Provided consultation with end-user during check-in process to gather required information for a successful migration  ? Executed backup using USMT or manual process by saving user data and settings to allocated server  ? Managed build process for new and reusable Lenovo laptops and desktops using Microsoft's SCCM to capture line of business image and install applications  ? Monitored build process for errors and provided troubleshooting when needed  ? Restored user data and settings using USMT or manual process  ? Provided desktop setup and support for migrated users during checkout process, which included; application setup and configuration for Lotus Notes, Outlook, RSA/VPN, IE, proprietary applications and network printers  ? Trained users on application and system use  ? Recorded step by step migration process within proprietary tracking system  ? Assisted depot-lead and technicians where needed Information Security Analyst / Application Support (Contractor) Capital One - Lake Forest, IL June 2013 to February 2014 Provisioned proprietary and commercial system access for U.S. based bank holding company. (IBM Mainframe-RACF, RSA Secure ID, Citrix, VMware, UNIX, Web-base and Active Directory)  ? Provided account resets and synchronization to ensure consistent access to multiple applications  ? Reviewed and updated procedural documentation for new hires and customer base  ? Provisioned users, groups and datasets for Mainframe (RACF/Vanguard)  ? Provided application support for proprietary and commercial applications  ? Troubleshooting of Ethernet and wireless connectivity issues for remote and internal users  ? Managed HP Service Manager Incident queue while maintaining a team closing ratio of 85%  ? Performed data analysis to determine root causes of access related problems and worked with team members to resolve access concerns when users were not in compliance  ? Completed training on proprietary applications and for SOX compliance procedures and awareness User Support Technician (Temp) Northwestern University - Evanston, IL January 2013 to March 2013 Provided technical support to faculty, staff and international students for premier business school in the country.  ? Provided Walk-in, Phone and Desktop support for Mac and Windows7/8 operating environments  ? Documented tasks and created work requests using Parature ticket tracking system  ? Supported laptop and desktop configuration and troubleshooting  ? Network/Local printer configuration and troubleshooting  ? Basic network troubleshooting  ? Support and installation of Symantec Endpoint Protection  ? Malware and spyware removal  ? A/V setup and support for auditoriums and conference rooms  ? Support for MS Office Suite 2010  ? Executed imaging and package installation process using SCCM deployment service for laptops and desktops  ? Provided support for Android, Blackberry and iPhone MS Exchange and Wi-Fi configuration Brand Promoter (Contractor) Mid-C Media - Chicago, IL September 2012 to January 2013 Provided brand promotion for major industry brands such as Nike, local and international artists and major record labels.  ? Responsible for setup and tear down of all brand initiatives executed during major events  ? Pickup and delivery of major record label representatives  ? Executed marketing display setup for major brands and record label artists  ? Assisted with office administration responsibilities Voltage Internet Security Analyst (Contractor) American Express - Phoenix, AZ March 2012 to July 2012 Internet Security Analyst responsible for providing organizations and users with Voltage Encryption software support and an understanding of the Voltage encryption and decryption process for application and Internet use.  ? Assisted with writing technical documentation for user training and reference guides  ? Managed ticket queue and monitored mailbox for incoming service requests  ? Assisted users with Voltage Encryption software installations and testing  ? Installed, configured and tested Voltage Encryption command line application for Linux server  ? Performed application troubleshooting techniques using provided technical documentation, viewed application log files and acquired vendor support to determine root cause  ? Developed Use Cases to support user and application requests  ? Familiar with PGP encryption and Net share solutions, gateway encryption using trigger words, session and shared keys to encrypt and decrypt information  ? Good understanding of TLS and SSL protocols Independent Sales Consultant (Subcontractor) Succor Consulting - Phoenix, AZ February 2012 to April 2012 Technology sales consultant responsible for selling and demonstration of EHR solution to clinicians and private practices.  ? Trained on CureMD EHR SaaS solution and aspects of Healthcare industry; HIE, Meaningful Use and Compliance  ? Referred to generated leads and cold calling techniques to schedule demonstrations in order to generate sales  ? Utilize Salesforce tools to manage leads, workflow and keep abreast of related technology and industry standards Desktop Administrator (Contractor) Wells Fargo - Tempe, AZ November 2011 to February 2012 Lead on-site technician responsible for staging and deploying 70 plus Windows XP desktops and laptops for premiere financial group and existing entities.  ? Gathered data for site network and hardware assessments  ? Lead on-site support technician for Avaya VOIP and network projects  ? Imaged 10 plus Lenovo desktops per day using Ghost server  ? Scheduled staging and deployment with users  ? Executed Endpoint encryption software configuration for workstations  ? Provisioned user account access for RSA Secure ID software and hardware tokens using RSA Admin Console  ? Trained and assisted users with proprietary systems configuration  ? Verified successful application installation using SMS (Run Advertised Programs)  ? Communicated project status to involved parties and discussed process changes  ? Provided low-level network connectivity troubleshooting for workstation, ports, and switches  ? Assisted with network patching for newly installed Cisco switches and existing networks in IDF closets Assistant Project Manager (Contractor) Mid-C Media - Chicago, IL March 2011 to October 2011 Managed media driven project for non-traditional Chicago-based Marketing and promotional firm.  ? Gathered data from research on clients profile to ensure knowledge of personnel and product  ? Managed scheduling and team responsibilities for scheduled event  ? Worked with major vendors for outsourced project involvement  ? Ensured all tasks and responsibilities were executed professionally and efficiently during scheduled event  ? Maintained workflow and communications between client and staff using Google cloud computing and Smartphone devices  ? Addressed client concerns when needed Information Security Analyst (Contractor) Wells Fargo - Scottsdale, AZ June 2010 to January 2011 User and group security administrator of Active Directory and MS Exchange account access for major mortgage and financial institution.  ? Researched and analyzed users and groups line of business to determine required action for provisioning account access  ? Utilized manual and automated processes to administer account access for: Shared Mailboxes, Distribution Lists, Shared Calendars, Mail Objects, Users, Groups, and Network Shares  ? Added and modified attributes: home directories, roaming profiles, terminal services, account expiration and account information  ? Executed PowerShell scripts to apply account settings for shared calendars and adding delegates to distribution lists  ? Achieved Service Level Agreement goals by meeting time constraints assigned to service requests Information Security Analyst (Contractor) U.S. Foodservice - Phoenix, AZ June 2008 to April 2010 User security administrator and conversion specialist for major foodservice distributor's divisional and corporate network, email and mainframe accounts.  ? Provisioned user account access for proprietary and enterprise systems: (IBM ACF2, RACF, TSO, CICS, TPX and Tandem), Lotus Notes (GSX ID Manager/Domino Administrator), IBM OnDemand (IBM Content Manager Solution), MS Exchange, Active Directory, AS/400 (iSeries Navigator), Retalix Dock Scheduling, Oracle PeopleSoft HRMS/Discoverer, XATANet, eRAM, and Enterprise Administrator for Windows NT  ? Lead analyst for conversion project of newly implemented host system  ? Analyzed and reported data for IBM and Tandem system accounts using, SQL queries to query job functions, user access codes, and personal account information  ? Created and modified file and folder permissions on Windows 2k3 server  ? Utilized Windows PowerShell scripts to administer system tasks and automate account conversion process  ? Reduced risk by adhering to proposed scheduling and addressing client concerns  ? Worked closely with site coordinators and departmental leads to discuss and resolve user security access and procedures  ? Contributed to technical documentation and trained new team members HP Refresh Technician (Contractor) Bank of America - Chicago, IL February 2008 to May 2008 Completed Hewlett Packard desktop refresh project for premier banking institution located in Midwest and eastern states.  ? Coordinated and completed company site assessments for existing systems hardware, peripherals, and network ports  ? Recorded and tracked new and existing hardware using proprietary asset management solution.  ? Completed 15 or more system upgrades per day  ? Managed OS build process for Windows XP Professional image, utilized Tivoli package management system to deliver proposed packages to workstations. Copied and restored users' data and settings using migration tool  ? Identified assigned network printers and linked to user workstations  ? Executed MS Windows file encryption system for laptop security. Enabled and tested laptop wireless devices for proper connectivity  ? Administered Norton Ghost GDisk and erased sensitive data from decommissioned workstations Education Gateway Community College College of Lake County Diploma Waukegan High School Skills Citrix (4 years), Deployment (6 years), Imaging (5 years), MS Office (4 years), Remote Access (4 years), Active Directory, Linux, System Admin Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Hardware: Dell HP Lenovo  Imaging and deployment: Altiris SCCM Ghost Dell KACE  Microsoft Application: MS Office/Outlook 2007 2010 2013 2016 365  Migration: USMT Windows Easy Transfer ForensiT  Remote access: Citrix RDS VPN  Virtualization: VMware  Access Management: AD AS400 IBM Mainframe UNIX MS Exchange 2003 2008 2010  Operating Systems: Windows XP Vista 7 8 10 Linux Mint Ubuntu Manjaro