IT Security Analyst/ Assessor <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span>/ Assessor IT Security Analyst/ Assessor - Deloitte & Touche LLP Centreville, VA Experienced, results-driven System Security Analyst dedicated to the use of the Risk Management Framework (RMF), NIST-800*, FISMA, OMB and other risk mitigation security techniques to ensure compliance with cyber security for Federal Information and Information Systems. Competent in managing and protecting Enterprise Information Systems, Network Systems, and Operational processes through Information Assurance Controls, Compliance Verifications, Risk Assessment, and Vulnerability Assessment in accordance with NIST, FISMA, OMB and industry best Security practices. Effective leader with innovative business-level strategic skills for reaching set goals for organizations. Work Experience IT Security Analyst/ Assessor Deloitte & Touche LLP March 2016 to Present Using NIST as a guide, I have performed reviews of security documents uploaded by ISSO to confirm they are FISMA compliant, and preparation of systems C&A, RMF, A&A packages required for systems before they are moved into operation, when major changes occur in them or every 3 years. This includes making sure that the C&A packages remain current and have been reviewed in the last 1 year, and the Security Assessment Report (SAR), and the Authority to Operate (ATO) are within 3-year life-span.  ? I have reviewed and certify that systems' POA&M have been closed, or updates are provided where necessary in the POA&M tracking tools to ensure no system weakness remediation milestone is in delayed status since these are the normal causes for FISMA failing grades.  ? Once we determined security controls that are applicable to that system, then we implement the controls selected by addressing how each control is implemented from the SSP.  ? The team and I will conduct the assessment kickoff meeting and interview the ISSO and system owners and create a requirement traceability matrix (RTM) or test cases to document the assessment-determining whether the controls pass or fail using NIST 800-53A as a guide.  ? When I have used NIST as a guide, I am examining policy and procedures for the controls, SOPs, interviewing (ISSO/System Owners) personnel with responsibilities for the controls I am testing and perform test by reviewing screen shots/Artifacts of system configuration in compliant/comparison/reconcile with NIST framework.  ? I have worked on FEDRAMP systems, which are systems hosted by a cloud services provider like Dropbox, MS Storage, AT&T, Verizon and AWS. FEDRAMP provides a standard approach to the A&A of cloud computing/cloud security services and products used by the federal government.  ? Conduct Continuous Monitoring/Ongoing Authorization as recommended in the NIST 800-137 publication on all active systems, testing one-third of the applicable security controls annually. Security Analyst MetroStar Corporation September 2014 to March 2016 Analyzed and update System Security Plan (SSP), Risk Assessment (RA), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), System Security test and Evaluation (ST&E) and the Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M)  ? Designated systems and categorize its C.I.A using FIPS 199 and NIST SP 800-60  ? Conducted Self-Annual Assessment (NIST SP 800-53A)  ? Performed Vulnerability Assessment and ensured risks are assessed, evaluated and a proper action have been taken to limit their impact on the Information and Information Systems  ? Created standard templates for required security assessment and authorization documents, including risk assessments, security plans, security assessment plans and reports, contingency plans, and security authorization packages  ? Analyzed and update System Security Plan (SSP), Risk Assessment (RA), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), System Security test and Evaluation (ST&E) and the Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M)  ? Assisted System Owners and ISSO in preparing certification and Accreditation package for companies' IT systems, making sure that management, operational and technical security controls adhere to a formal and well-established security requirement authorized by NIST SP 800-53 Education M.S., Social in Social Work Virginia Commonwealth University B.S. in Social Work George Mason University Skills security, access, testing