IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - The Excel Group Woodbridge, VA Analytical, innovative and passionate Information security analyst with a record of exceeding expectations through performance. I proactively communicate and collaborate with colleagues and clients in order to enhance prompt identification of Security risk and critical business needs. I combine my communication skills with a functional knowledge of Information security requirements to identify opportunities and deliver a satisfactory outcome while working alone or as part of a team. Therefore, I am seeking to work with a team of highly motivated people in an organization whose priority is to proactively maintain the security of information systems for individual organizations and Federal government systems. As an Information Security Analyst, I am determined to work in an environment that permits continued growth in the dynamic IT world. Work Experience IT Security Analyst The Excel Group - Bristol, VA October 2017 to Present • Part of an Assessment and Accreditation team assisting Information system owners and ISSO in ensuring that all management, operational, and technical security controls implemented meet standard NIST 800-53 requirements for authorization on General Support systems (GSS).  • Develop, review and evaluate System Security Plans (SSP) and Information System Contingency Plans (ISCP) based on NIST Special Publications  • Develops, coordinates, and maintains comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plan to ensure the ability to recover in the event of an unforeseen disruption.  • Prioritize remediation actions based on results from risk assessment and the mission of the organization by using NIST 800-30 guidelines.  • Categorize and map information systems specific to the company's objectives following FIPS 199 and NIST 800-60 guidelines.  • Review Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) and Interconnection security Agreement (ISA) for updates as needed.  • Develop Security Assessment Report (SAR) detailing the results of the assessment along with Plan of Action & Milestones (POAM).  • Analyze and updates ISCP, SSP, RA, PIA, ST&E, POA&M, Business Impact Analysis (BIA), and ISCP Tests.  • Utilize Cyber security Assessment and Management (CSAM) tool to review and analyze threat pairing reports, residual risk report, and risk analysis report.  • Advise System Owners on the best cloud service model (SaaS, PaaS, IaaS) to go for based on the security posture of the GSS.  • Collaborate with Product Managers, Platform Leads, and Information Security Teams, to design and implement controls for cloud security solutions.  • Extensive knowledge of the Risk Management Framework and its step by step application to the System Development Life Cycle. Information Security Analyst ConCor Networks Inc - Linthicum Heights, MD July 2015 to August 2017 • Conducted kick off meetings to categorize systems according to NIST requirements of a Low, Moderate or High system using FIPS 199 and NIST SP 800-60.  • Conducted Security Control Assessments to assess the adequacy of management, operational, technical and privacy security controls implemented.  • Conducted IT control risk assessments that included reviewing organizational policies, standards and procedures and provided advice on their adequacy, accuracy and compliance.  • Managed and documented results of risk assessment by following guidelines outlined in NIST SP 800-30 and 800-39, identifying threats and likelihood of its exploitation of any known vulnerabilities.  • Applied a working knowledge of the Risk Management Framework as outlined in NIST SP 800-37 to ensure that risks identified during the System development lifecycle were adequately mitigated.  • I prioritized security controls that required immediate attention especially volatile controls.  • Assisted system owner in identifying supplementing or compensating controls if common controls do not meet security requirements. Education M.D Windsor University School of Medicine May 2010 Additional Information Key Skills  • Security Control Assessment  • System Security  • Contingency Planning  • Privacy  • Risk Management  • Authentication and Access Control  • System Monitoring & Regulatory Compliance    Software/Platform/Artifacts:  MS Office suite, Varonis, Cylance, Qualys, Nessus Scan, SharePoint, FIPS 199, E-Authentication, Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), SORN, IBM Scan, FedRAMP, AWS, ServiceNow.