Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst - Avonlea Ridge Assisted Living Dementia Care Cheverly, MD Self-starting Cyber Security Analyst skilled in Intrusion Detection/Prevention & Incident Response, Vulnerability Scanning, and Remediation. Proficient in security research planning execution and network monitoring to prevent cyber attacks in business settings. Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Avonlea Ridge Assisted Living Dementia Care - Silver Spring, MD December 2016 to Present Support client with documenting and reviewing security plans (SP), contingency plans (CP), contingency plan tests (CPT), privacy impact assessments (PIA), and risk assessment (RA) documents per NIST 800 guidelines.  ? Working knowledge of NIST 800-53, NIST RMF, FIPS and FISMA.  ? Creating Findings from SAR in order to mitigate weaknesses as part of POA&M remediation.  ? Analyzing Vulnerabilities from Security Assessment Report (SAR) and drafting remediation strategies.  ? Provide IA Support, Risk Management Framework and Continuous Monitoring processes.  ? Evaluate threats and vulnerabilities based on tenable reports.  ? Review and submit Change Request documentation - Security Impact Analysis.  ? Supporting client in reviewing, updating and developing security artifact as for compliance accuracy and completeness such as SSP, SAR, SAP, POA&M, CP, BIA, PTA, PIA, RA, ISA, IR, MOU and SLA. IT Security Analyst SmartzNovel, LLC - Rockville, MD July 2015 to August 2017 Provided input to management on appropriate FIPS 199 impact level designations and identified appropriate security controls based on characterization of the general support system or major applications.  ? Performed risk assessment; updated System Security Plan (SSP), contingency plan (CP), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), and Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M).  ? Assisted in establishing an Ongoing Authorization (OA) program design to review the security posture of designated systems on a continual basis.  ? Developed and maintained artifacts supporting the Risk Profile, SP, CP, CM, IR and POA&Ms.  ? Provided POA&M Quality create, review and update.  ? Maintained hardware and software inventory for components.  ? Managed and coordinated Assessment Authorization packages based on NIST standards for general support systems and major applications. Education Certification International Scrum Institute 2019 Bachelor of Science in Business Management Hampton University - Hampton, VA 2013 Skills Nist, Cyber Security, Information Security, Siem Certifications/Licenses Scrum Master February 2019 to Present International Scrum Institute Assessments Technical Support Skills — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gujyq5i-1qlz6mzs Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS    ? Experienced in the development of System Security Plans (SSP), Contingency Plans (CP), Disaster Recovery Plans (DRC), Incident Response Plans/Training (IR), Configuration Management Plans, System Security Checklists, Privacy Impact Assessments, and POA&M.  ? Familiar with VMware and other Virtual Machine Applications.  ? Experienced working with NIST SP 800-53 rev 3 and rev 4.  ? Experienced with vulnerability scanning tools such as NESSUS, WebInspect and Nextpose.  ? Software: MS Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, Access, PowerPoint) (5)  ? Virtualization (3 years)  ? Penetration Testing (3 years)  ? Networking (3 years)  ? Linux (2 years)  ? Active Directory (3 years)  ? Remedy (Less than 1 year)  ? Hardware (4 years)  ? Customer Service (7 years)  ? Risk Management (RMF) (2 years)  ? Good communication and writing skills