Data Scientist Data Scientist Data Scientist - Raytheon Tucson, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Scientist Raytheon - Tucson, AZ October 2015 to Present • Working alongside Engineering team to build Common Factory Testing Platform. This platform uses clustering algorithms to determine if a part needs to be replaced or repaired.  • Creating 3D visualization of Common Factory Testing Platform output data with Unity Game Engine that can be viewed on HoloLens to understand the data from different points of view.  • Utilizing NLTK to analyze descriptive problem description of failure parts and then use K-Means to group the problems into clusters. This reduces the amount of time it takes for an engineer to find the corrective solution to the problem.  • Created a graph based threat detection system with networkx library that can detect malicious port scans initiated inside the organization's network. This allows IT Security to detect insider threats as well as outsider attacks.  • Generated time series forecasting visualization of terrorism attacks that occurred within certain ranges of Raytheon facilities located around the world by using SARIMAX and Prophet packages. Business Development customers use these as actionable insights to plan their new facilities and employee foreign travel routes.  • Employing statistical methods such as hypothesis testing and confident intervals to provide actionable insights and answer business problems. IT Analyst Intern NextMed - Tucson, AZ October 2014 to May 2015 • Supported IT team on various development projects to improve the business operation processes.  • Assisted in integrating legacy database system to new Oracle database system.  • Organized, collected, and generated IT Key Performance Indicators monthly for upper management. Cyber Security Intern Honeywell - Tempe, AZ June 2014 to September 2014 • Assisted with research proposals, elicited requirements and domain knowledge from customers, researched cyber security threats for cyber physical systems, and presented research results to customers and Honeywell management for program status reporting.  • Trained as a security analyst and closed over 200 security incident tickets. Education Master of Science in Management Information Systems in Business Intelligence University of Arizona - Tucson, AZ May 2015 Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems University of Arizona - Tucson, AZ May 2014 Skills Pandas (3 years), Scikit learn (3 years), Python (3 years), Nltk (2 years), SQL (3 years), Hadoop (1 year), Machine Learning, Spark, Big Data, NLP, Excel, Microsoft Office, Business Intelligence Additional Information Skills  Classification, Regression, Clustering, Neural Nets, NLP, Data Mining, Statistical Analysis, Time Series Forecasting, and Feature Engineering  Python: SciKit-Learn, Numpy, Pandas, Scipy, TensorFlow, Keras, NLTK, Statsmodels, Seaborn, Matplotlib, and Plotly  Hadoop: Spark, Pyspark, Hive, Zeppelin, Sqoop, and Ambari  SQL/PLSQL, SQLDeveloper, SAP Crystal Reports, Tableau, Rapid Miner, Unity, and MS Office.  TCP/IP, LAN, WAN, Network Design, Ethical Hacking, and Risk Assessment.