Network Security Analyst Network <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst Phoenixville, PA Work Experience Network Security Analyst Customers Bank - Phoenixville, PA Present Projects  Developed a cloud security program to monitor and respond to security related events within the Azure environment.   Created an incident response program which included installation of SIEM, IDS, and other advance malware tools.   Assisted in the design of a vulnerability management program which involved the strategy of placing scanners within network, developing scans, and reports metrics for upper management.     Daily Operational Tasks  Perform security monitoring utilizing SIEM, IDS/IPS, and other security tools to assess suspicious activity or abnormalities in the network.  Works with various IT teams to ensure security tools are properly configured and functioning as expected.   Investigate security alerts and appropriately responds to each incident to remediate or mitigate the threat.   Identify vulnerabilities using Nessus and provide detailed reports, with risk, impact, and recommendations to remediate the risk.  Perform risk assessments on new products, provides solutions to mitigate the risk, and determine if the criticality of the product to ensure the it will be appropriately monitored.   Perform companywide Phishing exercises for security awareness training.   Participate in 24/7 on-call rotation for security events. IT Security Analyst Benefit Allocation Systems (BAS) - King of Prussia, PA April 2010 to March 2014 • Maintained integrity and confidentiality of information residing in corporate databases, workstations, servers, and other systems.  • Responsible for maturing security tools and established a baseline for network activity.  • Administered and monitor inbound/outbound E-mail security policies.  • Implemented upgrades and patches to servers and workstations.  • Supported and analyzed vulnerability/penetration scans.    Systems/Network Administrator  • Oversaw day-to-day operation of computer networks including hardware/software support, training, and special  projects.  • Installed, supported, and maintained both physical and virtual network servers, appliances and Storage Area Net- work (SAN).  • Researched and troubleshooted technical issues by reviewing logs, records, and network configurations.  • Performed setup and administration of VMware hardware and software.    Technical Support/ IT Help Desk  • Provided technical support for 80 employees.  • Administered and supported laptops, desktops, workstations, mobile devices, and applications.    SSAE16 IT Audit/ Security Compliance  • Documented internal control systems to be used for internal and external audits including narratives, flow charts, and checklists.  • Monitored securities controls and collected metrics to determine if the security programs are effective Education Bachelor of Science in Communications University of Mount Union Certifications/Licenses GIAC GSEC Present Cisco A+ Certified Present