IT Security & Compliance Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> &amp; Compliance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security & Compliance Analyst - Vibe Credit Union Brownstown, MI Work Experience IT Security & Compliance Analyst Vibe Credit Union March 2018 to Present • Assists in managing the Risk and Compliance program to ensure core departments are adhering to applicable laws/regulations.  • Establishes, coordinates, and monitors mandatory online compliance and security awareness training.  • Assists in the creation of policies/procedures, and annually updates/reviews them.  • Ensures employees have proper access to systems and applications, depending on their job responsibilities.  • Defines the process and standards for system access management.  • Participates in Security Audits, Assessments, and incorporates recommended changes and improvements into Vibe's environment.  • Assists in managing and coordinating the Security Incident Response Process.  • Creates and manages Mobile Device Management security policies and ensures company devices are compliant with Access Control Policies.  • Monitors Web, Data, and Email Security and makes the necessary changes as appropriate.  • Updates and maintains Vendor Management documentation; reaches out to appropriate team members to perform vendor due diligence and ensure all third-party documentation is current.  • Works with IT and ERM to conduct IT Risk Assessments and Vendor Risk Assessments based on industry framework.  • Recommends mitigating controls to management to reduce identified risks.  • Works with auditors and technical subject matter experts to satisfy internal/external audit requirements and validate/test control effectiveness.  • Works closely with IT to provide security-related technical solutions and identifies opportunities to improve business practices or IT security-related processes.  • Assists in identifying breaches in the Credit Union's security or tracking the source of an unauthorized intrusion.  • Utilizes tools to detect IT security events from inside and outside the network.  • Maintains confidentiality of systems, member data, and credit union information by enforcing required security procedures.  • Researches and reports on the latest information technology security trends. Security Analyst Creative Breakthroughs, INC June 2016 to March 2018 • Performs detailed analysis of security-related events and draws accurate conclusions.  • Manages and coordinates the Security Incident Response process.  • Experience creating documentation such as Security Operations Center (SOC) Runbooks, Disaster Recovery Plans, Business Continuity Plans, Incident Response Plans, and Information Security Policies.  • Conducts Control Assessments for clients using standards such as ISO 27001/27002, NIST 800-53, and the Critical Security Controls, and makes recommended improvements for the organization's security posture.  • Reviews IT infrastructure system security and processes, then makes recommended improvements.  • Creates and updates security diagrams and documentation.  • Assists in defining and executing security projects. Education Associate of Applied Science in Information Assurance Henry Ford College May 2016 Skills access, Active Directory, security