IT Security Specialist <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Specialist IT Security Specialist - Digital Management, Inc Silver Spring, MD • Expert level understanding of compliance frameworks including NIST 800-53 Rev 4  • Expert level experience in developing remediation plans to address gaps relating to general computer controls, audit/assessment findings, and other observations.  • Highly proficient with producing detailed documentation on processes from a controls perspective.  • Experience implementing efficient project management processes across a large number of projects and groups.  • Experience in managing and tracking outstanding remediation issues and working towards timely resolution.  • Solid experience executing a full range of PM activities from low level tasks (including minutes and actions etc.) to high level advisory activities  • Team Player with excellent communication skills  • Possess in-depth knowledge of operations through various roles of increasing responsibilities Work Experience IT Security Specialist Digital Management, Inc - Rockville, MD November 2016 to Present • Conducts meetings with the IT Compliance team to gather documentation and evidence about their control environment.  • Gathers facts, analyzes data, and prepares synopsis comparing alternatives in terms of cost, time, availability of tools and personnel, and recommends a course of action.  • Identifies and recommends resolution of processing problems.  • Analyzes and evaluates current and proposed security initiatives and needs including performing various activities to support Access Control activities including maintaining and monitoring user access, performing monthly reviews, monitoring access to Network, reviewing audit activities, and performing monthly reviews and annual reviews on applications.  • Conducts third party risk assessments to assist in determining their ability to protect confidential, integrity, and availability of sensitive data.  • Assists with scoping and executing reviews of a wide variety of Information Security topics, such as governance, security awareness, security monitoring, policies and standards, system security assessments, threat and vulnerability management, identity and access management, incident response and recovery, and authentication.  • Provide security guidance and support to Information Security Unit (ISU) and other security POCS on the FISMA and NIST process.  • Works closely with IT and development teams to design secure infrastructure solutions and applications, facilitating the implementation of protective and mitigating controls. Security Specialist Crest Consulting - Rockville, MD September 2015 to 2016 • Provide security guidance and support to Information System Security Officers (ISSO) and other security POCS on the FISMA and NIST process.  • Facilitate the development and maintenance of the Plan of Action and Milestones via CSAM (Cyber Security Assessment & Management), and supported remediation activities.  • Manages security documentation deliverables and lead the Assessment & Authorization (A&A) team alongside the government ISSO to provide Security Packages (FIPS 199, System Description, System Environment & Component Inventory, Related Laws, Regulations, and Policies, Rules of Behavior, Privacy Threshold Analysis, Continuous Monitoring Plan, Interconnection Agreements, Business Impact Analysis, Contingency Plan, Contingency Plan Test Plan & Results, Risk Assessment Report, Designation Letters, Security Authorization Letter, FIPS 200, Incident Response Plan, Configuration Management Plan).  • Develops, coordinates, test and train on Contingency Plans (CP).  • Interviews System Administrators to assist in generating custom reports and/or artifacts in support of the A&A process.  • Assists in conducting document reviews of NIST policy documents, and updating procedures resulting from the new guidance.  • Provide training to team mates and individual users on new or modified processes and procedures by demonstrating ability to learn and apply new knowledge quickly and to explain complex technical issues in a non-technical, easy to understand manner.  • Facilitate engagement with internal and external auditors to support their respective audits.  • Managed, tracked, reported on, and escalated outstanding remediation items to ensure timely completion. Security Analyst Packet Tech - Washington, DC June 2013 to September 2015 • Conducted meetings with the IT Compliance team to gather documentation and evidence about their control environment.  • Performed Security Categorization (FIPS 199), Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA), E-Authentication with business owners and selected stakeholders.  • Applied current computer science technologies and Information Assurance (IA) requirements to the analysis, design, development, evaluation, and integration of computer/communication systems and networks to maintain an acceptable system security posture throughout the lifecycle of multiple national level mission system.  • Developed, maintained, and communicated a consolidated risk management activities and deliverables calendar.  • Worked with business process owners to ensure timely identification and remediation of jointly owned risk related issues and action plans.  • Performed comprehensive Security Control Assessments (SCA) and wrote reviews of management, operational and technical security controls for audited applications and information systems. Education B.A. in Information Systems/Business Management Strayer University - Suitland, MD May 2018 Skills DOCUMENTATION (3 years), FEDERAL INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT ACT (1 year), FISMA (1 year), NIST (1 year), ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills  Technical Documentation, Policy and Procedures, NIST Publications, FISMA, Microsoft Office, CSAM, POA&M (Plan of Action and Milestones), Executive Briefings, Ability to Meet High-priority Deadlines and Multi-task, Vendor & Client Account Management, Technical & Telecommunication Skills, Research and Professional Training & Staff Supervision, Strong Written and Verbal Skills, Strong Problem Solving Skills