IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - Tuva LLC Odenton, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst Tuva LLC June 2018 to Present supporting US Army Communications-Electronics Command (CECOM) APG, MD  • Reviewing selected system controls in eMASS for appropriateness following NIST special publications guideline.  • Identifying and uploading control specific artifacts in eMASS in order to get system accreditation package ready for final review and authorization.  • Performing STIG review and analysis for Mission critical system and helping system management with action plans to mitigate open STIGs.  • Working with the team to identify gaps in existing security policies and developing policy contents to address those gaps.  • Making recognized input to team efforts in developing policies and procedures needed to address STIG non-compliances that were identified during CCRI.  • Assisting APG G6 in the development and maintenance of the overall system security document, the Information System Security Plan (SSP), which contains all necessary security procedures, instructions, operating plans, and guidance.  • Providing IT security consulting to APG G6 system owners as to the other security documents, for example, security incident reports, equipment/software inventories, operating instructions, technical vulnerability reports, and contingency plans.  • Ensuring that APG G6 security policies, procedures, and recommendation complied with NIST, organizational guidelines, and technical practice  • Utilizing good Information Security (INFOSEC) skills to protect information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction.  • Demonstrates high level leadership skills in the information security management and risk assessment IT Security Analyst (Remote) Cybersoft Technologies Corporation April 2015 to May 2018 • Scheduled and conducted kick off meeting with stakeholders to help identify assessment scope, system boundary, information types, process, store or transmitted by the information system and categorized the system based on the high water mark  • Obtained and reviewed documentations to determine whether audit controls have been implemented over information systems.  • Responsible for the development of security control test plan and in-depth security assessment of information systems in order to maintain HIPAA compliance by implementing guidelines and standards identified in (NIST) 800-66.  • Worked effectively with management, staff and cross-functional security teams within the organization to identify and implement information assurance controls authorized by NIST SP 800-53  • Developed a security baseline controls and test plan that was used to assess implemented security controls  • Created Security Assessment Report (SAR) dealing the results of the assessment along with Plan of Action and Milestone (POA&M).  • Accustomed to fast-paced, high-pressure positions, demonstrated ability to prioritize multiple tasks, meet deadlines, and provide quality service. Technical Specialist US Army (Enlisted) 20th CBRNE Command, Aberdeen Proving Grounds (APG) - Edgewood, MD October 2014 to March 2018 Maintained, repaired, and operated different types of equipment in the Army during the past four years of active military service.  • Extensive experience in troubleshooting and following maintenance procedures.  • Conducted daily preventative maintenance checks and services on every equipment in my possession.  • Supervised a diverse workforce, providing clear instruction on what needs to be achieved.    Participate i Help Desk Technician January 2010 -2012  Master Reality's, Lagos, Nigeria  • Maintained daily performance of computer systems  • Served as the major point of contact for customers and staffs in need of Technical Assistance  • Provided the best solutions to problems based on the details giving by customers or staffs  • Helped in modifying and repairing computer hardware and software  • Installed computer peripheral for users  • Resolved technical problems with Local Area Networks, Wide Area Networks, and other systems  • Assist other teams to initiate, design and manage effective support solutions as directed by our business needs.  • Effectively communicate the ideas, expectations, and goals while working with and through others to achieve desired result. Education Master in Cybersecurity Management and Policy in Cybersecurity Management and Policy University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD Present Certificate in Computer University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD Present BA in International Relations Lagos State University - Lagos, NG 2009 Skills SECURITY (3 years), COBIT, NIST (3 years), SYSTEM MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year), SECURITY POLICIES (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Area of Expertise  • Knowledge of Federal Information System Management Act (FISMA) Framework  • Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology (COBIT) Framework  • Risk Management Framework (RMF) certification and accreditation process within the DOD  • National Institutes of Standards and Technology Special Publications (NIST SPs)  • DISA STIG compliance analysis and review  • Cyber Security Policies and Procedures development  • Vulnerability Scanners - DISA ACAS, Nessus, Retina, Nipper Studio  • Network Analyzer - Wireshark