IT Support Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Support <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Support Analyst Bloomington, MN Work Experience IT Support Analyst Target Corporation January 2017 to September 2018 • Provided one-on-one in person technical support.  • Identified and resolve issues that impact infrastructure and application performance.  • Adhered to standards and best practices, processes, and deliverables in accordance with Target standards.  • Provided a very high level of customer service to team members.  • Resolved hardware, operation, infrastructure and application incidents. Fraud Analyst Target Corporation September 2017 to 2018 • Developed expertise within Fraud Prevention specialty areas.  • Consistently delivered strong productivity metrics, thought processes, quality, initiative and leadership above and beyond baseline expectations.  • Pilot new strategies and partner to identify and propose solutions to current system and processes by thinking outside of position guidelines.  • Prepared and refered actionable case documentation to appropriate FRS Fraud Prevention, Target.com, DR or Asset Protection Departments for their further investigation. IT Intern Fairview Health Service September 2016 to December 2016 • Conducted data profiling, performing analysis, reviewing results, developing data quality rules.  • Transferred data into meaningful, professional and easy to understand formats for various audiences.  • Combined various data sources into a comprehensive understanding of customer behaviors. IT Security Intern Donaldson Companies January 2016 to August 2016 • Assisted IT Security team with decreasing ticket backlog by nearly 60%.  • Created new employee and customer accounts.  • Requested/ Granted access for employees in Oracle Identity Management.  • Helped employees with technical issues over phone, in person, and via email. Education B.A in Computer Science Augsburg College September 2012 to May 2017 Additional Information Key Skills    • Java  • HTML  • Python  • SQL  • JavaScript  • CSS  • Algorithms  • Git