IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - ING Bank Jersey City, NJ An?l?ti? ?nd ?r???tiv? t??m l??d?r who ?x??l? in strategic ?l?nning, problem solving, turnaround  management, and innovative ?r????? improvement. Ex??ll?nt ability t? ?ddr??? ?nd im?l?m?nt strategic  ?l?n? for t??hn?l?g? ?r?j??t m?n?g?m?nt, ?t?nd?rd regulation, risk management, ???r?ti?n? ?nd finance.  Seeking an ?ntr? l?v?l Int?rn?l Audit ???iti?n in a ??m??n? where m? ?kill? ?nd kn?wl?dg? will be  useful in promoting ??m??n?'? gr?wth ?nd ?n?uring ????rtunit? for ??r??r advancement.  ? P?????? ?tr?ng analytical and problem solving ?kill?, with the ability to make well thought out  d??i?i?n?.  ? Ex???ti?n?l ?r?j??t ?l?nning, ?rg?niz?ti?n?l and ?dmini?tr?tiv? ?kill?.  ? In-d??th ability t? g?th?r, ?n?l?z? ?nd ?v?lu?t? f??t? and t? ?r???r? ?nd ?r???nt ??n?i?? oral and  written reports. Work Experience IT Security Analyst ING Bank January 2016 to Present Experienced with IA Provisioning life cycle, RBAC, ACL, IAA  ? Audit and identify the risk of privileged accounts like root and database (Oracle, Sybase) and mitigate the risk.  ? Access Control, Access Management, Account Security and work towards mapping thousands of users across the bank's environment  ? Identify the risk of unauthorized access from both internal and external networks and work towards minimizing and mitigating the risk.  ? Improving visibility to trust relationship, which determines who has the privileges on a particular  application and its data security regulations.  ? Managing the remediation with required changes on the individual applications to meet the regulatory  requirements eliminating the redundant risk on the production systems.  ? Ensure stability of IT Production Environment by implementing and managing of application  redundant access controls reducing the risk, that only authorized resources are able to obtain access.  ? Re-designed the agency Internal control plan in compliance with the new regulatory guidelines  ? Ensure IT controls of the environment are secure and meet the required policies related to institution, federal, state, and local regulations.  ? Performed periodic Audits/reviews on Application and Department Access Rights to  Improving visibility and trust relationship  ? Identified, triaged, and documented the instances of vulnerability areas and devices.  ? Work with data owners and Leadership Team to provide improved data protected reporting needs  ? Designee and provide workflows for developing reporting and change management  ? Administered change management practices for IT Operations and utilize Change Management best  practices for optimum service by developing customized change plans and communication on key  strategic business initiatives.  ? Worked on Incident Management / Problem Management / Change Management  (Infrastructure/Application) and Change Advisory Boards (CAB) approvals  ? Responding to the issues from Application Owners through Information Security Mailbox IT Project Coordinator CMS CORPORATIONS - IN July 2011 to November 2013 Coordinate and supervised daily activities of a team of five Developers and one Network Manager.  ? Managed software development projects for both internal and externally facing applications.  ? Collaborated with product owners, remote internal IT resources and offshore vendors to create a  new product line for BI services to the health care industry.  ? Supported user group of approximately 50 people, including network/PC support, development of software for both  internal and customer use. Education Masters in Computer Science MONTCLAIR STATE UNIVERSITY September 2014 to May 2016 Diploma in Business Administration LONDON SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AND COMPUTING - London, UK November 2008 to March 2010 Bachelors in Computer Science and Information and Technology JAWAHARLAL NEHRU TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY September 2003 to May 2007 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? IT Security: IT Strategy, Risk Assessment, Risk Management and Auditing Principles from FFIEC  ? Technologies: Cyber Law, Workflows, Project Management, Analytics, Product Development,  UNIX, SSH protocols, SQL, Database, MS access, System modeling application tool, Wire Shark,  Microsoft Office Suite including Microsoft  Project 2013 and Data Modeling.