Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst | Fall 2019 Computer Information Systems Graduate Brooklyn, NY Experienced Security Analyst with a demonstrated history of working in the Investment Banking/Venture industry. Skilled in Information Security, Risk Assessment, Active Directory, IT Audit, and Identity & Access Management (IAM). Strong information technology professional working on a Bachelor's degree focused in Computer and Information Systems Security/Information Assurance. Work Experience Information Security Analyst Santander Bank - New York, NY August 2017 to Present • In charge of daily IAM provisioning (grant, revoke, and modify access), IAM documentation, and archiving of evidence.  - Assists in bi-annual federal and internal audit of Information Security Controls related to IAM.  • Oversees daily incidents with IBM Resilient that have been escalated/raised to InfoSec, follows up  with protect teams for resolution, and assists with change requests related to vulnerabilities.  • Responsible for monitoring InfoSec mailbox for insider threat notifications, security events, and ad-hoc requests related to information security.  • Conducts semi-annual recertifications to high risk financial applications with local business  owners.  • Gathers and Reports monthly cyber security metrics using McAfee ePO, Bladelogic, splunk  (SIEM), and Qualys VM tools IT Assistant New York City College of Technology - Brooklyn, NY September 2016 to August 2017 • Provided Desktop Support for Faculty and Students within the Computer Lab environment and other IT related tasks.  • Troubleshoot printers, scanners, and computers.  • Assisted Students, Faculty, Supervisors who want to change their passwords on CUNYFirst,  Blackboard 9.1, E-Portfolio/Openlab and their E-Mail accounts Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems New York City College of Technology - Brooklyn, NY August 2015 to Present Skills audits. (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Highly organized (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), Mac OS (Less than 1 year), self-starter (Less than 1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), UNIX (Less than 1 year), UNIX/Linux (Less than 1 year), VERY ORGANIZED (Less than 1 year), Windows 7 (Less than 1 year), Windows Server 2008 (Less than 1 year), Sharepoint, Active Directory, security, Microsoft Office, access, training, testing, Cisco Additional Information • Highly organized, attention to detail, self-starter, and experienced in IT audits.  • Strong writing and communication skills, ability to multi-task in a dynamic work environment, and strong interpersonal skills.    Programming Languages: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, PowerShell    Operating Systems: Windows 7/10, Windows Server 2008/12, Mac OS X, UNIX/Linux