Business System Analyst Business System <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Business Analyst and Software Quality Analyst Euless, TX Resourceful IT Business Analyst and Software Quality Analyst (QA) Tester/Team Lead with over 25 years of proven experience implementing IT business solutions, including project management support and technical experience as a Programmer Analyst. Seeking local area job opportunity as a Business Analyst and/or Software QA Test Analyst, preferably in Information Security. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business System Analyst Charles Schwab - Westlake, TX July 2018 to April 2019 Consultant for a leading financial services industry, instrumental as requirements project lead for medium to large projects, directing and coordinating requirements project staff and activities for RM&R team in Information Security. Oversee production support of core projects, including gathering and documenting requirements. Translate requirements to functional requirements and technical requirements, and identify options.  • Partner with SMEs, business users and act as a liaison between business and technical teams  • Coordinate development, testing, and implementation of solutions in Information Security Risk Management: Identity & Access Management, Application Security, Infrastructure Vulnerabilities, etc.  • Deliver business process requirements, technical information, and use cases  • Utilize Agile Scrum Methodology in developing use cases, use case model, supplementary requirements, and business rules  • Determine relevant business issues utilizing interpersonal, analytical, problem-solving, influencing, prioritization, decision-making and conflict resolution skills  • Use knowledge of MS Project, Excel, MS Word and Visio Drawing tools along with Outlook and other MS Office applications as needed  • Manage multiple large, complex and cross functional projects, with emphasis on systems, technologies, business process redesign, and understanding of technical environments  Contract position through Modis. IT Security Specialist III Bank of America - Irving, TX July 2017 to May 2018 Consult in Global Information Security - Governance, Regulatory Compliance. As a Business Analyst in the Transformation team, define, analyze and document business and functional requirements based on business needs. Translate those needs into requirements for use by developers to build technical solutions, working toward automation of self-testing by third party, ensuring risk management throughout all departments.  • Proactively communicate with LOB their applications that are in scope for testing across delivery teams, senior staff, and cross-functional stakeholders for Global Information Security/Identity and Access Management  • Ensure as part of the IAM Third Party Team that the user access control list is onboarded properly for third party vendor applications  • Execute on Mainframe User Acceptance testing for all LOB Third Party applications to verify that application managers are in compliance with the policy and procedures of the bank to pass audit  • Advise and guide application managers of the user IDs that failed and need to be remediated for retesting  • Update and document the Analyst Guide of changes that are made throughout each quarterly testing cycle process  • Use of SharePoint as content management for testing status and documentation of results  Contract position through TEK Systems. Configuration Business Analyst Ally Financial - Lewisville, TX December 2016 to May 2017 Gathered and documented requirements in multiple process areas and disciplines in the Consumer Auto Finance arena including business process, controls, system conversion, data conversion, analytics and reporting.  • Determined how current functionality and business rules and controls maps are to be configured in the new system, and identify opportunities to simplify and streamline existing processes and controls, leveraging go forward software  • Established process to manage and maintain business rules & system configurations  • Maintained detailed documentation on system configurations, including business rules, controls, user cases, and process workflows  • Ensured controls in place to manage business rules, including version controls & change controls  • Collaborated with internal and external IT partners to define best solutions for future-state operations, ensuring solution is flexible and accommodating to innovation and growth strategies  • Developed and executed throughout project, change management, and test plans and in the closure of gaps and defects  Contract position through TEK Systems. Business Systems Analyst/Technical Application Specialist GM Financial - Arlington, TX November 2014 to January 2016 Provided second-tier support for the business area of commercial vehicle loans. Position involved the analysis, design and estimation of medium to large-scale projects, product support, and coordination with team members on project development. Coordinated with other departments, business partners, and outside vendors in order to provide customer support. Utilized mainframe and web-based applications.  • Wrote business documentation for the SOX Controls and procedures for security monitoring and review process, including flow charts and new reports  • Supported Quality Assurance and business partners during the testing phases of projects  • Facilitated unit testing on maintenance items and production break fixes  • Collaborated in systems implementation and the evaluation of the results  • Served as point of contact to relationships within and outside of the company as appropriate  • Supported a successful proof of concept for a key process area in the new system  • Contributed to special projects and other related duties as assigned/required  • Ensured compliance with operational controls and security configuration standards (PARMS)  • Developed Information Security Control documentation for CVL production readiness  • Handled provisioning access to new and existing team members at assigned level  • Monitored scheduled application interfaces and provided issue resolution Sr. QA Analyst Tester Fidelity Investments - Westlake, TX February 2014 to August 2014 Provided technical guidance in planning, designing, and executing testing and developing procedures relating to product quality on complex projects. Worked closely with the development team to ensure the effectiveness and quality of the components and systems developed.  • Utilized understanding of Mainframe technologies, web-based applications, functional and system testing as well as coordinating end-to-end and user acceptance testing with partner systems.  • Assisted team members and small groups on multiple moderately complex projects.  • Created test strategy and test plans based on business and functional requirements, as well as design details.  • Applications focused on Portfolio Advisory Services through Fidelity Brokerage Services, Inc. largely utilizing Mainframe platform.  • Products included mutual funds, Exchange Traded Funds, certain eligible pre-owned securities and separately managed accounts (SMAs).  • Successfully worked on projects included Corporate Fee Audit Report, Fee Overpayments, Monthly Redemptions Statistical Report, Terminated Redemptions, Account Level Restrictions, ETF Wrap POC Redemptions, Journal Transactions, IGO Account Changes, Waivers and Discounts Report. Conducted application walk-through with users and produced project documentation.  Contract position through Professional Alternative, Inc. Technical Analyst - QA Test Lead American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX October 2012 to January 2014 Contractor  Agile Scrum test lead in charge of leading a team of QA testers in AA.com web site iteration releases and Mobile Web testing. Defined and wrote test cases and tracked quality assurance metrics using ALM/HP Quality Center. Directed the team in meeting release dates and compliance with the processes documented in the test plans. Utilized Rally, Sabre (Gizmo), and Microsoft Office products.  • Focused on Pre-ordered meals and MCE seats projects. Testing involved booking trips, view reservations, change reservations, select seats, select meals, change flight segments, entering payment info, Q blocked seats, Executive, Gold, regular passengers, secure, unsecure, guest, elite, non-elite, PNR lookup, and queue for ticketing in Sabre  • Browser testing in IE9, Firefox, Chrome, Safari; test layout on Desktop view, iPad, and mobile device, and testing in foreign languages  • Documented all results in HP QC and logged defects  Consultant position through Improving Enterprises. QA Test Team Lead AAFES - Dallas, TX November 2010 to October 2012 Contractor  Developed test plans, test conditions and test scenarios leading a QA test team in VisionPlus software upgrades and interfaces to Army Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) credit card software in-house programs and third-party interfaces. System and integration testing involved analysis, manual script creation, and testing in a complex mainframe/web based/open systems environment.  • Mainframe platform of CICS/COBOL II  • Gathered business, functional and technical details for documentation of expected test results  • Defined and tracked quality assurance metrics and used defect tool  • Ensured the team met milestone dates and complied with the processes documented in the test plans  • Verified the quality of POS Terminal products to ensure the delivery of high quality solutions  • Government DoD (NACI) security clearance  Contract position through Avizion Technologies. IT Test Technician QA Analyst NCR - Lake Mary, FL September 2010 to November 2010 Contractor  Conducted testing on NCR Healthcare products in preparation for product release to customers. Employed software testing methodologies consistent with the requirements of the system development life cycle (SDLC). Performed client acceptance testing and user interface testing using plans, tools, and scripts developed. Documented actual results and gathered appropriate technical software detail and entered into issue management tracking system.  Contract position through American Cybersystems. IT Quality Assurance Analyst Universal American - Lake Mary, FL February 2010 to September 2010 Contractor  Tested software development of web-based applications (SQL Server, VBScript, ASP.NET) for life and health insurance industry following test plans. Thoroughly tested web-based application software using positive and negative data combinations. Provided detailed documentation of software issues and follow up on defects to facilitate quick resolution in an Agile development team environment.  Temporary contract position through Veredus. Technical Analyst FEDERAL EXPRESS SERVICES - Orlando, FL February 2009 to September 2009 Contractor  In a call center, managed, logged, and referred critical incidents and outages in Linux and Windows environments. Resolved operation issues, conducted technical bridges, and produced revenue reports. Temporary contract position through Innosource. Business Analyst / QA Tester - Compliance FIRST DATA CORPORATION May 2001 to December 2007 is a retail banking card software processing company, using a Mainframe and Web based systems. Wrote functional specifications, test plans, test data and scripts following internal standards and in accordance with approved project plans. Work with project team and clients to identify business needs utilizing the latest requirements for bank cards, VISA and MasterCard compliance.  • Defined business requirements for new product concepts and product enhancements/upgrades.  • Collaborated with programmers to determine, prioritize, document, and manage development activities leading to successful compliance releases.  • Made formal presentations to entire project team of business and compliance requirements, including onsite and offshore.  • Analyzed documentation to maintain a high level of product knowledge of VisionPLUS software (decision management, authorizations, settlements, collections, etc.) and MasterCard and VISA card product lines.  • Consistently met or exceeded performance objectives and project deadlines resulting in timely quality releases.  • Produced a detailed model of testing procedures usable by all QA testing staff.  • Developed a compliance resource/training guide containing useful information and terminology for developing functional specifications in fulfillment of goal to attract and retain international talent.  • Won Key Player award in 2003 for providing outstanding support to the VisionPlus Sales Training Program and Team Quantum achievement award in 2001 for excellence in the Compliance 01.2 release. FIRST DATA CORPORATION - Maitland, FL July 1997 to December 2007 Test Engineer / Software Test Engineer - Compliance / Development FIRST DATA CORPORATION April 1999 to May 2001 QA testing included using automated testing tools, Test Director for planning and WinRunner for recording frequently used online scripts. Thoroughly tested software using positive and negative data scenarios and performed regression testing, assuring that changes made to the code successfully met the business requirements and technical specifications.  • Solid knowledge of SDLC QA methodologies with great attention to detail for accurate releases.  • Researched, analyzed, and documented software issues to facilitate quick resolution.  • Utilized Mercury Test Director / WinRunner automated testing tools for regression / lifecycle testing. Programmer Analyst - User / Technical Support FIRST DATA CORPORATION July 1997 to April 1999 Technical support programmer analyzing issues with in-house and custom code and wrote revisions necessary to meet client needs in a Mainframe environment using CICS COBOL and JCL.  • Made changes to code and technical specifications as needed to deal with special issues of customers and to meet with compliance requirements.  • Provided 24-hour technical support on a rotating basis to customers who needed critical after hours support in running or completing their daily production jobs.  • Cut the fix/compliance tapes to be sent out periodically, reinstalled all compiled programs to the new load libraries, and made corrections and additions to existing JCL as needed. Programmer / Analyst - Design / Development PUBLIC SYSTEMS, INC - Wilmington, DE November 1992 to June 1997 Contractor with a consulting company for state government related projects (health and social services).  • Analyzed client databases and reviewed the area of development required to produce reports, update databases, and create online menus and screens for input and output variables on the Mainframe using IMS COBOL and PCS/ADS.  • Estimated the time for completion of work within its framework which allowed the project deadline to be met.  • Application responsibilities included reconciling statements, check writing, expenditure, utilization, and summary reports, daily and monthly issuances, century date changes, screens and dynamic displays.  • Maintained excellent communications and professional relationships with clients. Education Bachelor of Arts in Psychology School of Education, North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC Pennsylvania State University - Middletown, PA Diploma in Computer Science/Programming Computer Learning Center - Philadelphia, PA Skills Cobol, Mainframe, Mvs, Vse, Ims Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ellenmpaul Additional Information SKILLS:  ·       Innovative problem-solver who quickly conceptualizes and provides functional and technical documentation of business processes, and requirements analysis for compliance and development  ·       Strong organization skills with proven ability to multi-task effectively and meet deadlines  ·       Proven Test Team Lead with ability to manage and review the work products of test team for quality of content and conformance with business requirements  ·       Project Management and business process support in a dynamic and complex business environment  ·       Solid knowledge of SDLC QA methodologies for thorough testing and end to end processing  ·       Experience in Global Information Security – Governance – Regulatory Compliance  ·       Particularly effective at identifying, assessing, defect tracking, and resolving various software issues  ·       Excellent communication skills including interpersonal and presentation with onsite and offshore teams  ·       Proven ability to learn and utilize new systems and products quickly while maintaining accuracy during peak volume of work  ·       Experienced with Agile Scrum and Waterfall testing methodologies  ·       Demonstrated success in business analysis, specification writing, QA test planning and execution, documentation, development of test plans and scripts, browser testing, and compliance regulations  ·       Expertise in VisionPLUS financial software suite plus TRIAD interface for credit card applications  ·      Multiple industry experience including banking, financial institution products, POS transactions, auto loans, airline websites, government programs, healthcare, insurance products