Field Systems Engineer III Field Systems Engineer III Senior Security Engineer Tulsa, OK Seasoned Senior Security Engineer with over 20 years of experience in information security and information technology.    Performed service delivery and consulting in the areas of security architecture, remediation, compliance, network-layer / application-layer penetration testing, project management, scoping, design, implementation, integration, and operations of security solutions.    Extensive experience with technology sales engineering and account management.    Extensive experience consulting and leading consulting teams in order to optimize information technology in a changing landscape across a diverse range of industries, including development of SOWs, response to RFPs, competitive bidding and negotiations, decisive lead consultant for  organizations of varying size and scope, from SMBs and startups to Fortune 100 companies.    Results oriented professional, recognized for taking on major challenging initiatives including rescuing client relationships, adapting to rapidly changing environments and scope, and resolving mission-critical issues to ensure success. Work Experience Field Systems Engineer III F5 Networks 2015 to 2015 Provide Pre-Sales engineering for F5 solutions in the Central Region.  • Pre-Sales engineer, account management, and technical consultant to clients, direct and channel sales teams, and business partners. Understand client's business requirements, technical requirements, and the competitive  landscape. Provide technical sales support that may include collaborating with sales teams to define, design, and detail the technical aspects and feasibility of proposed solutions; delivering Proof of Concepts (PoCs); developing  and delivering technical education; supporting critical situations; designing solutions; and answering technical  questions.  • When engaged for a specific opportunity or project, responsible for the technical accuracy of the proposed solution.  • Responsible for all aspects of technical sales - including opportunity qualification, analyzing IT and security  requirements, selecting appropriate solutions, architectural design of solutions, leading PoCs, demonstrations, client  workshops and presentations, and supporting quotes/pricing and other sales and business development activities.  o Understand client business requirements and demonstrate how F5 solutions meet specific requirements.  o Technical solution design and architecture for security solutions, including product sizing and technical and quality assurance processes.  o Present and articulate the value of solutions with competitive technologies in the market.  o Contribute as an individual and team leader in successfully executing PoCs and extensive demonstrations in complex and competitive sales situations.  o Articulate to client's deployment processes and best practices to lower deployment risk and accelerate  time to value.  o Working cohesively with channel partners to develop customer relationships, transfer technical skills, and ensure clients are provided with best of breed and proven solutions. Sales Engineer Pulse Secure 2015 to 2015 Provide Pre-Sales engineering and account management for security solutions to clients across all vertical markets in the South Central, Southwest, and Western Regions.  • Technical consultant to clients, Pulse Secure direct and channel sales teams, and Pulse Secure business partners.  • Understand client's business requirements, technical requirements, and competitive landscape.  • Provide technical sales support that may include collaborating with sales teams to define, design, and detail the technical aspects and feasibility of proposed solutions; creating and reviewing BOMs; delivering PoCs; developing  and delivering technical education; supporting critical situations; designing solutions; and answering technical  questions.  • When engaged for a specific opportunity or project, responsible for the technical accuracy of the proposed solution.  • Responsible for all aspects of technical sales for Pulse Secure products - including opportunity identification,  analyzing IT security requirements of enterprise clients, selecting appropriate solutions, architectural design of security solutions, leading PoCs, demonstrations, client workshops and presentations, and supporting quotes/pricing and other proposal development activities.  o Understand client business requirements and demonstrate how Pulse Secure solutions meet specific  requirements.  o Technical solution design and architecture for security solutions, including product sizing and technical and quality assurance processes.  o Present and articulate the value of Pulse Secure solutions with competitive technologies in the market.  o Contribute as an individual and team leader in successfully executing PoCs and extensive demonstrations in complex and competitive sales situations.  o Articulate to client's deployment processes and best practices to lower deployment risk and accelerate  time to value.  o Working cohesively with channel partners to develop customer relationships, transfer technical skills, and ensure clients are provided with the best security solutions. Security Technical Sales Specialist IBM - Dallas, TX 2014 to 2015 Provide Pre-Sales engineering and account management for security solutions to clients in the South Central Region.  • Technical consultant to clients, IBM sales teams, and IBM Business Partners.  • Understand the client's business requirements, technical requirements, and competitive landscape.  • Provide technical sales support that may include collaborating with IBM sales teams to define, design, and detail  the technical aspects and feasibility of proposed solutions; creating and reviewing Bill of Materials (BOMs);  delivering Proof of Concepts (PoCs); developing and delivering technical education; supporting critical situations;  designing solutions; and answering technical questions.  • When engaged for a specific opportunity or project, responsible for the technical accuracy of the proposed solution.  • Responsible for all aspects of technical sales for IBM Security products - including Q1 Labs products - including  opportunity identification, analyzing IT security requirements of enterprise clients, selecting appropriate IBM  solutions, architectural design of security solutions, leading PoCs, demonstrations, client workshops and presentations, and supporting quotes/pricing and other proposal development activities.  o Understand client requirements regarding enterprise security policy and standards, and how IBM solutions  will meet the requirements.  o Technical solution design and architecture for security solutions, including product sizing and technical and quality assurance processes.  o Present and articulate the value of IBM Security solutions compared to competitors in the market.  o Contribute as an individual and team leader in successfully executing PoCs and extensive demonstrations in complex and competitive sales situations.  o Articulate to client's deployment processes and best practices to lower deployment risk and accelerate  time to value.  o Working cohesively with channel partners to develop customer relationships, transfer technical skills, and ensure clients are provided with the best available IBM solutions. Regional Practice Lead, South Central - IT Risk Management & Security OpenSky Corporation - Dallas, TX 2013 to 2014 Provide information security assessment, compliance, solutions architecture and implementation, and IT risk  management consulting and auditing services to clients across all industries in the North America Region.  • Lead delivery of solutions to clients independently and as a team lead  • Contribute to Practice Development  • Assist with Business Development  • Support resourcing for engagements  • Assist in engagement management activities, including:  o Assignment of peer reviewers for quality control activities  o Statement of Work creation and scoping of projects  o Project management activities of multiple projects  o Recruiting activities, including performing technical interviews of candidates for nation-wide roles. Senior Security Solutions Architect M&S Technologies - Dallas, TX 2013 to 2013 Provided security solutions architecture, assessment, and compliance consulting services to regional clients.  • Advised clients on the architecture and design of IT security solutions.  • Implementation of security solutions.  • Engaged in pre-sales and business development activities focused on security solutions, assessment, and compliance engagements.  • Performed information security assessments including external and internal network-layer penetration testing,  application-layer penetration testing, and web application penetration testing.  • Developed assessment and compliance practice methodologies.  • Developed SOW, RFP response, and project reporting documentation templates.  • Developed peer review process for client deliverables. Senior Security Consultant McAfee, an Intel Company - Dallas, TX 2011 to 2013 Provided information security assessment, compliance, and IT risk management consulting and auditing services to Fortune 500 clients across all industries in the North America Region.  • Performed information security assessments including external and internal network-layer penetration testing,  application-layer penetration testing, web application penetration testing, mobile device application penetration  testing, social engineering engagements, and host/device configuration reviews.  • Performed PCI DSS Gap Analysis and Report on Compliance engagements for Level 1 merchants as a PCI  Qualified Security Assessor (QSA). Senior Security Consultant, Application Security FishNet Security 2010 to 2011 Provided application-layer penetration testing and assessments to large clients across all industries in the United  States.  • Performed application-layer penetration testing and assessments for web-based, thick-client, and mobile device  applications.  • Staff augmentation for one of the largest gaming and entertainment companies in the world.  • Architected and implemented large scale HP WebInspect and Assessment Management Platform (AMP)  infrastructure to provide ongoing assessment of hundreds of web-based applications during User Acceptance  Testing, Production, and Change Management cycles. Principal Consultant SecurityPenetration.com - Dallas, TX 2010 to 2010 Provided and managed IT security consulting services and drove business development to large clients in Dallas, TX.  • Performed information security consulting, assessment, and advisory services regarding PCI DSS and Sarbanes- Oxley compliance, and implementation of security and infrastructure solutions.  • Advised senior management on product selection and budgeting for security and network infrastructure solutions. Senior Security Consultant Accudata Systems, Inc - Dallas, TX 2005 to 2010 Provided information security assessment, compliance, and IT risk management consulting and auditing services to large clients across all industries in the South Central Region.  • Regularly performed multi-phase enterprise IT security assessments, including external and internal network-layer  penetration testing, web application assessment and penetration testing of mission-critical applications, IT risk  assessments, network segmentation and architecture review, wireless assessment and penetration testing, threat  analysis, physical security, social engineering, device/host configuration reviews, firewall/router configuration and rule-set / ACL reviews, modem discovery, detailed reviews of existing and planned information security and  network infrastructure solutions, and PCI DSS consulting as a QSA.  • Assisted clients with the evaluation, design, and implementation of new security solutions.  • Development and enhancement of information security policies and procedures.  • Assisted clients with aligning their operational procedures with information security best practices and business  objectives.  • Performed PCI DSS Gap Analysis and Report on Compliance engagements for Level 1 merchants as a PCI  Qualified Security Assessor (QSA).  • Presentation of findings and recommendations to audiences ranging from technical personnel to senior executive  management.  • Designed and implemented large-scale Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) for Fortune 100 clients utilizing  technologies including IBM ISS (Internet Security Systems) RealSecure / Proventia / SiteProtector, Juniper IDP  (Intrusion Detection and Prevention), McAfee IntruShield, Snort, and Tripwire.  • Assisted multiple clients with the development, deployment, and ongoing audit of security baselines for operating  systems, applications, and network devices, based on industry best practices.  • Continually refined in-house security assessment methodologies and penetration testing procedures.  • Reviewed, evaluated, and recommended commercial and open source tools for use in assessments. Lead Developer and Principal Consultant SecurityPenetration.com - Dallas, TX 2001 to 2005 Account Management and performed information security assessment, auditing, and software development services.  • Responsible for activities including acquisition of funding, development of business plans, product roadmaps,  software design specifications, and ongoing management of consulting, engineering, and software development  engagements.  • Performed information security assessments including external and internal network-layer penetration testing and vulnerability assessments, host/device configuration reviews, and network architecture and design reviews.  • Recruited and managed security engineers for consulting engagements and software developers for software  development projects.  • Project Leader and Lead Developer of the Center for Internet Security's (CIS) Windows Security Scoring Tool.  • Member of the team that developed the CIS benchmarks for Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000, Windows XP, and Windows Server 2003.  • SANS Instructor for the Windows 2000 Gold Standard Security Benchmark.  • Delivered presentations at SANS conferences, ISACA chapters, CSI conferences, and a NIST conference on the value of establishing security benchmarks for operating systems and devices.  • Acquired unpublicized software code from the National Security Agency (NSA). Manager, Vulnerability Threat and Remediation Team SecurityPenetration.com - Dallas, TX 2002 to 2003 Managed team responsible for development of remediation actions used by software to resolve vulnerabilities identified by leading vulnerability scanners.  • Recruited and managed a team of ten members including security engineers, system administrators, system  engineers, and software engineers.  • Project management of Remediation Signature Team initiatives.  • Developed and implemented best practice remediation policies.  • Implemented full lifecycle processes for the VFlash vulnerability update utility of the Hercules Product, including  acquisition of new vulnerability data, development of remediation signatures, testing, quality assurance, and release to production.  • Performed vulnerability assessments using a wide range of tools including Nessus, SPI Dynamics WebInspect,  AppScan, ISS Internet Scanner, ISS System Scanner, Eeye Retina, Harris STAT Scanner, QualysGuard Internet  Scanner, Foundstone FoundScan, Vigilante SecureScan NX, Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer, Sunbelt  Software Network Security Inspector, GFI LANguard Network Security Scanner, NetIQ Security Analyzer.  • Tested vulnerability assessment, exploit, and remediation on a variety of platforms including Solaris 2.6 - 9,  Redhat 6.0 - 9.0, Windows NT/2000/XP/2003.  • Implemented network security devices including firewall, VPN, and IDS. Senior Systems Development Specialist Affiliated Computer Services - New Orleans, LA 2001 to 2002 Provided systems administration and security engineering services to a large U.S. Government client.  • Member of the PKI and Web Teams of the National Finance Center, onsite the NASA Michoud Assembly Facility.  • Administered a server farm including Compaq Proliant Windows NT/2000 web, application, database, proxy, and monitoring servers.  • Implemented network-based intrusion detection systems using Snort and ISS RealSecure network sensors.  • Performed routine vulnerability assessment of managed servers.  • Implemented centralized logging using NSA's Syslog for Windows NT/2000.  • Implemented network load-balancing using Cisco Local Director and F5 BIG-IP devices.  • Conducted server stress testing of web-based applications using Mercury Interactive LoadRunner.  • Assisted with research and planning for Directory Migration from Novell Directory Services to Windows 2000  Active Directory, including evaluation of directory migration utilities such as Bindview BV-Admin, NetIQ, and Microsoft Directory Synchronization Services.  • Actively evaluated security configuration, addressed new vulnerabilities, and made recommendations to improve  and maintain the security of managed servers.  • Obtained U.S. Secret Security Clearance. Support Engineer Certia, Inc - New Orleans, LA 2000 to 2001 Provided software development, systems engineering, and security engineering support.  • Evaluated security, performed vulnerability testing, and made recommendations to improve the security of custom- built client and server components for upcoming software releases.  • Provided a solution to implement custom designed C++ and Java applications as Windows NT Services.  • Provided Windows NT 4.0 Server configuration support for 30 servers.  • Installed, configured, and supported PKI Infrastructure including RSA KEON Certificate Server 5.5, Netscape  Administration Server, and Netscape Directory Server.  • Provided production issue quick-fix engineering for Microsoft Outlook, Lotus Notes, and browser-based secure  document delivery (managed PKI) services.  • Designed and debugged all new software installations using Wise InstallManager 1.53. Systems Engineer Property Insurance Association of Louisiana - New Orleans, LA 2000 to 2000 Provided software development, systems engineering, and security engineering support.  • Administered NT 4.0 servers and Windows 2000 clients.  • Administered network perimeters using Watchguard FireBox II firewalls.  • Responsible for Incident Response Handling.  • Budget Preparation.  • Acted as a liaison between management and consultants for a database and application conversion from a COBOL  based application on an ES9000 mainframe housing a DL/I database to a Windows NT based solution using SQL  Server 7.0, Internet Information Server 4.0, and Active Server Pages 3.0.  • Based upon design specifications, evaluated deliverables including database diagrams, database dictionaries, data  flow diagrams, normalization of database tables, data conversion scripts, and data conversion field mappings.  • Used E/R Studio 4.03 to reverse engineer the logical data models of the converted data. Systems Engineer / Systems Analyst Louisiana Attorney Disciplinary Board - New Orleans, LA 1998 to 2000 Provided software development, systems engineering, and security engineering support.  • Administered NT 4.0 servers and Windows 98/NT 4.0 clients at 2 sites including administering security to ensure  the integrity of all systems on the LAN and WAN.  • Prepared proposals for hardware, software, and communications procurements.  • Administered Citrix MetaFrame 1.0, Exchange Server 5.5, Systems Management Server 2.0, DHCP, WINS, Proxy  Server 2.0, Internet Information Server 4.0, etc.  • Evaluated internet firewall security and identified potential vulnerabilities.  • Documented network design/architecture.  • Prepared design specifications and data flow diagrams for redesign of the agency's case management system.  • Designed database tables and diagrams using SQL Server 7.0.  • Converted databases from FoxPro 2.6 for DOS and Access 97 to SQL Server 7.0.  • Used Access 97/2000 to create user interfaces, to integrate with FoxPro databases for ad hoc queries and reports,  and to interface with Word 97/2000 and Excel 97/2000.  • Redesigned user interfaces using Visual Basic 6.0.  • Supervised contract programmers and tested application builds.  • Redesigned case management reports using Seagate Crystal Reports 8.0.  • Prepared design specifications, graphics, and administered the agencies web site.  • Integrated LivePublish 2.0 technology for publishing the disciplinary system's case law. Systems Engineer / Developer University of Tulsa Web Team - Tulsa, OK 1994 to 1998 Worked as part of a small team responsible for developing and administering the College of Business' web servers.  • Wrote HTML using a basic text editor.  • Administered NT servers including access controls and general security to ensure the integrity of all systems. Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems Tulane University - New Orleans, LA 1998 to 2002 Bachelor's in Management Information Systems and Accounting University of Tulsa - Tulsa, OK 1994 to 1998 Skills account management (7 years), architecture (10+ years), audit (5 years), business development (4 years), deployment (8 years), Gap analysis (7 years), information security (10+ years), Intrusion (6 years), network architecture (4 years), Nist (4 years), Payment card industry (10+ years), Pci (10+ years), Pki (2 years), Project management (2 years), Risk management (8 years), security (10+ years), solutions (10+ years), testing (10+ years) Additional Information Expertise: Information Protection, Information Security Solutions, Penetration Testing, Governance, Risk  and Compliance, Application Security, Network Architecture  • Design and Implementation of Complex Information Security Solutions  • Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) Compliance  • Network-layer and Application-Layer Penetration Testing / Ethical Hacking  • Web Application and Mobile Application Security Assessments and Penetration Testing    Organization Leadership Core Competencies  • Business Development • Implementation of Security Solutions  • Account Management • Information Security & Network Architecture  • Leadership Roles • Penetration Testing and Vulnerability Assessment  • Personnel Management Tools and Techniques  • Presentations at SANS conferences, ISACA • Deployment and Migrations  chapters, CSI conferences, NIST, and to leadership • Enterprise Firewalls  teams including CISOs and CIOs • Intrusion Prevention Systems  • Recruitment of candidates for various teams • Security Information and Event Management  (SIEM) Solutions  Project Leadership • Endpoint Security  • Project Lead, Assessments and Compliance • Python and Shell Scripting  • Manager, Vulnerability Threat Team • IT Risk Management and Regulatory Compliance  • Mentoring • Information Security Compliance and Audit  • Team Leadership • Project Management  • Activity Based Costing  • PCI DSS Gap Analysis and Report on Compliance Certifications & Training  (ROC) Engagements for Level 1 merchants • ISC2 Certified Information Systems Security  • Member - PKI and Web Teams of the National Professional (CISSP)  Finance Center, onsite at NASA • ISC2 Information Systems Security Architecture  Professional (ISSAP)