Sr. ERP Project Manager - Brought Sr. ERP Project Manager - Brought Sr. ERP Project Manager - Brought - Frank Group Recruitment Group New Bern, NC Work Experience Sr. ERP Project Manager - Brought Frank Group Recruitment Group July 2018 to Present in to introduce formal project management methodologies and disciplines to a struggling ERP (M3) implementation. Restructured project team roles and responsibilities, implemented processes and tools to accurately measure project performance, identify and prioritize key risks, produce accurate forecasts, and prescribe corrective measures.  Baselined project schedule, identified Critical Path, introduced formal change management, stopped scope creep and instituted formal SDLC methods for both the vendor (Infor) and Halo's integration development team. Sr. Project Manager Infor August 2017 to February 2018 Managed client's projects to deliver cloud based ERP solutions in the distribution and the food and beverage industries. Managed projects' requirements, schedules, budgets, scope, resources, communications, risks and stakeholder relationships to deliver solutions that satisfied or exceeded stakeholder's expectations. Sr. Project Manager Avaap December 2015 to December 2016 Applied professional project management methods and tools to deliver Infor technology ERP solutions, both locally and in the cloud, to Avaap's clients. Managed projects' requirements, schedules, budgets, scope, resources, communications, risks and stakeholder relationships to deliver solutions that satisfy or exceed stakeholders' expectations. RP3 Management LLC January 2007 to November 2015 Self-owned business that planned and executes business critical programs and projects for the Fortune 500. Provides expertise in portfolio, program and project management, IT Services Management, process improvement and six sigma methodologies. Develops and delivers professional training for leading corporate educators.    Clients PMO Analyst - IT PMO RP3 Management LLC - Fairfax, VA January 2015 to April 2015 Atlas Data Systems - Fairfax, Virginia  Provider of IT services, business solutions to the Fortune 1000  Client: AIG - A leading international insurance provider 1/15 - 4/15  PMO Analyst - IT PMO  Developed PMO Service Definitions and implementation schedules. Drafted PM / PMO / Portfolio management maturity assessment methodology. Developed PM training materials. Sr. Project Manager - Legal and Global Compliance RP3 Management LLC February 2014 to December 2014 Project manager for the development and global institutionalization of a centralized workflow management application, used during planning and approval of Merck sponsored Health Care Professional events, to ensure demonstrable observance of all anti-bribery and compliance laws and regulations. Sr. Project Manager - Information Security RP3 Management LLC - Overland Park, KS August 2013 to February 2014 Fishnet Security - Overland Park, Kansas  A leading information systems security provider  Client: Tyco - Leader in global fire protection and security solutions. 8/13 - 2/14  Sr. Project Manager - Information Security  Directly managed global projects and teams focused on improving Tyco's network security perimeter. Worked directly with CSIO and EPMO to instill formal project management methodology and skills across the environment. Project Management Office lead RP3 Management LLC - Chester, NJ December 2012 to June 2013 Top tier pharmaceutical company  Project Management Office lead  Developed and led a PMO supporting a critical market service provider transition and consolidation. Scheduled and coordinated activities of several internal and external work streams. Managed a core team of six project leads. Reported status to executive management and worked closely with project sponsors and key stakeholders to ensure projects completed on time, on budget and to quality standards. Instructor and Course Developer RP3 Management LLC May 2007 to December 2012 Provided management and technology training to the corporate, military, work force and private markets. Trained over 1000 professionals in portfolio, program, and project management, and Six Sigma methodologies. Program Manager RP3 Management LLC - Jersey City, NJ October 2011 to April 2012 Jersey City, NJ 10/11 - 4/12  The world's third largest IT services provider.  Client: Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi - Japan's largest bank  Program Manager  Designed, established and led a PMO for a $22M transformative multiyear ITSM improvement program. Coordinated cross-functional teams consisting of internal resources, "Big Four" consultancies, boutique service provides and assorted contractors. Provided program management, project management and ITSM process improvement methodologies. Directly managed teams of project managers and PMO dedicated resources. Service Analyst Manager RP3 Management LLC - Cokesbury, NJ November 2010 to September 2011 Established best practices for IT project management, service management and process improvement for internal Information Technology service providers. Developed tools and methodologies. Counseled senior management, and trained operational and project managers. Sr. Project Manager / Service Manager RP3 Management LLC - Whitehouse Station, NJ January 2007 to November 2007 Whitehouse Station, NJ 1/07 - 11/07  Leading global pharmaceutical research and manufacturing company  Sr. Project Manager / Service Manager - Established PMO to introduce program and project concepts and methodologies. Introduced and maintained project portfolios to better align project resources to support business strategy and objectives.    Managed an international team of analysts and a near-shore outsourcer to deliver global application and infrastructure provisioning services. Defined service portfolio, developed service models, hired and trained staff. Ensured quality of service, customer satisfaction and high morale. Developed RFPs and ensured all contractual responsibilities were met or exceeded by outsourcers. Budgeted and planned resource allocations based on demand forecasts. Provided subject matter expertise in project management and operational management. Sr. Project Manager Computer Associates, Inc October 2005 to December 2006 Director Performed Program and Project management for Merck account. Delivered IT security solutions. Managed CA customer and partner resources. Maintained staff billable utilization. Coordinated offshore software development and testing. Cultivated and maintained productive business relationships between key customer decision makers and CA business owners. Aligned services delivery resources to strategic sales goals. Developed service proposals and Statements of Work. Ensured profitability of engagements. Senior Project Manager Sun Microsystems, Inc January 2001 to January 2004 Specialized in rescuing troubled projects. Established portfolio management governance reducing project failure rate by 40% in six months. Delivered and managed client infrastructure deployment projects. Budgets up to $12M. Developed statements of work. Directed project budgets, staffing, communications, risk management, change control and quality assurance. Coached project managers. Monitored customer satisfaction. Technical Account Manager / Pre-sales Systems Engineer November 1996 to January 2001 Provided pre-sales technical support to global account teams. Partnered with VARs, integrators and Sun Professional Services to develop, present and deliver enterprise IT solutions. Responded to RFPs, managed proof of concepts and prototyped technical solutions. Nurtured customer and partner relationships. Hosted Sun HQ site visits, presented product roadmaps and provided feedback to Sun Product Managers. Presented current and emerging technology at various trade shows. Managed engagements with VARs, ISVs and system integrators. Systems Administrator Bell Communications Research January 1988 to November 1996 Performed hands-on systems administration of Unix and mainframe platforms, Oracle and Informix databases, and TCP/IP and SNA networks. Planned, scheduled and coordinated deployment and platform testing of over 30 software products. Managed internal and external service providers, systems administrators and technical staff. Education Masters of Technology Management in Technology Management Stevens Institute of Technology BS in Computer Science Kean University Masters Certificate in Project Management in Project Management George Washington University Masters Certificate in Lean Six Sigma Master Black Belt in Lean Six Sigma Master Black Belt Villanova University Masters Certificate in Six Sigma in Six Sigma Villanova University Skills Pmo, Ms project, Ms sharepoint, Sharepoint, Ms office, Program management