IT security administrator <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">security</span> administrator IT security administrator - Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León Fort Lauderdale, FL Work Experience IT security administrator Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León 2014 to February 2019 Information Technology Management  San Nicolás de los Job: IT security administrator  Garza, N.L. Functions and responsibilities: Leader in the implementation of an ISMS based on ISO 27000.  Creation of controls, procedures and security policies.    1  IT Security administrator.  Analysis of processes for the identification of Security  breaches.  Penetration test (Pentest Basic).  Risk management.  Asset insurance  Implementation of OWASP methodology  Investigation of security trends  Staff awareness on security issues  Training in subjects of Safe Development  Internal security auditor  Follow up on trends in information technologies regarding security.  Creation of executive presentations based on analysis of incidents, risks, pentest, etc. Systems coordinator Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León 2006 to 2014 San Nicolás de los Information Technology Management  Garza, N.L. Job: Systems coordinator  Functions and responsibilities: Development in Visual FoxPro, Visual Basic,  Access, VB.NET, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2003 y 2005,  Crystal reports, C#, MVC.  Maintenance to Institutional and Non-Institutional  Systems (Draw for Cultural Sowing, Scholarships,  Digitalization, CAFM).  Planning of solutions and implementation of new  systems.  Realization of functional prototypes with Axure.  Analysis, planning, coordination, development and support to systems required by the university for  national level events (National Universiade, Cultural  Sowing Draw, Congress of the National Association of  Faculties and Engineering Schools, National Congress on the Law of Culture Physics and Sport, Regional  Congress of Tutorials) and international congresses  (7th International Congress "Challenges and  Expectations of the University").  Analysis, design, creation, implementation and maintenance of the Online Sale page of Tickets for the  Cultural Sowing draw in a responsive mode. Analyst programmer Advantech Tecnología en Informática S.A. de C.V 2005 to 2006 Garza, N.L. Functions and responsibilities: Professional Practices and Social Service.  Development of commercial systems and point of sale.  Analysis and maintenance to commercial system.  Database management. Technical assistant in the systems area PAMOSA S.A 1996 to 2001 Real estate  Parras de la Job: Electrical maintenance  Fuente, Coahuila. Functions and responsibilities: Technical assistant in the systems area.  Electrical maintenance to premises of a mall, hostel "El  Farol", ranch "La Tintorera" and private home.    2  Support in different areas of the real estate.  PROGRAMMING LENGUAGES    • SQL Server 2000 and higher.  Database • SQL Server in the cloud.  • Access.  managers  • BD driver integrated in Visual FoxPro.  • Management of databases, views, functions, SP, triggers, in MS-  SQL.    • Visual .NET (asp, C#, vb)  Programming • Crystal Reports  languages • Methodology in MVC whit C#  • Delphi 7 (Intermediate level)  • Progress (Basic level)  • Access (Intermediate level)  • Java (Beginner level)  • Visual Fox Pro  • Visual Basic  • PHP (Beginner level)  • Axure  • Microsoft Azure  • .NET for mobiles (Native applications for Windows Phone 7.5 and higher)    ADDITIONAL PREPARATION AND HOBBIES  Visual .NET  CEH v8, v9  •    ENSA v9  •    ECSA v9  •    CHFI v9  •    ECSP v9  •    CISSP  •    Leader auditor ISO 27001:2013  Courses •    Internal auditor ISO 27000:2013  •    Internal auditor ISO 9001:2000  •    MoProSoft (Quality in Software)  •    ITIL  •    CMMI  •    Delphi 7  •    UML  •    XNA  •    HTML 5  •    Windows Azure  •    3  •  CEH v8 (EC-Council)  CHFI v9  •    ECSA v9  •    Leader auditor ISO 27001:2013 (PECB) Skills LINUX (Less than 1 year), VMWARE (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Software knowledge: Office package, VMWare, Kali Linux,  *Programming languages (See detail on .