Contractor - Microsoft Security Architect Contractor - Microsoft <span class="hl">Security</span> Architect Microsoft Enterprise Architect Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contractor - Microsoft Security Architect Entergy Corp/ComTec - The Woodlands, TX July 2019 to August 2019 Supported and created Entergy regulatory and internal security policies concentrating on Microsoft Products and Services. The Microsoft Products include the Office 365 Suite, Windows Desktops and Servers, Active Directory and third party applications and tools associated with security the Microsoft Infrastructure. Contractor - Microsoft O365/EM+S Specialist Baker Hughes/Microland - Houston, TX February 2019 to May 2019 Supported the Baker Hughes multi-national migration of On Premise Microsoft Services to the Microsoft O365/EM+S (i.e. M365) platform. The migration included Exchange Online, SharePoint, Skype for Business and Yammer services with clients using endpoints including Windows 10, Windows 7, IOS and Android devices. The mobile devices were managed by Microsoft Intune.  • Authored End User documentation for the migration of mobile devices and implementation of MFA  • Authored a whitepaper with various options detailing new Internal Testing Environments integrated with the Microsoft M365 platform  • Developed and Implemented Internal testing of Mobile Devices and Windows 10/7 desktop of the Exchange migration.  • Hands-On Support of roll-out.  • Authored a Technical Gold Build Document of the Exchange Online implementation  • Administrated the Skype for Business Online Policies using PowerShell. Microsoft Enterprise Architect Hewlett Packard - Houston, TX June 2018 to November 2018 Architected, recommended, advised, documented and instructed internal HP employees and potential customers on solutions involving HP Proactive Management with Microsoft Intune.  • Authored Internal Whitepaper on Microsoft Azure AD authentication and integration with HP Proactive Management.  • Assisted in marketing and roadmap support for Microsoft EM+S with HP Solutions.  • Architected and implemented Microsoft hybrid Windows Active Directory with Azure Active Directory for internal testing of HP Proactive Management solutions.  • Created solution baselines and general processes based on Microsoft Azure Active Directory and Intune.  • Level 3 support to the internal HPIT migration to cloud based client management from on site Active Directory & SCCM federated with Ping ID to Microsoft 365 including EM+S (Azure AD and Intune).  • Nominated as an "HP Way" recipient. Advisory Senior Specialist Deloitte & Touché LLP - Houston, TX October 2015 to June 2018 Research, analyze, recommend, document, engineer, and assist in implementing new products, technologies, applications, and services to ensure security of various Deloitte Advisory clients with an emphasis on Windows Servers & Endpoints, Active Directory, Exchange, Identity Management (Okta, Ping Identity & Azure AD), Azure Information Protection, Office 365, Intune, VMware vSphere, Microsoft BitLocker Administration, Authentication, Compliance, Anti-Virus, Firewalls, Data Loss Prevention (DLP) and handheld devices.    Selected Client Experience  ? Active Directory and related servers & application migration from an acquired HealthCare Orgnaization to the acquiring HealthCare Organization  ? Microsoft Office 365 Exchange Security Assessment for a Pharmacutical Company and a Multi-National Financial Organization  ? Active Directory Security and Process Assessment for a Multi-National Life Science Firm and Multi-National Financial Firm, Reporting on Information Security and potential IT Risks to the IT Audit departmemnt.  ? Email Data Protection Assessment, Recommendations and Testing. The Engagement included Active Directory, Moblie & Client devices and the backend was Exchange Online (O365), Exchange On-Site and other Azure Cloud & On-Site service(s) including Azure Active Directory, ADFS and Azure Information Protection.  ? Windows 10 Deployment & Azure Cloud Assessments and Recommendations for a Large MultiNational Energy Company. The engagement included Active Directory Architecture, Proof of Concepts of Windows 10 Security Features for proposed 3rd party software elimination and Operating System Deployment recommendations.  ? Citrix Infrastrucutre Assessment for a Multi-National Pharmaceutical Company. Reviewed Windows Member Server and Windows Workstations Group Policies in Active Directory involving Citrix XenApp and XenDesktop implementations.  ? Infrastructure Assessment, Counsulting and Problem Resolution for a Computer Manufacuting Company selling to the U.S. Government. Microsoft SharePoint and Skype for Business problem resolution. Windows 10 Enterprise Deployment Consulting and Assessment. Monitoring & Business Continuity Consulting and Assessment. Contractor - Active Directory Architect Baker Hughes/Microland - Houston, TX September 2015 to October 2015 Administered and instructed others on various authentication platforms including Active Directory and Public Key Interface (PKI) using the Microsoft Identity Manager. Researched and Implemented a Proof of Concept of the Microsoft Virtual Smart Card with the Active Directory Certificate Manager. Contractor - Solutions Architect Hewlett Packard - Houston, TX June 2015 to July 2015 Researched, analyzed, recommended and documented Microsoft Windows Server based High Availability solutions involving HP Converged System hardware including HP ProLiant Blade Servers and HP 3PAR StoreServ 7400c series Storage between two Data Centers IT Security Technical Specialist American International Group - Houston, TX October 2012 to May 2015 Researched, analyzed, recommended, documented, engineered, and assisted in implementing new products, technologies, applications, and services to ensure security of organization with an emphasis on Windows Servers & Endpoints, Active Directory, Exchange, Hyper-V, VMware vSphere, Microsoft BitLocker Administration, Authentication, Compliance, Anti-Virus, Firewalls, Data Loss Prevention (DLP) and handheld devices. Identified areas of risk, managed those risks, and limited their exposure that would have material, adverse effects on company operations.  * Served as a subject matter expert on matters of information security on various Business Unit (BU) & Regional Projects. For the BUs/ Regional Projects I consulted, created and/or modified Group Policy Objects (GPOs), Active Directory Forest/Domain Trusts, Active Directory Authentication Protocols, Domain Name Servers (DNS), Organizational Units (OU) as well as Analyzed nested AD Groups and Event logs on Domain/Member Servers.  * Recommended and Assisted in the implementation of United States and World Wide Compliance Standards including Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) & Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology (COBIT).  * Led technical projects from initiation through implementation including planning, design, and development.  * Introduced using SQL Server queries to SCCM 2007/2012 SQL Server Databases and Baseline Compliance via SCCM 2012 to create compliance reports. Achieved more accurate and flexible reports which covered multiple countries.  * Referred to as "Level 3 ½" support by AIG End User Technology.  * Teamed and worked closely with broader infrastructure teams, implementing solutions and improving systems.  * Worked with corporate and business unit IT risk and Compliance Representatives to analyze, communicate, and articulate compliance trends and program requirements. Member of the Architecture Review Board and Identity and Access Management (IAM) Team  * Produced monthly reports on Windows Client Compliance based on SCCM 2007 / 2012 SQL Server Databases. The reports require update to compliance baselines on a monthly bases based on the dynamic security Contractor - Senior Microsoft Infrastructure Engineer CompuCom Inter-Org Migrations - Houston, TX September 2012 to October 2012 * Planned and Documented Windows Server 2008R2 and Exchange 2010 Inter-Org Migrations  * Completed migration of User and Group accounts as well as Proof of Concept of Workstations. Contractor - Senior Microsoft Infrastructure Analyst Boardwalk Pipeline Partners SCOM 2012 and Microsoft BitLocker Administration and Management - Houston, TX May 2012 to September 2012 * Plan and Document Windows 7 Desktop upgrade  * Planned, Implemented and Administrator Active Directory, Group Policies, SQL Server 2008 R2, SCOM 2012 and Microsoft BitLocker Administration and Management (MBAM)  * Assisted with Symantec Altiris Client Management Suite and Microsoft Direct Access Implementations.  * Administrator of Microsoft SharePoint 2010. Senior Systems Testing Engineer Cisco - Houston, TX November 2011 to May 2012 Quality assurance testing of Cisco Tidal Enterprise Orchestrator (TEO), a combination of client/server, .Net Framework, IIS, and SQL Server/Oracle. Proofed and edited Installation, Reference and Adapter Guides.  * Planned and ad-hoc tested TEO server and client builds in various environments and platforms. Tested TEO running on Windows Server 2008 R2/2008/2003 and Windows 7/Vista/XP and Supporting SQL Server 2012/2008 R2/2008/2005, VMWare vSphere 4/5, Active Directory, Exchange and System Center Operations Manager (SCOM) 2007/2012. Tested German OS & language packs, web & windows users interface and remote & local access.  * Tested various configuration combinations including all-in-one and distributed platforms and authentication via Kerberos/NTLM on Active Directory and various authentications on the IIS and SQL server platforms. Level 3 Enterprise Windows and ESX Support and Implementation Engineer SunGard Data Centers - Houston, TX February 2011 to October 2011 Enterprise and Domain Administrator to named accounts in remote SunGard Data Centers. Managing customer owned servers running Windows Server 2003/2008/2008R2 on physical and virtual servers and ESX and ESXi host servers running both Windows and Linux virtual machines.  • Technical Lead for managed customers Active Directory Infrastructure and Citrix 4.5 XenApp Implementation.  • Project and Technical lead for OS Patching of all Windows based Servers of assigned managed customers. Full Time & Contract Houston, TX 2002 to 2011 Architected, Trained, Implemented and/or administrated Windows Active Directory, Exchange, SQL Server, SharePoint and other related services and platforms. Education Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics University of California - Los Angeles, CA 1984 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Firewalls, Iis, Scom, System center operations manager, Citrix, Ldap, Netware, Vmware, Xenapp, Xendesktop, Visual basic, Internet information server, Security, Sharepoint, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Sql, Nist, Cyber Security, It Security, Information Security, Cissp Additional Information Technical Skills  Hardware:  Dell, Lenovo & HP Desktops, Laptops and Stand-alone/Racked Servers; Dell/EMC and HP SANs; Various Backup Systems and Libraries; Cisco Routers and Switches; Firewalls; Wireless Access Points and Routers.  Software:  Windows Server 2019/2016/2012R2/2008R2/2003/2000, Office 365, Windows 7/8.x/10, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Rights Management, Microsoft Hyper-V, LINUX, UNIX, VMware vSphere 4/5, Microsoft Cluster Server, Microsoft System Center Operations Manager (SCOM), Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM), Microsoft System Center, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Office Professional, Microsoft Internet Information Server (IIS), VMware vSphere, Citrix XenApp & XenDesktop, Visual Basic, SharePoint, Active Directory Federation Service (ADFS), Microsoft PowerShell, Apple IOS  Networks:  Microsoft Active Directory, LDAP, Novell Netware, Wireless, Win Term, Citrix XenApp/XenDesktop  Cloud:  Microsoft 365, Enterprise Mobility + Security (EM+S), Azure Information Protection, Azure Active Directory, Office 365, Intune, Azure Platform