Level 2/3 IT Support Level 2/3 <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Level 2/3 IT Support - Veterans Administration Aurora, CO Dedicated, customer focused IT Professional with extensive experience supporting and leading IT services in global Fortune 500 firms, U.S. Government agencies, and IT and Cyber Security consulting organizations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Level 2/3 IT Support Veterans Administration - Denver, CO December 2018 to Present • Specializing Windows 7 migration to Windows 10  • Provided browser functionality and configuration on IE, Firefox, and Chrome.  • MS Office 365 issues including One note, Outlook, etc.  • Managed User Access Control.  • SCCM imaging computers primarily Dell and HP computers through a network image with In the Configuration Manager console, choose Software Library > Application Management > Packages.  • In the Home tab, in the Create group, choose Create Package.  • On the Package page of the Create Package and Program Wizard, specify the following information:  • Specify a name for the package with a maximum of 50 characters.  • Specify a description for this package with a maximum of 128 characters.  • Specify a manufacturer name to help you identify the package in the Configuration Manager console. This name can be a maximum of 32 characters.  • Specify the language version of the package with a maximum of 32 characters.  • Specify a version number for the package with a maximum of 32 characters.  • This package contains source files: This setting indicates whether the package requires source files to be present on client devices. By default, this check box is cleared, and Configuration Manager does not use distribution points for the package. When this check box is selected, distribution points are used.  • Source folder: If the package contains source files, choose browse to open the set source folder dialog box, and then specify the location of the source files for the package.  • Supported application upgrades on desktops, laptops, printers/faxes support  • Audit, monitor, limit and report on all end-user activity in real-time, and also perform investigative tasks IT Deskside Tech Analyst, Level 2 Tech Support IBM - Greenwood Village, CO March 2016 to August 2018 • SCCM imaging computers primarily Dell and HP computers through network image. Add computers to active directory (Domain)  • Specializing in Windows OS and Servers.  • User Access Control.  • Application upgrades on desktops, laptops, printers/faxes support.  • MS Office 365 issues.  • Browser functionality and configuration on IE, Firefox, and Chrome. IT Manager Ecotech Institute - Aurora, CO March 2015 to July 2016 • Provided exceptional desktop and laptop support for staff and students.  • Imaging and re-imaging of computers using Windows 7 OS.  • Tracking and troubleshooting data and configuration issues.  • Resolved MS Office 365 issues including One note, Outlook, etc.  • Managed access control, remote access, working and assigning tickets using Remedy to assure customers of a rapid turnaround time.  • Remotely supported Golf Academy, Phoenix, AZ and Golf Academy, Orlando, FL. PC Tech Level U.S. Army Corps of Engineers - Aurora, CO February 2015 to February 2016 • Specializing in Windows OS (XP, Vista, 7, 8 and 10).  • Managed User Access Control.  • Supported application upgrades on desktops, laptops, printers/faxes support.  • Resolved MS Office 365 issues.  • Provided browser functionality and configuration on IE, Firefox, and Chrome. Supervisor Time Warner Cable - Centennial, CO December 2013 to January 2015 • Provided 24/7 home security support.  • Responsible for IT tracking and troubleshooting data, access control, and remote access.  • Assigned service tickets to the best suited technicians to assure customers of rapid resolution and turnaround time. Owner/CEO Radall Cyber Solutions - Aurora, CO April 2009 to December 2014 • Specialized in virus/spyware removal on Windows OS (XP, Vista, 7 and 8), and Mac OS.  • Provided access control and application upgrades on Windows, Citrix and Lotus.  • Supported desktop, laptop, iPad, iPod, printers/faxes.  • Ensured browser functionality and configurations (IE, Firefox, Chrome and Safari). Resident Manager/ IT Continental Divide Management - Denver, CO February 2012 to July 2013 • Responsible for IT tracking and troubleshooting data on windows operating systems (XP and 7) in management office.  • Rebuilt all computers, upgraded applications, and reconfigured network.  • Installed new security software and trained staff on security programs.  • Maintained physical security in and around facility.  • Assisted in annual inspections of all apartments which did not turn over in a calendar year to insure the proper maintenance of each unit. IT Security Supervisor PGS Security Services - Centennial, CO April 2008 to February 2012 • Supported desktop, laptop, iPad, iPod, printers/faxes, browser functionality and configuration (IE, Firefox, Chrome and Safari).  • Supervised IT tracking and troubleshooting data on Windows XP, Vista, 7 and Linux OS, Citrix and Lotus.  • Managed Windows servers 2000, 2003 and 2008.  • Supervised network fraud prevention operations.  • Performed queries on known fraud trends from fraud management and I/O systems.  • Assigned tickets to the most qualified techs and assured customers of a rapid resolution and turnaround time.  • Monitored internal networks and protected against technical fraud and product abuse.  • Handled call annoyance, phishing and spoofing complaints.  • Researched emergency calls and coordinated with legal and law enforcement authorities as necessary.  • Supervised daily badge encoding, routine response to alarm systems, access control, and CCTV.  • Maintained communication between program security, DOD security management, and government accreditation authorities. Reporting Specialist, IT Security Williams Street Center - Denver, CO September 2007 to April 2008 • Provided daily response to alarm systems, troubleshooting data, access control, and CCTV.  • Initiated processing and approving personnel actions, travel authorizations and reimbursement.  • Provided oversight and accountability for high level charge card use (for government or other users).  • Responsible for payroll processing, including certifications and account management, and managed a division operational budget.  • Leveraged my experience in purchasing and ability to communicate rules and policies.    Tank Crew Chief  United States Marine Corps,  • Honorable Discharge  • Provided ground support to the front lines.  • Supported all allied forces anywhere else that was needed. Education Open University June 2012 Skills CYBER SECURITY, MS OFFICE, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CITRIX, DHCP, REMOTE ACCESS, SYSTEM MANAGEMENT, TCP, TCP/IP, VM, VPN, DNS, SECURITY, MAC, MAC OS, Desktop Support, Information Technology, It Specialist, Help Desk Additional Information Skills    • Cyber Security  • File System Management  • TCP/IP/Server 2012 VM Ware  • User Profile Administration  • Virus/Spyware Identification and Removal  • Remote Access, Citrix, VPN  • DNS, DHCP, Active Directory  • Patch Management  • MS Office Suites (2013 - 2019 / 365)  • SCCM Reporting and Administration  • Implementing and administering enterprise and departmental systems  • Facility monitoring and security  • Server OS and application-tier security concepts and techniques  • Windows/Windows Server  • MAC OS