Security Engineer / IT Department Manager <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer / <span class="hl">IT</span> Department Manager Security Engineer / IT Department Manager - Turnkey Processing Solutions Arrington, TN Results-driven, strategic, and highly-accomplished Solutions Engineer and Project Lead with over twelve years of Enterprise IT experience. I have been recognized throughout my career for improving processes, reducing costs, increasing efficiency, and managing large budgets while maintaining legal and regulatory compliance. While working full time and raising a family, I earned a Bachelor's Degree in IT and many industry certifications. As a military veteran, I know how to both lead and to follow as required, and I have the ability to explain complicated technical matters in language tailored to my audience. Currently seeking a position as an Infrastructure / Operations Manager which will effectively utilize all skills, abilities, and areas of expertise as follows:  ? IT Management  ? Staff Training/Supervision  ? Process Improvement  ? Disaster Recovery (DR)    ? Budgeting/Forecasting  ? Cost/Expense Reduction  ? Strategic Negotiation  ? Process Automation    ? EnterpriseResource Planning  ? Emerging Technologies  ? Vendor Relations  ? Strategic Planning Work Experience Security Engineer / IT Department Manager Turnkey Processing Solutions - Franklin, TN August 2018 to Present Promoted to IT Department Manager March 2019  ? Revamped vendor relationships reducing outsource costs by over $650,000 / year.  ? Realigned internal staffing and roles to improve ticket response time by 22% and first call resolution by 19%  ? Created on call processes to improve after hours customer service  ? Managed the transition of 10 TB of company shared files from the corporate dropbox account to a full sharepoint installation on Office 365  ? Directed and led the transition of company resources from on-prem to hybrid cloud; including file shares, ERP systems, and Azure AD  ? Created security planning and processes for a nationwide construction and mining management company  ? Conducted risk assessment, developed risk matrix, implemented first risk management process for all 13 divisions  ? Selected and implemented company wide Mobile Device Management for 800 users, most at remote locations  ? Created security training for the entire company using multiple tools, including PII Protect. Raised users awareness across the organization  ? Designed and built a completely new server and switching stack for new sites; ran the project to upgrade two existing facilities to the new standard.  ? Wrote company policy and procedural standards for the entire IT organization. Notable Achievements Multiple - Nashville, TN September 2005 to Present Realigned strategic relationships with vendors and reduced vendor spending by over $650,000 / year at Turnkey Processing Solutions.   Realigned internal staffing and roles to improve ticket response time by 22% and first call resolution by 19% at Turnkey Processing Solutions.   Designed a complete infrastructure replacement for a 300 end-user 6 site medical office. This included new servers, SAN, switches, routers, and wireless AP’s and controller. Ran project to completion on time, under budget, and with no customer downtime for a customer of TeamLogicIT  Created a help desk. Wrote all policies, hired and trained operators, and migrated customers from a contract help desk to our own internal desk with zero end user complaints at TeamLogicIT  Identified critical needs in ERP software systems and spearheaded a project to replace the aging ERP solution. Led the entire ERP upgrade to completion with zero plant downtime for American Fabricators.  Improved internal network and system up-time from 80% to 99.99% via multiple stabilization initiatives while employed with American Fabricators.  Improved manufacturing efficiency by 8% by creating a procedure to identify which business processes would benefit by going paperless and creating schedule of implementation for American Fabricators.  Infrastructure / Operations Manager Franklin American Mortgage - Franklin, TN January 2018 to June 2018 Created and managed the infrastructure / operations support team at a national, privately held mortgage corporation.  ? Led a team of 16 Engineers in various disciplines, including Windows, Linux, Network, Telephony, and Database  ? Built this team from the ground up, hired 12 of the 16 engineers, and created excellent team cohesion  ? Owned 2 Colo datacenter environments, with Dell FX2 blade centers, NetApp and Pure storage, and over 1000 windows and Ubuntu Linux VM's  ? Created a functional change management process and championed its adoption across the enterprise  ? Developed documentation on the current application monolith, and developed plans to support migration of the legacy in house Java app to micro services in Docker containers.  ? Worked closely with the Dev/Ops team to support the companies containerization strategy  ? Redesigned the VMWare environment to establish redundancy for hosts.  ? Supervised a full hardware refresh in FAMC's DR datacenter in Dallas, TX  ? Reduced FAMC's presence in AWS by eliminating non-essential instances, saving the company approximately $100,000 the first year. Technical Engineering Manager TeamLogicIT of Middle Tennessee March 2017 to November 2017 Responsible for engineering, customer care, and personnel management for a franchise Managed Service Provider  ? Directly managed 11 engineers who worked all over middle Tennessee  ? Designed server and network infrastructure replacements and upgrades, obtained stakeholder buy-in, and led the projects for multiple customers in the SMB market in Nashville and surrounding areas.  ? Hired, trained, disciplined and terminated employees as necessary for the business needs.  ? Migrated 3 clients from owned pbx systems to hosted VOIP solutions, reducing their costs and complexity. IT Infrastructure Operations Manager LKQ Corporation - Nashville, TN November 2016 to February 2017 Responsible for managing the Infrastructure Operations for a Fortune 500 multinational corporation.  ? Directly managed 9 systems engineers of various disciplines and 6 network engineers, local and in India.  ? Infrastructure Operations provides tier 4 support for the entire organization, and handles build / configure / deploy for any new hardware, VM, or cloud offering required by any of the business units.  ? Took charge of a failing initiative to migrate over 500 remote locations from Sprint MPLS to ATT MPLS circuits. By a combination of creative scheduling and assigning network engineers to individual sites from start to finish, I was able to reduce our configuration error rate from 66% to 17%, and reduce total site turn-up first time failure rate from 40% to 8%.  ? Rewrote all department job descriptions to provide a clear path for advancement with measurable milestones. Infrastructure Manager / IT Department Manager American Fabricators, Inc - Nashville, TN March 2010 to November 2016 Started as the IT Dept Manager, Promoted to Infrastructure Manager in Nov 2013  ? Accountable for directing all aspects of Manufacturing Support for a 200-employee steel parts manufacturing facility. This included the Information Technology, Maintenance, Facilities, Plant Engineering and Safety departments.  ? Developed and implemented comprehensive maintenance management system, and reduced plant downtime by 30% in the first quarter. Saved over $1MM in downtime costs and losses due to machine failures in the first 18 months.  ? Re-evaluated staffing levels and hired additional maintenance personnel to enable proper preventative maintenance. Developed safety, plant engineering, IT, and maintenance personnel through additional training, counseling, and general development activities.  ? Developed the master disaster recovery plan for the facility by identifying critical needs and cultivating appropriate vendor relationships to ensure service continuity.  ? Developed the master disaster recovery plan for the IT department by identifying critical processes/data and cultivating appropriate vendor relationships to ensure service continuity.  ? Directed and oversaw a complete revision of the safety policies and procedures to bring the company in line with regulations and standards  ? Improved brake department productivity by 20% by directing and managing a comprehensive realignment of department policies. This included new service methods, new specialized software, and additional training for operations.  ? Managed a $250,000 IT capital improvement budget.  ? Reduced production floor downtime from computer issues by 80% by creating and managing a desktop and printer scheduled preventative maintenance structure.  ? Saved American Fabricators approximately $28,000 within 12 months of realigning vendor relationships in relation to software maintenance contracts.  ? Led the project to to migrate AFI from an owned PBX system to an on prem VOIP solution. Set QOS, VLAN assignments, etc.  ? Identified critical needs in ERP software systems and spearheaded a project to replace the aging ERP solution. Led the entire ERP upgrade to completion with zero plant downtime with no outside assistance.  ? Designed, purchased, installed, and configured a fully-virtualized server infrastructure. Upgraded the infrastructure from aging tower servers to Cisco rack servers and from Windows Server 2003 to 2008R2, all running on a VMWare installation.  ? Designed, Planned, and managed a network infrastructure replacement project. Removed the entire network infrastructure and replaced with a fiber backbone and zoned IDF cabinets with fully redundant switching.  ? Designed and managed a secure wireless installation project for the entire office and manufacturing area.  ? Designed and managed a security camera upgrade project. Removed the existing CCTV system and replaced with a state of the art IP system with expanded coverage and additional storage.  ? Instituted a process of standardizing hardware and software versions throughout the company.  ? Migrated the company email solution to Microsoft Exchange Online to retire an aging Imail installation for more effective mail management.  ? Reduced printing costs by approximately 20% by identifying excess inventory and adjusting purchasing schedules/quantities for American Fabricators.  ? Created and maintained all system documentation with architectural drawings and data flows. Contract Systems Administrator Robert Half Technology - Nashville, TN April 2008 to March 2010 - United Methodist Church, Board of Higher Education/Ministry  ? Responsible for performing general systems engineering and administration duties for a medium-sized non-profit organization, including proper functioning, maintenance, and enhancements to Windows Servers, including SharePoint.  ? Conceptualized and led a documentation project which included architectural drawings for all systems (LAN identification, server function, network diagrams to new hardware inventory methods, etc.).  ? Created and implemented a disaster recovery plan. Analyzed business needs and created a plan to enable critical process recovery utilizing multiple recovery technologies in compliance with budget constraints.  ? Developed, organized, scheduled, and implemented server room and network upgrades. Redesigned the server room, modernized servers, and stabilized the existing network. Optimized server room cooling, replaced an aging NAS device, revamped the backup strategy, and eliminated inefficient steps.  Upgraded 10 of 16 existing company servers with zero interruption to end users. Eliminated three unnecessary servers and repurposed existing machines to provide redundancy for critical applications Contract Systems Engineer - Hewlett Packard (HP) CCSI, Inc - Amherst, NH November 2006 to October 2007 Performed hardware maintenance and installation at one of the largest datacenters in TN, responsible for maintaining 1,500+ Intel/AMD-based HP servers in a highly-regulated financial industry environment.  ? Monitored 7,500+ servers worldwide for hardware issues, reported/initiated change control procedures, and maintained HP's proprietary software monitoring applications, including OpenView and SIM. Systems Analyst Berry & Sims, PLC - Nashville, TN September 2006 to November 2006 Provided Level 2 and 3 end user support for a 500-employee law firm at four sites. Created and deployed images, installed new PCs/laptops, and set up new user profiles and AD entries. Field Service Engineer Nashville Computer - Brentwood, TN September 2005 to September 2006 Provided field service for a contract IT firm servicing approximately 1,000 small businesses. Served as a primary point of contact for approximately 125 client companies.  ? Designed and maintained customer networks from end-to-end, setup and maintained Active Directory and Exchange environments, and made recommendations for improvements and upgrades.  ? Ensured all security measures were in place and updated, including hardware/software firewalls and antivirus applications. Built and/or troubleshot PCs, servers, printers, and peripherals. Industrial Mechanic/Power Plant Engineer Various Companies September 2002 to September 2005 Submarine Nuclear Machinist's Mate; RL Division Lead Petty Officer U.S. Navy December 1995 to August 2002 Education B.S. in Information Technology in Network Design & Management Western Governors University 2009 Skills Active directory, Vmware, Epicor, Erp, Mrp Additional Information Technical Skills    ERP / MRP: Vantage 6, 7, 8; Epicor 9, 10; Plex; Maintenance Assistant CMMS  Windows Server: 2012, 2008R2, 2003 (all), Exchange, SharePoint, SQL, ISA, Active Directory (AD)  OS: Windows (10, 8, 7, XP, 2000, NT, ME, 98, 95), Mac OS X  Anti-Virus: McAfee Corporate/Retail, Symantec Corporate, Norton, Sophos  Additional: VMware (ESXi), Veeam Backup, Quickbooks, Peachtree, Microsoft Office, Visio, Project; Symantec Ghost/Ghost Server, Acronis, AMSI, Veritas Backup, Iomega Rev, Blackberry Enterprise Server, Datto, Kaseya, Remedy, Autotask