Strategic Pricing Lead, Intelligence & Information Services Strategic Pricing Lead, Intelligence &amp; Information Services Strategic Deal Lead, Intelligence & Information Services - RAYTHEON CO Denver, CO Work Experience Strategic Pricing Lead, Intelligence & Information Services RAYTHEON CO - Aurora, CO 2018 to Present • Advise Sales and Leadership on deal shaping and financial structuring considerations for strategically significant business opportunities, including cash flow impact, joint venture opportunities, and tax implications.  • Provide Executive Leadership team with in-depth financial analysis on Raytheon's largest new business projects to ensure efforts meet profitability targets and business unit needs.  • Navigate Proposal and Sales teams through Corporate approval processes and contract negotiation.  • Provide subject matter expertise on customer requirements, risk management, and business optimization, with a focus on managed services and as-a-service offerings.  • Manage proposal development teams comprised of various groups including Legal, Finance, Controllership, Contracts, Compliance, and Sales.  • Lead the development of financially compliant proposals and strategic business efforts for Raytheon's Intelligence, Information, and Services (IIS) business unit, on engagements as large as $750 million. Financial Planning & Analysis Manager Accenture - Ecosystems & Ventures - Denver, CO December 2016 to April 2018 • Led efforts to address global financial goals of the Ecosystems & Ventures (E&V) business, including devising As-a-Service deal pricing strategies, and restructuring the Finance organization to scale with 5-year strategic plan.  • Oversaw development of standardized FP&A model and policies that allowed budgeting, forecasting, strategic planning, revenue/cost analysis, and KPI analysis across all E&V accounts.  • Managed effort to improve Finance policies and operations including monthly/quarterly reporting, AR/AP, DSO, order-to-cash, and capital allocation. Led to 50% increase in cash flow on major E&V accounts.  • Established 3rd party financing and pricing strategies to enable new leasing and as-a-service operating models.  • Assisted with evaluating and qualifying partnership/venture equity opportunities with emerging technology companies. Corporate Development & Finance Manager ACCENTURE - Federal Services - Arlington, VA March 2010 to December 2016 • Responsible for ensuring transactions and new business efforts were financially accurate and compliant with Accenture policies, GAAP, and Federal/Commercial regulations prior to submission and during execution.  • Managed 20-person team responsible for pricing and financial analysis of all Federal corporate development efforts.  • Oversaw special projects including joint venture analysis, merger integration, and capital commitment analysis.  • Assisted Project Finance teams with, cost estimates, FP&A, project look-backs, internal controls evaluation, Estimate at Completion (EAC) adjustments, Costpoint billing/cost/revenue booking, and month-end close.  • Reviewed RFP's, contracts, and other proposal documents to provide risk analysis to sales and project teams.  • Assisted in preparing forward pricing rates, provisional billing rates, indirect rates and incurred cost submissions.  • Guided sales teams through internal approval processes, contract negotiation, and 3rd party contractor management.  • Regularly interacted with leadership to present financial data, cost/benefit analyses, and business case analyses including: Price-to-Win, project NPV and IRR, balance sheet/cash flow analysis, and strategic pursuits.  • Facilitated and participated in audits and reviews of financial tools, cost/price proposals, and financial operation activities. Recommend courses of action for process improvement and policy compliance.  • Advised teams on contract and pricing structures including volumetric pricing, value-based methods, as-a-service, FFP, FP-LOE, T&M, CPFF and other cost reimbursable contract types. Senior Associate, Investment Banking & Advisory Scully Capital - Washington, DC December 2007 to February 2010 • Constructed extensive M&A and project finance models capable of presenting detailed pro-forma financial statements, operating analysis, cash flow & liquidity forecast, sensitivity analysis, and enterprise valuation.  • Worked on over 30 middle-market deals valued at an average of $100 million, including sell-side and buy-side M&A, leveraged buyouts, and debt and equity financings.  • Managed and supervised teams of 4 analysts that developed financial and technical analysis for various energy and infrastructure projects and transactions.  • Authored investment memorandums and business case analyses for numerous infrastructure sector companies involved in oil & gas, mining, nuclear power, renewable energy, water/wastewater and transportation.  • Advised federal government loan guarantee programs (FRA, DOE, MARAD and FHWA) on transactions of +$1 billion.  • Assisted the Department of Energy in determining the feasibility of standing up a small business loan guarantee program, based on OPIC's Enterprise Development Network.  • Developed Public-Private Partnership debt analysis model for Department of Transportation and other government agencies. Financial Analyst, Corporate Finance GETWELLNETWORK March 2007 to December 2007 • Developed in-depth forecasting models for providing break even analysis, pricing strategies, sensitivity analysis, capital needs, and pro forma financial statements.  • Routinely produced corporate financial statements, dashboards, sales backlog and other ad hoc financial reports for the CEO, CFO and other executive team members.  • Supported Controller in month-end close and company audits.  • Coordinated the development of departmental and corporate budgets and forecasting plans.  • Analyzed business operations, budgets, P&L, cash flow, and balance sheet to determine areas of improvement.  • Negotiated a 50% increase in the company line of credit to $1.5 million.  • Secured $20 million in Series B venture capital to fund additional company growth.  • Revised overall pricing strategy for hardware and software offerings, resulting in a 25% increase in gross revenue. International Business Strategy Intern, International Sales RAYTHEON CO - Arlington, VA 2006 to 2007 Project Manager Data Center Development and Management, Keytech Service 2005 to 2006 System Engineer, Network Engineering and Storage Management Glasshouse Technologies 2000 to 2005 Senior Consultant, IT Consulting and Application Development CIBER Inc 1999 to 2000 E-4, Computer Systems and IT Security Specialist U.S. Air Force 1995 to 1999 Education M.S. in Economics University of North Dakota May 2021 M.B.A. in International Finance The George Washington University May 2007 B.S. in Computer Information Systems North Carolina Wesleyan College 2003 B.S. in Business Administration North Carolina Wesleyan College 2003 Skills Statistics, Deltek, Costpoint, Deltek costpoint, Security