IT Support Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Support <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Support Analyst - Johns Hopkins Carey Business School Laurel, MD My specific objective is to assure that my knowledge and experience can be best utilized by my employer, to the benefit of the company's objective and goals. I am an IT professional with extensive experience in server administration and support of information systems on multiple platforms. I have a proven track record for diagnosing complex problems and consistently delivering effective solutions. I am a quick learner that rapidly adapts to emerging technologies. Therefore, I value a position that can provide me with a challenge, and a bright future in network administration and engineering. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Analyst Johns Hopkins Carey Business School - Washington, DC November 2014 to Present • Daily LAN Administration and desktop support for JHU Carey Business Schools faculty and students.  • Active Directory and SCCM administration  • PowerShell Scripting  • MS Hyper-V Host and virtual server builds.  • Laptop imaging and operating system security updates.  • Application upgrades/updates via SCCM.  • Audio visual setup and testing for classrooms and other scheduled events.  • VTC setup and support.  • Other duties as assigned. Sr. Network Administrator U.S Census Bureau - Suitland, MD July 2012 to November 2012 • Daily administration of over 800 physical and virtual servers in a large and diverse environment using Active Directory and VMware Console.  • AD queries using PowerShell scripts.  • Resolution of tier 3 server related helpdesk trouble tickets, add remove user accounts, AD access rights, and group policy administration.  • Assigned special projects for software and security patch deployments.  • Decommissioning of old servers and VM builds.  • Editing and modifying login scripts with PowerShell  • Other duties as assigned. Technical Lead / Sr. Network Administrator/Engineer U.S Department of Transportation Washington DC January 2008 to July 2012 • Technical lead for Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and Network Engineering (FMCSA) LAN/WAN for Regional field Offices and Field Administrators. Oversee day to day LAN/WAN operations, i.e. troubleshoot connectivity issues, Windows Server 2003/2008 wellness, Active Directory, and DNS issues.  • Administer monthly server maintenance schedule, Backups for Domain Controllers.  • Coordinate MS patch management for HQ DC's and field office Techs.  • Serve as technical lead and supervisor for 12 field technicians posted in regional offices through out the U.S.  • Windows Server builds to include racking, installing, and configuring the servers.  • Router and switch configuration and troubleshooting  • Oversee special projects, server builds and deployments.  • FMCSA infrastructure change management liaison representing FMCSA for DOT/OST managed Common Operating Environment.  • Created documentation for Windows Server 2008 installation procedures for servers deployed to FMCSA field offices.  • Currently provide IT support for the Eastern Service Center's diverse environment, as well as escalated technical issues from the FMCSA field offices.  • Provide Technical recommendations and infrastructure planning in written and Oral formats, to diverse grade levels of my federal clients.  • Member of the change management approval committee for all internal LAN/WAN change requests. U.S Department of Transportation Washington DC - Washington, DC August 2004 to July 2012 Sr. Network Systems Engineer- Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Administration U.S Department of Transportation Washington DC - Dot, WA November 2006 to January 2008 DC    • Network server administration and tier III support for the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Administration.  • Responsibilities included Windows 2003 server builds and updates, active directory administration.  • Citrix server administration  • Creation of technical documentation for server and network configurations.  • Remote administration of PHMSA servers, switches and routers in regional offices.  • Create and maintain a working server images using Ghost software.  • Configure and maintain daily and monthly Backups.  • Created and maintained a working inventory database. Systems Engineer U.S Department of Transportation Washington DC August 2004 to November 2006 • Responsibilities include daily administration of Dockets Management Systems Oracle 9.x database, MS Sequel Server  • user support for federal government dockets staff users  • Server builds, and administration of Windows 2k and 2k3 IIS Web servers.  • Support General Dynamic's software development team with testing and implementation of ColdFusion MX applications. Technical Support Lead Baltimore City Public School System - Baltimore, MD August 2002 to August 2004 Provide level II helpdesk technical support and network administration for Windows NT network for 176 Schools supporting 4,000 + users in the Baltimore City school district.  • Customer Support lead for staff of 6.  • Responsibilities include providing daily helpdesk reports to CTO and Network Infrastructure Manager.  • Handled escalated customer service related issues. Network LAN/WAN Manager Trios Associates Inc February 2001 to August 2002 • Primary IT support for rapidly growing Avionics and radar testing engineering LLC  • Supported 160 + user Windows 2000 Pro workstations located in MD and DC offices  • Coordinated and migrated internet access from DSL to full T1 connection.  • Installation and administration of IMAIL email server.  • Configuration and Administration of Gateway 7400, DELL PowerAmp file servers, Netopia 5300, CISCO 1720 routers, switches and CISCO firewall appliances. Technical Support Analyst Finnegan Henderson Farrobow Garret Dunner LLP October 2000 to February 2001 • Responded to trouble tickets for desktop, laptop application issues and peripherals.    • Imaging of latops using Symantec Ghost utils.    • Setup and configuration of Video Teleconferencing equipment.    • Other duties as assigned Network Security Administrator Social Security Administration - Woodlawn, MD April 2000 to October 2000 • Weekly vulnerability scans of SSA WAN using GOLD DISK.  • Active Directory administration, user accounts.  • Server patch management.  • Escalated trouble tickets involving virus removal or workstation vulnerability scan breeches. Sr. LAN Administrator / Network Manager National Weather Service - Silver Spring, MD February 1994 to April 2000 • Supervised staff of 6 LAN administrators that were assigned to various branches of NWS headquarters.  • Daily administration of 700 user NWS LAN including Citrix Winframe server farm.  • Maintained application suite patches and upgrades.  • Documentation of Dial-in procedures and application Suite installation procedures for my staff and NWS user community.  • Responsible for Daily maintenance of cc:Mail Post Offices and generating and forwarding reports to the project COTR.  • Designated lead for remote dial-in configurations for NWS executive staff using Citrix Winframe 1.7, and cc:Mobile version 8.3 clients.  • Served as backup to Sr. Network Engineer in maintaining and administering CISCO 7000 routers and troubleshooting WAN related issues for the NWS/NOAA campus.  • LAN Administrator assigned to the Office of Meteorology.  • Primary PC support for 85 users and there office automation needs.  • Configuration and installation of PC hardware, software and network interface cards.  • Responsibility for planning, documenting, and implementation of all desktop application upgrades and migrations.  • Project lead for the development and implementation of MS Windows workstation platform for NWS headquarters.  • Secondary responsibility as technical administrator for cc: Mail Post Offices including database corruption repairs, daily monitoring of mail gateway activity, and reporting mail volume statistics.    HARDWARE  • Cisco Routers 1700, 2600  • Dell PowerEdge Servers 2500, 2950  • Dell Family Laptops, Inspiron, Latitude  • Dell Optiplex GX110, Gx270, GX620, GX745 Desktop PC's  • Compaq DL380 DL360 ML370 ML530, HP Proliant DL380 File Servers  • HP Printers HP 4100N, and HP 4150TN    SOFTWARE  Symantec End Point AV, PC Anywhere 12.0 MS Remote Desktop, VNC, Ghost Software 6.0 and 8.0, Remedy Ticketing System 5.1, Veritas BackupExec version 8.0-10.0, Symantec Backup manager, CA Entrust AV, McAfee antivirus, Citrix server 2000, Microsoft Office Suite 97- 07 Education Computer Information Systems Management University of Phoenix September 2002 to May 2004 Computer Information Systems Prince Georges Community College September 1989 to December 1989 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory