Sr. Cloud Consultant Sr. Cloud Consultant Contract thru PMA South Barrington, IL A senior level Information Technology ( IT) Enterprise Infrastructure Solution Architect (including audio and video) with extensive experience in building new and remediate existing infrastructure. Hands on expertise with managing corporate and customer Public and Private Cloud and data centers. Designed, managed, developed, and implemented multiple projects including data center move of 1,500 Servers and Network devices in Universal Server Farm (USF) and 54 sites internationally. Strong team building and team leadership skills used to motivate to superior performance. Work Experience Sr. Cloud Consultant Echo Logistics Global (Contract) - Chicago, IL April 2019 to July 2019 • Remediate AWS Services from non-compliant, heavy cost and without AWS Best Practices.  • Architected, planned, developed, deployed, and implemented infrastructure, IaaS, to AWS cloud in two zones. Including networking, storage, OS with applications migration by using AWS Landing Zone, automation with Cloud Formation on multiple OU with multiple accounts.  • Minimize cost while having the ability to deliver customers applications in a highly available, scalable and manageable environment using AWS migration and management tools.  • Implement Palo Alto VM-Series, NGFW, network security management Panorama, malware, exploits and ransomware before they can compromise endpoints and Aperture, SaaS security service sanctioned across all SaaS applications. Enterprise Infrastructure Cloud Architect / Network Security Architect AT&T Mobility, LLC (Contract) - Warrenville, IL January 2018 to July 2018 • Installed, deployed and evaluated Juniper Contrail and OpenContrail Containers, used Kubernetes and OpenShift to automate builds, deployments, and management of applications.  • Designed and build of core platforms EC2, EBS, ELB, , R53 and S3  • Automated deployments using CloudFormation  • Migrated key systems from on premise hosting to Amazon Web Services  • Functional, non-functional and performance testing of key systems prior to cutover to AWS  • Configured auto-scaling website platform with peak visitors of 14k per minute  • Capacity planning, Bottleneck identification  • Monitoring via Zenoss and CloudWatch  • Managed development and test environments  • Subversion server administration and replication  • Automate to spin off vm's with Juniper Networks SDSN, Contrail, in Private Cloud using OpenStack Queens. By using tools like Spirant iTest and Avalanche, VBA, json and WinBatch®/WebBatch®.  • Created test cases for Spirant iTest to automate the Tests.  • Designed, developed and deployed Network Infrastructure including Spirant iTest and Avalanche in a lab environment.  • Designed, developed, installed and configured Openstack Queens on multiple nodes, Controllers, Computes (Nova), & Networks (Neutron) in a lab environment.  • Performed Data Center and Data Migration including storage, compute, networking, electrical and mechanical systems in use in a data center environment including UPS systems, PDU, RPP, and CRAC units.  • Used data migrations (P2V, V2V, and V2P) and leading-edge data migration tools. Sr. Infrastructure & Cloud Architect Barrington, IL December 2016 to July 2018 Architectural and Deployment Accomplishments:  • Implemented Cloud solutions and migration of legacy environments to cloud. Used AWS cost calculator and 3rd party tools for Cost modeling.  • Developed and implementing Service Oriented Architectures, including service-to-service communications, service discovery, and fault tolerance on Google Cloud Platform.  • Planned Data Center Transformation to lead change engagements within clients' IT infrastructure landscape.  • Researched and get familiar with Palo Alto NGFW, network security management Panorama, malware, exploits and ransomware before they can compromise endpoints and Aperture, SaaS security service sanctioned across all SaaS applications.  • Responsible for leading the technical streams in data center transformation, consolidation, relocation, transition, and optimization projects. Dynamic and varying projects with labor budgets ranging from 100k to 6M and matrix management of up to 100 project resources.  • Expertise in Google Cloud functions and Pub/Sub systems.  • Enterprise Mobility Management, iOS, OSx, Android, Windows, and Linux, using AirWatch MDM.  • Deployed multiple build thru AirWatch console on Mobile Android/iOS devices  • Facilitated agile/scrum for the team (product/release planning, sprint planning, daily stand-ups, sprint review, sprint retrospective).  • Worked directly with customers and end users to discuss their requirements and objectives.  • Deploying, managing, and operating scalable, highly available, and fault tolerant systems on AWS  • Migrating an existing on-premises application to AWS  • Implementing and controlling the flow of data to and from AWS  • Identifying appropriate use of AWS operational best practices  • Lift and shift of an existing on-premises application to AWS  • Ingress and egress of data to and from AWS  • Selecting the appropriate AWS service based on data, compute, database, or security requirements  • Estimating AWS usage costs and identifying operational cost control mechanisms  • Designed. Planned and implemented to deploy AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) and ACL using AWS Best Practices. Used json, VBA and WinBatch®/WebBatch® to automate.  ? No one allowed to use the AWS Primary Account unless we have to.  ? Created and used Groups to Assign Permissions to IAM Users and Configured a Strong Password Policy  ? Used AWS Defined Policies to Assign Permissions and Granted Least Privilege  ? Used Access Levels to Review IAM Permissions  ? Enabled MFA for Privileged Users  ? Used Roles for Applications that Run on Amazon EC2 Instances  ? Delegated by Using Roles Instead of by Sharing Credentials  ? Rotated Credentials Regularly  ? Removed Unnecessary Credentials  • Managed deployments of numerous customers sites for the company-wide implementation of Office 365 with Azure Cloud  ? Effectively sets, manages, and communicates expectations internally/externally for deployment process.  ? Collaborates with RRO in creating the deployment processes and communications to the company.  ? Migrate all users from in-house hosted MS Exchange to MS Office 365 Enterprise cloud hosted with Azure Information protection  ? Provides deskside support, Windows 7/8/10, and training of end users in the implementation of office 365, Microsoft Office Suite 2013/2016. Strong knowledge of O365 key products such as Exchange, Skype and OneDrive for Business.  ? Coordinate logistics for up to 12-techs teams per deployment.  ? Facilitated meetings and conference calls with application owners, engineering teams, and the Senior Project Manager to resolve issues.  ? Reconciled pre- and post-deployment asset counts with deployed workstation counts.  • Created standards of Cabling (Copper & Fiber), Racks, Servers, Switches, Routers, Storage, and many other equipment.  • Using RingCentral Unified Voice, configured, Cisco and Polycom phones, voice mail and faxes.  • Designed, developed and deployed vmware ESXi 6.5 vSphere in the infrastructure with Compute, Network and Storage  • Designed, developed and deployed Windows 2012 R2 and 2016 large scale Active Directory (AD) including, AD Manager, Audit Policies, GPOs, OUs, Security Access Objects, VB login scripts, and other AD objects on VMs on vmware ESXi  • Used HP P2000 G3 SAN 48 TB to do Backup by taking SnapShot of every server in the data center also clients on dedicated LAN for SAN traffic.  • Designed, developed and deployed .Net applications on Microsoft IIS 7.5 in a multiple node application cluster including SQL 2014 R2, DICOM servers and configured HP P2000 G3 & other SAN LUNs to configure for cluster quorum & data.  • Designed Windows 2012 R2 Server and Windows 10 Automated Builds for faster deployment in the infrastructure using Microsoft Deployment Service & load builds with PXE boot.  • Designed, developed and deployed Zenoss, open source, server monitoring application & configured to monitor the whole infrastructure.  • Developed and delivered end-points encryption for desktops and mobile devices.  • Solid hands on working experience in IT project management.  • Sound knowledge of network and mainstream application software.  • Proficient with Microsoft Office and SharePoint.  • Ability to manage successful, large-scale IT projects.  • Ability to perform operations in IT architecture.  • Ability to implement IT Infrastructure Applications.  • Maintained network systems, technology peripheral asset management.  • Learning AWS and Google Cloud Architecture. Telemedicine Consultant CLNIK Technologies, LLC - Barrington, IL March 2016 to December 2016 • Re-Designed existing medical carts as proto-type for Telemedicine. Integrated HD Camera, HD 1080p video camera, EKG, Horse scope, Bluetooth Stethoscope and other modalities into the cart and portable devices.  • Customized 3rd party API and integrated into Telemedicine application.  • Oversee & Monitor application development activities with other team members & project managers.  • Managed and maintained high security standards for HIPAA, SOCK 1 & SOC II regulations, by using AES-256 key encryption in transit and end to end security.  • Worked very closely with developers and assist them with radiology application, PACS Systems, design, C++, and .NET, maintained interfaces to other biomedical devices/systems.  • Used AirWatch Mobile Devices Management (MDM) to managed portable telemedicine modalities.  • Proposed and estimated concept and requirements development effort for new product features and updates. Infrastructure Solution Architect SOPRIS Technologies - Naperville, IL December 2015 to March 2016 • Designed the implementation Architectural diagrams, implemented and deployed solution; Zenoss v5 Enterprise Monitoring Services  • Dynamics, Analytics and integration for customer's data centers.  • Document all technical requirements and design technical solutions utilizing enterprise architecture standards including documenting all solution components and configurations  • Develop solution cost structure by identifying all cost points including labor, software and hardware  • Implement architectural designs while building solid relationships with stakeholders at all levels  • Work with closely with Wintel, Network and Storage teams to ensure that all solutions & SOW are deployed within agreed timelines and supported after delivery Enterprise Infrastructure Solution Architect Hospira, A Pfizer Company - Lake Forest, IL May 2015 to October 2015 • To bridge the gap between finance and IT by leading the efforts to implement business solutions driving revenue gains and cost savings throughout the organization  • Take architecture role in dealing with Hospira 5 Large Remediation Projects  • As part of team of three Architects, designed and implemented Symantec NetBackup Appliance using Global Data Deduplication.  • Translate business requirements into detailed architectural designs, including MPLS ISP vendor, Fiber and Copper Paths, Wifi, Core, Access and ordering equipment.  • Worked with site managers and multiple teams to make sure the requirements are met.  • Enterprise Mobility Management, iOS, OSx, Android, Windows, and Linux, using AirWatch MDM.  • Identify where exceptions to the enterprise architecture standards are required  • Gather business requirements, quotes from vendor, tower approvals & order equipment  • Created a generic SOW for the electrical vendor to provide the quotes with Hospira Standards  • Designed MDFs and IDFs layouts  • Worked with web technologies like IIS, Apache, Tomcat, Tomcat Maven, WebSphere.  • Worked with DB technologies like MS SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL. IT Director (Infrastructure Architect / Sr. Systems Engineer) LLC. (RRO) - Lombard, IL January 2009 to May 2015 Management, Architectural and Deployment Accomplishments:  • Implemented Cloud solutions and migration of legacy environments to cloud environments  • Developed and implementing Service Oriented Architectures, including service-to-service communications, service discovery, and fault tolerance on Google Cloud Platform and Google Cloud functions.  • Designed and deployed dynamically scalable, highly available, fault tolerant, and reliable applications on AWS  • Selecting appropriate AWS services to design and deploy an application based on given requirements  • Migrating complex, multi-tier applications on AWS  • Designing and deploying enterprise-wide scalable operations on AWS  • Implementing cost control strategies  • Picking the right AWS services for the application  • Leveraging AWS SDKs to interact with AWS services from your application  • Writing code that optimizes performance of AWS services used by your application  • Code-level application security (IAM roles, credentials, encryption, etc.)  • Oversee & Monitor the whole infrastructure activities with other team members and project managers.  • Successfully managed large scale IT infrastructure deployments to include a complete infrastructure build out for a newly constructed building  • Using RingCentral Unified Voice, configured, Cisco and Polycom phones, voice mail and faxes.  • Designed, developed and deployed Network Infrastructure including Cisco ASA-55xx router and layer 3 switches including MPLS Cloud.  • Designed, developed and deployed Virtualization using Citrix XenServer and vmware ESX on HP ProLiant Servers.  • Designed, developed and deployed Windows 2008 R2 large scale Active Directory including GPOs, VB login scripts and other AD objects on VMs on Citrix XenServers  • Used HP P2000 G3 SAN 96 TB to do Backup by taking SnapShot of every server in the data center also clients on dedicated LAN for SAN traffic.  • Designed, developed and deployed CentOS v6.4 Cluster for the failover and load balancing.  • Designed, developed and deployed Microsoft IIS 7.0 and 7.5 in a multiple node application cluster including SQL2008 R2, DICOM servers and configured HP P2000 G3 & other SAN LUNs to configure for cluster quorum & data.  • Designed Windows 2008 R2 Server and Windows 7 Automated Builds for faster deployment in the infrastructure using Microsoft Deployment Service & load builds with PXE boot.  • Designed, developed and deployed Zenoss, open source, server monitoring application & configured to monitor the whole infrastructure.  • Worked very closely with developers and assist them with radiology application design, C++, and .NET, maintained interfaces to other biomedical devices/systems.  • Proposed and estimated concept and requirements development effort for new product features and updates.  • Managed and maintained large data center and made it HIPA compliance. IT Consultant Walgreens - Lombard, IL November 2008 to January 2009 • Roll out of Lotus Notes/Domino of v7 from MS Exchange server.  • Saved company cumulative total of $118,000+ per year and increased customer service efficiency 20%, production rate 38% and accounts receivables 15% by launching automated systems.  • Transitioned company from home-grown system to scalable and integrated ERP/MRP system ($600,000 budget). Ensured seamless implementation and mission-critical data transfer by analyzing existing database structures/relationships. Designed ERP system within 6 months and 10% under budget, created interactive training sessions and written procedures and revised existing ones to conform to ERP standards.  • Designed, tested, deployed and implemented XenServer and VMware ESX to deployed virtualization. Used Windows 2003, Windows 2008 R2, Zenoss on CentOS, and Ubuntu, as guest Operating systems.  • Created a 200 TB SAN by using the Openfiler & attached as iSCSI for SQL clustering, Snapshots and backups. Project Manager Peters & Associates - Oakbrook Terrace, IL June 2008 to October 2008 • Created a Windows 2008 Hyper-Visor task list with Best Practices for the engineers/consultants to follow.  • Documented all server configurations, histories, and contracts as well as standardizing operations.  • Redesigned new customer's network by using Visio including Active Directory and Exchange by using MS best practices.  • Created the task list for the LeftHand Network SAN for the engineers to follow.  • Provide project leadership to over 6 projects at a time including: budget control, project timetable, status reporting, client's project team coordination, quality assurance and communication with vendor, e.g. Microsoft, Cisco, SonicWall, Symantec and etc. Stay on top of the project's lifecycle.  • Introduce to clients appropriate solutions needs assessment and product specification to define and manage previous neglected expectations - resulting in late project delivery.  • Researched and implemented production methodologies and document system, which introduce a cohesive off shore Web Site development rather than individualize task outcome. This optimized customer's timeline and accomplish tighter schedule.  • Make a use of talent with in company and assign specific engineers for the specific tasks. Senior Global Active Directory Engineer Zurich North America - Schaumburg, IL December 2007 to May 2008 • Designed the processes to populate AD Site and Services. Developed a VBScript to automate the process to create Sites, Subnets, Site Links, Cost and Servers (DCs). Configured Sites & Services for Farmers and Zurich sites. Created automated Wintel installation (builds) for custom applications.  • Collected data for over 1600 Sites including Sites, Subnets, Site Links, Cost and Servers (DCs).  • Member of a team to managed 195 DCs with 49,800 users, multiple forest & domains.  • Team member of the consolidation project of the Zurich multi-forest AD. The consolidation project includes the virtualization and retiring the servers.  • Edited & implemented Group Policies (GPO) along with the complete documentation. Senior Systems Engineer, Contract Universal Building Products, Inc - Bellwood, IL June 2007 to November 2007 position  • Created the Project Plans and feasibility, either to move to COLO facility or build our own data center. Met and visited StarGate, AT&T and Verizon COLO facilities to see and discuss the possibility to utilize their services. Presented the quotations to UBP CFO for approval.  • Created Storage Area Network (SAN) by using Openfiler on the isolated virtual gigabit LAN for the iSCSI and backups servers.  • Requisition of servers, Blackberries, desktops, monitors, & made decisions for best product & negotiated with vendors for the best possible price. Also in charge of asset management.  • Organized the UBP existing server room, improved network performance and apply new backup topologies. Senior Product Integration and Release Engineer The Ex Libris Group - Des Plaines, IL 2000 to 2007 • Resolved major performance problem of Windows Server with Voyager: browser and client connection was limited, it was the show stopper. So fine-tuned Windows Server for ultimate performance, including Desktop Heap Affinity, Processes Priority, NT Kernel Paging (pining) virtual memory, etc. The server performance improved 300% and significantly improved client satisfaction.  • Designed, developed, & implemented the Windows 2000 & 2003 Active Directory Network with Exchange by setting up the multiple forest domain infrastructures that meets the needs. Implement Active Directory Services Interface (ADSI) to automate the admin tasks.  • Designed and implemented new server standards for core business services. Created Windows Server automated build which used to install Oracle 10g server, Apache, Tomcat and etc. Added multiple devices, e.g. SAS, SATA and many more devices at the staging area which automatically detected by Windows installer.  • Designed and Implemented upgrade packages which can be installed remotely. Also used Windows RDP, VNC, SSH, Telnet, WexEx, for remote presentations and training, to upgrade and maintained customer servers remotely. Customer like Library of Congress, National Library of Switzerland, National Library of Sweden, Cornel University and many more. Used to work all night and holidays if the customer requests because of the time zones.  • Using analytical managerial and technical skills saved Endeavor man hours and over $300,000. Come up with an idea to install servers in unattended mode. The server can be build by using SMS, network requester or from bootable CD-ROM/DVD, including following software.  • Customers used to follow 64 pages long Oracle Client installation procedure which was causing allot of complaints and pain on customers end. Using superior technical expertise in Windows and WinBatch, methodical troubleshooting, and stellar project management skills created completely automated application which replaced 64 pages long procedure.  • Installed/Upgraded multiple customers from Sun Solaris (v5.7, v5.8, v5.9, & v5.10) & Redhat Linux (4.x). Patched Solaris, RH Linux (SMP), AIX, & Windows. Also installed & configured network switches, hubs, & routers. Set up the VPN & wireless networks.  • Worked very closely with development team as well as with project managers. Helped development team to create test beds as well as development networks.  • Created upgrade packages (software re-packaging) for customer servers for distribution with ultimate configuration, further enhancing customer satisfaction. Network Engineer / Lotus Domino, Notes, and Windows NT First Union Securities - Chicago, IL 2000 to 2000 Sr. Windows NT & Lotus Notes Architect IBM Global Services - Schaumburg, IL 1997 to 2000 LAN Services Supervisor IBM Global Services/Ameritech Telecommunication, Alliance - Arlington Heights, IL 1996 to 1997 LAN/WAN Administrator ACI, Ameritech, Inc., Hoffman Estate - Rosemont, IL 1996 to 1996 LAN Administrator Diamond Technology Partners, Inc., Consulting Company - Chicago, IL 1995 to 1996 PC Analyst Netcom, Inc - Northbrook, IL 1988 to 1990 Education Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering Technology in Electronics Engineering Technology DeVry Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL 1985 to 1988