Contractor Contractor Oakland, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contractor TEKSystems - Memphis, TN April 2019 to Present Network Engineer  • Project management of vendors working with a network infrastructure rollout of ATT Anira Netgate devices. Making sure installation dates are being met as well as orders are being processed in a timely manner. Also ensuring that sites are scheduled in a timely manner as well. Network Engineer Memphis, TN January 2019 to April 2019 Oversee all network infrastructure for maintenance, issues and new installations for 22 sites. This includes routing and switching, load balancers, Riverbed appliances, Firewalls, ACS, ISE and Data Center connections. Network Engineer International Paper - Memphis, TN October 2018 to January 2019 • Worked on the Global Telecom team working with WAN connections for 250 sites worldwide. This includes circuit turn ups, connectivity trouble shooting and routing maintenance.  • Worked on all layer 2 and layer 3 connectivity across the data center LAN and WAN connectivity to all sites. Added circuit connections, VLAN's and port configuration for the data centers and the core switches at sites.  • Completed a project to upgrade Cisco 4500 switches at remote sites to newest IOS and ROM versions to fix an issue with a bug that was causing outages at sites. IT Security Analyst Smith & Nephew - Cordova, TN January 2018 to October 2018 Lead the Edge firewall replacement project which includes replacing current Cisco ASA firewalls with Palo Alto Next Generation Firewalls. Ensure all rules sets are migrated properly and cleanly from existing infrastructure.  ? Monitor Cisco Umbrella for possible malicious activity or issues. Add rules to allow users to reach business related internet sites. Also add rules needed by Forcepoint while it is still in place as needed by the business.  ? Assist with AWS cloud architecture to ensure we have good security in place for migration of existing servers.  ? Assist with firewall rule changes and rule change approvals to allow for business related connections. Also assist with building of site 2 site VPN tunnels for connections to approved vendors.  ? Work with vendors to install, test and monitor PoV devices that will be used for security team.  ? Assist MSSP with integration with infrastructure and help to get them established as the Smith & Nephew MSSP.  ? Act as a liaison between the network infrastructure team and the security team to help build a unified and secure infrastructure.  ? Administration of F5 BigIP appliances for infrastructure, including architecture of virtual servers. Senior Network Engineer / Contractor Smith & Nephew - Cordova, TN July 2017 to January 2018 Work on projects assigned to network Infrastructure team.  ? Monitor, maintain and administration of F5 devices on network  ? Work on EoL (End of Life) project to refresh network gear that has aged out or is getting close to end of support.  ? Work with Vendors to ensure that projects are on time and on budget. Senior Network Engineer / IT Engineer III TruGreen, LTD - Memphis, TN March 2016 to May 2017 Maintain, monitor and administration of data center equipment for TruGreen which consists of a pair of 7K's, a pair of 5K's, four sets of ASA firewalls and an ASR 1001X along with other gear to keep the enterprise connected and running.  ? Maintain QoS policies to allow normal daytime data flow and patching and virus scanning in the evenings.  ? Worked with vendors for all equipment and circuit pricing and issues. This includes Cisco VAR, cabling vendors for repairs and new cabling as well as Cisco TAC.  ? Added configuration on F5's for load balancing to servers in the network.  ? Part of the Architectural team that evaluates all coming projects and changes for standardization into our current network.  ? Helped all junior level engineers with projects and issues to ensure work gets done on time and in budget.  ? Network team watches over 335 total branches and call centers. Monitoring is done with OpManager for netwflow and up down status. Sites are located in the United States and Canada.  ? Designed the implementation plan to add the new Cisco Firepower FMC and four of the 4110 modules to improve IPS performance as well as switch the internet firewall over to a next generation firewall to allow for better traffic flows.  ? Designed the new DMVPN configuration to allow secondary connections from the branches to reach the data center in case of primary circuit failure. This includes using a secondary broadband connection at the branch and building the DMVPN tunnel from branch router to hub router in data center.  ? Built out new call center that was brought over during the TruGreen/Scotts merger.  ? Maintain all firewalls and rules requested through a standardized change control process.  ? Perform all audits on firewalls for PCI compliance.  ? Worked up documentation and planning docs (budget documents, visio, etc) for projects which were presented to the board for approval.  ? Filled out change control requests, either normal or emergency, for all work done to the production environment. The change controls are then reviewed in the weekly change control meeting.  ? Wrote out documentation for PCI compliance for the network portion of the audit. This includes papers describing maintenance, security of devices and guidelines on who can and what needs to be done to all in scope network gear. Network Engineer / Sys Admin Share One, Inc - Memphis, TN July 2015 to March 2016 Install and configure network infrastructure for new data center including installation of Cisco 5548UP switches, Cisco 1000v virtual switch, Cisco 4331 ISR, Sonicwall Super Massive 9200 Firewalls, UCS C220 servers and EMC VNX 5200 SAN.  ? Design and implement new OSPF network to replace static routed network between 3 data centers and corporate office.  ? Monitor and Maintain network health for connections to 62 customers including VPN connections and remote access to F5 and Citrix Access Gateway.  ? Replace aging switches at corporate office with new Cisco 2960 X switches, configuring office for data VLANS and adding a voice VLAN for better VoIP performance.  ? Consolidated corporate office routing from six Cisco 2800 series routers to one Cisco 4331 ISR and a core stack of 3750 X layer three switches.  ? Monitor bandwidth used on WAN connections to ensure customer connection reliability.  ? Add and modify approved firewall changes.  ? Look for and fix security issues in preparation for upcoming PCI compliancy.  ? Added all network equipment to Radius server for AAA Security Services.  ? Make sure all new network changes are documented and network documents are updated properly including configs for equipment, subnet usage and network maps maintained in Visio. Senior Network Engineer UT Medical Group - Memphis, TN March 2015 to July 2015 Maintain and monitor all network devices on UTMG networks. Eighteen sites located in hospitals and doctor's offices around Memphis, TN.  ? Add, configure and monitor VPN connections for vendors connecting back to the UTMG databases. Site to Site/B2B connections configured through Cisco ASA's (5510).  ? Administration of IronPort M660 for Web and Email security. Add web sites that have been approved by management.  ? Monitor, maintain and configure Solarwinds for network monitoring across the enterprise.  ? Ensure backup of all network equipment configurations using Solarwinds CatTools.  ? Build new configurations for network gear and replacements.  ? Take ownership of 2nd level tickets for any connectivity issues and ensure ticket resolution is within agreed SLA.  ? Provide assistance to field technicians working on networking issues to assure prompt problem resolution and customer satisfaction. Network Engineer Covenant Dove, LLC - Memphis, TN August 2011 to March 2015 Take tier 2 calls for network and connection issues for 62 facility sites and 3500 users.  ? Worked on VoIP project installing IP phone systems to all facilities in collaboration with Smoothstone/WestIP (VoIP in the cloud). Project consisted of installation of 2,300 phones and 200 digital to analog converters used for cordless phones and overhead paging.  ? Ordered and configured secondary internet connections in facilities to be used for backup solution for voice and data systems, an out of band solution and a source of internet access for Guest clients connected to the wireless network provided at the facilities.  ? Monitoring for connection issues with facility Routers and Switches to reduce downtime and ensure client Service Level Agreements.  ? Configuration and deployment of new and replacement Switches, Routers and WAP's as well as new cabling and repairs that may be needed.  ? Maintain and update configurations on network equipment including Routers, Switches and Wireless Access Points. Upgrade of IOS when needed on network equipment.  ? Document network changes made for the facilities connecting back to the Corporate Data Center. Help Desk/Service Desk Juice Plus+ - Collierville, TN October 2009 to August 2011 Assigned Team Lead position of Service Desk. Duties include insure that all tickets meet SLA requirements, worked in the proper order and work is completed to customer satisfaction.  ? Create, add rights and Reset passwords for Active Directory and AIX logins.  ? Helped in the problem resolution for the Service Desk for 250 Client site as well as distributors in the field including Canada, Denmark and China.  ? Answer emails sent in to the service desk for repair of various issues ranging from log in issues to down servers. Third level support technician US Bank - Collierville, TN June 2008 to March 2009 311 Moore Lane  Collierville, TN 38017    CSI (Computer Services and Implementation) Field Team  ? Work on Projects for all lines of business including Freight Payment, Mortgage and Retail Banking including travel to other sites and facilities.  ? Support of 300 clients in the Collierville area.  ? Participated in the reimage and alignment of AIMS Logistics PC's and networks into the Powertrack/US Bank Network after it was purchased which included 350 PC's and 20 servers.  ? Relocation, punchdown and testing of digital phones including Meridian, Avaya and Nortel systems.  ? Served as a Third level support technician for site issues that could not be resolved by the help desk including hardware, software and connectivity issues using a Remedy ticket system..  ? Work on remote issues and installations of software and hardware thru a request system used to order hardware, software or have equipment moved. Specialist 3 / Field Technician SunTrust Bank - Memphis, TN April 2005 to June 2008 Field support for 48 Branch locations, 4 Back office buildings and 5 Stand alone ATM's.  ? Support of 650 clients in the Memphis and surrounding areas.  ? Participated in the NCF (National Commerce Financial) and SunTrust bank conversion during the bank merger. This includes checking PC's for proper images, software configuration and setup of servers and printers in the bank environment.  ? Supported various software including Platform, Bancstar Teller and Attachemate EXTRA.  ? Move and punchdown of digital phones including Meridian and Avaya.  ? Site setup of Cisco VoIP phone systems including the installation of router, switch and phones on network, usually converting from older Cisco equipment that did not support VoIP.  ? Participated in remodels and new branch openings by installing network, phone and computer equipment. This includes the physical setup of all network equipment (Cisco router and switch), server, VoIP phone systems and PC's on site. Also connecting the network to leased line, usually Visual CSU/DSU.  ? Repair of Desktops, laptops, network and stand alone printers, HP Proliant ML370 Servers and check printers. Also physical replacement of Cisco 2600 Series routers and Cisco Switches as well as circuit CSU/DSU (Configuration was done by Network Operations in Atlanta, Georgia). Education High school or equivalent Skills CATALYST, WIRELESS, BLUETOOTH, UPS, CISCO, Nexus, Cisco ASA, Router, Servicenow, Network Security Additional Information Skills Installation, Configuration and Troubleshooting    Hardware  Cisco Routers G2 (2900,3900) and G3 (4000 series) ISR's and ASR  Cisco Nexus 9000, 7000, 5000, 2000 and 1000v  Cisco Switches (Catalyst 6509, 3850, 3750 and 2960 series)  Cisco Firepower (Sourcefire) Cisco ASA 5500 Series Cisco WAP (2700,3500,3600,3700) Cisco IP Phones (7960 and 7961)  Sonicwall Super Massive 9200 F5 Loadbalancer  UPS Battery Backup Wireless and Bluetooth Technologies Cabling issues Cisco UCS C220 M4 Servers  Software  Solar Winds Network monitoring BGP, OSPF and EIGRP routing protocols  Cisco Secure ACS Cisco Prime Infrastructure  Cisco ASDM for ASA Cisco Ironport S170, M660  TCP/IP, IPX/SPX VMware ESX 6  Nagios Monitoring Service Now ticketing system  Microsoft Office Suite (Visio) DHCP  Cisco NX-OS, IOS Op Manager