Web Developer/Designer - Part Time / Freelance Web Developer/Designer - Part Time / Freelance Springfield, VA Work Experience Web Developer/Designer - Part Time / Freelance GURU - Springfield, VA 2002 to Present Web conferencing with possible clients to identify their needs and liaising regularly with them  Drawing up detailed website specifications  Designing sample page layouts including text size and colors  Designing graphics, animations and manipulating digital photographs  Registering web domain names and organizing the hosting of the website  Coding using a variety of software  Working with different content management systems  Search engine optimization  Meeting relevant legal requirements such as accessibility standards, freedom of information and privacy  Designing the website's visual imagery and ensuring it's in line with company branding policy or the requirements of the client  Testing the website to ensure it is working  Continual professional development to keep up to date with new software developments. Fort Belvoir Community Hospital - Help Desk Specialist III 22nd Century Technologies, Inc - Fort Belvoir, VA December 2018 to June 2019 Re-imaging workstations and laptops to the latest DHA/FBCH compliant SCCM designated images via USB drive and/or PXE boot image.  Implementing VPN, Cisco any-connect installation and configuration previously Pulse secur.  Remoting to user's PCs via GoverLan, RDP, and Bomgar to update, diagnose, and resolve issues.  Active Directory to view, update, and diagnose user's hostname/domain issues  Troubleshoot system and user problems including Outlook, Active Directory, Share drive issues.  Perform system maintenance on both hardware and software; evaluate, test and integrate hardware and software upgrades.  Document issues with BMC Remedy ticketing system of all work performed on current and new systems by describing all relevant factors.  Install and troubleshoot and map network and local printers  Troubleshoot network issue including DHCP, DNS, TCP/IP, installing IP addresses, Active Directory and User Profiles.  ActiveClient, CAC card certifications, DEERS and milconnect used to keep user's credentials updated. United States Patent and Trademark Office - IT Analyst IMTAS - Alexandria, VA June 2018 to November 2018 Provide phone support in compliance with established policies and procedures in order to attain contractual Service Level Agreement (SLA) metrics.  Diagnose internal and external inquiries and work requests as they relate to maintenance of Client's desktop and universal laptop computers and Client's customized applications/systems.  Provide end-user software troubleshooting and support to Client's internal and external users/customers.  Applied diagnostic techniques to identify problems, investigate root cause analyses, and recommend solutions using Remedy 7.6 ITService Management Suite.  Provide troubleshooting and support for over 200 customized applications supporting over 10,000 users.  Assist in the administration of remote user workstations and resolution of remote connectivity issues, as needed.  Provide help-desk and email support for local and off-site users.  Maintained current knowledge of the Windows 7 desktop environment, networking, access technologies, and applications supporting Client's users.  Install, configure, and upgrade computer hardware and software, as needed. Environmental Protection Agency Technical Specialist AECOM 2015 to 2018 Provide technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware.  Sybase 365 tools and applications: Linux OS, Database SQL operations, Trouble Ticket System  Provide assistance with COTS and EPA's custom systems and Webforms  Performs installations and updates to software and hardware as needed and update a running database as to the process and resolutions of such work orders.  Create daily and weekly reports of the database used for work orders  Install and configure stand-alone and/or network printers.  Remote into remote user's PC via Bomgar to provide further assistance  Push update via Bigfix  Manage user's account which may require password resets, unlocks, and profile updates.  Provide diagnosis for PC and server software and hardware. Environmental Protection Agency - Remote & onsite technical Assistant URS - Chantilly, VA 2012 to 2015 Remote & onsite technical assistance  Remote into remote user's PC via Bomgar to provide further assistance  Diagnose/install/replace memory, drives and peripherals.  Image HDD to SOP format required to perform duty required by personnel  Manage user's account which may require password resets, unlocks, and profile updates.  Install and configure stand-alone and/or network printers.  Push update via Bigfix  Perform system/server analysis as it is installed and implemented for throughput.  Provide instruction/training to new personnel on proper use of hardware and software  Build/plan dedicated communication cables and deployment  Provide technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware. Environmental Protection Agency - Technical Assistant APPTIS Inc 2009 to 2012 Manage user's account which may require password resets, unlocks, and profile updates.  Escalating work orders requiring higher tier level via ticketing system.  Push update via Bigfix  AAA RSA token administration.  Support for wireless devices; iPhone, Android, and Windows.  Manage user's account which may require password resets, unlocks, and profile updates.  Mac OS X in a corporate environment Help desk specialist Insight Global 2008 to 2009 Escalating work orders requiring higher tier level via ticketing system.  Push update via Bigfix  AAA RSA token administration.  Support for wireless devices; iPhone, Android, and Windows.  Manage user's account which may require password resets, unlocks, and profile updates.  Mac OS X in a corporate environment IT Security Administrator General Dynamics - Falls Church, VA 2003 to 2008 Analyze, research and develop policy, standard, and procedure documents Administer policy, standard, and procedure document lifecycle Coordinate meetings with stakeholders to document, review, and approve policy, standard, and procedure documents Revise and update Cybersecurity policies, standards, and procedures regularly to ensure the most up to date documents are readily available and subject matter remains accurate Professionally design high-quality procedural documents that are clear, concise and accurate Observe Governance team members to learn appropriate subject matter Communicate effectively with all levels of the organization to ensure accuracy and complete the approval process Create job aids and desk reference material to assist in training, accuracy and efficiency Utilize creative thinking to suggest process streamlining or improvements Document workflows to illustrate operational procedures Maintain policies, standards, and procedure in a designated repositories Track all changes and revisions to all documents Assist with tracking of compliance to policies, standards, and procedures as needed Cyber Security Technician USMC - Washington, DC 1996 to 2004 Responsible for all aspects of ensuring Marine Corps information systems data availability, integrity authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation. Computer network defense specialist implement and monitor security measures for USMC communication information systems networks, and advise the commander that systems and personnel adhere to established security standards and governmental requirements for security on these systems. Duties include assisting in the development and execution of security policies, plans, and procedures; design and implementation of data network security measures; network intrusion detections and forensics; information system security incident handling; and certification of Marine Corps systems and networks. Education BS in Information Technology Security WGU 2020 Associate in Computer Science NOVA 2012 Associate in Aeronautical Engineering PennState University 2000 Skills Spanish speaker and writer (10+ years), Android, CSS, HTML 5, Jquery, PHP, MYSQL, Javascript, Git Links http://linkedin.com/in/adam-mingledorff-a1913964 Military Service Branch: USMC Service Country: United States Rank: E4 1996 to 2004 Perform technical analysis on computer system Flag and follow-up listed security breach Escalate Implement security procedures including personnel, physical security, communications, emanations, hardware, software, and data Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ 2018 Security+ 2018 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: JAVA, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, HTML4/5, CSS3, PHP, C++, SQL, AJAX,  Databases: MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Microsoft Access, EyeOnEntry, Microsoft Exchange  O/S Windows 10/8/7/XP/2000/98/95, UNIX, Linux, Lotus Notes  Applications: Netcool, Nagios, HP Openview, Netbeans, Eclipse  Windows Servers 2008/2008 R2 and 2012/2012R2