Integration Project Manager Integration Project Manager Integration Project Manager - Actelion San Francisco, CA Work Experience Integration Project Manager Actelion - South San Francisco, CA April 2019 to Present Scoping, planning, scheduling, execution, and closeout of Actelion to Janssen systems integration activities. Applications managed included cloud, virtual cloud, on premise, etc. Laboratory Information Systems Project Manager Accenture - Foster City, CA September 2016 to February 2019 * Developed patch management process for critical PDM and supply chain systems  * Managed the planning, design and implementation of Empower (GxP) in the AWS cloud, enabling real-time chromatography data sharing with external CxO partners while ensuring data integrity and ease of collaboration.  * Led large team including Laboratory Information Systems, IT, QA, Legal, and Business Process Management.  * Oversaw all technical and functional aspects of this first-in-kind project.    Amgen, Inc., South San Francisco  Information Systems Management  Brought internal and external stakeholders and experts together to execute the unified mission of improving global Research Informatics Information Systems Operations. Research Strategy and Operations Analyst 2013 to 2015 Improved availability and service of Research and Informatics IS to the global corporation via stabilizing the production environment, focusing on both software and human resources; predicting changes in capacity to meet shifting needs, establishing effective reporting, and managing user expectations.  * Selected and deployed vendor for global application outsourcing, reducing cost to the enterprise and improving availability of software and support; responsible for relocation of over 300 RIS applications to improve security and reliability of RIS services, managed financials of $4m/year operation.  * As representative of Research and Informatics IS, influenced enterprise-wide decisions by making decisions for RIS teams for IS Executive management and leaders across the 20,000 person enterprise. Client Services and Project Manager, R&D Information Systems 2008 to 2013 Improved operational efficiency of North American RIS organization through developing tracking and projecting system for RIS portfolio management, improving change and demand management processes, and performing project management and business analysis in order to develop business needs assessments and execute technology implementations for projects including mergers and acquisitions.  * Managed End User Services Group, Data Center Operations, and Disaster Recovery/Business Continuity at South San Francisco site.  * Selected and deployed vendor (Service Now) for service desk for company resulting in improved productivity and increased service effectiveness. Responsibilities included oversight of project and change management, ticket tracking, reporting, auditing, inventory and purchasing.  * Managed IS integrations for North American Mergers & Acquisitions. Enterprise Customer Service 2006 to 2008 * Improved Research sites conferencing and collaboration services, evaluated and improved customer service levels, and assessed and upgraded infrastructure in both regulated and non-regulated environments for multiple Amgen sites.  * Managed RIS integrations at newly acquired sites in US and Canada.  * Managed $3m budget. Manager, Information Systems 2004 to 2006 * Responsible for bringing San Francisco site Customer Service, Systems Infrastructure, Business Continuity, Disaster Recovery Planning, and Security to corporation standards by implementing improved procedures, upgrading hardware and data center, and developing improved processes.  * Acted as Subject Matter Expert and Decision Maker for RIS in global projects such as Backup Systems Redesign, Enterprise Service Desk outsourcing, and Infrastructure Security. Sr. Manager, IT Infrastructure Tularik, Inc - South San Francisco, CA 2003 to 2004 * Led company infrastructure and customer service organizations, developing and implementing company's first Help Desk and Change Management teams.  * Created IT manual of standards, policies and procedures, including documentation of site infrastructure, disaster recovery/ business continuity plans, and security process.  * Created the technical training program.  * Managed the integration of Tularik IT with Amgen upon acquisition. Manager, IT Infrastructure 2002 to 2003 * Managed and reorganized IT services to improve response and resolution time; developed and implemented desk-side support procedures and customer service.  * Led a successful physical site relocation, completed before schedule, including project planning, data center and network design, addition of new security and environmental systems.  * Created hardware and software standards, consolidated licensing and support agreements to save several hundred thousand dollars.  * Centralized storage from individual client PCs to NetApp file storage. Supervisor Networking and Information Security 2002 to 2002 * Improved networking infrastructure to support multiple subnets and buildings.  * Created and implemented disaster recovery, data consolidation and deduplication programs.  * Managed Information Security & Response team including senior management and IT staff.  * Developed IT Service Level Agreements. Information Security Specialist 2001 to 2002 Created Information Security and Response team; developed and implemented Information Security Policies.  * Managed IT compliance activities for adherence to US government standards. IT Specialist Department of Radiology, University of California, San Francisco 2000 to 2001 Provided infrastructure and desktop support, including telecommunications and networking. Brought security awareness to the business.  Department of Radiology, University of California, San Francisco Administrative Supervisor 1998 to 2000 * Managed Neuroradiology administrative assistants, controlled Neuroradiology accounts, coordinated Fellowship and visiting scholars programs.  * Prepared grants, coordinated Seed Grant Proposals Committee and Intradepartmental Committee on Animal Research.  * Webmaster and IT support. Education MA in Counseling Psychology Western Institute for Social Research BA in Political Science/International Studies University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill, NC