Shipping & Receiving Clerk Shipping &amp; Receiving Clerk Shipping & Receiving Clerk - Marine Container Services Belleville, NJ Top-performing IT professional with 10+ years of progressive technical management experience.  AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Dynamic track record of aligning IT efforts with business goals and objectives and building successful teams.  • Highly successful at anticipating future IT needs and identifying proactive solutions, as well as researching and implementing new technologies to cut costs and improve efficiencies.   • Expert at project scoping, team building, collaborating with key stakeholders and executives, managing deadlines and priorities, understanding and articulating priorities, architecting solutions, and delivering results.   • Excellent communicator with the innate ability to lead cross-functional teams, influence key stakeholders, and translate complex technical ideas into lay terms. Work Experience Shipping & Receiving Clerk Marine Container Services - Newark, NJ August 2018 to Present Lead all shipping and receiving activities, analyzing orders to identify errors, verifying quantities via invoices, contracts, purchase orders, and shipping documents. Coordinate delivery of incoming shipments. Security Guard St.Mary's Hospital - Passaic, NJ August 2018 to Present Monitor building and parking lots, assessing and patrolling the environment to authorize entry by patients, visitors, and vendors. Monitor the surveillance system, responding to alarms, opening doors and investigating disturbances. Document all incidents, including property damage, theft, and unusual occurrences. Perform emergency response, collaborating with police, fire, and ambulatory services.  Key Achievement: * Recognized for providing consistently going above-and-beyond duties. Inventory Manager/Chief Range Safety Officer Woodland Park Range - Woodland Park, NJ December 2016 to June 2018 Led staff, delegating tasks and facilitated new employee training. Maintained all range inventory, purchasing firearms, parts, ammunition, and targets and performing daily inventory counts.  Key Achievements: * Expertly negotiated lowers costs with third-party vendors, reducing overall expense.  * Increased team morale resolving conflicts quickly and effectively. Seasonal IT Equipment Coordinator Amazon Mechanical Turk - Teterboro, NJ September 2017 to January 2018 Coordinated all IT equipment, ensuring adherence to all Service Level Agreements (SLAs) and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Completed email and radio requests. Troubleshot local and global IT tickets. Service Desk Supervisor Haier America - Wayne, NJ July 2014 to August 2016 Led a team of Service Desk Associates providing desktop, laptop, and application support for 350 users organization-wide. Oversaw local area network, telephony, and corporate and BYOD devices. Monitored security logs and first call resolution metrics. Performed data recovery from backup servers. Coordinated all Service Desk scheduling for each shift.  Key Achievements: * Spearheaded the Windows 7, Office 2010, and Active Directory installations and deployments, drafting detailed project plans and timelines.  * Developed and integrated a Key Performance Indicator (KPI) measurement framework to assess service delivery via monthly reports.  * Collaborated with senior leaders to identify areas of IT improvement and advise on technical purchases.  * Standardized problem escalation procedures to streamline workflows and improve user satisfaction. Mobility Analyst Sanofi Pharmaceuticals - Parsippany, NJ August 2012 to January 2014 Resolved mobile devices problems quickly and efficiently, ensuring customer satisfaction. Managed and documented system configurations. Led BES, Airwatch, and GOOD servers deployments. Maintained detailed technical documentation.  Key Achievement: * Decreased user downtime for mobile devices. Desktop Manager Global Crossing - New York, NY November 2005 to June 2012 Oversaw and led a team of Desktop Support Analysts tasked with executing support and updates for PC users in a Windows environment. Managed servers and performed domain administration using Active Directory. Interviewed, hired, and trained new employees to fill crucial skill gaps. Maintained printer servers, added Active Directory users, assigned group rights, and reset passwords. Assisted Networking and Infrastructure teams with LAN WAN troubleshooting, working with Cisco routers and switches. Coordinated mobile device inventory. Performed preventative maintenance IT equipment.  Key Achievements: * Led a Windows 7 deployment, tracking timelines and budgets and providing updates to key stakeholders.  * Created and implemented metric tools to assess individual team member performance and adherence to SLAs.  * Trusted advisor to Executive Leadership team for all technical issues with Macs, iPhones, iPads, and Blackberrys. Education Certificate William Paterson University Certificate Dover Business College Skills Asset management (2 years), Budgeting (2 years), Cisco (6 years), Citrix (3 years), Clarify (Less than 1 year), Customer service (10+ years), Data entry (Less than 1 year), Ios (10+ years), Mac (5 years), Mac os (5 years), Microsoft windows (10+ years), Ms office (10+ years), Netware (Less than 1 year), Novell (Less than 1 year), proactive (10+ years), Process improvements (5 years), Receptionist (Less than 1 year), Relationship building (10+ years), Remedy (Less than 1 year), Windows 7 (8 years), Warehouse Associate (2 years), Forklift (3 years), UPS, Shipping, Shipping Receiving Links http://linkedin.com/in/nicholas-frisoli-97927612 Certifications/Licenses SORA December 2018 to December 2019 Security Officers Registration Act