Network Consultant Network Consultant Network Consultant - BMO Harris Financial Group Bolingbrook, IL Seeking a challenging position within the field of information technology management unitizing my previous extensive experience, MBA education and highly applicable skills.    PROFESSIONAL PROFILE AND KEY AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • MBA-educated IT professional with diverse experience and expertise in implementing business and technology strategic solutions within procurement organizations, with strong financial and statistic analysis background.  • Experienced technical manager and engineer for developing and managing computer information system with hands-on experience in networking, virtualization, system, cloud computing, infrastructure management and web-based applications.  • Creative International business professional, who is fully bilingual and bi-cultural in English and Chinese - speak, read and write, specializing in emerging Asian market, managing projects, tracking progress, and delivering results.  • Effective project and team leader with experience in collaboration, multi-tasking, meeting deadlines, and thriving in a fast-paced environment. Motivated self-starter and creative problem-solver who works hard and loves a challenge. Work Experience Network Consultant BMO Harris Financial Group - Chicago, IL July 2014 to Present for US & International Design/Engineering  • Work with US & International design and engineering team to analyze current network infrastructure, and to make recommendations to standardize network equipment, software version, configuration, network design, and network compliance  • Analyze and exam external and internal vulnerabilities and compliance issue    Major projects accomplished/in progress:  • Vulnerability and compliance project: Evaluate, implement BMO standard to mitigate all vulnerabilities and meet bank compliance requirement  • China telecom insource project: build out China Beijing and GuanZhou data center to in-house hosting BMO financial service  • Wired NAC (Network Access Control) project: integrate BMO wired NAC standard with current global infrastructure with both 802.1x and MAC authentication.  • TACACS migration project: migrate all BMO global business units to standard TACACS unit.  • US NetCap project: analyze network capacity, design and upgrade network bandwidth for over 500 bank branches Sr. SaaS Operation Engineer/Network Engineer Frontrange Solutions - Milpitas, CA April 2012 to June 2014 • Team lead, work in a busy network operation environment and manage cloud based SaaS operation infrastructure including network infrastructure, system, network monitoring and security services.  • Manage and maintain multiple SaaS landscapes, including sales (demo), pilot (code testing), UAT (user acceptance/testing), staging and production.  • Work with support and professional service team to support 24x7x365 SaaS operation; troubleshoot any SaaS related issues.  • Manage Amazon Disaster Recovery sites from planning, design to implementation and testing. Build VPC/EC2 VPN connection using Cisco 2900 with BGP  • Manage SaaS based projects and maintain procedure, knowledge base and documentation.    Major projects accomplished/in progress:  • Evaluate, implement and test SaaS cloud DR solution using Amazon EC2 and VPC platform.  • Design and Implement SaaS landscape migration moving from Cisco ASA firewalls 5520 from 8.x code to ASA5525 9.x code and redesign site-to-site VPN and AnyConnect.  • Work with Development team on major code upgrade. Sr. Network Engineer Independence Tube Corporation - Chicago, IL December 2011 to April 2012 • Manage overall enterprise IT infrastructure operations and vendor relationships including infrastructure, network monitoring and security services.  • Manage and execute the planning, design, implementation, organization and operations of the data communications network, including all Cisco EIGRP network with Cisco routers, L2/L3 switches, firewall, wireless LAN controller and Access Points.  • Oversee engineering, planning, and implementation of Enterprise projects.  • Lead the team to push infrastructure into cloud computing and virtualization solution.  • Manage, maintain and monitor ERP system.  • Manage and support 24/7/365 IT on-call operation.  • Direct strategic planning for IT long-term and short-term goals.  • Manage and coordinate IT projects, re-engineering IT procedures, maintain IT documentation.    Major projects accomplished/in progress:  • Evaluate, build and test cloud computing solution with Amazon EC2.  • Evaluate and test to consolidate physical server farms into virtual machines using Microsoft Hyper-V and VMWare ESX & VSphere 5.0.  • Evaluate and plan migration of windows server 2003 R2 to 2008 R2.  • Deploy thin clients to manufacture shop floor. IT Manager/Network lead Coetruman Technologies - Chicago, IL August 2008 to November 2011 • Direct and manage IT infrastructure encompassing Coetruman datacenter/private cloud, Amazon EC2 and Azure cloud, all data and communications networks and systems including Cisco, Microsoft, VMWare, EMC and HP lefthand SAN storage, servers, desktops, peripherals and applications.  • Manage, maintain and monitor SaaS hosting environment, staging and development environments.  • Manage IT staffs, conduct performance review and support 24/7/365 IT on-call operation.  • Direct strategic planning for IT long-term and short-term goals.  • Manage, coordinate, and re-engineering IT procedures.  • Work with CFO and manage flexible IT infrastructure budget, including all software, hardware and licenses purchase and update. Manage cost analysis of IT expenditures and forecasting.  • Supervise all IT projects and maintain knowledge base and documentation.  • Maintain effectively communication and relation with vendors and customers.  • Research and analyze hosting technologies to remain pro-active and current. Make recommendations to senior management for future direction.    Major projects accomplished/in progress:  • Successfully obtain and become Microsoft Certificated Gold Partner as a mid-market solution provider.  • Project management of cloud computing including evaluating, building, testing and migrating SaaS applications to Amazon EC2 and PVC and Microsoft Azure platform.  • Manage and consolidate physical server farms into virtual machines using Microsoft Hyper-V and VMWare ESX.  • Plan and migrate hosted VoIP network into self-hosting VoIP environment, resulting in reduction of communication cost by 25%.  • Design and implement a monitoring system utilizing Microsoft System Center Operation Manager.  • Migrate MS servers from 2003 to 2008 R2.  • Plan and Migrate MS active directory from 2003 to 2008    Network Engineer  • Manage and maintain SaaS hosting environment  • Function as a network engineer managing Coetruman WAN/LAN environment utilizing Cisco routers, L2/L3 switches and access points and F5 loadbalancer.  • Function as a security engineer managing secured Cisco network environment utilizing Cisco ASA and PIX.  • Manage, maintain and troubleshoot multiple clients, staging and development environments  • Manage secured Cisco network environment and VPN B2B/remote access.  • Conduct an semi-annual penetration test with external company    Major projects accomplished:  • Redesign and migrating network to MPLS network with AT&T.  • Manage and consolidate data center.  • Design and implement HyperV environment  • Migrating physical servers to virtual servers Network/ Security Engineer Amcol International - Arlington Heights, IL September 2006 to August 2008 • Function as a Network Engineer managing global network with a total of over seventy sites worldwide, including over forty sites in US.  • Manage, maintain and troubleshoot Amcol VPN network over AT&T MIS circuit using IPSec/GRE/DMVPN technology.  • Function as a security engineer managing WebSense policy server and filter services globally.  • Manage secured Cisco network environment by maintaining ACS authentication, monitoring VPN remote users access, VPN and internet traffic.  • Function as a domain administrator on the daily operation in Microsoft environment.    Major projects accomplished:  • Migrating IPSec/GRE internet network to MPLS network with AT&T PNT.  • Manage and build up new data centers Co-Lo with AT&T.  • Manage migrating IP schema change from private class B to class A in a global scale.  • Conduct an annual penetration test with an external company  • Evaluate, test and manage Network Management System (NMS) by using Netflow, SLA and SNMP2.  • Deploy and upgrade CiscoWork CSM to 4.0.  • Deploy Polycom video conference solution.  • Manage and deploy Cisco teleworker solution.  • Be part of team mange total $2 million dollar projects upgrading network infrastructure to Cisco 6509 with supervisor 720, 3750E switches, CallManager/VoIP, Cisco ASA firewalls, Cisco 2800 router etc,. Network Engineer/Consultant Insurance Auto Auction - Westchester, IL June 2006 to September 2006 • Function as a Network Engineer working in supporting 40 plus US locations.  • Manage, maintain and troubleshoot LAN, WAN and WLAN data network using Cisco 6509, autonomous access point networks, cisco 2600 routers.. Network Engineer/Consultant SBC - Arlington Heights, IL June 2004 to June 2006 • Function as a Network Engineer working in previous Ameritech's world class Ameritech Advanced Data Services (AADS) Network Access Point (NAP) Operation Center.  • Manage, maintain and troubleshoot SBC dedicated, frame-relay, ATM and point-to-point circuit (T1, DS3, OC level) and data network and VoIP issue.  • Configure, upgrade and troubleshoot LAN and WAN network and user equipment including Cisco router (7600, 7200, 3800), Catalyst switch (6509, 4506 and 3750), Nortel routers, and Adtran routers.  • Provide 24/7 support, maintain and monitor over 10,000 large business customers and government for their data network, circuit, layer 2 and layer 3 equipment for Midwest region in a highly complex and mission critical data and voice network environment.  • Manage and maintain technical implementation documentation.  • Monitor and troubleshoot network using HP OpenView, Lucent and Alcatel switches, and various other tools. Independent Consultant American Union Development Co., NanJin Import & Export Co - Chicago, IL October 2001 to May 2004 • Clients include VisionBridge LLC, TEDA (TianJian Economic Develop Area), American Union Development Co., NanJin Import & Export Co., etc.  • Provide business consulting service to clients including develop project plans for products development, marketing plans and import/export strategies  • Provide IT consulting services to clients involving design, install and configure network and system equipment; managing and implement computer client-to-server networking system and database; maintain and troubleshoot network equipment (Cisco routers and switches); maintain and troubleshoot NT Servers and UNIX Servers. Network Engineer Focal Communication, Inc - Chicago, IL September 2000 to August 2001 • Manage, maintain and troubleshoot DSL ATM Network and IP transit Network.  • Troubleshoot ATM, BGP, and other IP routing related issues.  • Configure network equipment (Nortel ATM Switch, RedBack Router, Lucent DSLAM, Juniper Router, Foundry Switch, Unisphere Router, etc.)  • Use Expect/tcl, shell script to write programs to automatic process (including software upgrade, backup, testing, etc.).  • Maintain DNS servers and troubleshoot DNS related issues.  • Support and troubleshoot for ISP and large corporation connection.  • Write technical documents and conduct training for Tier one support. Network Analyst CoreComm, Inc January 2000 to September 2000 • Provision Network Circuit and troubleshoot network problem.  • Configure Network equipment (Cisco Routers, Switches, Lucent MAX/TNT, CSU/DSU, etc.)  • Prepare weekly generate network performance monitoring report.  • Enforce network security CoreComm, Inc - Chicago, IL August 1999 to September 2000 Technical Support Supervisor CoreComm, Inc August 1999 to January 2000 • Supervise, monitor, and train 50 tech support agents and provide quarterly performance evaluation.  • Setup and configure Internet software systems on all platforms.  • Maintain Internet and troubleshoot for ISDN and dial up connections. Project Manager Pantech Global, Inc March 1998 to June 1999 • Work closely with CTO and vendors to analyze, design, purchase, and network computers, printing and related equipment for overseas market.  • Provide management consulting of advise on company strategy and internal operations.  • Offer sales, technical, and training support for Joint Venture Company.  • Personally manage $750,000.00 projects and assist in managing a two million-dollar project. Pantech Global, Inc - Chicago, IL February 1996 to June 1999 Special Project Manager Pantech Global, Inc - Tianjin, CN February 1997 to March 1998 Tianjin, China. (A Joint-Venture company of Pantech Global, Inc.)  • Plan and setup joint venture company in Tianjin Tax Free Zone in China.  • Manage, schedule, train and evaluate 30 staff in China.  • Conduct product develop strategies.  • Prepare project management plan including budget and risk evaluation using EVA.  • Supervise information system hardware and software installation project. Financial Analyst Pantech Global, Inc February 1996 to February 1997 • Work closely with CFO to generate and provide financial date and prepare all statistics for the overview of the company.  • Analyze all fixed asset accounts; prepare monthly sales and use tax reports; calculate commissions for all salesmen; led annual inventory of cost items.  • Established new method for calculating sales commissions.  • Prepare monthly financial statement for senior officers.  • Wrote special statistical reports for senior officers to assist management decisions. Pantech Global, Inc - Iowa City, IA January 1992 to January 1996 LAN & System Administrator Pantech Global, Inc December 1994 to 1996 • Support users in using UNIX SGI, Power Mac, PC to transfer, rip, and print large 3D image files.  • Work as LAN administrator, configure and troubleshoot network and system problems within the LAN  • Install software and hardware (NT Servers and Workstations, Mac software, Network Card and TCP/IP, UNIX SGI Ripping stations, etc.).  • Support any general IT helpdesk issues for users. Office Manager Pantech Global, Inc January 1992 to December 1994 • Prepare all accounting bookkeeper functions and work closely with accountant for financial report and payroll.  • Provide special costing studies used to revamp costing system.  • Team leader of migrating accounting system from QuickBook to PeachTree.  • Perform general office duties from planning, scheduling to office origination.  • Maintain day-to-day internal operations including managing staff and establishing file system.    TECHNICAL SKILLS & QUALIFICATIONS  • Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, MAC/OS, DOS, WIN/x, NT, etc.  • LAN/WAN: POS, ATM, IP, Ethernet, VLANs, VRRP, etc.  • Routers, Switches & Multiplexes: Cisco Routers, Cisco Lay3 and Lay2 Switches including Nexus 7k, 5k, 2k and 6500 VSS, 4500x switch, Lucent MAX & TNT, Stinger, Juniper Routers, Nortel Routers, Redback Routers, Foundry L3 Switches, ASC 1000/4000, CSU/DSU, etc.  • Wireless: 802.11a/b/g/n, Cisco wireless AP and controller  • ATM & Frame Relay Switches: Nortel Passport, Cisco BPX, Lucent switches, Alcatel switches  • Firewall: Cisco PIX & ASA, CheckPoint/Provider 1, Juniper SRX/NSM, NetScreen OS  • Load Balancing: F5 Big IP LTM & iRule, Citrix NetScaler, Cisco ACE, HA Proxy for Amazon EC2  • Routing & Switching Protocols: BGP4, OSPF, RIP, EIGRP, MPLS  • Transport Circuits: T1, DS3, OC3  • SAN Storage: EMC CX-series & Navisphere Manager, Lefthand & SANiQ and Promise VTrak, Dell DM3000.  • Virtual environment: VMWare ESX 3.5 and Hyper-v  • Network Monitoring tools: Coradiant Truesight, IP monitor, Microsoft system center operation manager, Solarwind  • Network Sniffer: Wireshark, Ethereal  • Program Languages: UNIX Shell Script, Expect/Tcl, Perl/CGI, HTML, XML, Python, PASCAL and BASIC  • Database: MS 2008 SQL server R2, PL/SQL, SQL*PLUS, SQL Server 7    TECHNICAL TRAININGS, MBA SCHOOL PROJECTS & CERTIFICATIONS  • CCNA certification from Cisco    • Oracle DBA Project Training  • Nortel ATM switches training  • Foundry Certified Network Engineer by Foundry  • Juniper Network Training  • RedBack Network Training  • Lucent Stinger Training  • MCSE Training  • ATM Carrier Network Training by Telcordia  • 3M ScotchPrint(TM) Certificate by 3M  • Xerox Electoral Static Printer 8954 III Certificate by Xerox  • UNIX level II training by Global Knowledge  • Cisco BGP training by Global Knowledge  • CCNP training from Global Knowledge  • Music store web site project using ASP server and MS Access by UIC (MBA/MIS)  • Web auction web site using Oracle database and Apache server by UIC (MBA/MIS)  • Web Site development using IBM DB2 and Websphere (MBA/MIS) Education Master of Business Administration in MIS and Accounting Liautaud Graduate School of Business, University of Illinois at Chicago - Chicago, IL December 2004 Bachelor of Science degree in Finance University of Illinois at Chicago - Chicago, IL May 2003 College of Business Administration Skills Cisco, MPLS