Sr IT Business Analyst Sr <span class="hl">IT</span> Business <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Business Analyst Lead Minneapolis, MN I will apply my knowledge and experience as an IIBA Certified Business Analysis Professional to help  your business succeed by using analysis best practices and continuous improvement techniques to  discover, elicit and define requirements, and deliver the best solutions using Agile or Waterfall project  methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr IT Business Analyst TIPS Consulting Inc - Minneapolis, MN April 2019 to Present Currently on contract to Abbott Labs writing requirements for implementation of the new European Union Medical Device Regulations (EU MDR) with Universal Device Identification (UDI) to EUDAMED using the company's Windchill PLM system, SAP, and Informatica, as well as requirements for automating the creation of trade licenses in SAP GTS. Business Analyst Lead United Language Group - Minneapolis, MN April 2018 to March 2019 Led the business analyst team in a fast-paced, Agile development environment to ensure on-time delivery of web-based and middleware business solutions built on .Net and SQL in Azure.  Captured requirements and user stories using Atlassian’s Agile software suite.  Discovered requirements for implementing Serenova Cloud Contact Center  • Defined integration with back offices systems using data exports and REST APIs.  • Developed KPI and SLA reports using Serenova’s Birst reporting platform.  • Defined UX and UI for new external user web portal and internal user portal.  Discovered requirements for porting functionality from an acquired company’s systems into the ULG’s core system.  • Defined new automated processes in the core system  • Defined new UX for the core system Security Architect Schwan's Shared Services, LLC - Marshall, MN November 2015 to November 2017 Defined requirements and oversaw vendor development of PCI-DSS security controls on Android.  • Collaborated with the vendor to develop new hardware and software controls on the device  • Defined parameters to lock down the device and configured device firewall.  • Devices successfully passed PCI-DSS penetration testing  • Implemented Citrix Enterprise Mobility Management to manage 3,000+ secure devices.  Developed a third-party risk assessment program, including robust contractual requirements.  Enhanced Security Incident Response Plan, redesigned annual security awareness training and expanded training from 4,000 employees to 13,000 employees. Sr Systems Analyst Schwan's Shared Services, LLC - Marshall, MN February 2007 to November 2015 Lead analyst and product owner on several multi-million dollar enterprise projects using business analysis best practices, primarily in the Procure to Pay domain. Some key projects:  • Implemented cloud transportation management system Lean Logistics, integrating it with SAP SD, PP, and DWM, and HighJump warehouse management using iDocs and EDI.  • Implemented 1Sync certified Global Data Synchronization functionality within SAP MM and PLM.  • Upgraded and reimplemented JDA Supply Chain Planning and Optimization suite.  As lead project analyst directed other analyst project activities and worked closely with the project manager as the solution delivery team’s representative to stakeholders.  Also worked as needed as a SAP functional analyst defining design specifications, quality assurance lead, and project manager. Nominated twice for IT Pinnacle of Excellence award (top IT honor). EDI Services Manager & Solutions Consultant SoftBrands, Inc - Minneapolis, MN May 1996 to February 2007 Recruited, trained, and led consultants delivering EDI implementation services.  Consistently exceeded budget and profit goals; during final year leading team of 4 to achieve 145% of revenue and 113% of profit; this was the only services team with no customer refunds or un-billed services that year.  Product manager for EDI module and Product Information Management module.  Designed and managed development and delivery of new PIM product.  Developed data translation maps and implemented integrated EDI solutions at over 100 companies using Sterling Gentran tools.  Multiple awards for performance excellence including the company’s top honor, President’s Club. Education Completed 25 semester hours in Computer Systems and Networking Ozarks Technical College - Springfield, MO January 1994 to June 1995 Completed 68 semester hours in Electrical Engineering Technology Community College of the Air Force - Maxwell AFB, AL December 1981 to December 1991 Skills EDI (10+ years), Security (2 years), SQL (10+ years), MS Office (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Access (10+ years), Powerpoint (10+ years), SAP (8 years), Visio (10+ years), MS Project (5 years), HTML (10+ years), XML (10+ years), Testing (10+ years), Microsoft Office, Business Intelligence (5 years), Jira Links https://jonchalmerssensei.wixsite.com/portfolio Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: Staff Sergeant August 1981 to August 1992 Avionics Sensor Systems Technician, Electro-Optical Airborne Reconnaissance Sensors. Commendations: AF Outstanding Unit Award w/ 2 OLC, AF Good Conduct Medal w/ 2 OLC, National Defense Service Medal, AF Overseas Ribbon - Long Tour, AF Longevity Service Award w/ OLC, USAF NCO Professional Military Education Graduate Ribbon w/ OLC, Small Arms Expert Marksmanship Ribbon, AF Training Ribbon.    OLC = Oak Leaf Cluster, denotes additional instances of an award. Certifications/Licenses Certified Business Analysis Professional March 2014 to Present The Certified Business Analysis Professional (CBAP) designation is a professional certification from International Institute of Business Analysis (IIBA) granted to individuals with extensive business analysis experience. Business analysis practitioners must be accepted to sit for a three-and-a-half-hour situational analysis case-study exam based on the Business Analysis Body of Knowledge (BABOK).  Applicants must possess at least five years' experience working in a business analyst capacity, with 7,500 verifiable hours of firsthand business analysis activity recorded against individual projects and specific BA tasks, spanning at least four of the six BABOK knowledge areas. Candidates must have earned at least thirty-five hours of professional development in areas related to Business Analysis in the last four years. Two letters of reference from career managers or clients are required.  As of January 1, 2018, 2,839 United States recipients held the CBAP designation, with a total of 8,025 worldwide. Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bvcx6wyrsbz-mwkj Critical Thinking — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to use logical approaches when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yiytgbuhxfxtftqc Email — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tn7cbaqzaauyxwdy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Strengths and Skills  Strengths: Context, Input, Ideation, Strategic, Activator, Extremely fast learner  Communications: Public Speaking, Presenting, Teaching, Writing  Self-Management: Punctual, Responsible, Learn Quickly, Honest, Decisive, Detail Oriented,  Inventive, Persistent, Flexible, Process Oriented, Self-Starter  People: Facilitating, Mentoring, Problem Solving, Developing  Leadership: Conflict Resolution, Evaluation, Results-Oriented, Risk Management, Coordination,  Motivation, Project Management    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Agile and Waterfall project methodologies.  MS Office Suite 2007 through 2016, including macros and Visual Basic for Applications, MS Visio  and MS Project. Atlassian Confluence and Jira.  Fundamentals of computer programming, with development experience in C++, Visual Basic,  HTML, ASP, and EDI mapping with Sterling Gentran.  MS SQL Server, including queries, stored procedures, functions and Reporting Services.  Cyber- security concepts, including firewalls, SEIM, IPS/IDS, and End-point Protection.