Professional: Security Compliance Professional: <span class="hl">Security</span> Compliance Sutton, MA Years of Information Systems experience in multiple roles in Data Center Operations, Information Security, Business Continuity Planning, Disaster Recovery, Project Management, IS Audit and IS Compliance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Professional: Security Compliance DXC Technology, Tysons, VA January 2012 to June 2019 IS Audit: A client facing role managing SOC1 AUP , SOX and SSAE audits Primary DXC contact working with internal client, internal DXC and external auditors. Coordinated analysis of TOR’s, IS control definitions, evidence collection, remediation and documentation.     IS Compliance: A client facing role responsible for developing policies, standards, and procedures and ensuring compliance with those policies and management of those policies.     IS Account Provisioning: Managed and approved requests for access to client both physical and cyber. Responsible for privileged access audits and reviews. Managed DXC access request procedures and verified regulatory or client specific requirements were met. Provided technical support as needed. IT Analyst - Data Center Services Control Operations Group National Grid USA Service Company - Waltham, MA April 1997 to January 2012 Developed, collected and maintained procedural documentation to ensure that US data centers are operating in a consistent manner using industry best practices.    Managed and addressed all controls related to audits and developed/maintained all audit documentation. Served as the primary contact point for both internal and external audits. Coordinated all evidence, documentation and remediation efforts.    Oversaw US data center physical access privileges and audits performed in addition to managing all access request procedures and verifying regulatory requirements have been satisfied.    Coordinated data center transition efforts within IS whether these changes were due to merger, facility closings, new applications implementations and retiring old applications.    Oversaw US New England data center facilities management, engineering, infrastructure placement, mechanical management, cable management and decommission coordination. Data Center Service Project Lead for New England data center decommission project. Oversaw the removal of hardware and related materials from two retired data centers in New England and prepared hardware for investment recovery.    Authored Business Continuity Plan documentation. Developed and revised documentation. Trained staff in tasks related to execution of the plan documentation for US data centers.    Part to of Disaster Recovery Team reporting to the Disaster Recovery Coordinator working on developing and executing DR and Business Continuity Plans. Participated in DR test exercises.    Maintained, adjusted, tested and implemented production job schedules. Assisted application teams with scheduling related issues on a 24/7 basis. Implemented automated IPL scheduling process that eliminated 95% of manual tasks required to stop and restart scheduler processing during maintenance window limiting  failures and callouts to support personnel. Administrated tape library/tape management systems and coordinated the off site storage of media for disaster recovery for all platforms. Created, maintained and removed online report definitions. Defined report access permissions. Supervised 24/7 union staff.    Administrated mainframe change management processes for the organization. Worked closely with the Internal Audit Department, Project Management Office, IS Technical Support and IS Application  Development groups. Reviewed all mainframe application change requests. Enforced company IS  standards and provided technical assistance to the application development teams on a 24/7 basis.  Maintained mainframe software change management environments and processes. Configured production and test environments. Tested and implemented software updates.    Served as Mainframe Security Administrator. As part of the provisioning process created, tested and maintained mainframe login IDs and access rules. Administered remote access rights. Provided technical support related to access permissions on a 24/7 basis including investigations of violations and incidents. Education Certificate in Oracle Developer Worcester Polytechnic Institute - Worcester, MA January 2003 to October 2003 Diploma Saint John's High School - Shrewsbury, MA 1981 to 1985 Certifications/Licenses Endevor for MVS Administrator January 1997 to Present Advanced Processor Writing in Endevor for MVS January 2000 to Present OS/390 MVS JCL January 2000 to Present Data Storage Subsystems January 2002 to Present Storage Management Fundamentals January 2002 to Present RMM Administrator January 2002 to Present ESP Workload Manager January 2003 to Present RACF Administrator January 2003 to Present CISSP November 2015 to Present