Sr. Business Analyst, Cyber Security (Contract) Sr. Business <span class="hl">Analyst</span>, Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> (Contract) Sr. Business Analyst (Contract) - DISYS Durham, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Business Analyst, Cyber Security (Contract) DISYS - Raleigh, NC October 2017 to Present Responsible for the global cyber security threat, detection and response (TDR) capability requirements management process. Responsible for the analysis audit and regulatory findings, identification of risks and development of related mitigation strategies. Create and maintain project plans. Owns the Kanban process and related tasks. Ensure all requirements management documentation is created, maintained, updated and properly stored for the purpose of meeting regulatory and internal audit requirements globally. Sr. Program manager - (Contract, remote role) Captricity, Inc - Oakland, CA March 2018 to October 2018 Lead a team of project managers and solution architects responsible for implementing AI/ML Captricity solutions at Healthcare organizations and pharmaceutical companies across the US. Developed and implemented professional services best practices to specifically address HIPAA requirements for BioPharma clients of Captricity. Lead the development of automated toolsets to reduce manually intensive processes and high cost professional services operations processes. Coached and trained junior staff to adopt these skills. Primarily responsible for customer contract negotiations, resource and capacity planning by project, resolution of customer escalations and strategic account management including billing and revenue. Accountable for the on-time, on budget project implementations. Sr. Project Manager - (Contract) MetLife - Cary, NC October 2017 to March 2018 Contractor for Experis)  Collaborated across a global technology team to develop, implement and evolve processes, technology, tooling and culture in support of effective multi-modal delivery of IT solutions. Created and managed project plans, initiative scope, schedule and delivery of projects. Routinely collaborated with Global Technology Senior Leaders on designing and implementing plans for delivery of strategic IT initiatives. Provided methodology thought leadership to Agile teams. Developed and implemented PMO procedures to comply with IT governance and SOX requirements. Key contributor to process improvements on portfolio, program, project, requirements management and SDLC global processes. Sr. Enterprise Program Manager Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina - Durham, NC April 2016 to October 2017 Provided leadership to the re-engineering of company systems supporting implementation of the Affordable Care Act during the annual enrollment period. Direct the electronic health records (EHR) migration from legacy application to Facets. Lead and managed the execution of multi-million-dollar initiatives migrating core business applications to the cloud. Mentored junior project managers and provided performance feedback in a heavily matrixed environment. Responsible for stakeholder management, risk and issue management, program financials, phase gate reviews, compliance, financial management of assigned initiatives and executive level reporting/presentations. Sr. Program Manager Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines - Miramar, FL April 2014 to March 2016 Provided application performance engineering program leadership for a production environment supporting core business processes. Lead the gathering, documentation and realization of non-functional requirements for multiple enterprise performance transformation initiatives. Initiated and lead the metrics reporting improvement effort for performance validation cycles to ensure reliable metrics. Improved the utilization of requirements management tools to measure, document, track, and compare performance SLA's. Responsible for hands-on leadership of issues and risks discovered during performance validation cycles. Created and deployed a performance testing framework. IT Executive Advisor Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield - Indianapolis, IN June 2013 to April 2014 Responsible for leading the requirements management process supporting the enterprise-wide implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Analyzed enterprise impacts of technology changes on the business and provided mitigation recommendations to the executive team. Facilitated cross-functional system and data design sessions. Developed and forged cross-functional partnerships with business, technical architecture, solution vendors and development team leadership to ensure visibility of requirements impacts across multiple domains. Lead the data modeling activities and interface design specification development efforts. Lead the use case development, business workflows, wireframes, and conversion requirements activities for core business systems. Consulted with business and IT colleagues on impacts to secondary applications. Managed the business process risk mitigation and management activities. Hands-on responsibility for leading the user acceptance test strategy development and implementation. Designed and implemented a requirements management process to comply with the data delivery requirements established by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid (CMMS). Sr. Program Manager Hewlett Packard (Remote) - Hewlett Packard Company - Palo Alto, CA February 2011 to June 2013 Responsible for program management and solution delivery of IT managed services transitions and HP solutions for multi-year, multi-million-dollar solutions. Consulted and worked collaboratively with HP global leaders to provide vision, leadership and direction on strategic priorities of the professional services organization in Latin America. Developed client specific transition and change management strategies. Mentored resources delivering services on client facing projects. Provided leadership and direction to the client services onboarding operations team to ensure smooth transition of hosting services for HP clients. Provided thought leadership and strategic guidance in the delivery of requirements management and testing services to HP Latin America. Lead, Quality Process Improvement Tradestation, Inc - Plantation, FL June 2009 to October 2010 Collaborated with c-level leadership identifying opportunities for improvement in the SDLC. Actively worked with cross-functional teams to implement the Scrum methodology across the organization. Lead the development of the product QA metrics framework. Sr. Business Analysis Manager Pharma & Biotech Workforce - Bearing Point - San Francisco, CA September 2005 to April 2009 Responsible for requirements management process leadership for teams delivering solutions to pharmaceutical clients. Developed and implemented client facing change management processes and transition strategies. Responsible for leadership in software quality assurance. Sr. Project Manager/Business Analyst - BioPharma Workforce Accenture - San Francisco, CA October 2004 to August 2005 Managed offshore execution of product development and software quality assurance activities on assigned projects supporting pharmaceutical clients. Managed User Acceptance Testing for applications supporting compliance with 21 CFR Part 11. Worked with clients to elicit requirements and develop specifications. Field Engineering Supervisor Harland Financial Solutions - Pleasanton, CA January 2003 to August 2004 Developed, implemented and managed client - facing solution delivery plans for infrastructure upgrades and financial software solutions across the US. Education AAS in Clinical Trials DURHAM TECHNICAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE May 2020 Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration BARRY UNIVERSITY Bachelor of Science in Biology CARIBBEAN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE Skills Azure (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Scrum Master Present AWS