Information Systems Engineer 6 Information Systems Engineer 6 Waddell, AZ To learn, to grow and to never stop the pursuit of perfection as a practitioner of IT. To provide excellent technical support and documentation to a company that desires deep personal growth and expanding skill.    AREAS OF EXCELLENCE  Windows Systems Administration and PowerShell  Linux: CentOS, RedHat, FreeBSD, and other professional Linux based distributions  VDI VHD: Azure, Hyper-V  Windows Systems Security Administration  Virtual Machine Management: VMWare, Hyper-V, VirtualBox, VMFusion, Vsphere, ESXI  Network and Security Management: AD LDAP  Network Operations Control - Outage and Change Management  Experienced Troubleshooting and Support  Excellent Knowledge Base Documentation and Implementation  Implementation of Cloud Architecture: AWS and Google  HTML, CSS, PHP and Web Design  Linux Problem Identification and Troubleshooting  Mobile Device Management: Airwatch, MobileIron, InTune Work Experience Information Systems Engineer 6 Wells Fargo, Contracted by Tek Systems - Chandler, AZ April 2019 to Present Short Term Contract    Information Systems Engineer 6 – Data At Rest Encryption Team (DARE)  I am currently a contractor working as an employee of Tek Systems and contracted out to Wells Fargo. I was initially brought on to assist the company with identifying Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and create a work plan to implement, stage and deploy various encryption technologies with the best customer service possible. As a part of the team, I took on further duties to organize our Wiki as the team has just moved off an older Wiki system, and I also assisted with creating the onboarding documentation and procedures. Some of my job duties are below:  ?      Work with Business Unit Owners and help identify Personally Identifiable Information.  ?      Work with the Business Unit Owner to find an appropriate solution for encrypting PII data based on the needs of the customer (the Business Unit Owner).;  ?      Research and Identify what technologies are owned by the Business Unit Owner and create a strategic plan to encrypt the systems identified with PII.  ?      Stage and implement various encryption solutions for the Business Unit Owner and assist the Business Unit Owner with encrypting their respective technologies.  ?      Guide the Business Unit Owner through the encryption process from research to implementation.   ?      Stage systems on N-Cipher, and Vormetric.   ?      Assist the Business Unit Owner with identifying structured and unstructured data.  ?      Create Change Management and Change Request plans with a goal of 100% acceptance and resolution.  ?      Implement changes and staging during company specified change schedules, and with strict adherence to the change request implementation plan.   ?      Provide excellent customer service to the Business Unit Owner and verify that all systems have been encrypted as required by the business.   ?      Work closely with Project Managers to ensure effective staging and deployment of encryption technologies on a timely manner.   ?      Assist Project Managers with technical questions, discovery calls, and technical assistance to their Business Unit Owners  ?      Spend about 90% of the work week planning, and 10% in execution of the overall work plan, to ensure upmost accuracy to minimize possible outages and down-time.   ?      Train incoming team members on processes, policies, and technologies.   ?      Update and maintain the team Wiki pages.  Sr. Systems Administrator Arizona Secretary Of State - Phoenix, AZ January 2018 to Present Sr. Systems Administrator and IT Systems/Help Desk Supervisor  I have been extremely fortunate to work at the Arizona Secretary of State's Office. In January of 2018 I was hired to assist the IT division with implementing technologies and to design systems that would better serve the organization and the constituents of the state of Arizona. During my time at the Arizona Secretary of State's Office I achieved many remarkable accomplishments eventually leading to an offer of promotion as the supervisor of the IT Systems Department and the IT Help Desk Department with five employees. This position is new to the agency and I choose to maintain a very active role in Sr. Systems Administration.  ? As a working manager, I am in the process of bringing the Service Delivery, Change Management, Implementation Management and Change Control methodologies to the overall IT environment. I am about 90% complete in onboarding the team to a functional and efficient ITIL based methodology.  ? I setup the companies first service desk management system that best fit the needs of the organization. AutoTask was chosen as the right product for our organization. I implemented, setup and deployed the product. This gave the IT team metrics and insights that were never available. As a believer in process, efficiency and innovation I implemented a system that had the flexibility to adapt and work with ITIL based needs and live reporting.  ? I setup many new systems within the agency such as DFS, SUS Delivery and Patch Management (a hybrid of AutoTask RMM and WSUS01). I designed better methods of rebooting production servers weekly and wrote Powershell scripts to accomplish unique tasks.  ? I played a vital role in the new organizational CAB process  ? I managed, deployed, and administered VMWare ESXI 6.5.  ? I created a tiered service delivery model for the IT help desk. I additionally created the policies, procedures, and organizational policies of which were not existent. I worked with the CIO the Project Manager and team leads to document, certify, and present the agencies first IT Sytems and IT Help Desk policies handbook. AUP existed before my arrival.  ? I was/am the only Systems Administrator who has previous Linux experience as such I solely worked on the MobileIron Sentry Linux machines and resolved a handful of system errors.  ? I managed and deployed MDM profiles and certification systems.  ? I setup an SNMP monitoring utility called Grafana to report real time server statistics and metrics.  ? I set standards for equipment purchases, licensing purchases and warranty purchases. I managed, created, and tracked IT related purchase orders.  ? I assisted with the vision of the organization and wrote the IT Strategy Guide for 2019 as a presentation to the incoming administration-elect for Katie Hobbs.  ? I assisted with the needs of the current administration to Michelle Reagan by being available on-call 24X7, being responsive to emergency requests by elections and other key teams, and by providing expert technical and knowledge support to assist organizational divisions with accomplishing their vision and goals. I spent many hours after the work day assisting the elections director, and support staff with IT issues to better serve our constituents. I worked with high level staff daily.  ? I planned, managed, and supported rapid changing environments due to the nature of the agency. This included temporary technology centers, workstation-based training rooms, and other revolving needs of the organization.  ? I managed servers, windows-based workstations, networking components and all organizational technologies.  ? I assisted in the creation of security procedures and solely implemented security software within the environment. Such as Cylance, Cylance Optics, Forcepoint Web Content Filtering, Forcepoint Data Loss Prevention, Akamai DNS Election Security Suite.  ? I troubleshot all IIS presented applications, and deployed newly released applications on the IIS platform.  ? I setup networking, DNS, and security components for new applications and services.  ? Administered GPO, AD, IDM, Azure Connect, ADFS, Azure, IIS, VMWare Environment, and much more.  ? Administered security controls such as Active Directory, GPO, Application Security, Network Security and more. Systems Administrator Tek Systems - Phoenix, AZ August 2017 to December 2017 As the only Systems Administrator, I was tasked with various duties to assist the company with completing pending projects, and setting up scalable and efficient technologies. I frequently worked along the Systems Engineer on new and existing projects to bring new applications and services to the employees of PHI Air Medical. A few of my responsibilities are highlighted below:  ? Responsible for security management and identity management across all authenticating platforms. Worked extensively in AD at a senior level to grant access, edit accounts and ensure synchronization across multiple systems.  ? Manage VMWare clusters, and other resources on ESXI.  ? Create and manage new servers in VMWare as needed. Also responsible for maintaining existing systems.  ? Manage, troubleshoot and deploy physical servers.  ? Assist help desk staff with higher level unresolved issues. Create documentation and training for help desk staff. Assist help desk staff with implementing new technologies on a desktop level.  ? Managing backup and recovery management  ? Configure and deploy printer replacements for office staff. Maintain and update print server. Troubleshoot print errors and queues.  ? Created a Wikimedia based knowledgebase at request of staff. Implemented Knowledgebase solutions on CENTOS.  ? Work with vendors on implementing new technologies  ? Secure and deploy security camera systems. Manage office fingerprint access points.  ? Work with staff to implement purchased and custom software solutions as needed.    Proficient in the following programs:  ? Windows Server 2012, ESXI, VMware, Active Directory, OU, Image creation and management, MMC, ADUC, HP Thin Client, SCCM, Print Management, Application Deployment Systems Engineer Vincent Benjamin - Phoenix, AZ March 2017 to July 2017 I was contracted to HonorHealth to help discover, resolve, and engineer solutions for application deployment, patch deployment, and overall engineering of the user environment. While at HonorHealth, I created, designed, and implemented the newly created HP Thin Client infrastructure that is currently being released to production at five hospitals, 2000 patient rooms, and other documentation stations on the respective campuses. In addition to the Thin Client environment that I have implemented, I have also been responsible for emergency patch deployment, application packaging, and SCCM based distribution. I have also created expert documentation for the help desk, resolved high level issues on behalf of the Field Services teams, and implemented better solutions for staff as needed. Some of my responsibilities are as follows:  ? Manage the AD environment, and related service accounts. Grant folder permissions, printer permissions, and share permissions. Manage AD groups, and group membership. Overall accountable for the general security of the organization.  ? Troubleshoot and resolve errors with: Active Directory, User Profiles, Permissions and Security, VMWare, Vulnerability Resolution, Airwatch and MDM Management. Also responsible for high level break/fix analysis on behalf of the help desk and Field Services.  ? Package, and deploy applications via SCCM for Windows based systems.  ? Manage, create, and deploy the HP Thin Client environment companywide for five hospital campuses.  ? Assist team with script creation, and clever methods of deploying needed tasks, and applications.  ? Solely responsible for managing and updating the HP Device Manager client on Windows 2012  ? Work with networking teams on firewall rules, DHCP management, and other tasks to guarantee success of an application.  ? Document and record all steps taken in all environments to ensure quality of success for team members during troubleshooting.    Proficient in the following programs:  ? Windows Server 2012, ESXI, VMware, Active Directory, OU, Image creation and management, PXE, MAC OSX, VM Fusion, MMC, ADUC, HP Thin Client, SCCM, Print Management, Application Deployment, Project Analysis. Systems Support Engineer Comcast - Denver, CO March 2015 to January 2017 I was contracted to Comcast to revolutionize and help develop the first help desk and systems support team for the engineering departments. I was last point of escalation for the help desk, and upper level management. I provided extended expert knowledge support of AD, Virtualization, DHCP, Cabling, DMARC, Exchange, GPO and Windows Administration. Some of my responsibilities are as follows:  ? Provide support to a staff of 620 persons  ? Troubleshoot and resolve errors with: Active Directory, Exchange, User Profiles, Permissions and Security, VMWare, Vulnerability Resolution, Airwatch and MDM Management, VPN Management, VPN Troubleshooting, DHCP  ? Create and Distribute: Windows 7 and 10 images (SYSPREP, Clonezilla), Centos and Redhat Images, Custom VPN Profiles, Custom Application Settings/Scripts.  ? Provide Support to Engineering on: SQL, PLSQL, Oracle DB, TNSNAMES Profiles, TOAD, Eclipse, Profile Migrations  ? Secure and Image hardware to Engineering specifications  ? Assist engineers with spinning up virtual machines in VMWare. Additionally assist engineers with allocating resources, connecting data stores, troubleshooting startup failures, and virtual image deployment.  ? Assist with advanced troubleshooting issues on the Windows 7, 10 and Windows Server 2012, 2016 platforms.  ? Assist with Advanced Troubleshooting on MAC OS X, Ipad, and Iphone.  ? Take ownership of all technology related issues, projects, new deployments and resolution for the Inverness office, provide backup support, and on-call support to the Denver Metro area.  ? Assist engineers with advanced troubleshooting of Linux based operating systems to include CENTOS and Redhat.  ? Assist engineers with advanced troubleshooting of LAMP stacks, Apache application deployments, and web application presentation via Linux (LAMP, APACHE) and Windows (IIS).  ? Assist engineers with advanced troubleshooting of Steele Cloud, VMWare, Hyper-V and other virtual systems.    Proficient in the following programs:  ? Windows Server 2012, ESXI, VMware, Active Directory, OU, DMARC Punch downs, Image creation and management, PXE, MAC OSX, VM Fusion, MMC, ADUC  ? Investigate and create an image for use with the new deployment of SCCM Systems Administrator Automotive Warranty Network - Centennial, CO July 2014 to January 2015 AWN chose to hire me to assist with a myriad of technical and systems issues that have gone unresolved and have reached a critical point for expansion and business growth. Highlights of my employment are as follows:  ? Upgraded network components due to consistent outages, and extreme latency. I sourced, implemented, and deployed a Barracuda network that met the requests of ownership to include a solution with a GUI interface. The solution I implemented included a Barracuda Firewall, Barracuda VPN, Barracuda Router, and a Barracuda Web Filter.  ? Setup the first Active Directory Domain, and Active Directory Domain Controller for the company.nWorked with the company programmer to create a server that could manage multiple channels of VPN traffic and manage traffic by host name. Therefore, eliminating the need for employees to connect to 7-15 VPN connections a day. The solution allowed for daily operations to take place without the extreme overhead of VPN management, therefore reducing help desk issues up to 75%, and provided an incredible amount of efficiency never seen in the IT industry. The solution can manage traffic for over 600 VPN connections and is scalable for additional company growth  ? Created the first knowledgebase for IT and programming. Documented all common solutions, and advanced troubleshooting issues.  ? Created a public share for the transfer of documents between clients and employees  ? Created an FTP server as required by ADP  ? Deployed a series of servers for use with ADP and internal applications. Sourced and built needed hardware. Implemented Uninterruptible Power Supplies and data redundancy with hardware RAID and SAN solutions.  ? Worked with external clients to create VLANs and VPN connections between networks  ? Implemented cloud VOIP solutions and removed office dependency from failing C-Beyond equipment.    Proficient in the following programs:  ? Track- It, ADP, Reynolds&Reynolds, Automate, SonicPoint, Barracuda, Log Me In, Saga, ACES, Windows Server 2012. Tier II Support Technician Navakai - Colorado Springs, CO June 2013 to July 2014 As the Tier II technician I was responsible for all server, and desktop support needs, as well as mobile device setup and troubleshooting. Complex networking issues were escalated to Tier III which was a network only troubleshooting desk. At my time at Navakai I assisted customers with everything from AD troubleshooting, to complex server and network related issues and outages. Some of the duties I worked on daily are:  ? Troubleshooting all Desktop and Server issues for over 60 different customer networks  ? Act as the main point of contact for half of all customers of Navakai  ? Document and update all procedures for each assigned client  ? Remain as the point of contact for assigned clients for all technical support issues  ? Assist users with all possible scopes of support on all systems on site  ? Update servers, workstations, and terminal servers within scheduled times  ? Schedule maintenance windows, and complete software updates  ? Resolve emergency outages, and troubleshoot all server related failures within a specified SLA  ? Resolve DHCP, DNS, AD, and a myriad of other Windows Server applications  ? Approve user access for AD, and other EMR applications  ? Support all programs and functions on covered devices  ? Assist end users with all desktop support issues  ? Follow all SLA guidelines to resolve all server and desktop support issues via ticketing systems.  ? Escalate to T3 if unable to resolve complex issues within a specified time frame.    Proficient in the following programs:  ? Connectwise, Labtech, AD, DHCP, Windows Server 2008 and 2012, Scripting, User creation, Group Policy, Log me In, Terminal Server Administration, Thin Client Support, Server Maintenance, Server Troubleshooting, All tiers of support for desktop and server issues, Cherwell, Athena, Synapse, Citrix, Viztek, Centricity, Hospital EMR Applications, Medstreaming, Sonosoft, Dragon Medical Edition, Photoshop, Illustrator, Querx, Trax, Cisco VPN, Quickbooks, and many more. NOC/Service Desk Analyst Robert Half Technology - DB Schenker - Denver, CO July 2012 to May 2013 I was contracted short term to provide relief to DB Schenker and it's tenuous help desk operations. My primary duties were to monitor all systems as a NOC technician and troubleshoot server and network outages. I performed all troubleshooting on the server and network environments directly, and proceeded to work within outage and change management guidelines to ensure maximum uptime availability. Aside from my main duties as a NOC Technician I provided backup support to the help desk at a Tier III level. A few of my daily responsibilities are as follows:  ? Monitoring all systems, servers, databases, and network components for temporary or permanent failure.  ? Initiate Outage Management and Change Management teams and policies as needed to ensure maximum uptime.  ? Contact appropriate administrators for network outages and down times if the issue was beyond my access level.  ? Determine company impact of all system outages within minutes, and quickly identify root cause.  ? Document all network and systems issues via a ticketing system  ? When possible, reset servers, reboot systems, and perform any possible troubleshooting to minimize or eliminate unplanned downtime  ? Assist network users with application and desktop support  ? Assist users with network setup, data migration and other needed support tasks  ? Verify all documented issues are resolved within provided time frames  ? Work assigned tickets to resolve all urgent and non-urgent issues promptly  ? Follow all SLA guidelines to resolve all network and desktop support issues via email, ticketing, and verbal requests.    Proficient in the following programs:  ? Procars, Argus, Windows 7, XP, Active Directory, HP OpenView, Citrix, Baxtrax, Windows Server 2008, and many other proprietary and standard applications in day to day use. Tier III Help Desk Technician Time Warner Cable - Colorado Springs, CO July 2010 to July 2012 I was privileged to enjoy working as part of the Tier III Business Class Support team for TWC. My primary contributions were assisting team members with troubleshooting customer outages and downtimes escalated from other support departments. I routinely troubleshot IP conflicts, network issues that would halt customer ISP connectivity and phone PRI issues. I was an expert on all subject matter relating to network transit, configuration, and troubleshooting with the end goal of guaranteeing customer success. Some daily activities include:  ? Supporting Business Class customer with technical related issues pertaining to High Speed Internet Modems, Phone Modems, and Cable Television devices  ? Provision static modems with static ip cuts (CIDR).  ? Cut static IP addresses for static modems  ? Assist customers with DNS creation, implementation and resolution.  ? Assist customers with Fibre, Cable and PRI troubleshooting.  ? Assist customers with billing questions  ? Assist customers with questions about product features  ? Assist field technicians with modem related issues, including but not limited to assistance with reading signal levels, provisioning IP addresses to modems, and running command functions for the tech.  ? Escalate requests to disconnect services, change services, and advanced billing issues  ? Schedule and escalate requests or issues requiring assistance from a field technician  ? Setup email addresses for new and existing customers  ? Educate customers on email management  ? Educate customers on basic and advanced features of phone related systems  ? Complete extra tasks and duties as assigned by management or team situations    Proficient in the following programs:  ? DOCSIS, Unified, IPMT, Avaya IP Phone Systems, ACSR/CSG, Command Functions, OMSE, Salesforce, Citrix, DPET, OLA, Microsoft Office and Adobe Acrobat. IT National Help Desk Analyst Robert Half International - Catholic Health Initiatives - Denver, CO December 2009 to July 2010 I was contracted to assist a help desk that was understaffed and struggling to keep up with hospital demand until an offshore team was capable of taking over the duties of CHI staff:  ? Supporting Physicians, Nurses, and all professionally accredited medical staff with basic issues such as password resets to more complex issues such as resetting and configuring Telnet servers.  ? Work quickly to resolve issues within a set success rate.  ? Train and assist physicians with computer related questions and procedures  ? Assist staff with special requests such as converting video formats and detailing other documents.  ? Perform account unlocks, password resets, and configurations of proprietary and common medical programs  ? Assist in the execution of applications  ? Remove viruses  ? Troubleshoot and resolve printers, print spoolers, and servers  ? Install network printers, scanners and other devices.  ? Troubleshoot complex computing issues such as device failures, memory problems and other disassociated functions.  ? Document and escalate tickets as quickly as possible.  ? Refer specific issues to assigned resolver groups    Proficient in the following programs:  ? Microsoft Office 2007, Active Directory, Active Roles Server, Custom Active Directory pages, Remedy,Remedy Knowledgebase, Apropos, Meditech/Magic Workstation, Star, Clairvia, Intranet Pages, Chartmaxx, Powerchart, Acis/Cerner, Citrix, Java, KMX Knowledge Management, Elearn, Cisco VPN, Citrix Xenapps, LanDesk, Bomgar, Lawson/Hewitt Applications, JTRACK, Clarity, IRIS, Navicare, Healthwind, PACS, Pathways Health Systems, Mozilla Firefox, Internet Explorer, Safari, Regassist/Application Xtender, Elysium, Kronos, Dameware, and many of the other hundreds of applications in use by the healthcare industry.. Tier I Help Desk Analyst PGI - Colorado Springs, CO June 2008 to November 2009 PGI is an international phone conferencing company that allows conference calls with large amounts of attendants to participate in a single forum. I spent much of my time troubleshooting conferencing systems, in call conferencing issues on the conference switches, and tracking and reporting cases of fraudulent use.  ? Handling Customer issues, questions, and complaints  ? Work quickly to resolve issues within 93% success rate, and less than 7% escalations  ? Train and assist the customer with hosting audio and web meeting  ? Assist client with uploading presentations and scheduling meetings  ? Resolve 95% of issues within the first eight minutes of the call  ? Escalate and document tickets in a timely manner  ? Investigate fraudulent claims by client. Research fraud tickets and determine if the activity is confirmed fraud or confirmed valid usage. Research and investigate unusual activity on client invoices and confirm fraud or valid usage. Escalate to Billing for appropriate action.  ? Assist clients with in call audio issues and abnormalities. Most common troubleshooting in conferences include: Echo, Static, feedback, Lines on Hold, Disconnection requests, Split Conference Resolution, Random Disconnects, Dead Air and many other audio issues.  ? Support Event Level Operators with web products.    Proficient in the following programs:  ? Microsoft Office 2007, Tesla, Prime (Netsuite), Aspect Applications, ReadyConference Manager 2+, Microsoft Communicator, Internet Explorer, Safari, Mozilla Firefox, SharePoint, Pages, Protocols, Instant Service, CTI Chat, CTI Email. Tier I and II Help Desk Technician Hewlett Packard - Colorado Springs, CO September 2007 to February 2008 My first introduction to IT was with Hewlett Packard where I was informed that my lack of a degree would prevent me from obtaining a job in IT. With great enthusiasm, I requested management to give me a test to prove my capabilities and troubleshooting theory. I was invited to participate in a lengthy testing session and placed in the top 3% of techs nationally. I was offered my first IT job at HP which subsequently ended when operations were moved to NM. I was invited to relocate, but chose to stay within Colorado.  ? Provided basic and advance network and desktop support to Nestle associates.  ? Duties Included:  ? Managing user control and access to the network  ? Manage passwords and user information on the network  ? Set profiles to "Roaming" or "Local" troubleshoot Roaming Network Issues  ? Troubleshoot VPN Connection Issues  ? Troubleshoot Citrix access, and processing issues  ? Troubleshoot Wireless Networks  ? Assist users with mapping network drives and accessing necessary network content  ? Assist users with downloading and installing approved applications and programs  ? Assist users with network and computer updates  ? Assist users with virus detection and removal  ? Assist Desktop Support personnel with troubleshooting of software issues  ? Report and Follow up with Tactical Emergency Management. Assist and report major outages, such as plant operations, and Network failures.  ? Report revenue impacting situations and crisis management.  ? Perform Emergency follow up and dispatch in regards to Natural Disasters  ? Escalate and create tickets in a timely manner. Follow up with associates in regard to tickets. Transportation Security Officer Transportation Security Administration - Colorado Springs, CO March 2007 to September 2007 Primary job assignment was to provide the highest level of security to "Sterile" areas.  ? Duties include:  ? The search of personnel and belongings  ? Explosives identification and detection  ? Identification and detection of sharp objects, and weapons  ? Locating and identifying hidden weapons and concealed objects  ? Identifying and reporting illegal narcotics  ? Ongoing training in security procedures  ? Deciphering intelligence reporting and applying information to security needs  ? Operating X-ray and other search machinery  ? Operating explosives detection and narcotics machinery  ? Operating Metal detection devices, such as a hand wand, and walk through scanner  ? Performing personal search of belongings and oneself  ? Safe handling of dangerous objects  ? Documenting and securing security breaches Imeet, Host Controls Spectel*, Host Controls Dynamix*, Host Controls Avaya*, Flex View Cisco Webex 2007 to 2007 2007*, Adobe Connect 2005*, Adobe Acrobat Conferencing*, ReadyConference+Web*, Netspoke*, Soundpath Eview*, Imeet, Host Controls Spectel*, Host Controls Dynamix*, Host Controls Avaya*, Flex View, Ennunciate, ReadyConference (and SRC), GlobalMeet (and SRC), Koala. Education HS Diploma Lewis Palmer High School - Monument, CO May 2005 Boys State 2004 Skills antenna (Less than 1 year), Civil/structural (Less than 1 year), Enterprise application (Less than 1 year), microelectronics (Less than 1 year), networking (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS    ? 8+ Years of technical related tiered support  ? 4+ Years of phone and telephony support  ? 5+ Years of Enterprise Application and Networking Support  ? 12+ Years teaching on microelectronics and antenna structural design