(Contractor) Sr. IT Project Manager (Contractor) Sr. <span class="hl">IT</span> Project Manager (Contractor) Sr. IT Project Manager - Bank Of America Texas, VT • PMP & ITIL Certified with Telecommunications, Project Management, and Data Center experience  • Managed Transition/Transformation, Migrations, and Consolidations of Data Center  • Infrastructure & software upgrades & refreshes  • Databases (MSSQL, MYSQL, Oracle) & applications migrations  • Managed software implementations through the SDLC phases (Analysis, Design, Dev/Build, Test, and PROD)  • Tested applications via HP Application Lifecycle Management (HP ALM)  • Experienced in leading internal & external clients, 3rd party vendors, SME's & Technical Resources  • Budget Forecasting, Tracking, & Burn Rates via Clarity  • Perform Gap, Costs, & Risk Analysis to determine CMO, IMO, & FMO  • Perform Internal Controls (Audits, Change, and Risk Management)  • Knowledge of Hybrid Cloud Computing  • Managed the implementation of various IT system  • Managed budgets, contracts, procurements, RFP's and 3rd party vendor services. Used KPI's for business objectives Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience (Contractor) Sr. IT Project Manager Bank Of America April 2019 to Present • Data Center Exits via Virtual to Virtual (V2V) migrations for virtual machines (VMs)  • Java Runtime Environment JRE 1.7 to 1.8 software upgrade (Contractor) Sr. Project Manager Mastech April 2018 to July 2018 • Migrating Big Date from Data Lakes/Warehouses from the legacy Hadoop platform to new platform  • Facilitated scrum ceremonies (grooming, sprint planning, retrospectives, daily stand-ups)  • Instructed and modeled core Agile principles of collaboration, prioritization, team accountability and visibility; ensured consistent application of scrum methodologies across the enterprise  • Empowered teams to self-organize and grow cross-functionality  • Manage the lifecycle of code development, from ideation to sprints to deployment  • Coordinate and manage code releases and shared APIs with other IT groups  • Communicate with other management, engineers, product managers and support specialists on product issues  • Track and communicate team velocity and sprint/release progress  • Ensuring applications/data were compliant from a Security, Legal, Risk, and Privacy perspective (Contractor) - Program Manager Conduent/Xerox February 2017 to September 2017 Project: TNG Consolidating/Migrating of 10 Core MPLS Networks / 30 Data Centers into two via the Transition & Transformation process. Upgrade the infrastructure, convert TDM to SIP trunks, while increasing virtualization. - Migrate all telephony services/systems into two Data Centers (Avaya, I3, IVRs, PBXs and client circuits), while ensuring/maintaining PCI compliance for the customers. Worked on Merger & Acquisition between businesses Sabre (Contractor) Sr. IT Project Manager Netbackup Veritas March 2016 to October 2016 Projects: Data Center Infra Upgrade. Managed the Transformation & Transition Hopper Storage Projects: (BUR, Tier 1,3, & 4, and Storage Computing Reporting) - Migrated applications, Databases, and file systems from EOL/EOS storage from EMC Celerra NS80 to Nearline Isilon NAS disk arrays to enhance storage. Upgraded 5000 Datacenter servers from IBM Tivoli (TSM) to Netbackup Veritas. Implemented the Storage Reporting Management (SRM) and Kazeon Reporting Tool for enhanced monitoring. Created Data Maps for migrations. (Contractor) Sr. IT Project Manager Charter Communications July 2015 to December 2015 Projects: Managed Software Development Projects (SDLC), Database and Application migrations as well as performing Virtualization upgrades. Upgrades from physical servers to Virtual Machines (VM's), from local disk to Shared Area Network (SAN) storage, while ensuring stability/functionality with our virtualization platform Vmware. Managed IPv4 to IPv6 upgrade. Work with the M & A team during on the transition. (Contractor) Sr. IT Project Manager Bank Of America February 2013 to July 2015 Projects: Migrated Data Center Applications off EOL/EOS End of Life and End of Supported F5 Load Balancers. By using the waterfall and agile methods to implement the migrations providing the bank cost savings while ensuring a stable network environment. Requested RFP's for best pricing/services.  • Gather requirements, manage deliverables, expenditures, and resources  • Identify application owners, target devices, perform gap and configuration analysis, then coordinated and implement the changes  • Work with resources/vendors on Firewall, DNS, NAT, IP addressing, and Network changes  • Use tools to assist in implementations (Ariba, Clarity, Discovery, BMC Remedy, Service Now, ITSM Helsinki, Application Inventory, Share Point, Sharepoint and the Wintel Server Utility  Upgrade TTY equipment to the Avaya One X Solution and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) project that ensured the Bank's processes and call center technologies are compliance with the Office of the Comptroller.  • Upgraded TTY equipment for the hearing impaired to be compliant with the American Disability Act  • The CFPB project was a regulatory project to ensure loans were handled properly via personnel and from the call center applications  • Verified the call center applications were compliant for the (CFPB) project: (Aspect ACD, Unified IP, Nuance IVR, Dialers, and Nice Recording Devices.)  • Tracked labor, capital estimates, and burn rates via the financial tool clarity for forecasting monthly and yearly predictions and tracked the progress via Microsoft Project. TX Contractor) - Sr. IT Project Manager City Of Arlington - Arlington, TX October 2012 to December 2012 Projects: Software upgrades for the city wide enterprise ShoreTel VOIP PBX System and Enterprise Contact Call Center (ECC) and the migration of Microsoft Exchange 2007 to Microsoft Exchange 2010. Requested RFP's  • Developed Project Charters, set goals, milestones and gathered business requirements  • Developed policies, procedures, and processes for the planning and delivery of IT Services  • Managed contractor/vendor tasks based on the scope of work and the project management plan  • Provided written and oral technical advice, guidance, and recommendations to senior management, technical specialists, and project teams on critical information and issues Project Manager Carousel Industries January 2012 to July 2012 Projects: Implement the IT infrastructure backbone and the Avaya hardware and software for the federal government. Managed and monitored all RFP's  • Focused on the successful delivery of customer's needs via planning, organizing, leading, and controlling of projects based on the scope of work, schedule and the business requirements/needs  • Managed the deployment projects of the Avaya systems  • Liaison for the implementation teams and stakeholders for all project resolutions and concerns  • Interfaced with account executives, design engineers, and sales team assuring objectives were met  • Worked with SME's on software rollouts to educate the end users on the new product  • Maintained business relationships via excellent customer service  • Worked with 3rd party vendors for wireless mobile device management (MDM) & telecom expense management solutions (TEM) (Contractor) - Top Security Clearance Telecomm Engineer / Project Manager U.S. Department of Defense December 2010 to August 2011 Project: Project Manager for the software for the Nortel CS1000E System.  • Performed vulnerability assessments ensuring no risk or security threats could penetrate the military's network or be accessed from unauthorized users  • Provided information assurance (IA) reports, findings, and provided resolutions  • Provided network security, product assessments, and countermeasures to protect the infrastructure for Avaya and Nortel products Sr. Telecommunications Specialist / Project Manager / Help Desk Analyst U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) March 2000 to November 2009 With Security Clearance (Contractor) 03/2000 - 11/2009  Sr. Telecommunications Specialist / Project Manager / Help Desk Analyst  Projects: Project Manager for the IT infrastructure Transition & Transformation backbone Projects for all voice and data communication systems for Government offices (Immigration Customs Enforcement (ICE), U.S. Citizenship Immigration Services, Detention Centers, and Special Investigative Offices.  • Project Manager for the implementation of the command center for the 2002 Winter Olympics.  • Wrote SOW's, maintained SLA's and worked with contracting officers/vendors on procurements, RFP's, RFI's and RFC's for acquisitions. Developed processes, standards, and procedures on an enterprise level.  • Managed various telecommunication and infrastructure projects, as well as managed Telecomm Expense Management (TEM)  • Installed, managed, and maintained MACS and operations of various PBXs (Avaya/Nortel Meridian).  • Resolved help desk tickets as the level 1 support. Education Master of Science (MS) in General Management Walden University Bachelor of Science in (BS) Business Management LeTourneau University Associate of Applied Science (AAS) in Electronics Texas State Technical Institute Skills Scheduling, Outlook, Estimating, budget, Maintenance Certifications/Licenses PMP Project Management Professional, ITIL