SECURITY ENGINEER <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> ENGINEER SECURITY ENGINEER - Curo Health Services Kannapolis, NC Work Experience SECURITY ENGINEER Curo Health Services - Mooresville, NC March 2019 to Present I support the overall operation of the company's information technology infrastructure including servers, storage, end user computing platforms and applications, and network and telecommunications. With a focus on Security, I review SOX, HIPAA and IT controls to ensure that each policy is being followed. Additional job requirements include: Implementation and monitoring security measures for the protection of computer systems, networks, and applications; Auditing and working with Active Directory, File systems, VMware, firewalls, IDS, and antivirus; Documentation of processes and systems; Logging and monitoring system activities; Implementation, Maintenance, and Monitoring of Security Implementation; Interacting with other departments and coordinating risk with IT Support and Helpdesk Activities.    Skills: DHCP, DNS, GPO, AD, Cohestiy backup and Pure Storage, Digital Defense, Nagios, Fortinet product - Fortimanager, Fortianalyzer, FortiGate, VMware ESXi 6.0, vCenter, Horizon, Office 2013 and 2016, Server 2016 and 2012, Window 10, Carbon Black, MoveIT, Okta SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR Pyrix, Inc - Waxhaw, NC March 2017 to April 2019 Provided IT support at the Ford Performance Technical Data Center and supported Ford NASCAR teams at the track. Ensured day-to-day operation and maintenance at the Technical Center, and maintained continuous communication with the trackside support administrator. Provided support for Office 365, Skype for business and Azure issues. Worked with Hyper V, DHCP, DNS, AD, and GPO. Worked with HP Aruba switches and configured VLAN's. Worked with windows server 2012 R2, 2016 and 2019. I Clustered servers 2012 R2 and connected them to a SAN for the Datacenter and mobile data center. In addition, I worked with NAS storage.    Skills: Office 365, Azure, Dropbox, DHCP, DNS, GPO, AD, SQL, Mitel, Synology, HPE MSA 2040 SAN, Acronis, Dell PowerEdge, HP ProLiant, Solar Winds IP Monitor, Ubiquiti Unifi AP's, Managing separate T1 providers in a HA environment, HP Aruba switches, Carbon Black, Sonic Firewalls, Hyper-V, Office 365, Server 2012, 2016 and 2019, Window 10,  • Setup hyper-v Clustered servers, HA SonicWall firewall, Setup and configured Acronis, backup software, setup Solar winds IP monitor for systems monitoring. Decreased the turnaround time for datacenter tickets and increase employee and contractor and Ford satisfaction. I empathetically listened to complaints, frustrations from co-workers and contractor. Senior System Support Engineer Alliance Residential Company - Phoenix, AZ July 2016 to March 2017 Responsible for support calls/e-mails from Alliance communities and corporate staff in an enterprise environment. Ensured day-to-day operation and maintenance of internet hardware and software. Performed root-cause analysis on recurring problems related to the local area network (LAN) and wide area network (WAN). Worked in Windows systems administration for a variety of business applications groups. Proficient in the administration of Active Directory, Office 365 and Exchange 2010. Helped to evaluate and make recommendations for software needs. Responsible for virtual machine infrastructure and administration.  Monitored and maintained corporate backup and recovery systems. Monitored and set up remote connections to the satellite office. Enforced policies and procedures regarding the use of company materials. Configured and installed software on the workstation. Maintained security on all workstations. Communicated with vendors to correct issues and upgrades. Educated users about software upgrades, capabilities, and functionality. Supported remote users and in addition, visited locations.  I telecommuted 3 days a week and was a test pilot for remote users for the remaining 2 days. Supported 8+ branch offices and hundreds of smaller offices across the country.    Skills: Office 365, DHCP, DNS, Crystal Reports, GPO, AD, TeamViewer, Symantec Backup Exec, Dell PowerEdge, Ubiquiti Unifi AP's, HP Switches, Sophos, Hyper-V, Office 365, Server 2012, Window 10,  • Helped to turn around the reputation of the corporate office and its perception of not caring about customers. Helped to make employees at each office feel that they were cared for and every request mattered. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Rohrer's, Inc - Lititz, PA July 2012 to June 2016 Managed and Responded in a timely manner to all issues. Corrected Network, Server, User workstation, communications equipment, and peripherals issues. Maintained a log of network issues in order to determine consistent problem areas. Negotiated contracts and pricing on IT purchases. Provided project planning and oversight. Setup configured and installed software on workstations and peripherals. Maintained security on all workstation and disaster recovery plan. Maintained hardware inventory with a programmed replacement system. Communicated with software vendors to correct software issues and upgrades. Advised and recommended improvements to hardware, software, and communications equipment. Educated users about software upgrades, capabilities, and functionality. Continued education and technical growth to upgrade skills and remain current with technology, practices and industry standards. Implemented Office 365 and saved the company money from the previous provider. Setup\upgraded VMware and managing virtual machines. Managed Smartphones and worked with Verizon on any issues. Managed GPS software.    Skills: Windows 7, Hyper-V, Sonicwall Firewall, Meraki Firewall, Ubiquiti Rugged Switches and AP's, HP switches, Ligo Wave PTP, SB Cisco Switches, Datto backup, Allworx Phone system, with Command Alkon Batching software, GivenHansco Keystone dispatch software, Command Apex/JWX, MitchellSE, Sage 100 Managing Symantec .cloud endpoint solution, Axis IP Camera, Vivteck IP Camera, Biometrics Hand Punch - HandPunch 3000, DHCP, DNS, Crystal Reports, GPO, AD, iPhone and Android management, VNC, Remote desktop Server, Synology, QNAP server, IBM Enterprise/Lenovo ThinkServer, Managing T1, Meraki switches, Adtran Switches, VMware ESXi 6.0, Office 365, Sever 2008, 2012, Digital Defense and Dell SecureWorks.  • Accomplishment statement: Implemented Office 365 and saved the company money from the previous email provider, GPS tracking, reconfigured network, Reduce cost and helped to make departments more efficient. Helped and Trained end users. Spent the time needed to meet each person technology needs. Listened to complaints and frustration from others. BUSINESS PARTNER/OWNER 360 Computer Solutions - Lititz, PA May 2008 to December 2012 Co-owned a successful MSP. I was involved in marketing, sales, accounting, business planning and negotiations of contract and testing new products. IT MANAGER/ SECURITY ADMINISTRATOR LANCO Federal Credit Union - Lancaster, PA October 2008 to July 2012 Developed Operation policies and procedures to meet audits. Helped to create short-term and long-term plans. Prepared and planned to meet schedules and cost estimates. Researched new products and tested to see if they meant the need. Planned and install of new software and or upgrades of software and hardware. Trained staff and assigned none IT work, when other departments were overwhelmed. Set priorities and evaluated the performance of others. Also, supervised maintenance and Credit Union security. Supported and managed 5 location. Supervised and oversaw robbery training and building security. Negotiated contracts and pricing. Helped to save money each year. Managed IT interns and IT contracts. Managed Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, and Group policies. Maintained PoE switches, routers and Cisco phone system. Performed troubleshooting/upgraded printers, laptops, desktops, servers, network, security cameras, and led IT projects. Inventoried and tracked all devices. Meet and comply with IT audit twice a year.    Skills: VMware ESXi 6.0, Server 2008 R, Windows 7, Cisco ASA 5505 firewall, Symantec anti-virus, Adtran Switches, Cisco small business phone system, Axis IP Camera, DHCP, DNS, HP ProLiant, Digital Defense, Managing MPLS, Adtran switches, SB Cisco Switches, Hyper-V, Office, Server 2003 and 2008, Window 7  • Implemented disaster testing and refreshed of all assets program. Introduce cost saving by accounting all purchase over 5 years and renegotiating contracts. Implemented Disaster Recovery planning with hot and cold sites. Managed maintenance of building and security at all locations. Spent the time needed to meet each person technology needs and listened to complaints. IT Contractor Zausner Foods - New Holland, PA October 2007 to October 2008 Provided support for desktops, laptops, printers, and blackberries. Installed software and resolved issues. Helped to Configured and setup Service Desk Plus for future deployment. Updated documentation and made sure the process was correct. IT SUPPORT SPECIALIST Warwick School District - Lititz, PA August 2005 to October 2007 Lead desktop, network, application, VoIP and MAC servers support for a School District in Mac OSX environment. Managed 5 buildings either onsite and remotely. Helped to implement new technology and refreshed of all assets. Increased employee satisfaction with a professional hands-on approach and genuinely cared about each person and issue. Lancaster General Hospital - Lancaster, PA November 2006 to July 2007 Provided support for the desktop, printer, PC tablets, and application support. Responded to calls and trouble tickets in Ultimus. Resolved technical issues in a high-stress medical environment. Worked weekends and supported multiple sites. SYSTEMS ANALYST D&E Communications - Ephrata, PA April 2001 to October 2005 Lead tier 2 support. Provided support for home and business ISP customers. Troubleshooting variety of system configurations and computers. Investigated, tested new products, tested upgrades prior to the system prior to implementing. Coordinated system maintenance, system data maintenance, backup, and recovery of data to reduce downtime of services. Education ASSOCIATE IN APPLIED SCIENCE in APPLIED SCIENCE Harrisburg Area Community College - Lancaster, PA 2001 to 2010