Job Seeker San Francisco, CA To obtain a challenging position in a complex and developing computing environment Work Experience Thermo Fisher\NTT Data - South San Francisco, CA March 2019 to August 2019 890 Dubuque Ave.  South San Francisco, CA 94080    Responsible for on-site and/or remote installation, implementation, maintenance, troubleshooting and/or repair of desktops, notebooks, printers, and associated peripherals.    Serves as company liaison with customer on administrative and technical matters  Provide technical support and incident management service desk functions  Reviews, troubleshoots and approves operational quality desktops, notebooks, printers, and associated peripherals  Installs, maintains and optimizes desktop /notebook configurations at customer sites  Diagnoses and resolves product performance problems  Performs maintenance and repair services  Instructs customers in the operation and maintenance of the system  Evaluate and execute software and hardware upgrades for complex transfusion manufacturing laboratory Provide a high level of technical support and customer service Microsoft Corp.\Insight Global - San Francisco, CA August 2018 to March 2019 680 Folsom St. Ste.145  San Francisco, CA 94107 and Redmond WA  Desktop Enterprise Support\Server Side Support  Provide a high level of technical support and customer service for the Sales\Development departments the SF based AR,VR and MR Reactor Studio. Supported the Holographic Capture Studio for the SF based Render department. Maintained and supported the server farm. Diagnosed and repaired the Dell 7910 servers by successfully negotiated with Dell Support. Built and maintained through regular imaging of 30 pc's for demonstration\development for multiple conferences. Maintained fleet of head mounted displays from Dell, HP, Asus and MS Hololens. Interacted and technically supported multiple presenters with computing and AV requests. Desktop Enterprise Support\Hardware\Software Upgrade Expert Franklin Templeton\GRANITE SOLUTIONS - San Mateo, CA May 2018 to August 2018 Provide a high level of technical support and customer service, to the FTC end user, in person.  Assist with upgrading, repair and migration of desktop equipment and associated peripheral devices.  Installation and De-installation of software and associated peripheral device drivers.  Assisting with the distribution/delivery of computer hardware to various users and facilities within the corporate campus. This will involve picking up/delivering equipment to end-user, setting up systems (connecting monitors and accessories, etc. - software installation/configurations), formatting/removing hard drives, performing basic diagnostic activities (using simple software tools), and verifying asset information.  Follow pre-established processes and procedures in the receipt, inventory and distribution and disposal of technical hardware and/or software  Accurately enter data into a variety of computer systems for the purpose of tracking computer equipment and/or software.  Learn and follow established departmental procedures (SOP's, Protocols, Safety Procedures)  Successfully perform data migrations of user's data.  Post-move verification and reinstallation activities of all identified equipment and support of user's issues as needed.  Ensure customers (CSS Management Team) are always communicated to regarding completion dates of their submitted requests.  Provide timely resolutions to support requests to ensure personal goals are met.  Assist in IT related projects and maintain ownership of projects until completion. Communicate status written and verbally to manager and team members.  Actively participate in team meetings.  Be an active advocate for the customer within IT and with outside technical groups.  Unpackage and configure computers in a depot environment.  Ensure escalation paths are followed when appropriate.  Provide backup assistance to peers when needed Desktop Enterprise Support\Hardware\Software Upgrade Expert Moody's Analytics\Randstaad - San Francisco, CA September 2017 to April 2018 In collaboration with the in-house IT staff, I interviewed end users in regards to their hardware (current model Dell Latitudes) and desktop (current model Dell OptiPlex) needs. Careful deployment of centralized operating system images (Windows 10) with slight adjustments for individual's needs. Successful troubleshooting of various issues that arose such as encryption (McAfee) wireless, network, OS and Bios settings. Software deployment according to specific rules for licensing, individual duties and a culturally diverse community. Resolved all software issues, regarding functionality of MS Office 2016\O365, SQL, Oracle and other database management issues. Resolved complex functionality with software specifically for the large development community as well as worked carefully with the large number of executives housed on the west coast. Resolved complex remote user problems by troubleshooting VPN issues and server share connectivity. Technical Lead\Contractor Lending Club\PC Connection - San Francisco, CA May 2017 to July 2017 Resolved numerous technical issues related to a large-scale Windows 7 to Windows 10 migration of 500 laptops\desktops.  I was primary point of escalation for this time critical hardware\software deployment. Successfully handled computer image, user-data\profile, antivirus, WSUS, SCCM, DUO authentication and Cisco Any-Connect VPN migration challenges. Help Desk Supervisor\Systems Administrator Evolve Discovery - San Francisco, CA April 2013 to November 2016 Managed 5 help desk technicians in diverse geographical locations. Provided 2nd level support for 400 desktops in 6 offices in the Philippines and 5 cities in the US running a mixed Windows 10 and 7 OS (32\64 bit). Tools included VNC\RDP\Service Desk Pro, Go To My PC, and Team Viewer. I rolled out Symantec Endpoint Protection up to Small Business Cloud. Desktops included, MS Office 2007\2010 and completed a Migration to O365, Lotus Notes\Law Pre-Discovery\Relativity and various document\email investigative tools. Implemented WSUS and maintained the security settings rules through GPO's. Maintained a variety of Dell servers, R610\R710\1950 running MS Server 2008 R2\2012 running an Active Directory environment with Exchange 2010. Implemented a variety of security settings over a complex directory system to achieve a rigorous level of access as required by the legal clients. Supervised a variety of complex server side distribution lists and email security issues. Extensive IPhone and IPad support for all connectivity and communication issues. System Administrator-Contractor Parkside Lending - San Francisco, CA July 2010 to April 2013 Provided server and desktop support for 175 users in a complex, high-demand environment with Windows XP, Windows 7, MS Server 2003 and SBS Server 2008 R2. Installed and supported Exchange 2003 and 2010 with complex calendaring issues. Hardware included VMWARE ESX 4.01 on Dell R710 servers with Equal Logic disk arrays and DFS. Installed and supported Veeam backups and Kaspersky antivirus. Dell desktops included Optiplex 745's, 780's, 790's and various Dell laptops. Support tools included Spiceworks, Dameware, RDP, Team Viewer, Cisco VPN, WSUS, and Terminal Server. Supported Apple IPads and IPhones and various Android devices. System Administrator for IT Storage Team Veteran's Administration - San Francisco, CA November 2009 to June 2010 4150 Clement St., SF CA  System Administrator for IT Storage Team_ Contractor  Built and racked Windows 2003 Dell servers to the CIND spec, installed complex software packages for the use of the researchers at this facility to allow them to analyze research data. Racked and setup fiber SAN large storage units. Investigated and resolved complex OS issues related to cross permissions between Unix and Microsoft. Successful troubleshooting Dell server hardware and software issues. Resolved 2nd and 3rd level desktop issues for executives at this facility. 3rd level executive support on high end SSD Dell laptops for traveling staff. Designed custom software implementations for XP to meet demanding performance specifications. Administered complex Checkpoint encryption enterprise implementations. Contractor California Pacific Medical Center - San Francisco, CA April 2008 to July 2009 Resolved complex desktop\server support issues related issues stemming from all aspects a complex AD environment. Made extensive use of the available tools (SMMC, GPO, PCAnywhere, PStools, Telnet, SMMC remote, AD Manager, Exchange Manager, HP JetDirect Manager, SQL Enterprise, to achieve a high level of successful solutions for the 5 campuses. I provided a extensive assistance to the highest level of management. Created extensive documentation in Remedy and SharePoint. Installed XP, W2K MS Office 2003\2007 and Vista on a large number of pc's using Windows based tools (WIM) and Ghost. Successfully resolved major hardware and software compatibility issues with migrated OS platforms. Wrote script to fix large virus outbreak (Conficker) on thousands of workstations. My highly developed customer service skills have allowed me to succeed in difficult situations.    Analyzed medical software packages for HIPAA (securing patient's confidential records) compliance and IT security (firewalls, VPN and ACLS). This involved working closely with the vendor's technical support, a myriad of different medical departments, physicians's and medical administrators. Mastered complex SQL, Installshield, Wyse configurations. Engineered solutions for Vista, XP and W2K by breaking down the components of the various vendor provided applications and creating registry keys, configuration templates and AD security privileges in a client\server environment. I used SMS , GPO's, batch files and Sysinternals to distribute this software. I also was third level desktop support for for the 4 CPMC campus's in SF. Issues escalated, that were thought insoluble, I resolved for the support team. I mastered complex communications, throughtout the enterprise, and was singled for for my handing of customer service issues.    Resolved trouble tickets throughout the Medical Center computing environment including complex Windows 2000\2003 server\XP workstation issues with proprietary and off the shelf software. Analyzed and resolved networking Cisco VPN and wireless issues. I replaced a large number of older computing systems (laptops and desktops) by carefully analyzing\backing up the data then imaging via Ghost the new XP OS on the new Dell systems. Communicated successfully with a very demanding populace of end-users in a productive fashion. Installed Pointsec encryption software on hundreds of computers and resolved any and all problems involving lost data or other associated problems. Documented all issues in Remedy. System Analyst - POS Gymboree - San Francisco, CA October 2007 to March 2008 Contractor  Provided detailed support for a new Retek point of sale rollout to over 1000 stores. Resolved complex issues related to the XP Embedded OS and POS application configuration. Provided secondary and tertiary support for POS network. Assembled scripted structures in order to build and maintain uniform store installations. Successfully diagnosed and resolved issues relating to TCP\IP and hostname files as well as SQL and printer issues throughout the enterprise. Security Analyst UCSF - San Francisco, CA October 2006 to October 2007 Contractor  Assumed complete control of the campus wide implementation of Sophos Enterprise Anti-virus and Webroot's Enterprise version of SpySweeper using a centrally managed client. Projects included resolving multiple points of failure in the client, in the desktop image, in the services running the management tools, analyzing the network traffic and firewalls. In addition I staged a major upgrade to the 5000 clients and the central management servers. I worked closely with the various computer support organizations, management and various vendors. Used VMWare to create elaborate testing environment and performed basic Unix tasks in administering the VMWare GSX and ESX servers. I designed multiple customized reports and alerts using various automated SQL query tools that attached to the underlying database's that each of the products used. I achieved unprecedented success in every one of the various projects. Desktop Support Analyst Perot Systems\Catholic Healthcare West - San Francisco, CA December 2004 to October 2006 FTE  Provided desktop and server support for a variety of proprietary healthcare applications in a mixed Novell and Windows environment for over 500 users. Engineered ongoing migration of Novell resources into a Windows AD environment. Provided executive support to a diverse a community of end users. Supported, created, maintained and updated multiple Ghost images for a large family of Dell desktops and laptops. Resolved though high end troubleshooting, multiple hardware and software conflicts throughout the enterprise. Installed, supported and resolved complex issues arising from Guardian Encryption on 500 PC's and laptops. Systems Administrator Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Center - San Francisco, CA May 2004 to December 2004 Contractor  Maintained, configured and updated 125 users\workstations and 12 servers in a mixed W2k\NT.40\Novell environment. Implemented MS SUS (Software Update Server) and deployed Automated Updates to those machine not available to GPO's. Administered and updated their environment's antivirus and anti-spam software from CA's Inoculan to E-Trust and then migrated them completely to TrendMicro using custom built uninstall scripts. Maintained and updated their Exchange 5.5\E2K implementation Analyzed and updated their disaster recovery using various versions of Arcserve. Updated and maintained 3 SQL servers. Systems Administrator\Desktop Support - Contract Unified Computing, Inc - San Francisco, CA February 2004 to December 2004 Various part time contracts including, designing and implementing a desktop imaging process and designing and implementing an NT4.0 to W2K SBS Active Directory migration for a networked environment, including a Exchange 2K upgrade. Provided extensive hardware specifications and implemented rigorous levels of redundancy to assure high levels of availability for clients. Researched and deployed automated migration tools to facilitate the migration. Successfully deployed and upgraded their Veritas Backup Exec and Norton Antivirus implementations. Provided extensive desktop support for 40 W2K PC's that included a large variety of property management industry specific applications as well the standard MS Office suite and 3 SQL servers.    Recruited, hired and trained a team to perform a desktop rollout of 300 workstations for the California State Bar. Analyzed environment and allocated team members by technical strengths to execute this hardware\OS migration within a rigorously constrained schedule. Managed the daily schedule and intervened to solve any technical issues that would interfere with the project's execution. I successfully negotiated with the client various technical issues that arose through the project. Executed all the complex administrative documentation required by the State Bar management in order to meet their contractual requirements. Server Administrator Looksmart, Inc - San Francisco, CA July 2003 to February 2004 Contract  Contract position to configure and support as many as 1200 servers in a production\development environment that were located both in-house and at a co-location site. Used Symantec Ghost, Dell PXE server, VNC and Terminal Server, MS Software Update Server, MS Automatic Update Group Policies and registration files, MS Baseline Security Analyzer, Windows scripting, batch files and some limited shell scripting tools to setup, configure, administrate and patch large groups of Windows based machines. I worked closely with various development and management teams to effectively resolve various large scale HW\SW issues that directly affected stability for critical applications. and thoroughly clean the infected machines. Systems Administrator\Desktop Support - Contract Oncology Therapeutic s Network - South San Francisco, CA March 2003 to July 2003 395 Oyster Point Blvd. Ste. 405  South San Francisco, CA 94080  Systems Administrator\Desktop Support - Contract  Contract job to maintain and extend a mixed Novell 5x, W2K, XP, 95 and 98 networked environment in a pharmaceutical delivery and data management division of Bristol-Meyers Squib. While there, I performed complex problem resolution involving legacy applications and migration consolidation to a standardized Active Directory environment. Designed, deployed and maintained updated desktop images for a mixed IBM ThinkPad and Netvista hardware using various MS and Symantec applications (Ghost and advanced sysprep tools). Executed extremely high standards of customer support in a fast paced demanding g SW development environment.