IT Security and Risk Manager <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> and Risk Manager IT Security and Risk Manager - Health One Alliance Chatsworth, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security and Risk Manager Health One Alliance - Dalton, GA July 2017 to Present Responsible for designing, planning, developing, implementing, maintaining, supporting and documenting all Company information security-focused tools, services, applications, and methodologies. Works with the Vice President and the Director of Information Technology to define the security direction for the Company, including systems, networks, user services, and vendor development effort. Develops and interpret information security policies and procedures. Responsible for auditing Information Systems, platforms and operating procedures to ensure compliance with established standards. Leads crisis management exercises in preparation for security event. Acts as liaison with state and regulatory agencies related to Information Technology and document request.  Assesses current technology architecture for vulnerabilities, weaknesses and for possible upgrades or improvement. Reviews change management plans for technological upgrades, improvements and major changes to the network and cyber environment.  Provides training to all company personnel during onboarding and information security awareness reminders on a routine basis. Conducts IT security training and security awareness reminders to all personnel. Patrol Officer Law Enforcement, State of Georgia December 2007 to December 2018 Responsible for responding quickly to all dispatched calls and taking appropriate action at the crime, emergency response or disaster scenes. Responsible for the protection of life and property, prevention of crime, enforcement of federal, state and local laws and the apprehension of violators of these laws. Responsible for controlling the situation when on the scene of a violation or disturbance. Gathered preliminary investigation information as a first responder to crime scenes. Monitored and investigated suspicious persons and situations and unusual activities. Exercises considerable judgment in interpreting laws, ordinances, policies, and procedures. Assist all other Officers as required in the performance of their duties. Performs investigations and enforces County and State laws pertaining to both adult and juvenile offenders. Responds to criminal complaints and takes necessary corrective action.  Key Accomplishments:  • Officer of the year 2015. Data Management/Scientist Financial Database - Atlanta, GA September 2015 to July 2017 Responsible for providing support as needed regarding database development, programming, and customized Excel reports and macros that integrate data from EQuIS into various reports regarding environmental site characterization projects. Responsible for revising Excel macros for migrating data and into EQiIS in environment and exporting Electronic Data Deliverable (EDD) files. Creates new format exports and modifies existing EQuIS Electronic Data Processor (EDP) formats to facilitate creation of an acceptable EDD format.    Key Accomplishments:  • Created Honolulu Area Rapid Transit (HART) Financial Database that allows data to be Manage data more efficiently by eliminating the need for multiple spreadsheets and databases to track financial records. The HART Access database ensure data integrity, accuracy and security while providing easy report generation. Independent Consultant InfoCarrier - Chatsworth, GA July 2006 to September 2015 Worked with several non-profit and for-profit organizations providing database support and development, to include web development. Responsible for the planning and data migration of data from various systems and databases. The most recent work included proving general data management support for Quantum Data Processing for the preparation of ERPIMS X submittals for various US Airforce projects. Analyst II, Customer Service WINDSTREAM COMMUNICATIONS - Dalton, GA October 2006 to December 2007 Web Database administrator/developer responsible for development and monitoring of project plans for the programming and administration of database applications used through the intranet within the Assignments Department. Conducted analysis of program specific business process requirements to support the development of web and database applications. Responsible for the installation, configuration and security of company databases. Converted Access database programs to SQL 2000 and accessed via company Intranet.  Key Accomplishments:  • Originated operating procedures and security procedures for database systems  • Developed the Available Service Options for Communication (ASOC) database that provides quick look up thru the intranet to provide available options, and switch programming to the Service Activation and Assignment Departments utilizing SQL2000 and Dreamweaver 8 Information Technology Specialist US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY - Washington, DC February 2003 to June 2006 Systems Security Manager for Central Data Exchange (CDX) Security. Served as the point of contact for CDX security incidents. Developed and maintained the CDX Security Plan and kept the Information Security Officer (ISO) apprised of any revisions. Project Manager for CDX Helpdesk and Systems Security; provided technical direction to CDX contractors for all helpdesk and system security related matters. Served as Work Assignment Manager or Contracting Officer representative on projects ranging from $1,000 to $500,000. Provided expert advice required to design complex, customized applications. Provided technical expertise for the design, development, and implementation of full-service Information Technology database management systems and programs.  Key Accomplishments:  • Received multiple day-off awards, spot recognition awards, and the Bronze Star Award Database Manager THE ENDOCRINE SOCIETY - Bethesda, MD September 2000 to December 2002 Responsible for the development and monitoring of project plans for the Information Systems department with direct supervision over one employee. Evaluated and recommended all modifications/upgrades to the Society's Association Management database. Responsible for the confidentiality, integrity and availability of all databases. Responsible for the security of databases and system security within the company. Assisted in maintenance and update of the Endocrine Society Windows 2000 network. Responsible for setting and disseminating data entry standards and ensuring these standards were met. Researched and advised on purchasing decisions of new hardware and software. Responded to staff trouble calls regarding Windows 2000, PCs, Unidata, and Network as required. Created new data dictionary attributes as needed.  Key Accomplishments:  • Designed and administered several complex database applications to accommodate a variety of user needs and resolved complex database problems Senior Database Administrator NATIONAL COUNCIL OF TEACHERS OF MATHEMATICS - Reston, VA April 1995 to August 2000 Responsible for the planning and data migration of data from various systems and databases.  Lead a team of developers in creating the first program that would allow payments over the Internet using Cyber Cash. Supervised a team of Systems Analysts ensuring projects were completed on time, with direct management of two Junior Database Developers/Programmers. Performed upgrades to RISC 6000, AIX, and Unidata. Responsible for all system administration and system security on RISC 6000 server and the Data Management Group (DMG) Association system.  Key Accomplishment:  • Presented with an employee award for significantly improving the current system and saving the company over $100,000 per year Senior Database Designer NATIONAL COUNCIL OF TEACHERS OF MATHEMATICS October 1998 to March 1999 Database Administrator for National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (03/95-10/98) and Military Service with the US Marine Corps (1979-1983, 1985-1994) as a Sergeant (E-5), Honorably Discharged. Education Information Assurance Certificate in Information Assurance National Defense University (NDU) Information Resources Management College (IRMC) - Washington, DC August 2005 to March 2007 Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Computer Security Strayer University - Roswell, GA Associate of Science in Computer Information Systems/Programming Northern Virginia Community College - Woodbridge, VA Certification Dalton Regional Police Academy - Dalton, GA Skills Excel, Compliance, Internal Audit, Risk Management, Microsoft Office, SQL, Access, Excel, Powerpoint, Varonis, NIST Military Service Branch: USMC Service Country: United States Rank: SGT September 1979 to February 1994 Data Analyst Commendations: Served as a Data Analyst for two presedients (HMX, Marine1)