Private Consulting / Contract Work Private Consulting / Contract Work Portland, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Private Consulting / Contract Work Portland, OR January 1999 to Present I have worked on many short term projects in the IT field over the last 17 years.  ? In recent years I have worked on hardware refreshes and provided break fix support for BPA, H&R Block, Morgan Stanley, Best Buy, Amtrak and RBC Wealth Management among  others. I have also performed OS and software upgrades for some of these clients.  ? I have also worked with private clients on various small office projects: supporting  Windows 10 and Mac OS X, iPhone and Android devices and peripherals such as printers and routers. Software I have worked on in these projects includes Outlook, G IT Support/Cloud Services Admin AtreNet - Santa Cruz, CA April 2015 to July 2016 Santa Cruz, CA (worked remotely) 04/ 15 - 07/16  ? Administered the company Google Apps for Work platform (including users, email,  permissions and Vonage VOIP phone connectivity) and applications dependent on it.  ? Provided remote IT Support for Windows 7, 8 and 10 and Mac OS X as well as iPhone,  iPad and Android devices.  ? Setup and troubleshot printers, scanners, routers and other peripherals remotely.  ? Supported Microsoft Office 2010 and 2013.  ? Researched and suggested hardware and software according to stated needs and also proactively searched for superior tools in a very dynamic environment.  ? Some of the other applications supported were Quickbase, Google Ad Words, Floreysoft  Shared Groups, Dropbox and Lastpass. Found countless applications to solve small  problems. Desktop Support Specialist PacifiCorp - Portland, OR July 2013 to January 2014 Primarily oversaw and implemented the building wide rollout from Windows XP to Windows 7.  ? Was responsible for ordering and upgrading hardware to changing standards and working with engineering and software departments to ensure a smooth transition.  ? Scheduled the upgrades and maintained the master document detailing the changes.  ? Also provided transitional and ongoing support for Windows 7 including hardware  troubleshooting and replacement.  ? Managed and monitored Windows 7 machines and their application loadouts in Active  Directory and SCCM.  ? Also provided Microsoft Office and printer support. Customer Service/E-commerce/Design Killer Condo - Portland, OR May 2009 to June 2013 Partnered with a friend in an online apparel business.  ? Managed shipping and customer service.  ? Created designs.  ? After some time, went back to working in IT. Help Desk Halton Company - Portland, OR January 2009 to April 2009 Provided Help Desk support for a Caterpillar heavy equipment dealer.  ? Updated machines from Windows XP to Windows 2000 using Norton Ghost, saved user  data and reinstalled all relevant applications.  ? Provided support for Microsoft Office, proprietary software and printers.  ? Also synced corporate Gmail with Nuevasync for iPhone access and set up company  iPhones to specific standards. Service Desk Analyst The Standard - Portland, OR April 2007 to October 2007 Provided first and second level support for end users in a national enterprise  environment.  ? Most clients were running Windows XP.  ? Managed security permissions and settings in Active Directory and prioritized actions  based on dynamic guidelines.  ? Supported Microsoft Office and Citrix among other applications.  ? Supported in-house software running in a TPX environment and Treo and Blackberry  devices. Help Desk/Information Security APL - Oakland, CA June 2004 to May 2006 ? Performed Help Desk support for a large international shipping company.  ? Configured, customized and imaged Windows 2000 desktops and laptops for end users.  ? Performed software upgrades and fixed issues with Outlook and multiple Exchange  servers.  ? Managed security permissions and settings in Active Directory.  ? Troubleshot Microsoft Office, printers and other applications.  ? Gathered global information and created reports, procedure manuals and network  diagrams.  ? Also authorized access to sections of the mainframe and company intranet for vendors  and employees using Kintana, UNIX and the APL intranet. Senior Technical Support Engineer Premiere Retail Networks - San Francisco, CA June 2000 to April 2001 Worked in a call center providing third level technical support to technicians and employees for a large national retail network. Provided training and mentorship to the  first and second level support team.  ? Wrote and ran scripts using a UNIX shell to monitor network statistics and push updates  and patches. Systems Administrator eZula Inc - San Francisco, CA January 2000 to May 2000 Served as the primary network architect and administrator of both the in-house LAN and QA environment. This consisted of in house Exchange, IIS and multiple SQL servers all  of which I configured and installed. Eventually created and setup the production  environment in a colocation facility.  ? Also set up all data and phone wiring in the office, provided Help Desk support and wrote reports, procedure manuals and network diagrams. Network Administrator Coast Tool Company - San Leandro, CA April 1999 to January 2000 Served as the network architect and administrator of a Windows NT LAN which I  integrated with an existing AIX server.  ? Set up all data wiring in the office. Also provided Help Desk support and wrote manuals  for the end users.    MCSE Certified: MCSE certified (as of 1999) with IIS and TCP/IP as my electives. Skills Active  Directory (5 years), Exchange (2 years), Mac (10+ years), Mac OS (10+ years), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses MCSE March 1999 to Present MCSE certified with IIS and TCP/IP as my electives Additional Information Technical Skills:    ? Windows 98 to10  ? Windows Server NT to 2016  ? Mac OS X  ? Linux  ? Active Directory  ? SCCM  ? Exchange  ? Mobile Device Support  ? G Suite