Scrum Master/Agile Scrum Master/Agile Scrum Master/Agile - Insight Global Waco, TX Work Experience Scrum Master/Agile Insight Global July 2019 to Present Transportation Operations/Node Manager Amazon- South Texas Node-San Marcos, Schertz, San Antonio, Katy - Houston, TX October 2018 to June 2019 • Manage the North America Transportation network and specifically the South Texas Node. Responsible for 6 direct Area/Transportation OPS Managers and 6 facilities with up to 24 1st line supervisors, 6 direct report managers, and 200 associates. . Responsible for training, and that their needs are addressed so they can focus on their jobs. Four key areas of focus are the safety, quality, customer experience, and productivity of the 6 sites.  • Reviews the work forecasts and determine requirements and changes to meet objectives.  • Partner with other Regional/OPS Managers to balance labor ensuring that all sites are balanced and efficient, while meeting goals.  • Support all safety programs and OSHA compliance to ensure a safe work environment for all associates.  • Proactively identify and lead process improvement initiatives and Lean tools  • Carry out supervisory responsibilities in accordance with the organization's policies and procedures.  • Accountability for meeting and exceeding operational goals.  • Strategic planning and forecasting; appraise performance; reward and discipline employees; resolve problems; and address staffing needs.  • Mentor, train and develop Area managers, Leads, and associates for career progression and learning  • Ability to develop and share best practices across the sites and network.  • Using Lean Methodology (kaizen, standardized work, error proofing, process mapping, root cause analysis, deep dive) Transportation Area Manager Amazon- South Texas Node-San Marcos, Schertz, San Antonio, Katy - San Marcos, TX March 2018 to October 2018 Area Manager-Facility Operations, Inbound, Receive/Stow, RSR Amazon- South Texas Node-San Marcos, Schertz, San Antonio, Katy - Tracy, CA January 2015 to March 2018 Deputy Project Manager-Operations SOC - U.S. EMBASSY - Baghdad, IQ January 2014 to January 2015 Focal point for all contractor provided protective security details and physical security of the US Embassy and its personnel-to include all support personnel (i.e. PSS/ERT, guard force, intelligence analysts, medical personnel, vehicle and equipment technicians/mechanics, up to 2000 personnel at 8 different sites.), with the general advice and guidance of the, RSO, DS Agent in Charge (AIC) and the project manager. On a short-term basis, and only in the absence of the Project Manager, assumes the on-site role and responsibilities of the Project Manager. Designated as a personal security specialist (P). Oversees all aspects of planning, scheduling, organizing, managing, and assessing performance of assigned protective security details/Guard Force personnel under the task order (Contract of $990 million dollars). Overview and knowledge of CCTV, video, biometrics, and other electronic security measures, risk assessments, explosives trace-detection, K9, threat analysis, contingency planning, Mechanical locks, Automated gates, Vehicles barriers, Turnstiles, Roll-up doors, emergency services and investigations. Ensures that the contractor provided personnel, selected for protective security leadership positions / labor categories are executing their responsibilities efficiently and effectively. Items of primary concern include assessing performance of the protective security details, provide security for all personnel on all Department of State facilities and ensuring proper behavior of all contractor-provided personnel, whether on or off duty. Security Manager/Complex/ Site Supervisor SOC - U.S. EMBASSY - IQ October 2012 to January 2014 Strategic Planner/Plans Specialist/SME FORSCOM - Fort Bliss, TX August 2010 to October 2012 for Anti-Terrorism/Force Protection and Combat Training Center rotations- GS13 Project Lead/Military Analyst IV/ On Site Project Manager -TOC/Administrator VT GROUP - Fort Belvoir, VA October 2009 to August 2010 Combat ID Manager/Operational Security Board MPRI/TRADOC - Monroe, VA October 2008 to October 2009 in the Joint Air Ground Operations/Joint Force Training Directorate Corporate Operations Tasking/Resource Coordinator TAPESTRY SOLUTIONS - Yorktown, VA January 2007 to October 2008 Field Support Engineer- IT TAPESTRY SOLUTIONS - Fort Hood, TX January 2007 to January 2008 Division I Director/Director of Risk Management/ Security Director/Safety Officer SOUTH MISSISSIPPI STATE HOSPITAL - Purvis, MS November 2004 to January 2007 Purvis, MS (November 2004 - January 2007)  Division I Director/Director of Risk Management/ Security Director/Safety Officer Education Master of Science in Environmental Management & Policy American Military University - Manassas Park, VA 2010 Bachelor of Arts in Management American Military University - Manassas Park, VA 2003