Technical Assistant, Management Information Systems Technical Assistant, Management Information Systems Technical Assistant, Management Information Systems - East Orange Water Commission Bloomfield, NJ Desktop Computer Support ~ Office Administration~ Customer Service    I am a driven professional with over 20 years of diversified experience recognized for taking on an aggressive supporting role within Helpdesk Desktop Support and Customer Service in an Information Technology environment. Uses technical and interpersonal skills to enhance organizational efficiencies and operations. Proficient with MS Office Suite and various business applications as well. Committed and exemplary work ethic willing to take on extra tasks with strong analytical and problems solving skills. Thrive as team player as well as working independently. Outstanding interpersonal and communicative skills; quickly establishing rapport with all organizational levels and vendors.    Professional Highlights And Accomplishments    ? Assisted in the successful acquisition and the subsequent technology integration in less than 90 days.  ? Assisted in coordination of department functions for team of 45 or more employees.  ? Assisted in the planning and executing towards all aspects of a major office renovating operation.  ? Increased office organization by developing more efficient filing system and user database protocols.  ? Saved company large amount of dollars by refurbishing used computers and technological equipment. Work Experience Technical Assistant, Management Information Systems East Orange Water Commission - East Orange, NJ March 2013 to Present Gather and enter correspondence, reports and other written material from rough drafts using a computer and arrange the material to be typed, following instructions.  ? File and store completed documents on computer and maintain a filing system to warehouse documents.  ? Meet with department heads, managers, supervisors and others to resolve problems.  ? Read manuals and technical reports to learn how to develop programs that meet requirements.  ? Determine document management policies to efficiently secure access to keeping records of work performed.  ? Assist in supporting end-users through diagnostic procedures to determine the source of issues and resolve problems.  ? Work with other IT support teams to schedule and perform software and hardware improvements, upgrades, and/or purchases or other duties and special projects as assigned by IT and Management. IT Data Processing Technician East Orange Water Commission - East Orange, NJ March 2011 to March 2013 Studies needs of users to determine information available to be processed.  ? Designs forms for transmittal of information.  ? Investigates and corrects any deficiencies in coding system or in the informational transmittal.  ? Instructs users in procedures to be followed in information transmittal.  ? Read manuals and technical reports to learn how to develop programs that meet requirements.  ? Assist in determining document management policies to facilitate efficient and secure access to electronic content keeping records of work performed. Business Development Computer Support Associate - contractor N.J. Dept. of Labor - Dept. of Economic Development, Training & Employment - East Orange, NJ October 2010 to March 2011 East Orange, NJ Oct 2010 - Mar 2011  ? Provide support to resume writing and mentoring using exceptional communicative and interpersonal skills.  ? Assist in creating documentation to input unemployment data manually on computer and telephone for new users.  ? Design policy of self-training and education for creation or redesign resumes for use in the workforce.  ? Implemented process of weekly Clean-up of computers to enable faster usage of systems.  ? Donate voluntary computer support to the DOL Computer Career Center and their many users. Level I Lead Security Administration Officer Gateway Security Incorporated - Newark, NJ February 2007 to August 2010 Observes and reports activities at the client's site, providing security and safety of client, property and personnel.  ? Monitor entrances and exits physically and by using remote closed circuit television.  ? Respond to emergencies or other unusual occurrences or specific tasks and record it as required at assigned site. Enrollment Associate Rutgers University - Newark, NJ November 2006 to January 2007 Use exemplary data entry to ensure fast completion for student enrollment scanning applications and credentials and updating information utilizing secured applications.  ? Designed documents and created Excel spreadsheets to summarizing activities for University administrators.  ? Scan, link and deliver foreign and local documentation using secured applications and procedures.  ? Assist associates and apply to other duties required by Management. Call Center Customer Service Representative E-Z Pass of New Jersey - Newark, NJ June 2005 to April 2006 Provided product information, pricing and delivery information to customers which contributed to exemplary service.  ? Handled inbound sales duties. Resolved billing questions and disputes, made customer call-backs / follow-ups.  ? Reviewed rate plans and formed recommendations for efficiency and savings based on usage through multiply states. Desktop Computer Support Associate New Jersey Department of Labor - East Orange, NJ November 2003 to June 2005 - voluntary - on-going  ? Implement business processes to improving operational efficiency levels.  ? Provide support to resume writing and mentoring using exceptional communicative and interpersonal skills.  ? Donate voluntary computer support to the DOL Computer Career Center and over 450+ users. Senior Operations Support Associate Prudential Financial - Newark, NJ February 1999 to November 2003 Provide primary computer support to over 750 users within Prudential Global Asset Management O&S group.  ? Initiate direct changes of application upgrades within (PVCS) and other data warehousing tools and repositories.  ? Coordinate sophisticated database that collects test data. It was acknowledged for accurate testing progress reports.  ? Prepare weekly spreadsheets monitoring more than 100 ongoing projects.  ? Produce monthly and quarterly reports using PVCS, Crystal Reporting and other reporting tools as requested.  ? Perform IT security administration, and library management duties while assisting in setup of new personnel. Executive Administrative Assistant Prudential Institutional - Newark, NJ February 1996 to February 1999 Provided administrative support to CIO, 2 Senior Vice Presidents, 3 Vice Presidents and their senior management teams and staff of more than 74 employees and contractors.  ? Coordinating communications, events, presentations and other correspondence while prioritizing individual e-mails.  ? Maximized productivity by maintaining calendars, scheduling meetings, travel, tracking expenses for directors.  ? Maintained personnel records and changes as well as procured office equipment and ordered supplies.  ? Prepared highly complex and time critical materials for distribution at annual meetings.  ? Assisted in any building or office facilitating as required by management. Directory Advertising Services Analyst Bell Atlantic - Newark, NJ February 1989 to April 1996 Researched previous customer advertising to determine viable customers to meet sales quotas and identify potential customers for upcoming special advertising sections.  ? Prepared proposals and assisted sales executives in developing an appropriate marketing campaign or program  based on individual goals.  ? Developed and presented sales reports to management, which enabled management to make business decisions.  ? Coordinated with Directors and Project Managers on company products and sales through Sales Marketing Systems.  ? Commentator of quarterly/yearly Bell Atlantic Regional Corporate Meetings. Education Certificate Essex County College - New York, NY Certificate Community College of the Air Force - Salt Lake City, UT Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/4634474 Military Service Branch: AIR FORCE Service Country: United States Rank: SGT September 1975 to September 1979 70250B ADMINISTRATIVE SPECIALIST