Jr. IT Engineer Jr. <span class="hl">IT</span> Engineer Oakley, CA • Over 4 years of detail-oriented and flexible IT support experience.  • Adept at providing desktop and technical support services in-person, as well as via phone and email.  • Excellent problem solving and troubleshooting skills with the ability to quickly learn technologies.  • Maintains, analyzes, troubleshoots, and repairs computer systems, hardware and computer peripherals  • Set up LDAP Server Active Directory in managing and maintaining user accounts.  • Ability to produce technical documentation for both technical and non-technical audiences.  • Provide Tier 1 and 2 technical assistance in analyzing, diagnosing, replicating and troubleshooting customers reported issues to resolution on Microsoft Windows 7/8/10 OS, and Linux OS  •Analyzed complex network telecommunications issues or problems, evaluated alternative solutions and made sound recommendations.  • A self-starter, target-oriented, self-disciplined and proactive professional with excellent communication skills and the ability to work efficiently on multiple tasks in both independent and team environments.  • Networking, Map drive, Data sharing  • Ability to manage urgent matters and multitask  • Troubleshot, diagnosed all common PC related problems.  • Assisted with PC, network hardware and software upgrades as required.  • Responded appropriately to end user community queries.  • Apple IOS software/hardware break/fix  • Deployed tablets with windows 8.1 to over 3,000 store and troubleshoot SSID, added Group Policy's, and add to the Active Directory.  • Established asset management practices to track technological assets from purchase to disposal  • Effectively handle multiple calls at a time and work within a call queue system clearly documents all issues according to ticket logging and problem management requirements.  •Maintenance and support of client server networks including site surveys, cabling, and installing gear.  • Bilingual fluency in Spanish Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr. IT Engineer Dolls Kill - San Francisco, CA July 2018 to Present • Installing, configuring, testing and maintaining operating systems, application software and system management tools.  • Maintained and assigned new users access to emails, Jira ticketing system.  • Support of remote end-users who have issues with their desktop computers, laptop computers, printers, projectors, and cell phones.  • Developed and implemented network security policies.  • Effectively troubleshoot a variety of issues ranging from Tier I to Tier II with the backup system and resolve issues in a timely manner.  • Perform all aspects of systems engineering, including installation, configuration and maintenance.  • Handle tasks of implementing and integrating technical products and systems.  • Configure, deploy, and manage network infrastructure applications including, but not limited to, switches, routers, access points and firewalls.  •Planned, designed, installed, troubleshot, and repaired LAN, WAN, and telecommunication hardware and software Helpdesk Technician Bell-Carter Foods Inc October 2015 to July 2018 • Manage Maintain Ticket Queue. Assigning tickets to the correct user and Priority.  • Work in Active Directory.  • Installs, maintains, and configures desktops, peripherals, phones, and mobile devices.  • Troubleshoots hardware, software, and network connectivity issues.  • Remote troubleshoot with user by phone or remotely like VNC.  • Assists users with PC and Network operations.  • Office 365/ email set up.  • Developed and implemented all IT policies and procedures.  • Maintains Hardware and software inventory.  • Basic troubleshooting of cabling issues and cable runs.  • Shares technical knowledge within the organization. Technical Support Analyst Spencer Technology April 2014 to November 2014 - Gap Inc.  • Troubleshooting with techs on the field via phone, email, and remote.  • Preform software migration form windows XP to SUSE Linux.  • Configure POS equipment and upgrade.  • Strong verbal and communication skills  • Troubleshoot wireless connectivity issues with tablets, register and time clock by assigning appropriate SSID keys, updating and enforcing group policy in accordance with company policy.  • Setup and support tablets and time clock.  • Documented helpdesk issues and administered timely follow-up till resolution of issue  • Provided detail documentation using HP service manager.  • Engage multiple Project Managers in a collaborative effort to fulfill assigned tasks  • Supported more than 3,000 stores with technical service. Security Guard Allied Barton June 2010 to April 2014 • Monitor and patrol building and ensure that entrance and exit are secured.  • Write detail reports and incidents that may occur.  • Monitor CCTV.  • Highly skilled in performing patrol duties within assigned areas to guard against theft, vandalism and fire  • Adept at handling emergency situations effectively; medical emergencies, accidents and other threats 92Y unit supply specialist US Army August 2005 to February 2010 • Receive, inspect, inventory, load/unload, store, issue and deliver supplies and equipment  • Maintain automated supply system for accounting of organizational and installation supplies and equipment  • Support applications including MS Office, Outlook.  • Operate unit level computers  • Used tools to execute replacement activity, and parts.  • Installing RAM, hard drives, operating systems, accessories, adapter cards and software  • Setup, deployed, and maintained of end-user machines  • Maintained inventory on all computer parts  • Assisted with PC deployment, set up, and repairs.  • Assists with PC management of inventory levels for equipment/parts  • Upgraded hard drives and memory to specs Education AA ITT Technical Institute June 2014 BS in Information Systems and Cybersecurity ITT Technical Institute Skills MS OFFICE (4 years), SECURITY (3 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (2 years), LINUX (Less than 1 year), WINDOWS XP (Less than 1 year), Customer Service, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Customer Service Skills (4 years), JIRA (1 year), G suite (2 years) Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SPC Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/83bacqyuipetcgio Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  OS / Servers: SUSE Linux, Windows XP/7/10, Server 2003, 2008  Networking: TCP/IP, HTTP(S), FTP, POP3, SMTP, IMAP, DNS, DHCP, RADIUS, LDAP, RDP, Data Backup  Security: Firewall, VPN, SSL, SSH, Key Management  Wireless: WLAN, 802.11n, Blue Tooth  Devices: Hubs, Switches, Routers (Cisco 2800 series), Dell Latitude 10 tablet, iPhone, Android, IBM kiosk  Application: Microsoft Office Suite, Putty, VMware, SharePoint, HP service manager, remote desktop, Active Directory, Skype, Office 365,