CEO, Information Security Officer CEO, Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer CEO, Information Security Officer - ICSR Solutions LLC Califon, NJ ? Senior Information and Cyber Security Manager with history of directing complex project teams driving globally matrixed people, and process and technology initiatives on time, within budget.  ? Strong communicator to Senior Management for Information and Cyber Security best practices with focus on efficient remediation of risk driven control deficiencies.  ? Highly successful at executing business process improvements organizationally to drive cost efficiencies, create risk reduction strategic roadmaps, improve information security awareness and facilitate business focused information risk posture. Work Experience CEO, Information Security Officer ICSR Solutions LLC - Califon, NJ April 2019 to Present With 20 years of real world experience, ICSR Solutions provides expertise in security risk assessments, compliance evaluations, metrics, strategy road-maps and effective risk management structures    • Develop, implement and monitor comprehensive enterprise information security programs to ensure the availability, integrity and confidentiality of information across organizations.  • Provide executives including CISO and other C-Level management with guidance to identify organizational security gaps and develop road maps for remediation.  • Develop and perform hybrid NIST, CIS Top 20 / RAM and ISO 27001 security assessments at clients who either require certification or self-assessment due to regulatory requirements.  • Develop comprehensive metric program foundations to allow companies long term success in measuring what matters to C-level management.  • Assure compliance with local and federal regulations and implement remediation where required.  • Deliver strategic security and risk improvement plans based on business needs and threat landscape. Regional Head Information and Cyber Security Officer Standard Chartered Bank January 2015 to March 2019 Primary mission: Provide Information Security leadership and expertise to Standard Chartered Bank Americas and Europe region - Delegated authority as Regional CISO to provide 2nd line risk oversight and support to regional CIOs and Senior Business Heads. Direct responsibility for developing and managing Americas and Europe Information Security Program to proactively identify and mitigate cyber and information security risks, respond to and remediate security events / incidents, provide regulatory audit support and compliance with regulatory requirements. Manage Business Information Security Officer Program to ensure effective execution of Group CISO initiatives.    Design and execute second line governance framework (people, process, technology) providing first line business and information technology stakeholders with accurate intelligence for appropriate information and cyber risk management focus.    • Regulatory Oversite  - Active member of Institute of International Bankers Cyber Security working group.  - Support Regional Legal and Compliance for all Information / Cyber security inquiries from regulators.  - Ensure Information and Cyber Security program is compliant with state of New York DFS NYCRR 500  - Manage FFIEC Cyber Assessment Tool execution and attestation of control effectiveness testing.  - Respond to all first day letter requests from applicable regulatory bodies.  • Third Party Information Risk Assurance  - Establish mature, repeatable process that ensures accurate, effective third party service provider risk profiles are communicated to Business and IT owners.  • Application Security Review Program Assurance  - Manage engagement process to execute application security reviews on all critical information systems and applications leveraging Group tools and resources where applicable within SDLC and Agile lifecycles.    • Information Security Program Independent Attestation  - Contract Deloitte to independently assesss Americas Information Security Program against NIST Information Security framework  - Create (time, resources, budget) and manage execution of two year roadmap that increased risk tier maturity one full level.  • Governance and Metrics Framework  - Developed Information Security Framework integration with County Business and Technology risk forums.  - Created information security dashboard leveraging Carnegie Melon's information risk metrics taxonomy based on business objectives as primary drivers of key risk indicators enabling 1st line business stakeholders to set risk tolerance levels.  • Regional Information Risk Technology Roadmap  - Primary regional liaison for Group Technology requirements defined by business functionality and regulatory requirements.  * Risk Management  * Threat and Vulnerability Identification and Remediation  * DLP Effectiveness  * Secure Architecture  * Identity and Access Management VP, Senior Manager, Information Security HSBC Global Banking & Markets October 2009 to December 2014 Reporting to the Head of Information Security GB&M Americas, position created to drive effective implementation of Global and Regional HSBC Group Risk Reduction Programs for Global Banking and Markets Americas (North America, Mexico, and Brazil). Recruited and mentored replacement 'BIRO' to address Security Business controls segregation for second line information security governance.    • Global Domain Lead for GB&M across 3 primary hub sites (UK, HK, NA), managing GB&M implementation of HSBC Group strategic risk improvement initiatives to 'change the bank' within the following disciplines (individual contributor with matrix based resources):  - Third Party Risk Assessment process improvement - Global Domain Lead representing Global Banking and Markets business. Lead Contributor to Global Vendor ISR framework. Successfully deployed re-engineered framework into regional hubs with different process maturity levels and regulatory requirements.  - Data Loss Prevention - Global Businesses Lead for DLP policy design framework, deployment and effectiveness. Successfully educated the business regarding DLP service capabilities and risk reduction benefits, enabling effective, risk based first line of defense for data loss prevention. The business is now proactively engaged with data loss prevention services.  • Americas Regional ISR Senior Manager supporting 'run the bank' operational processes (manage on demand regional matrix resources):  - Application Security Risk Assessments - Manage service provided by Group ISR for the GB&M Asset Classes in the Americas. Implemented effective governance framework in Mexico and Brazil where none existed with limited resources. Act as lead ISR Subject Matter expert supporting GB&M IT and Business during control deficiency remediation. Remediation efforts have yielded a 98% compliance rate, 2% allocated for risk acceptance.  - Incident Management - Technical subject matter expert supporting Business concerns surrounding actual threat profile vs. potential risk impacts.  - Security Architecture framework / oversight within SDLC process (OWASP, NIST, ISO). Work with Business and IT Development during requirements / functional specifications definition to reduce future modifications to system design. Mentor Security Analysts and Developers to improve their effectiveness.  - Third Party Security Review - Work with Business and Third Party service providers as ISR subject matter expert to ensure effective risk review and remediation of subsequent control deficiencies. Reduced legacy, stale deficiency backlog by 95% in one year, improved staff awareness for first line of defense responsibilities.  - Regulatory ISR representative for GB&M Americas responsible for responding to all ISR focused inquiries. (FSA , FINRA , OCC, SEC)  - Internal Audit point of contact for all first and second line of defense assurance reviews.  - Metrics Production - Risk Dashboards , Heat Maps - Work with individual lines of business to develop meaningful KRIs that support directional strategy for risk appetite and budget VP, Senior Business Information Security Risk Officer HSBC Global Banking & Markets October 2008 to October 2009 Global IT Security    Reporting dually to Global Head of IT Security and North American Chief Information Risk Officer, position involved direct management responsibility for increasing effectiveness and efficiency of security functions within HSBC Global Banking and Markets Americas - Directing implementation through 50 Deputy BIROs within individual business lines. Directly accountable / responsible for: Internal Audit Remediation Improvement, External - Regulatory ISR Response Lead, Access & Entitlement Management Improvement, Incident Management, End User Computing (EUC), Vendor Management / Secure Third Party Relationships, Application Risk Assessment and Risk Mitigation, Information Classification, Secure Data Handling, and enforcement of Group Information Security Policies.    • Significantly increased D-BIRO engagement in first 8 months through vigorous information security awareness campaigns leveraging in-person town halls, workshops (lunch and learn) with on-demand electronic delivery of supporting materials  • Championed automated access & entitlement group creation / recertification tool and selection - this tool will reduce FTE resources required for compliance.  • Increased efficiency for annual rectification exercise by leveraging people, process and technology approach within new technical framework for regulatory requirements. (SOX, Toxic Combinations)  • Implemented EUC control processes with automated compliance tool to drive firm away from trust to verify based enforcement model  • Managed general information security and awareness program compliance within GB&M  • Created vendor management process incorporating risk-based approach to ensure effective compliance with new secure electronic communication policy  • Rolled out new Information Classification standards within GB&M  • Managed line of business compliance efforts ensuring timely completion of application security risk assessments and remediation action plans  • Lead subject matter expert resource for development of 3 year GBM Information Security Roadmap, introduced security maturity model for driving key success metrics  • Manage all internal and external audit remediation action plans, interface with regulatory bodies (FSA, FINRA, OCC, SEC)  • Implemented Incident Management support structure to leverage Group Corporate processes Associate Director, Information Security - IT Risk Management Support Privacy and IT Risk Management Office 2007 to 2008 risk mitigation / remediation initiatives as a subject matter expert surrounding business process re-engineering to support balanced business line risk reduction, policy and standards implementation, metrics / reporting, and guidance for financial services industry best practices within the IT Risk Management functional environment. Senior Consultant SENA Systems 2005 to 2007 Global Delivery Management & Compliance Practices    SENA Systems, a boutique information security consulting firm specializing in Identity and Access Management, Regulatory and Risk Management consultation for fortune 500 companies. Position responsibilities: Executive level consulting for business solutions to regulatory risks, delivery management and reporting for information security, risk and compliance initiates and project management oversight of globally distributed development teams for Identity and Access Management solutions delivery. Senior Manager, Information Security Governance AT&T Wireless 2000 to 2005 Enterprise Risk Management    Position required the development and maintenance of strategic alliances across multiple business units to ensure the Information Security Strategy was effectively communicated, implemented and measured. Resources were managed in a project matrix organization model utilizing business case roles and responsibilities to staff initiatives from multiple business units. This drove a highly efficient cost structure to work within a constrained budget. Computer Telephony Technology Integration Project Manager Prudential Financial 1999 to 2000 Statistician AT&T Wireless 1996 to 1998 Fraud Management - Key contributor to reduction in cellular cloning fraud - Utilizing data mining tools and statistical techniques, developed internal processes metrics and reporting strategies to balance deployment of resources. Fraud team successfully reduced cloning fraud by 90% in 1 year. Telecom Analyst AT&T Wireless 1994 to 1996 Education Masters Certificate in IT Project Management George Washington University 2000 B.S. in Business Administration West Virginia University 1992 Skills Strategic Planning, training, budget