DISA Enterprise Cloud Design & Cyber Policy Architect DISA Enterprise Cloud Design &amp; Cyber Policy Architect CEO: RMFCyber.com Waldorf, MD Cybersecurity Architecture and Assessment/Audit at the CISO level for policy and practice. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DISA Enterprise Cloud Design & Cyber Policy Architect ManTech - Quantico, MD May 2017 to February 2019 MD / Hanover, MD / Pax River NAS / Ft. Meade, MD ManTech  USCYBERCOM / US Army DCGS / DISA (Ft Meade, MD / Quantico / Pax River NAS)  Corporate cybersecurity principle advisor to CTO/RFP contracts. Advised multiple combatant commands/Pentagon program offices on secure cloud architecture schemas and instantiations. Certified audits of US Naval combat air defense systems maximizing operational Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability (CIA). Provided extensive architecture design work for DISA's 1st "onsite" secure SIPRNet cloud architecture (based on FedRAMP/NSA standards). Led effort resulting in ManTech's 1st eMASS Implementation Guide for Federal Customers Apriva (partner) DoD/DISA JWICS/SIPRNet Secure Mobile Smartphone Initiative - Fort Meade, MD April 2016 to March 2017 Completed the first successful operational cybersecurity assessment for the DoD's primary, secure mobile smartphone suite of technologies (SIPRNet mobility project). Led DISA's cybersecurity design and testing team/NSA interface team for the JWICS/MDM mobility initiative resulting in successful cross-domain solution, and full JWICS smartphone accreditation Lead Cyber Architect/Deputy PM The Library of Congress - Washington, DC March 2015 to February 2016 National Intelligence Agency/Office of Naval Intelligence (SAP) GBTi (partner)  Led the teams that successfully migrated Trusted-Agent FISMA to RSA Archer A&A workflow tracking of the NIST RMF systems lifecycle, successfully migrated The Library of Congress from an (external) contractor support model to an (internal) direct-government support model. Directed, led, and audited the first Congressional financial services FedRAMP cloud migration for the CFO resulting in champagne corks popping in the Office of the CFO. SECDEF Director of Security Physical & Personnel - Arlington, VA October 2014 to February 2015 FEDITC, Rockville, MD (partner)  Directed all teams and all facets for the (uneventful and) successful relief of Mr. Robert Gates (SECDEF) to Mr. Ashton Carter. Managed all cybersecurity for the blue-and-white fleet (e.g. Air Force-1). Oversaw all physical security of principles residences, national command center, remote locations, and 'the tank' ISHPI (partner) USCG - Washington, DC February 2014 to October 2014 PM in charge of shipbuilding cyber program and compliance. Successfully oversaw $1.2B LEGEND class USCG Cutter shipbuilding program (cybersecurity directorate/DHS). Brought in by invitation, TISCOM command, to bring USCG shipbuilding cybersecurity accreditation program "back on track". Global Network Manager/JITC Lab Manager/EMS Director DoD/DISA JWICS/SIPRNet Secure Mobile Smartphone Initiative - Arlington, VA September 2011 to February 2014 SAIC  (W-2) Follow-on task/increased responsibility from HAIPE Test Manager (prior position). Directed ten teams supporting $1.6B DGS world-wide OSS/EMS support contract. Oversaw ALL DoD OSS/EMS technologies,    deployments, ongoing maintenance, support and repair of ALL DoD defensive network systems. Successfully oversaw the largest-ever data center migration; completely moving DECC Hawaii to a new base location. Lab Manager HAIPE July 2011 to September 2011 FT George C. Meade, MD Technica  Tasked to personally complete all testing of the DoD HAIPE/TACLANE encryptor protocol for HAIPE Peer Discovery (HPD) protocol after previous testing contract failures. Successfully designed, wrote, and executed all test plans and reports to NSA/DISA senior staff and department Security Branch Chief. Setup, tested and documented all functional network lab environs, DNS-type simulators, and GemX HAIPE management. Built, configured, and executed testing on all SunOS/Solaris 10 servers, Juniper/JunOS routers and switches, KG-175x type encryptors, and performed all associated DoD documentation functions for a major DISA contract at JITC labs, FT Meade, MD. Resigned duties when DISA asked to take over management of entire JITC lab complex at FT Meade. Test Manager The Joint Chiefs of Staff - Arlington, VA November 2010 to July 2011 The Pentagon Clovis  Setup baseline test processes as Test Manager in charge of testing all deployable applications and security program deliverables for all SIPR/NIPR networks users (7,800 Joint Staff J1-J8 personnel) after a complete contractor staff changeover. Also acted as Sr. Analyst/tech lead in charge of all functional testing of over 178 user programs integration. Developed, documented and implemented all ITIL testing processes and procedures for all Joint Staff Networks (SIPR/NIPR) in the office of the CIO, The Pentagon. Also worked intimately with The Joint Staff Security Manager to mitigate a large number of IAVAs ensuring scans on all Joint Staff systems and image updates got 'back on track' to occur regularly and routinely. Help Desk Manager US Army - Newport News, VA July 2010 to November 2010 Lockheed Marin  Developed a comprehensive Help Desk for the Deployed Digital Training Campus and managed initial implementation prior to turning over to the US Army AKO Help Desk. This was a project two years overdue/delayed due to technical issues. Worked with the Army Program Manager Program Office, Distributed Learning Systems to actually get 10 systems fielded to the battle front (Afghanistan). Responsible for initially standing up a worldwide global network help desk w/all associated support requirement for a $15,000,000(x10) US Army deployable (satellite) Defense SIPR/NIPR Distributed Learning Management System, known as the Defense Deployable Training Campus (DDTC) initiative. Supervised/executed complex test plans, managed and supported DoD security domains architecture, built all long-term processes for Tier III worldwide support for systems deployed to the front lines of the GWOT. Performed 'hands on' IAVA testing & mitigation, satellite systems troubleshooting and assisted QA staff to (finally) actually get these systems fielded. Six-month contract successfully completed one month early due to partnering w/OEM satellite vendor to successfully fix eight broken satellite systems.    Northrop Grumman Multi-Divisional Support (4 Divisions/7 years): NSA Cyber Operator Training Academy (sole) Campus Administrator Northrop Grumman May 2009 to June 2010 Undisclosed Location/CONUS Northrop Grumman  Successfully fulfilled one-year contract to support Cisco/ SAN/ VMware/ Linux/ Microsoft Platforms Information Technology Specialist working as the sole System Administrator/Network Manager for the NSA UNCLASS training network. Responsible for managing the orderly shutdown of an NSA training network (and building) while maintaining and documenting all network infrastructures of all platforms (Cisco 2600/ Aironet/ ASA 5510, Dell PowerEdge/ M-1000E Blade server/ Powervault TL-4000, IBM E-Series, APC), virtual and physical networks, Cisco routers & switches, and Microsoft Server 2003/Office 2007 administration/network management for the education/training network for transport and reestablishment at a new project site. DoD/DISA/JITC Team Manager/Interoperability T&E Combat Systems Inspector Northrop Grumman - Indian Head, MD April 2005 to April 2009 MD JITC Facility Northrop Grumman  DoD/Joint Interoperability Test Command: Senior Dept. of Defense Test & Evaluation Engineer conducting planning, testing, data collection, data analysis, and report production in support of the Joint Interoperability Test Command (JITC) Interoperability (IOP) Exercise Teams by performing net-centric & interoperability evaluation/certification of Information Technology Systems (ITS) in support of the DOT&E during Joint/Coalition/Combined Exercises. Documented history of operating at the highest organizational levels functioning under limited supervision with a full range of responsibilities. Highly experienced presenting briefings to senior members of COCOMs, DoD, and staff. Represented the IOP Team and JITC at meetings across the DoD for combat and logistics systems. Advised the Team Leader on task progress and decomposed requirements and capabilities to support test planning for technical plans and reports.    More Previous Organizational Support: FBI Analyst -DMS to Microsoft Exchange Migration Northrop Grumman - Washington, DC 2003 to 2005 DC Northrop Grumman Enterprise Automation Engineer/MCSE Lead Engineer Allmerica Financial - Worcester, MA 1999 to 2002 MA Allmerica Financial IT Director/Manager/Lead IT Network Engineer Marlboro, MA 1997 to 1998 Network Integrity CEO Progenius Computers - Brighton, MA 1995 to 1997 Progenius Computers, LLC Education Masters of Management Information Technology in typically Cambridge College 1997 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dana-beausoleil-45574410 http://RMFCyber.com