IT Systems Team Lead <span class="hl">IT</span> Systems Team Lead IT Systems Team Lead - Printpack Acworth, GA Work Experience IT Systems Team Lead Printpack August 2014 to Present Google GSuites Super Admin  ? Integrated with Active Directory  ? Manage Users and Groups  ? Google Drive Support  ? Trace email logs  ? Manage Access  ? Chrome OS and devices  ? Google Vault Super Admin - Litigation holds and Investigations  ? Microsoft Office 365 Admin *mail not used*  ? McAfee Web Gateway Admin  ? Opening / Blocking Sites  ? Managing Access  ? Reporting for HR  ? McAfee ePO  ? ERP Security - Enterprise One - JD Edwards  ? Manage Changes to Roles, check for SoD, Approve or forward to finance  ? Manage Changes to Users, check for SoD, Approve or forward to finance  ? Work with ERP team on excessive access  ? Environment Access  ? All-Out Security - ERP Segregation of Duties Software  ? Working with Finance on new SoD procedures  ? OneLogin Authentication  ? Provisioning Users  ? Active Directory User's, Groups and Security  ? AD Membership Monitor - Quest Membership Monitor  ? Change Users  ? Change access to ERP and file shares  ? Deprovisioning Users  ? Disabling account, including email access  ? Delegating account  ? Litigation hold, if required  ? Setting up for final deprovisioning  ? Manage Firewall Access - SecureWorks  ? Intrusion Prevention / Detection Systems  ? Respond to incidents / Trace to source / Remediate threat  ? Monthly Reporting - review Incidents with Director of IT  ? Some Firewall Rules  ? Manage Firewall Access  ? Second Level Help Desk Support  ? Windows / Mac Support  ? Minor Network Support IT Enterprise Security Analyst Printpack December 2008 to August 2014 Security Incident detection and reporting for all security breaches including viruses, malware, firewall and information misuse and theft  ? Responsible scheduling and remediating for internal and external vulnerability threat testing with Dell SecureWorks  ? Audit Maintain and Enforce Internal Segregation of Duties policies - JD Edwards EnterpriseOne  ? Google GSuites Super Admin  ? Responsible for provisioning / deprovisioning network / email users and mobile devices  ? Maintain and Support Active Directory Services on Windows Server 2008 for 4000 users focusing on user rights and privileges, Exchange 20007, Mac OS  ? Daily change monitoring of Active Directory  ? Second Tier Support for Help Desk and Systems Administrator operations including Windows 7, Mac OS, Gmail and Active Directory  ? Update exceptions in McAfee Web Gateway  ? Maintain and support Vault, Postini and Autonomy (HP) archiving and EDiscovery systems  ? Mobile Device Management in a mixed BYOD / Corporate Owned Device environment  ? Responsible for placing and maintaining litigation hold on electronic data including email  ? Query JD Edwards EnterpriseOne using SQL and MS Access Lead Computer Support Technician Wilton Public Schools July 2000 to November 2008 Manage and Support four technicians covering district including four schools and Central Office  ? Prepare and drop images using Altiris Imaging Software  ? Customize Internet Explorer for individual school and central office use  ? Track service requests using HelpSTAR Help Desk Software  ? Assisted in successfully converting Novell 3.11 to Novell 4 and Novell 4 to Windows 2003 servers  ? Maintain inventory records using iInventory's Lan Auditor  ? Maintain, troubleshoot, upgrade and repair IBM compatible Personal Computers  ? Install and maintain Network Software Programs  ? Troubleshoot and install scanners, digital cameras, Windows Mobile, Blackberry, printers, and other peripherals  ? Recommend curriculum based programs, assist in purchasing various software and peripherals  ? Assist in budget process, including recommending hardware, software and peripherals  ? Assist in deployment of annual computer purchases, including imaging and customization  ? Update student databases on various software programs annually Education Associate's Degree in Accounting Sacred Heart University - Fairfield, CT 1995 Skills GHOST, EXCHANGE, ANDROID, MOBILE DEVICES, IOS, SYMANTEC, MAC, MAC OS