Information Technology Systems Support Coordinator Information Technology Systems Support Coordinator IT Support Services Manager Brandywine, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Technology Systems Support Coordinator University of Maryland Mckeldin Library - College Park, MD March 2019 to Present Work under the direction of the Director of User System Support to provide IT services and support for workstation in a networked client/server environment.  Primary support staff for SCCM and Microsoft Windows management technology.   Create, implement, and deploy images for Libraries workstations utilizing Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT)/ Windows Deployment Services (WDS), WinPE, WAIK and PXE.  Develop and document processes to deploy Zero Touch Installation (ZTI) images for Libraries environment utilizing SCCM/MDT Operating System Deployment (OSD) as required.  Deployed methodologies for testing network performance and providing network performance statistics and reports for accountability.  Maintained DNS/AD group policy and domain rights.   Maintained Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) for labs and classrooms.   Communicate with the CAB per protocol, and participate in the change management process as necessary.  Test and implement workstation hardware, operating system and applications software installations security upgrades and system migrations In accordance with DSS policies and procedures configure.  Analyze, resolve and document problems as assigned by the DSS Help Desk.  Participate in the creation and maintenance of technical and customer service documentation, as well as administrative functions including but not limited to inventory control.   Setup and maintain user accounts in Active Directory and other databases. As well as advise, inform and train users on computer system operating procedures and policies.   Provide professional Tier 1 and Tier 2 phone support to users internally and externally remotely. Information Technology Manager Anne Arundel County Public Library - Annapolis, MD May 2015 to Present Responsibilities  • Managed all facets of Technical Support (Tier I, Tier II, and Tier III) for AACPL Information Technology.  • . Responsibilities include ensuring the effective and efficient operation of Library IT operations, equipment and resources.    ·        Supervised IT Support Department (Network Admins, Desktop Support Team and Database Admin) which included, maintaining schedules, training, counseling and performance reviews.   ·        Manage the help desk operations, provide data analytical support, and provide hands-on network engineering in support of network management and operations.  ·        Provide assistance to the library administration and staff on related technology projects and serving as member of task forces and committees related to technology.  ·        Develops and implements procedures covering the backup and recovery of systems, including the installation of necessary systems and training of support staff on the systems.  ·        Produced monthly status report to Chief of Support Services as well as (BOT) Board of Trustees.  ·        Monitor expenditures against appropriate budget for technology  ·        Implemented new (SLA) Service Level Agreement as well as new Ticketing System (HelpSpot) for AACPL.   ·        Performs IT security reviews to support compliance.  ·        Created AACPL’s Information Technology Strategic Plan for 2018-2020.  ·        VMware version 6.0/Hyper-V version 6.3 server configuration, deployment and maintenance.   ·        Office 365\2016 migration and deployment, Azure configuration and server migration.   ·        Configure, test and deployment of SCCM 2010 system updates and image push.  • Managed email\AD account creation, deletion, and administration for staff employees.   • Maintain and support LAN\WAN network, firewall and exchange system operations.     Accomplishments  My first year at AACPL consisted of Implementing Wi-Fi upgrade for 16 branch locations including HDQ. I was responsible for implementing Door Counters for all branch locations. Implemented a New Ticketing System to improve upon IT correspondence with Staff employees. Implemented the first (DRP) disaster Recovery Plan for AACPL for an Off-Site failover location. Configured SCCM for ease of application and software deployment.    Skills Used  Setup and configure VMware, for multiple servers, Hyper-v server configurations  SCCM configurations on Server 2012 r2  DRP configurations on Server 2012 r2  AD and Exchange Administration migration from 2008 to 2010 r2.  MIcrosoft Azure and Exchange 365 Enterprise Support Services\Help Desk Manager Bowie State University - Bowie, MD May 2013 to April 2015 Managed all facets of Technical Support (Tier I, Tier II, and Tier III) for the Division of Information Technology (DIT).  • Managed the day-to-day operations of the DIT Help Desk, including HEAT Ticketing System and PeopleSoft Time Reporting; generated specialized reports utilizing the Heat System and Crystal Reports (SAP).  • Supervised more than 20 students and professional technical staff that were responsible for campus-wide data networks, computer, and network operations. Assigned and coordinated work assignments and resolution of critical technical and procedural problems.  • Configured and deployed the first VMware/VDI laboratory at the University, which is housed in the College of Arts and Sciences; system consists of a 2012r2 server and virtual Windows 7 desktop; supports more than 5,000 users.  • Developed and presented reports, including a fiscal year budget forecast and ticket forecast, to identify existing and potential deficiencies in the current business systems and improve service to clients.  • Stayed up-to-date with technological developments related to computer hardware, software, and networks, as well as management practices, which involved reading publications, subscribing to Internet lists, attending conferences and workshops, and meeting with internal and external constituents.  • Managed email\AD account creation, deletion, and administration for students, faculty, and staff.  • Supported the Division of IT infrastructure, ranging from network and exchange to system operations.  • Daily administration of user, computers, and domains under Active Directory to support more than 5,000 users.  • Delegated group policy and domain rights.  • Developed a repository for campus student records using ImageNow and (.NET, MS SQL 2012) for migration.  • Provided project management of university-wide Windows systems, OS X, and Office upgrade and multiple proprietary software implementation phases; recommended hardware; procurement, purchase, configuration, and deployment; used desktop automation tools, including SCCM, Kace, and Casper, to manage networks.  • Created and managed the Service Level Agreement (SLA) between DIT and the campus community.  • Developed Requests for Proposals (RFPs) and Invitation for Bids (IFBs) related to specific College's information systems infrastructure, data center, and university VOIP telephone and network systems. Collaborated with the university purchasing department to negotiate vendor contract Terms and Conditions (T&C's), Service Level Agreement (SLA), and payment structure.  • Ensured a high availability of host computers and network resources, which included developing procedures to maintain LAN/WAN design and implementation, security, access and protection against viruses, hacker, vandals, and accidental user mistakes.  • Trained staff to recognize, identify, isolate, and resolve problems with information systems products and services.  • Managed multiple sustainable computer and instructional laboratories, Images, A/V, VDI as well as campus-wide network and system refresh.  • Implemented and maintained inventory control and asset disposal system for DIT and the campus community. Information Technology Manager University of Maryland (UMD) March 2011 to May 2013 School of Public Health (SPH)  • Planned, organized, and executed all IT functions and A/V for the School of Public Health.  • Supervised and trained all IT support staff, including an IT Support Assistant and multiple graduate and undergraduate student employees.  • Initiated and chaired the DIT A-Team Committee, in which all units of DIT met to discuss methods to improve service to clients.  • Performed salary administration and conducted interviews for new hires and replacement personnel.  • Prepared personnel budget reports to assist with planning and forecasting.  • Directed and prioritized the workload of assigned personnel.  • Analyzed complex business needs presented by each department chair and recommended technical solutions.  • Coordinated desktop support for PC and Macs, which included providing remote support, advising computer purchases, setting up new computers, troubleshooting existing PC and Macs, maintaining software standards, and implementing and managing computers; used Casper, Kace, and SCCM for virtual desktop management.  • Implemented a VMware/VDI laboratory for the School of Public Health; system consists of a 2008r2 server and supported more than 2,500 users.  • Project management to ensure consistency and maintainability of existing applications by creating, maintaining, and enforcing standards/procedures for implementing the best technical solutions.  • Approved all business requirements prior to the implementation of an IT solution.  • Created an IT Board to evaluate hardware, software, warranty, and vendor contracts.  • Implemented and configured the HelpSpot Web based Ticketing System using PhP, Apache, and MySQL.  • Managed server support for the file share server, Media Room server, software upgrades, Ticketing System Server, and monthly back-ups and billing cycles for eight (8) different departments.  • Assisted faculty and students with Blackboard to Canvas migration and training.  • Researched and provided technical guidance for all major IT and A/V projects within the School of Public Health, including Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI), Camtasia, and miscellaneous project implementation deadlines.  • Maintained software and hardware inventory for SPH via the UMD Financial Records System. IT Network Coordinator University of Maryland (UMD) May 2008 to March 2011 Samuel Riggs IV Alumni Center  • Managed Tier I, Tier II, Tier III support via web-based ticketing system.  • Educated and trained alumni staff as well as student interns on basic applications.  • Daily administration of user, PC/Macs, and domains under Active Directory and MS Exchange 07.  • Installed, configured, maintained, and troubleshooted all network issues, operating system workstations and servers, including web servers, in support of UMD Alumni Division specifications.  • Deployed, configured, maintained, and monitored active network gear, including switches, routers, firewalls; responsible for IP Address distribution and inventory.  • Collaborated with technical services team (DIT) to assess near and long-term network capacity needs; designed and implemented strategic plans to ensure that network capacity met existing and future requirements.  • Created and maintained documentation as it related to network configuration, network mapping, processes, and service records.  • Developed, implemented, and maintained policies, procedures, and associated training plans for network administration, usage, and disaster recovery.  • Developed and deployed methodologies for testing network performance and providing network performance statistics and reports.  • Performed network asset management, including maintenance of network component inventory and related documentation.  • Conducted testing and development of disaster recovery plans to detect faults, minimize malfunctions, and backup systems to enhance network functionality.  • Documented the WLAN's architecture, design, and layout, including protocols. Network Administrator (Contractual) Global Securities Information\Thomson Reuters - Washington, DC August 2006 to May 2008 Created, maintained, and updated ticket issues using the Peregrine System.  • Documented new policies and procedures daily reports using Crystal Reporting.  • Daily administration of user, computers, and domains under Active Directory.  • Delegated group policy and domain rights.  • Deployed, configured, maintained, and monitored active network gear, including switches, routers, and firewalls.  • Setup and established multiple video conference meetings in remote locations using Avaya and Polycom telephony video integration capabilities.  • Troubleshooted, configured, and supported Mac OS X.  • Maintained and backed-up Windows Server 2003 daily, consisting of multiple servers, mainly MS Exchange and two shared network servers.  • Norton Ghost imaging and processing of new and refurbished systems. Provided basic desktop support for multiple users on-site and remotely. Analyzed workflow, access, information, and security requirements; designed router administration, including interface configuration and routing protocols.  • Maintained network validity by evaluating network performance issues including availability, utilization, throughput, goodput, and latency; planned and executed the selection, installation, configuration, and testing of equipment; defined network policies and procedures; established connections and firewalls.  • Assured network performance by conducting network monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning.  • Secured the network by developing network access, monitoring, control, and evaluation.  • Designed and conducted training programs for users; provided references and support.  • Upgraded network by collaborating with vendors; developed, tested, evaluated, and installed enhancements.  • Adhered to Thomson Reuter's financial requirements by submitting information for budgets and monitoring expenses. Systems Analyst (Contractual) National Science Foundation - Arlington, VA November 2003 to August 2006 Managed and implemented procedures for configuring proprietary applications and software on desktops and laptops for Interactive Panel Systems at the Tier III level for the National Science Foundation.  • Analyzed existing systems and business models for upgrade implementation.  • Mapped and documented interfaces between legacy and new systems.  • Project management of software development lifecycle to conform with best IT practices.  • Developed client requirements into highly specified project briefs as they related to Panel Systems.  • Identified options for potential solutions and assessed them for both technical and business suitability.  • Conducted requirements analysis and prepared specific proposals for modified or replacement systems, which consisted of producing project feasibility and costing reports.  • Worked closely with colleagues, developers, testers, and a variety of end-users to ensure technical compatibility and user satisfaction; ensured that budgets were in compliance and deadlines met.  • Managed the implementation of a new data migration system, including supporting users on change control and system updates; provided training to users of new systems, keeping up-to-date with industry developments. 31L Cable Systems Installer/ Technician Medical Discharge March 2003 to November 2003 United States Army  • Managed a three-person team to install, operate, and maintain communications security devices.  • Installed and repaired circuits and wiring; calibrated and aligned equipment components.  • Interpreted and updated line route maps and overlays to coordinate team logistic requirements.  • Performed unit level maintenance on cable and wire systems, including Digital Group Multiplexers (DGM), Remote Multiplexing Combiners (RMC), repeaters, restorers, telephones, test stations, intermediate distribution frames, and related equipment.  • Configured DGM and RMC for operations. Installed, operated, and performed PMCS and unit level maintenance on COMSEC devices, splices, and fiber optic cable systems.  • Performed tests on cable communications systems to ensure circuit and system quality. Tested circuits/groups to detect and locate line faults. Junior Enterprise Security Analyst (Contractual) Talk With Us - Olney, MD May 2001 to March 2003 Analyzed security applications in a test lab environment, which consisted of identifying internal and external security risks through access of information and network traffic.  • Managed the information security policy lifecycle, including policy creation, maintenance, and decommission, policy exception/waiver management process, and policy change requests.    • Assessed information security risks of new projects and non-standard IT requests using risk assessment methodologies; used an understanding of advanced security protocols and standards and solid knowledge of information security principles and practices.    • Coordinated cross-functional team meetings to remediate previously identified security risks and closeout pending action plans.    • Designed, developed, deployed, and supported information security systems and solutions, such as strong authentication, key management, IPS, SIEM, and antimalware.    • Proactively assessed potential items of risk and opportunities of vulnerability in the network.    • Interacted with internal and external customers on security-related projects and operational tasks.  • Performed security checks on the machine level, including IBM, Dell, HP, Mac, and Compaq systems.  • Performed hardware configuration, which consisted of extended RAM, installation of hard drives and NIC cards, as well as preventive maintenance on customized computers.  • Provided support at the network level and system level using Win .NT 4.0 & 2000 Server platforms. Specialized in securing resources on Windows Servers and Linux platforms.  • Implemented Kerberos v5, NTLM Down-level Client, Certificate-based, and Remote Access Authentication. Education M.S. in Information Systems Strayer University June 2007 B.S. in Network Administration Strayer University June 2003 Diploma in Computer Electronics Computer Learning Center June 1999 Skills Vmware, exchange (10+ years), Strategic Planning (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), SQL, Disaster Recovery, Active Directory, Cisco, HTML Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES:  Windows Server 2016, 2012, 2008, 2003, Windows NT Server, Active Directory, Windows Vista, Windows 8, 7, and XP, Mac OS, Desktop Support, MS Office 2003, 2007, 2010, 2012, and 365, HTML, PhP, MySQL, MS SQL, Apache, MS Exchange 365, Azure, Server 2008 R2 and 2012, TCP/IP, DNS, WINS, DHCP, LAN/WAN, Cisco, Semantic Ghost 2015, Acronis True Image, PC Anywhere 10.5, VERITAS Backup Software, SANS Backup, RAID, Wireless Technology, Visual Basic 6.0, Visual Studio, Visio, SharePoint, Red Hat Linux, Ubuntu    Hardware/Software: IIBM, Dell, Compaq, Gateway, Mac OS X. Knowledge of all hardware necessary to build, service, and maintain PC’s and servers. VMware, Hyper-Routers, Switches, Firewall Configuration, Computer peripherals. Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI), MS Office (Pro), Office 365, MS Windows Ver. 3.x, MS Windows for Workgroups, Norton Utilities, PC-Tools, WordPerfect Ver. 5.0, 5.1, and 5.2, WordPerfect Executive, Adobe software, Avaya products, Crystal Reporting (SAP), Remote desktop control (Kace, SCCM, and Casper), VPN configuration, Smart Board, Blackboard, PeopleSoft, ImageNow, Matlab, SPSS.