Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst - Douala IT Germantown, MD A Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A) professional knowledgeable in Risk Management Framework (RMF), Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Security Life Cycle and Vulnerability Management using FISMA, and applicable NIST standards. A proven project and team lead with aptitude for good customer service, and excellent communication skills. Functional areas of expertise include:    • Information Systems Security  • Vulnerability Assessment  • System Documentation  • Privacy Policy  • Project Management and Support  • POAM Remediation    • Security Life Cycle  • Systems Risk Assessment  • Systems Development Life Cycle  • ATO Packages  • A&A process Support  • Help Desk Support Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Douala IT - Baltimore, MD September 2015 to Present • Develop, review and update Information Security System Policies, System Security Plans (SSP), and Security baselines in accordance with NIST standards, FISMA requirements, OMB III A-130, and industry best security practices.  • Apply appropriate information security controls for Information System based on NIST 800-37 rev1, SP 800-53 rev4, FIPS 199, FIPS 200 and OMB A-130 Appendix III.  • Work with stakeholders to review system and network vulnerability scan reports in order to identify and remediate potential risks.  • Update IT security policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines according to department and federal requirements.  • Develop and review security artifacts such as System Security Plans (SSP), Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M), Security Control Assessments, Configuration Management Plans (CMP), Contingency Plans (CP) and Incident Response Plans (IRP).  • Develop Rules of Behavior (RoB), Interconnection Security Agreement (ISA) and Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for system assigned to me. IT Security Policy Analyst Marriott International - Bethesda, MD October 2011 to August 2015 Reviewed user accounts and access on a monthly basis to ensure regulatory and corporate compliance.  ? Facilitated changes in the overall region policies to ensure alignment with the industry standards including Development and Review.  ? Ensured the proper documentation of Procedures and Policies as well as identifying gaps.  ? Conducted comprehensive assessments of the management, operational, and technical security controls employed within or inherited by information systems to determine their overall effectiveness.  • Reviewed and validated compliant to the Risk Management Framework (RMF) Security Controls, Plan of Action and Milestones (POAMs) on OPERA, PMS and Marsha. IT Help Desk Associate Marriott International - Washington, DC August 2008 to September 2011 Trouble shooting remotely through diagnostic techniques  ? Recording trends, events and issues on logs as well as their solutions (PMS & MARSHA)  ? Assist Associates with log in and password challenges  ? Identifying and suggesting any possible improvements on procedures (Check in/Billing)  ? Directing unresolved technical issues to the next level of Support  ? Training new Hires on unique aspects of the system (OPERA/PMS/MARSHA) Operations Manager Marriott International - Leeds July 2005 to July 2008 Planning and implementing projects to help increase guest satisfaction survey scores, especially room cleanliness  ? Actively followed up with any guest issues to ensure customer satisfaction.  ? Prepared schedules for associates to ensure adequate coverage and effectively controlled labor costs.  ? Conducted team project management efforts including facilitating work group meetings, tracking key deliverables, and providing formal status updates to management Education B. A hons in Resort Management Metropolitan University Skills OPERA, SHAREPOINT, NESSUS, SPLUNK, PEOPLESOFT, LMS, MAC, MAC OS, WINDOWS XP, MICROSOFT OFFICE, Cyber Security, Nist, Information Security, Comptia, It Security, Network Security, Information Assurance, Cybersecurity Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  Windows XP/Vista/7/8/8.1/10, Mac OS X Microsoft Office Suite, SharePoint, Splunk, McAfee Virus Scan Enterprise, Nessus, GRC RiskVision, MARSHA, PeopleSoft, PMS, LMS, OPERA, FEDELIO, ON DEMAND FINANCIAL, SPARK.