SR. CLOUD ENGINEER SR. CLOUD ENGINEER SR. CLOUD ENGINEER Mesa, AZ Technically advanced Information Technology specialist successful in cloud design, systems and networking infrastructure. Multi-disciplined in Security, Networking, DevOps, Cloud infrastructure, and Systems Engineering. Work Experience SR. CLOUD ENGINEER DIGITAL AIR STRIKE June 2018 to June 2019 Designed and implemented Azure, AWS, GCP and on-prem network infrastructure.  Designed and migrated new subscription Azure models based on Microsoft best practices.  Assisted leading the company integration of cloud components after the acquisition of other companies.  Created a cloud creation, naming convention, best practice guideline.  Started automation scripts based in Terraform (Outside Kubernetes) and Helm charts  Started Architecting Cloud Security, DevOps, Cloud Big Data with machine learning on the horizon. DEVOPS ENGINEER\ IT SECURITY ANALYST GRAND SIERRA RESORT January 2014 to June 2018 Researched new trends and technologies leading to testing and justification for deployment.  Created a self-sustained Docker containerization environment with bash scripts in hybrid ephemeral environment.  Started cloud initiative in late 2015 moving all web based to Azure and AWS.  Designed and maintained websites.  Developed training materials and procedures.  Installed and performed repairs to hardware, software and peripheral equipment, following  design and installation specifications.  Answered user inquiries regarding computer software and hardware operation.  Oversaw local IT infrastructure including servers, security, networking, storage systems and desktops.  Develop and maintain policies and procedures for System Administration while upholding industry standards manage and perform security upgrades and monitor security prevention logs. IT HELPDESK TECHNICIAN PEPPERMILL INC April 2008 to January 2014 Imaged new computers using Ghost Cast server and installed applications as needed per user.  Performed second-level support for all workstation and server class systems.  Conducted computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems and provide technical assistance and support. Education BS in Cloud and Systems Administration in Cloud and Systems Administration Western Governors University - Work at Home February 2017 to Present Electronics School in Electrical Engineering US Coast Guard Electronics School - Petaluma, CA April 2003 to December 2006 Skills Active directory (Less than 1 year), application design (Less than 1 year), Asset management (Less than 1 year), Aws (5 years), Bash (Less than 1 year), containerization (4 years), Engineer (5 years), Firewall (Less than 1 year), Gcp (1 year), Help desk (Less than 1 year), Jira (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), scripting (Less than 1 year), Security (5 years), Vmware (Less than 1 year)