IT Sr. Project Manager-Product Owner/Sr. Business Analyst/Test Management (Client Side) <span class="hl">IT</span> Sr. Project Manager-Product Owner/Sr. Business <span class="hl">Analyst</span>/Test Management (Client Side) IT Sr. Project Manager/Sr. Business Analyst/Product Owner Los Angeles, CA A senior IT/IS professional with extensive domestic and international project experience. Sr. Project Management, Sr. Business Analyst, Validation Engineer, Test Manager/Lead, QA Management and SQA Tester expertise/services are provided. Experience in various industries in Entertainment, Pharma/BioTech/Healthcare, Banking (ATM, POS, Payments, Settlement), Financial Services/ Securities (Previously licensed Stock Broker & Floor Trader), Web, eCommerce, Education, Real Estate, Aerospace, (Development, COTS, Production Support) and infrastructure projects including the following strengths:   • Project Management Certification & experience with multiple Project life cycle methodologies (Agile/Product Owner/ScrumMaster, RUP/UML, Waterfall, PMI/PMBOK, Global Systems Methodology,)   • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, and process re-engineering expertise  • Extensive Quality Assurance, Validation and IT testing background (Unit, Functional, Integration, Regression, UAT, white-box, black-box, load, performance, smoke, End-2-End (E2E), IQ, OQ, PQ) with use of manual and automated test tools   • Preparation of all project life cycle documentation, (URS, FS, DS, Trace Matrix Test Plans, Test Scripts, Use Cases, Test Cases, Validation Master Plans, IQ, OQ, PQ, Gap Analysis, Final Summary Reports, etc.)   • Strong knowledge of FDA Regulatory Requirements (21CFR Part 11, 210, 211, 820, EMEA, ERES, Healthcare Regulatory)   • Requirements (HIPAA), Knowledge of Sarbanes-Oxley Regulations, Global Harmonization Task Force guidance), GMP/GxP Certified, CAPA, GAMP5, IQ/OQ/PQ Validation, Integration/Regression/UAT testing, and documentation preparation and execution, Computerized Systems Validation (CSV, Equipment and Environmental (FQ's)); FMEA and FTA hazard analysis)   • Extensive experience with Data Migration projects (ETL, Data Cleansing, Verification, Conversion, Tableau, etc.)   • Utilization of ISO 9000, 9001, 14971, 13485, ITIL, IEEE Standards and others • Change Control Management experience   • Experience with SAP/R3 application modules and SAP application interface projects Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Sr. Project Manager-Product Owner/Sr. Business Analyst/Test Management (Client Side) Sony Studios - Culver City, CA January 2014 to January 2019 • Provided consultant services on multiple projects throughout the life of the contract primarily supporting Motion Picture and TV user communities. Agile and Waterfall project methodologies utilized.  • Client-side Project Manager (Product Owner/SME) interfacing with development vendor tam, internal departments and end-user community for motion picture production multi-component project consisting of SaaS 'lift and shift' (en prem to vendor hosted cloud) project, mobility/MDM conversion project interfacing with vendor hosted cloud-based application and new development of motion picture deal management application, and provided data migration/conversion analysis. Provided internal IT regression and UAT test management and test execution for all applications. Provided client-side management/coordination of out-sourced ServiceNow instance implementation, migration of ' en prem' ServiceNow database records to vendor instance, testing, disaster recovery. Primary author of the Deal Management application Functional Specifications. Liaison to internal technical, security, development, corporate, legal, management resources and multiple end-user communities. Provided internal project budget management.  • Provided interim/back-up end-user support, prepared functional requirements and test execution for motion picture Production financial application pre-hack and post-hack. Provided primary support of proprietary Deal Management Citrix based application.  • Contract Management Application: Provided various services to support the Legal Team for development of replacement proprietary contract management application. Functioned as Business Analyst; end-user requirements preparation, data restoration/retrieval analysis, application testing, preparation of User Guide and provided end-user training services. Worked with various colleagues throughout the life of this project required as a result of the hack.  • Participated in multiple projects post-hack to stand-up, replace and/or restore motion picture, television applications. Also a home video/vod (single project was cancelled).  • Performed laptop re-imaging, file share creation, data security analysis, data retrieval/restoral, mobility Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM) replacement support. Provided SharePoint Administrator services as well.  • Worked in conjunction with Center of Excellence to re-develop enterprise wide QA/UAT testing processes and procedures. Participated in Quality Center re-configuration and provided IT/QA staff training.  • The projects environment included Citrix, Business Objects, Tableau, Jasper, ServiceNow, JIRA, interfacing with vendor hosted AWS Cloud environment, IDM, Scenechronize, SharePoint, Aspera, GoogleDocs, several COTS applications, in-house developed applications and data management and tools. Sr. Project Manager/Business Analyst Amgen, Inc - Thousand Oaks, CA October 2013 to December 2013 Client Facing)/Business Intelligence/Business Object Validation Project) • Functioned as Project Manager/Business Analyst/Validation Test Support for the Product Complaints Metrics and Trending system (PCMT) Phase 2 data migration project. (This was a back-fill contract to replace original PM for project completion.) This project required additional data migration from the IRPC system database to the PCMT system database, ETL code changes, EDW changes, created and modified new/existing validated Business Objects and ad-hoc reports.  • Responsible for maintaining the Project Plan, project team working session coordination, prepared test schedule of all required project testing activities (UAT, Dry Run, RT1, IQ, and OQ).  • Prepared the project Requirements Specifications, modified the existing Design Specifications, reviewed Business Objects reports.  • Interfaced with the Validation Department team to verify requirements, test cases and provide OQ testing support for the project (technical test execution, test script review, etc.). Interfaced with Business Users, Quality Assurance, and Development resources.  • Utilized SharePoint, Microsoft Office, Business Objects, HP Quality Center and proprietary tools. International Sr. Business Analyst Universal Music Group - Woodland Hills, CA February 2012 to September 2013 Client & Vendor Facing) • Primary Project: Conversion project from an IBM legacy platform (TRACS) application to a new vendor web-based COTS application with client specific modifications for International Business Users.  • Responsible for the analysis and documentation of processes, procedures, requirements for the multi-phase implementation of the International Royalty System (Royalties, Rights, Participation, Copyright (Works, Claims, Sales, Contracts, Licensing) and Sales File processing. Agile and Waterfall project methodologies utilized.  ? Interfaced with the domestic and international Business Users &SME's (traveled to Amsterdam), UMG Technical IT team, various UMG resources located at multiple sites, and the external development vendor analysts and management.  ? Reviewed the vendor created Functional Specifications, coordinated team meetings, creation of GUI mock-ups, use case creation, analysis of external interfaces, mapping and analysis of the various database schemas and data files for downstream applications, data warehouses & external systems. Performed analysis and prepared the UAT Test Plan and UAT Test Scripts.  ? Utilized TRACS, SharePoint, Microsoft Office, TOAD, proprietary applications and Master Data websites, and tools.  • Additional Projects: a) EMI merger project: Preparation of Functional Specification for translation of EMI sales files as a result of the b) Domestic and International Royalties processing systems project: Performed data validation of sales file exports, data analysis/verification of data outputs of exported files to downstream apps, data warehouses & external systems), reports, sales files, and contract modules of the. Sr. Project Manager(Scrum Master)/Business Analyst- (Client Facing)/CODE Amgen, Inc - Thousand Oaks, CA January 2011 to January 2012 • Functioned as Sr. BA for three different project streams, supporting domestic & international user groups.  • Implementation of scheduled software releases for the Clinical Trials Division to web-based COTS applications. The environment included Business Objects, DataFlux (legacy system), eClinical, Cognos Reports, JIRA, Confluence, Data warehouses (ETL) environment.  • Interfaced with the domestic and international Clients, onshore & offshore Development Teams which included HP Quality Center & Center of Excellence, Vendors, Project Managers and Senior Management.  • Provided support during the UAT process and issue resolution for applications and reports.  • Prepared reporting project requirements, participated in design, development, review of ETL modifications, data analysis for data warehousing for reference data and reporting, creation of report mock-ups, and use case creation.  • Developed testing methodology and preparation of UAT test scripts, test execution when required (system/UAT/Performance).  • Maintained JIRA (production issues and project enhancement tracking) application for all projects.  • Monitored and assisted in risk identification, risk assessment and risk mitigation.  • SharePoint Administrator maintained project documentation for assigned sites.  • Review/evaluation of vendor Design documentation and vendor System and UAT testing documentation, development of new processes, procedures and documentation whenever appropriate.  RUP methodology practiced at this client site. Senior Business Analyst/Lead Validation Engineer Boston Scientific - Valencia, CA November 2010 to December 2010 • Conversion project of an IBM legacy platform application to NetRM, a new vendor web-based COTS application with client specific customizations, required to satisfy FDA 483 Consent Decree. Agile project methodology utilized • Returned to previous contract (12/09 to 8/10) below. Preparation, review and execution of Validation Test Scripts for Crystal Reports. Regression and UAT tested post implementation modifications for the NetRM and SAP applications. Validation Specialist/Project Manager (Scrum Master) Genentech - San Francisco, CA August 2010 to November 2010 • Provided Project Management of three infrastructure and functional validation projects.  • Responsible for project management for SAP application modules Risk Assessment projects, maintained project schedule and resource coordination/management. Agile project methodology utilized.  • Performed risk assessment tasks for SAP-R/3 & SAP-GRC Complaint User Provisioning (CUP).  • Performed Compliance audit, research and analysis of current SAP functional modules (R/3, APO, BW, EPB, SCM, SMP, etc).  • Prepared Validation Testing documentation (Prepared (Preliminary Hazard Analysis (PHA), Component Functional Criticality Assessment (CFCA), Risk Management Reports, Project Charters, and Validation Project Plan) for (3) infrastructure and functional validation projects, which included the Supply Chain Management module for the Warehouse and Plant. (e.g. R/3 Linux Migration projects, SAPGui validation).  • Utilized GoogleDocs, SharePoint and Documentum for project tracking and document repositories. Senior Business Analyst/Validation Test Manager/QA Lead Boston Scientific - Valencia, CA December 2009 to August 2010 • Conversion project of an IBM legacy platform application to NetRM, a new vendor web-based COTS application with client specific customizations, in order to satisfy FDA 483 Consent Decree.  • Implementation of the NetRM Complaints Handling System & CRM, Non-Conformance Module upgrade, and Electronic Medical Device Report (eMDR) functionality. Applications interfaced with SAP and DataFlow. Agile project methodology utilized.  • Performed Compliance audit on the associated Non-Conformance Module to determine the need for software application upgrade to the platform.  • Prepared project Risk Assessments, Functional Requirements, Business Process Requirements, Use Cases, Functional Design Specification, Test Plan, Data Migration Plan, Requirements Traceability Matrix, Functional Test Specification, Validation Test Scripts, and Validation Test Summary Reports, SOPs, Crystal Report Test Cases, • Management of test team resources, test case development by test resources, test schedule, Functional and Integration Test execution, informal training of testers for test execution, and Use Case creation.  • Interfaced with End-users, Stakeholders, Steering Committee, FDA, and staff located at other Boston Scientific facilities.  • Prepared/executed SAP interface tests for patient, product, facility, supply chain/fulfillment, reports and other Master Data system updates, uploads, both initial and incremental.  • Utilized SharePoint (Administrator) and Documentum for document repositories, and TrackWise for project tracking.  • Provided Process re-engineering changes for various departments in support of the software implementation. Configuration Management Analyst and Senior Business Analyst St. Jude Medical - Sylmar, CA June 2009 to December 2009 Rockwell MES (Manufacturing Execution System) • Performed maintenance, configuration, and 24/7 production support (onsite & remote) of the web-based Rockwell MES interfaced to MFGPro legacy application systems. SharePoint Administrator (used for project tracking, issues and document repository). Applications interfaced with MFGPro via BizTalk.  • Responsible for BOM revisions, build management & promotions, creation and testing of new and modified MES application configurations, creation and execution of SQL queries, use case creation.  • Performed testing of MFGPro interface functionality, BOM revisions, supply chain management module of the MES application, data downloads and transmission errors, data analysis for data warehousing for reference data, logging and reporting.  • Facilitated training sessions for production and business staff.  • Prepared Functional Requirements, Test Scripts, Training Materials, and Functional Analysis, Standard Operating Procedures (SOP's). Interfaced with end-users, Software Quality Assurance, Development, Quality Assurance, Manufacturing, and Engineering departments. Sr. Validation Engineer (Product Owner)-(QC & QA)/ Site Project Manager B. Braun Medical - Irvine, CA August 2007 to March 2009 - Rockwell PMX MES (Manufacturing Execution System) • Conversion project from a legacy platform utilizing a manual Batch Record to a web-based COTS application with client specific modifications. Implementation of the Rockwell Pro-Pack PMX MES Electronic Master Batch Record to the paper production Master Batch Record for the EXCEL IV Bag Production lines were converted to an Electronic Batch Record for all nine production lines.  • Coordinated tasks for QC team members and resolution of QC related issues, interfaced with SME's and stakeholders (Engineering Functional Lead, Production Management, Validation Department, QC).  • Prepared User Requirements Specification, Use Cases, Functional Specification, Risk Assessment, Validation Plan, and Final Reports. Reporting System Requirements, project SOP's, (Corporate and MES), project Validation Protocols/Test Scripts, [(OQ)/Functional/Regression, PQ/UAT, CSCR's], Traceability Matrix, and Rockwell vendor Functional Specifications, Crystal Report modifications.  • Tested SAP and MES interface functionality, BOM revisions, data changes, supply chain management modules for MES and SAP systems, data downloads. Addressed all 21 CFR Part and Quality Management (QM & QA) issues. Performed Compliance Audit of existing Reporting Applications. Performed data warehouse analysis for reporting, transmission errors. Provided Process re-engineering changes for various departments in support of the software implementation.  Documentum Administrator tracked projects, document repository, tested Documentum changes. Validation Engineer/Sr. Software Testing Specialist - (CSV & IT- COTS Applications) Genentech - San Francisco, CA October 2006 to August 2007 • Prepared the project implementation documentation (Functional Specification, Report Specifications, Operational Qualification/Functional/Regression test scripts).  • Tested the Clinical Trials Service Provider Metrics application for both User Interface and Business Objects Report application/ Crystal Reports.  • Created/input test data, use cases, executed test scripts, and participated in implementation of production releases for several other enterprise validated and non-validated applications (TrackWse, Remedy, Documentum, Oracle Clinical/eClinical, Juno and other systems).  • Trained end-users and facilitated UAT testing. Provided and documented Process re-engineering changes for various departments in support of the software implementation. Project Manager/Validation Engineer - Computerized Systems Validation (CSV - COTS Applications) PAS-X MES - Garden Grove, CA July 2006 to September 2006 Leiner Health Products - Garden Grove, CA - 7/06 to 09/06  Project Manager/Validation Engineer - Computerized Systems Validation (CSV - COTS Applications)  Werum PAS-X MES (Manufacturing Execution System) • Coordinated Validation team tasks, managed project budget and project plan, interfaced with SME's, stakeholders.  • Performed Compliance audit of MES System interfaced with SAP Master Data and supply chain modules.  • Applied modifications to the existing User Requirements. Prepared project (SOPs) both Corporate and MES specific.  • Created Requirements Traceability Matrix reviewed and modified Werum vendor Functional Specification, Performance Qualification (PQ) document, Installation Qualification, (IQ) Operations Qualification rewrites.  • Preparation of project presentation documentation and materials addressed all 21 CFR Part 11 issues, Quality Management (QM & QA) issues.  • Documentum utilized for document repository. Project Manage-Scrum Master/Business Analyst DirecTV, Inc - El Segundo, CA October 2005 to July 2006 - eCommerce Production Development (ATG) • Managed application deployment tasks for the production and test environments every six weeks for COTS applications for developers, dba's, Regression Testing Group, IT and business users.  • Prepared project plans, deployment, rollback, communication and contingency plans, application enhancements analysis • Interfaced with Manager, Director, IT and Business departments, Denver office development resources.  • Assignment of release requirements to staff (ATG developers, dba's, content management resources, testers).  • Managed production updates, upgrades, data analysis, data migration and warehousing for reference data and reporting, new functionality, content changes and fixes. Utilized Automated test tools, prepared scripts.  • IT integration team SharePoint Administrator (tracked projects & document repository).  • The website included programming and commerce functionalities, (channel programming updates, equipment ordering, service orders and changes, customer merchandising, invoicing, payments processing), production releases every six weeks. Interfaced with the SAP application which required testing of several SAP financial and supply chain module due to the customer equipment and merchandise orders placed via the website. Sr. Project Manager/Business Analyst Pegasus Financial Services Group - Century City, CA July 2004 to October 2005 - eCommerce and legacy systems • Preparared User Requirements, management and implementation of production release software upgrades.  • Supported the Pegasus.com eCommerce website, the Encompass loan application, loan servicing and loan processing software, and commission payments processing, logging and reporting.  • Monitored project risk, knowledge of underwriting, loan products and loan pricing. Performed data analysis, data migration and data warehousing for reference data. SharePoint Administrator (project tracking& document repository).  • These projects involved web-based applications, IBM legacy systems (AS/400) and desktop applications. Business Analyst/EMR Conversion Project HealthCare Partners - Torrance, CA June 2004 to August 2004 Legacy Applications to COTS) • Short-term contract researching and documenting business and system requirements for various internal and external processes and procedures. Interfaced with SME's, Stakeholders, and end-users.  • Performed analysis for creation of the Request for Proposal (RFP) to be distributed to potential vendors for the proposed project, a complete system conversion to an Electronic Medical Record format. SharePoint Document Repository utilized. Validation Project Manager/Validation Engineer Johnson & Johnson - Vacaville, CA December 2003 to May 2004 • Manufacturing Systems Validation Project to respond to FDA 483 Consent Decree (PLC's, Sterilizers, Scales, Kaye Ovens, Air Quality, HVAC, etc.). Interfaced with SME's, Stakeholders, and end-users.  • Prepared and managed project schedule determined system and validation testing requirements for conversion of/or validation of manufacturing equipment (COTS apps and Legacy apps) which interfaced with legacy systems.  • Prepared and executed all project validation testing documentation (Installation Qualification, Operational Qualification/Functional, Performance Qualification/UAT, Final Reports). Addressed all 21 CFR Part 11 issues, Quality Management (QM & QA) issues. Documentum Administrator (project tracking & document repository). Global Project Manager/Business Analyst Baxter Biosciences Corporation - Westlake, CA October 2002 to December 2003 • Validation Project to respond to FDA 483 Consent Decrees for multiple facilities.  • Member of PMO (Project Management Office) participated in management the global remediation program for Computerized Systems (CSV), laboratory, (COTS applications and legacy systems), manufacturing and some enterprise systems. Agile/SCRUM project environment.  • Managed infrastructure projects, development of standard procedures, methodologies and strategies. Development of documentation templates preparation/review all project documentation, standard processes and process re-engineering for multiple international and domestic sites, data analysis, data migration and warehousing for reference data, logging and reporting, budget management, project timeline, risk, and staff. Interfaced with the various site Project Mangers, SME's and stakeholders. Projects included the conversion of legacy applications to web-based COTS applications.  • Addressed all 21 CFR Part 11, 820 and Quality Management (QM & QA) issues. Some applications interfaced with the SAP application modules (financial, supply chain).  • SharePoint Administrator (used for document repository & project tracking). e-Labs Global Project Manager/Business Analyst Pfizer, Inc - Sandwich April 2002 to September 2002 Validation • Member of the Project Management Office in the role of Global Project Manager for the e-Labs division of Pfizer.  • Managed the deployment of e-Labs global projects (RUP & UML methodology) - CyberLab application.  • Managed development and validation project team tasks, infrastructure and data storage (SAN), project validation tasks, risk identification/mitigation, budget, implementation of ERES requirements, data migration, data modeling, data warehousing for reference data, logging and reporting.  • Prepared project artifacts (URS, FRS, Detailed Design, Protocols). Developed standard methodologies, created use cases, re-engineered existing processes.  • Some enterprise applications interfaced with the SAP application. Documentum and SharePoint used for document repository and project tracking, Clarity utilized for production incident reporting. Sr. Project Manager/Business Analyst Alpha Therapeutics - Los Angeles, CA January 2001 to April 2002 • Member of the Project Management Office. Validation projects in response to FDA 483 Consent Decrees at multiple facilities. Performed Compliance audits on multiple manufacturing and laboratory systems.  • Managed application and infrastructure implementation and validation projects. Waterfall and RUP/UML project environment, implementation of ERES requirements, data migration, data modeling, data warehousing for reference data, logging and reporting.  • Managed data migration, storage, modeling, data warehousing for reference data, logging and reporting.  • Manufacturing and Donor Center based projects included analysis, documentation and testing of the supply chain processes and application modules. Provided Microsoft Project (Work Breakdown Structure (WBS)) training for designated IT Project Managers. Designed and developed standard project templates for (issues logs, IQ, OQ/Regression, PQ/UAT), risk log, WBS, etc. budget management, (SDLC & PMLC, Microsoft Project, Primavera). Prepared project documentation (Feasibility Study, SOW's, Vendor Audits, URS, FRS).  • Performed analysis, industry benchmarking, product evaluation, staffing, task assignment, and process re-engineering, • Interfaced with project SME's, stakeholders and provided presentations to Executive Steering Committee. Addressed all 21 CFR Part 11 issues, Quality Management (QM & QA) issues.  • Documentum and SharePoint used for document repository and project tracking. Sr. Infrastructure Project Manager - CRM Aspect Communications - San Jose, CA August 2000 to July 2001 Web B2B, B2C, DR - (Telecommuting Project as of 11/00 to 07/01) - Security • Managed multiple concurrent Infrastructure projects or infrastructure segment of development projects, project timelines, staff, budgeting, testing, issue tracking and resolution. Interfaced with stakeholders, external clients, and vendors.  • Prepared project documentation, URS, FRS, etc.  • Utilized PMI PMBOK practices, ISO 9000/9001standards, SDLC, Microsoft Project, Project Workbench. SharePoint used for document repository and project tracking. POS Project Manager - eCommerce Web B2B, B2C/Payments & Security Food.Com - San Francisco, CA April 2000 to July 2000 • Management of Interfaced with stakeholders, external clients, and vendors, integration, design of site transaction processing and implementation of security software of POS processing into the e-commerce sites of Food.com, Papa Johns, and TakeOut Taxi and Domino's Pizza.  • Interfaced with clients to develop User Requirements. Utilized PMI PMBOK practices, ISO 9000/9001standards, SDLC, PMLC, Microsoft Project. Education Certificate University of Phoenix 2008 Certificate Computer Learning Center - San Francisco, CA 1989 Fisk University - Nashville, TN Indiana University - Bloomington, IN Design Program Otis College Certifications/Licenses Project Management Certification Present