Security Analyst 2 <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> 2 Security Analyst - Sutter Health Carmichael, CA Work Experience Security Analyst 2 Sutter Health - Mather, CA March 2018 to Present Working on the Security Operations team in Technical Services, I am an administrator for both the CyberArk Enterprise Privileged Access Management tool and multiple FireEye network appliances. I  am responsible for day to day health and monitoring of the systems; incident tickets regarding the use  of the system; and, configuration and implementation of new modules and devices.  ? Built and implemented a High Availability CyberArk environment, which is the only  geo-diverse application in the organization  ? Successfully implemented Application Identity Manager (AIM) module of CyberArk for applications to seamlessly access vaulted credentials  ? Configured the hardware and software for FireEye NX and AX appliances for use by the Cyber Security team Service Desk Specialist, Level III/Lead Sutter Health - Mather, CA 2014 to 2018 Most of my time at this level was working as a Lead, engaging with department leadership to ensure the success of the agents, and handling service interruptions/outages while being a mentor to my  team. When Leads were transitioned to Tier 2 agents, I worked the most demanding customer  contacts.  ? Analyzed call and ticket data to provide feedback to agents on my team  ? Managed day to day floor operations of the department  ? Successfully shifted role to a Tier II tech handling more difficult and emergency customer  issues Service Desk Specialist, Level II Sutter Health - Mather, CA 2013 to 2014 As a Level II, I took on more responsibility both in project form and as a leader. Working on the night  shift often afforded me the chance to be the shift leader when no Lead was on, which meant being the person making decisions when it came to contacting executives as needed or escalating tickets  for clinical employees.  ? Served as unofficial night/weekend shift Lead  ? Coordinated routing matrix updates and enhanced existing process  ? Service Desk SME on Identity Access Management launch Service Desk Specialist, Level I Sutter Health - Mather, CA 2011 to 2013 I began working at Sutter as a contractor in March 2011. After the minimum six months, I was  converted to a full time employee due to my exemplary performance, both technically and in my  customer service scores.  ? Performed near the top of the entire department consistently  ? Edited Knowledge Management docs for syntax and content  ? Mentored three new agents as part of new hire training  ? Contributed training material to live training sessions  ? Volunteered to be shift backup to the Lead Systems Customer Service Representative Pitney Bowes - Sacramento, CA 2007 to 2010 IT Consultant, City of Sacramento CoreTechs, Inc - Sacramento, CA 2006 to 2006 Desktop Support Consultant Paperless Knowledge - Sacramento, CA 2005 to 2006 Education Security Certificate American River College December 2016 B.A. in English National University - Sacramento, CA October 2006 Skills SECURITY, SHAREPOINT, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, REMEDY, DLP, SYMANTEC, WINDOWS SERVER 2008