(contractor) IT Project Manager (contractor) <span class="hl">IT</span> Project Manager (contractor) IT Project Manager - Apple Inc Newark, CA • Specializing in wireless, networking, and information security infrastructure deployments  • Effectively planning, and managing projects from start to finish utilizing project management tools and methods  • Facilitating strong working relationships with global and local project teams and external vendors in multiple time zones Work Experience (contractor) IT Project Manager Apple Inc - Cupertino, CA April 2017 to Present • Manage any new labs requests including moves and lab expansions  ? Gather network requirements  ? Track network gear and coordinate installations  ? Coordinate DevNet and physical cabling resources  • Manage IT requirements in support of multiple ongoing Silicon Valley facilities projects  ? Coordinate lab and corporate network requirements  ? Order and track network equipment  ? Coordinate network engineering resources and schedules  ? Manage network and wireless deployments  • Manage DevNet team resources for multiple projects and requests  ? Assign and track project resources  ? Provide weekly management status  • Manage multiple DevNet team projects including a network design upgrade, core migration, iOS upgrades (1100), and EOL replacements (131) at multiple sites and datacenters  ? Coordinate requirements and resources  ? Order and track network equipment  ? Manage deployment and engineering resources IT Project Manager, Network & Infrastructure Veritas Technologies LLC - Mountain View, CA April 2016 to March 2017 • Led team to successfully migrate MPLS circuits to a new vendor over a 36-hour period with no unplanned outages at 31 sites throughout APJ, EMEA, and Americas  ? Coordinated site surveys with carriers  ? Coordinated design conversations and migration approach  ? Facilitated test plans for migration weekend  ? Completed physical site separation for five sites which includes separation of wireless, networking, physical security, telecom, etc.  • Managed network build-out of new data center at selected vendor site  ? Led team to design build out per security standards  ? Facilitated purchasing and delivery of network devices and circuits  ? Coordinated go live activities at vendor site  • Coordinated network infrastructure tasks to migrate over 120 applications to newly created data center  ? Facilitated changes during migration activities  ? Coordinated requested DNS changes during application cut over activities  ? Coordinated 24 x 7 network resource coverage for migration activities  ? Coordinated resources for any network troubleshooting activities  • Coordinated Firewall Change Expedite team for urgent changes needed during the application migration  ? Revamped clean process to facilitate and track approximately 15 firewall changes per day 24 x 7  ? Team consisted of four separate teams including three vendors with different firewall technologies  • Change Coordinator for networking team which included reviewing engineering change orders, facilitating tickets in ServiceNow tool, and presenting at Change Review Board meetings Senior IT Project Manager, Network & Infrastructure Symantec Corp - Mountain View, CA August 2013 to January 2016 • Successfully managed the planning, budgeting, purchasing, and deployment activities for two global wireless upgrade projects with a budget of $6m  ? Design and implementation of a secure global wireless infrastructure at 40 sites worldwide with an aggressive timeline and a small team  ? Design, configuration, and deployment of a new guest and employee wireless service which was positively received by users worldwide  • Assisted in planning, purchasing, budgeting, and deployment of a global network infrastructure to support the company separation which included network hardware and circuit installation  ? Deployment of a new global infrastructure which included core switches, routers, and circuits  ? Coordinated the physical separation of wireless, networking, physical security, telecom, etc.  • Utilized SharePoint to create a purchase order tracking process for approximately 300+ purchase orders  • Mentored project managers, business analysts, and support teams to help them navigate the company technology, culture, and processes (Consult/Contractor) Information Security Project Manager SRI INTERNATIONAL - Menlo Park, CA September 2012 to July 2013 • Reported directly to the Chief Information Security Officer to develop an Information Security program based on SANS 20 Critical Security Controls and NIST standards  • Managed planning and deployment of multiple security tools and processes such as a virus scan tool, secure configuration processes, a change management process, and penetration testing activities  • Designed and implemented a SharePoint site to publish a complete set of Information Security policies and standards  • Participated in project to deploy LanDesk  • Successfully led team to create and document incident response processes and procedures (Contractor) Acquisition Integration Business Analyst CISCO SYSTEMS, INC - San Jose, CA November 2011 to September 2012 • Successfully completed gap analysis by comparing/contrasting customer operations between Cisco and the acquired company contributing to an on-time delivery  • Led cross-functional teams to create integration processes utilized during migration period IT Business Analyst, Strategic Demand Management Symantec Corp - Mount View, WI June 2007 to November 2011 • Facilitated the account team comprised of business owners and technical staff to create a business requirements document that was ultimately submitted to a third-party vendor for a statement of work  • Projects included technology and infrastructure projects such as implementation of Symantec security products internally, updates to a Knowledge Management application, and enterprise-wide deployment of various end user computing products.  • Track record for successfully creating accurate business requirements documents in a short amount of time  Business Analyst, M&A Delivery Program  • Completed requirements gathering, creation of BRDs, business process redesign, and creation of a resource allocation model  • Carried out newly designed program including creation of PowerPoint templates and updating group SharePoint site  • Worked closely with Program Managers on current acquisitions by assisting in various project related tasks  • Collaborated to create and document an intake process for future M&A delivery projects  Information Security Project Manager  • Successfully managed projects under the Information Security and Compliance Program deploying Symantec security products internally which included a database security tool, a security information manager tool, a disk encryption tool, a PCI compliance tool, and an IDS/IPS tool.  • Facilitated positive relationship with Symantec Professional Services, Product, and Development Teams throughout the implementation process to resolve product issues and provide product feedback  • Utilized SharePoint to design an approval process to deploy approximately 40 Information Security Policies and Standards (Contractor), Information Security Project Manager SILICON VALLEY BANK - Santa Clara, CA November 2006 to February 2007 • Successfully managed Information Security tools such as an IT security scanning tool (web application scanner)  • Ensured that project team followed IT standards, processes, and tools while successfully passing all project audits (Contractor) Business Analyst CISCO SYSTEMS, INC - San Jose, CA May 2006 to October 2006 • Gathered requirements, created requirement documents, process flow diagrams, and test cases for Tax Provisioning project  • Successfully collaborated with external consultants to create process flows on time Business Analyst/Project Manager SILICON VALLEY BANK - Santa Clara, CA March 2005 to May 2006 • Managed a variety of security and infrastructure projects including a network upgrade, network monitoring tool, database auditing tool, back-up and restore software, an accounting and portfolio m8anagement tool, a secure VPN solution, and Anti-Money Laundering automation  • Contributed to processes and procedures in support of SOX audit SAP Business Analyst LSI LOGIC - Milpitas, CA November 1993 to December 2004 Global SAP Implementation Project, SAP APO Implementation Project, and ongoing SAP Support)  Senior Business Project Manager (HK Liaison)  Production Control Planner Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX - San Jose, CA Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/laurazelisko