IT Specialist, PKI System Administrator, Auditor, Trainer, Local Registration Authority <span class="hl">IT</span> Specialist, PKI System Administrator, Auditor, Trainer, Local Registration Authority IT Specialist, PKI System Administrator, Auditor, Trainer, Local Registration Authority Jersey City, NJ Exceptional resourceful and motivated Information Technology professional with over 16 years of  IT experience. Self-motivated with experience in various IT fields, including network and system administration, cybersecurity and Public Key Infrastructure. Served 10 years in the US Navy, incredibly reliable and trustworthy with an active security clearance. Go-Getter mentality, solid track record of providing the timely positive response to computer-related and organizational policies. Possess a bachelor's degree in information technology and Advance Cyber Security, strong work ethic that will aid any company in meeting milestones.    IT Management, Leadership, Analytical Thinker, Excellent Work Ethic, Communication, Project Management, Detailed Oriented, Problem Solving Analysis, Team Building & Training, Customer Service, Business Analysis Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Specialist, PKI System Administrator, Auditor, Trainer, Local Registration Authority OSI Vision/ NCMS Hawaii Detachment - Pearl Harbor, HI May 2013 to June 2019 May 2013-June 5, 2019    • Provides Customer service, reviews documents for all requested systems certifications, resolves general issues and recommends remediation and communicate sensitive information to all users, trusted agents and local registration for the Navy ships and afloat commands through the Pacific area of region.  • Directly assisted the Pacific AOR Registration Authority in preparing and passing the Defense Information System Agency (DISA) Registration Authority DOD Public Key Infrastructure and National Security System Public Key Infrastructure yearly audit.  • Acted as the liaison between ashore and afloat communities for DOD PKI policy standard procedures and guidance.  • Briefed senior leadership on audit reports detailing results of audit findings and provided recommendation for remediation in accordance to NSS PKI DOD Registration Practice Statement V10.  • Built, tested, updated and maintained Program of Records systems to ensure highest level of availability.  • Expertise in supporting DOD Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and Identity access management. Pacific Network Manager and Information Assurance Analyst Defense Information System Agency (DISA) Department of the Navy - Pearl Harbor, HI 2008 to 2013 2008 to 2013    • Managed and assisted in validation of security posture for 675 DISANet assets, ensuring all Information Security systems connected entrusted to the network properly, certified and accredited through rigorous DISANet certification such as Site Assist Visit (SAV), CCRI, and C&A.  • DOD PKI Support for DISA Pacific and Pacific AOR.  • Perform vulnerability/risk analysis of assigned information systems during all phases of the System Development Life Cycle; analyze vulnerability scan results, DISA STIGs and generate and maintain systems security POA&Ms.  • Led the Incident Response Team in reviewing network forensics evidence of 42 reported cases and sought out technical guidance on 97 suspected network incidents to ensure the highest level of network integrity and security posture.  • Managed security vulnerabilities and closed network gaps by ensuring 50 system administrators applied security patches to 22,000 circuits  • Supported and assisted in the development of system security packages based on current doctrine; assist with generating and maintaining security documentation such as Backup and Recovery Plans, Contingency Plans and System Security Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms) to ensure compliance with government security policies and procedures.    Previous Experience Sasebo, Japan Network Security and Network Administrator US Navy USS Essex 2006 to 2008 Virginia Beach VA ISNS LAN Administrator US Navy USS Harry S. Truman - Virginia Beach, VA 2002 to 2006 Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Kapolei, HI December 2018 Certificate University of Phoenix - Kapolei, HI December 2018 Skills It Audit Certifications/Licenses Security+ Present Secret Clearance Present