Project Manager at Sherwin Williams Project Manager at Sherwin Williams Cleveland, Ohio - Project Manager - Vital Resources Parma, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Manager at Sherwin Williams Vital Resources - Cleveland, OH October 2014 to Present • Coordinate Stores Group conversion of mainframe Accounts Receivable system to Oracle with a Java front-end. Provide expertise and organization to project on a fixed deadline that was already 1 year behind schedule.  • Train and mentor existing project manager in PMI standards and techniques plus meeting management skills. Introduced and implemented practical documentation framework and methods providing structure and format.  • Wrote business requirements and analyzed legacy code to assist with enhancement/replacement definition. Performed QA tasks using superior Excel expertise with custom macros and shared my methods with the team.  • Built the Reporting Hierarchy consolidating 24 tables, streamlining data collection and simplifying maintenance.  • Technical Competencies: IBM TSO / JCL. COBOL, MarkIV, Jira, Confluence. Forensic Accountant at Eaton Corp Randstad Technologies - Cleveland, OH January 2013 to July 2014 • Produced artifacts / documentation in support of Delaware Escheat Audit of Unclaimed Property. Balanced 9 complete years of archived documentation to current Accounts Receivable system extracts for Daily Cash, Sales and Discounts. Identified discrepancies, investigated cause and reconciled manual entries per state requirement. Provided follow-up documentation for sample months as requested by the Auditors.  • Produced supporting artifacts / documentation for Accounts Payable Audit test sample request under a tight deadline.  • Performed QA activities to support the successful conversion of GEAC Mainframe Accounts Receivable system to Oracle. Assisted conversion team by validating data feeds using Excel and custom macros.  • Technical Competencies: IBM TSO / JCL. FOCUS, CA Easytrieve, AMS collaborator. Project Manager supporting Audit, Compliance, Legal & IT Security Farmers Insurance Group - Cleveland, OH September 2008 to January 2013 Cleveland, Ohio 09/2008-01/2013  Project Manager supporting Audit, Compliance, Legal & IT Security  • Managed all IT Security and Audit projects, including remediation of findings and deficiencies in controls. Updated procedures and documentation. Produced all Management Audit Responses and generated PCI (Payment Card Industry) annual filings. All projects on time / under budget. Zero Ineffective findings on ALL Audit results (4 years).  • Coordinated resources and artifact collections for annual audit by Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP (PWC) and for the California Department of Insurance (DOI) by Ernst & Young. Perform data calls for DOI compliance.  • Designed strategy for eliminating software vulnerabilities using Veracode product. Implementation resulted in 95-100% flaw-free code in production for PCI compliance. Vendor requested participation in implementation case study.  • Supported Global IT Risk and Security for Bristol West, performing initial triage activities and addressing Employee Provisioning accountability and recertification for all Bristol West applications.  • Built, customized and maintained SharePoint (WSS) pages for multiple project collaboration. Customize applications using XML InfoPath and FrontPage.  • Technical Competencies: Sciforma PSNext, SharePoint, Veracode Scan and Visio Project Manager EIS - Cleveland, OH March 2007 to August 2008 Cleveland, Ohio - Project Manager  • Managed upgrade to Mitchell TruckEst 2.0 for all of Commercial Automotive (medium-sized trucks and semis). Addressed risks and contingency planning derived from Mitchell's merger with CCC Pathways. Assisted other project managers with standardizing Operating Procedures for the emerging Enterprise Project Management Office (ePMO).  • Technical Competencies: Primavera TeamPlay, SharePoint and Visio  On project at Medical Mutual of Ohio Insurance, Cleveland, Ohio - Project Manager  • Saved over $500,000 in software licenses by upgrading to Microsoft Gold Partner certification status, increasing marketing opportunities, adding benefits and visibility, and aligning with ISO 9001:2000 certified environment.  • Managed eBusiness projects. Supported web-based online application process based in Georgia and Ohio. Coordinated conversion of distributed systems in FileNet to Hyland's Software OnBase. Facilitated PCI compliance.  • Introduced and implemented PMO standards. Produced weekly management Status Reports, Earn / Burn reports and supported Executive Management. Wrote Disaster Recovery procedures for VMware and Single Sign On.  Technical Competencies: MS Project; Agile Scrum, SharePoint and Visio Lead Project Manager Ernst and Young - Cleveland, OH November 2005 to March 2007 Lead member of the PMO for Global Audit Management (GAMx), enabling auditors to collaborate in a decentralized environment, share data securely between team members & maintain team independence, with Groove peer-to-peer software.  • Coordinated, planned, tracked and reported activities of 100+ resource software development project.  • Full responsibility for Global Infrastructure to guarantee hardware availability including purchase and inventory. Coordinate upgrade of US, Stuttgart and Singapore data centers. Verified GWAN bandwidth for pilot software deployment.  • Supported Information Security compliance and in-house certification requirements.  • Assist with hands-on Quality Assurance testing and facilitated Global Review and Compliance activities.  Technical Competencies: MS Project Server; RUP (Rational Unified Process), MS Groove, SharePoint and Visio Senior Manager, Product Development Program, Medical IT Philips Medical Systems at the Cleveland Clinic - Cleveland, OH April 2004 to November 2005 Project Manager partnered with Cleveland Clinic Cardiology, building software prototypes on site, to expand clinical functionality in Philips Xcelera / Stentor software, for pediatric echo, adult cath and vascular, as part of a $50 million grant.  • Engineered requirements and specifications, as defined by CCF World Class Physicians with immediate feedback. Maximized effectiveness with optimal design turn-around and focused priorities. Incorporated clinical enhancements with urgency and accountability.  • Prototyped Xcelera image management for referring physicians. Compressed diagnostic quality images for secure thin-client exchange via Citrix client, content redirection and video streaming.  • Supervised a team of US and European development engineers and clinical analysts. Planned for future release using multi-site and off shore resources (Bangalore India) and modular components in C++, C# and .NET.  • Interfaced DICOM standard input into Xcelera and HL7 Results Out to HIS (Hospital Information Systems), including EpicCare, Last Word and ultimately SMS Invision.  • Conducted product demonstrations and training in the US and Europe at trade shows and executive meetings.  Technical Competencies: MS Project; Philips Xcelera / EnConcert / Inturis Suite; HL7; SQL Server; EPICCare; E-GATE Software Systems Testing Manager On project at Key Bank - Cleveland, OH February 2004 to April 2004 Represented Key Bank's interest in Enterprise Data Warehousing project directed by CGEY. Streamlined Data Mining efforts targeting customer demographics while conforming to consumer privacy guidelines and Federal "do not contact" list requirements. Produced test scripts for Unit, Integration and System testing. Managed strict Change Control, Version Control and Code Swap standards under a hybrid of Agile and Rational Unified Process.  Technical Competencies: MS Project; RUP (Rational Unified Process), AUP, Agile Manifesto, SourceSafe, ClearQuest Project Manager / Lead Programmer Analyst Sherwin-Williams Company - Cleveland, OH March 2002 to December 2003 Integral member of the Solutions Delivery Team supporting Corporate Payroll and Treasury. Directed activities of several teams, managed projects, conducted user training, and assisted other divisions.  • Coordinated and implemented rewriting of Human Resources Interface (HRIS) to Payroll preserving existing functionality and streamlining operations. Created client autonomy by enabling access to data across multiple platforms.  • Project lead responsible for complete analysis and conversion of all daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual corporate payroll jobs from Jobmaster to Control-M. Automated implementation across hardware platforms. Maintained and monitored this substantial rollout using both mainframe and desktop tools. Automated 30 manual payroll jobs eliminating 100% of parameter data entry errors.  • Launched state-of-the art hand held scanner project for Landmark Office Tower meter reading and billing system. Eliminated rereading and omissions and increased employee satisfaction.  • Established test plan standard to support the team goal of zero error tolerance.  Technical Competencies: MVS COBOL; EDI; BMC Scheduler (Control-M); Mobius ViewDirect; Business Objects; UNIX Project Manager / Lead Systems Analyst Cleveland Clinic - Cleveland, OH January 2000 to March 2002 Managed upgrade of entire digital Radiology modalities to Alpha development software on an aggressive implementation schedule. Directly responsible for all interfaces and high-availability hardware implementation.  • Coordinated purchase and installation of high availability database using fail over and clustering. Generated technical specifications. Prepared hardware budgets and capital requests. Gained extensive exposure to web-based technology, including interface with voice recognition. Managed infrastructure availability for zero down time.  • Cultivated relationships between Radiology Informatics, Hospital IT, Vendor Consultants, Feeder and Ancillary application teams. Expanded team building between Main Campus and hospital system. Managed large implementation team as a joint effort between Information Technology and Radiology. Worked with Radiology PACS on RIS development.  • Facilitated roll out of EPICCare electronic medical record software at numerous Cleveland Clinic area facilities. Provided tutoring and supplemental training for World-class Physicians, Surgeons and clinic support personnel. Traveled extensively.  • Established clinical naming standards for taxonomy of Radiology exams enabling continuity across enterprise megadata data warehousing.  Technical Competencies: HL7; SQL Server; IDXRad; HIPAA; Crystal Reports; EPICCare; DATAGATE Project Manager/ Consultant / Software Engineer Comsys Information Technology Services - Cleveland, OH April 1996 to December 1999 On project at Sherwin-Williams Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio  • Lead team responsible for assessment and remediation of Y2K date impact on all Corporate Financial Systems, including Treasury, G/L, A/P, A/R, Payroll and Sales Support. Client reported that year-end activity functioned normally.  • Conducted training on VIASOFT AutoTest software for consultant and client personnel.  • Performed Y2K compliance testing for Customer Service and Diversified Brands Systems.  Technical Competencies: COBOL; SAS; RAMIS; SQL; UNIX Shell Scripts; REXX; HotDate; QAD; SUPERTRACS; Culprit  On project at Eaton Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio  • Primary support of daily operations of Accounts Receivable and monitored month-end closing. Streamlined monthly production processes virtually eliminating month-end issues.  • Rewrote failing Tax analysis system.  • Installed Y2K compliant upgrade to GEAC Accounts Receivable software.  Technical Competencies: COBOL; EASYTRIEVE PLUS; Visual Basic Systems Analyst Centerior Energy Corporation - Cleveland, OH February 1982 to February 1996 Performed many and diverse functions in varied capacities as a team lead, team member and stand-alone programmer. Duties spanned the full business scope including analysis, design, programming, testing, implementation, training and support. Promoted from Junior through Associate to Systems Analyst.  • Directed development of a flexible Miscellaneous Accounts Receivable System for non-technical clients. Enabled user-friendly billing standardization, enhanced collection efforts, interfaced to the general ledger and expanded functionality.  • Rewrote unreliable Fuel Management System, significantly reducing maintenance while sustaining interfaces familiar to client staff. Conducted full life cycle development. Piloted CEI's first Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) application team, which streamlined data exchange, improved clerical accuracy increased processing turnaround and reduced labor costs. Received and processed railroad shipping notices, freight bills, purchase orders and general invoices.  • Member of Accenture-lead team that installed and customized the Dunn & Bradstreet (D&B) Millennium General Ledger package. Solely responsible for development and maintenance of accounting allocations, entry creation module, and 4GL reporting software. Created DB2 shadow files enabling menu-driven access to data.  • Developed stand-alone accounting systems throughout the Controllers Department: Property Accounting, Payroll, Budgeting, Accounts Payable and Accounts Receivable. Reduced labor costs approximately 40 percent and increased productivity and personnel job satisfaction. Interfaced with legacy corporate systems, including PEOPLESOFT Payroll.  • Functioned as a liaison between accounting users and IT personnel, working with technical and non-technical personnel. Taught software classes, conducted demos and published customized reference materials for self-study / reference.  • Acted as a PC Software and Security Consultant reviewing software to meet client needs throughout the enterprise. Provided technical and administrative support after purchase. Prepared rate case support for PUCO.  Technical Competencies: COBOL; FOCUS; SAS; DB2; SQL/QMF; D&B Millennium; FORTRAN; EASYTRIEVE Education Bachelor of Science in (BS), Accounting University of Akron - Akron, OH Bachelor of Arts in (BA), Psychology University of Akron - Akron, OH