IT Auditor <span class="hl">IT</span> Auditor IT Auditor - Deloitte Windsor Mill, MD Risk is identifying the identifying factors that could damage or disclose data , evaluating those factors in regard to data value and countermeasure cost , and implementing cost effective solutions for mitigating or reducing risk. As an IT auditor that is my responsibility. Work Experience IT Auditor Deloitte - Jersey City, NJ June 2016 to Present • Help establish annual audit using risk assessment methodology  • Perform tests to validate the integrity and effectiveness of design and control in place  • Performed risk-based audits of information systems, operating systems, and operating procedures.  • Completed reporting control documentation and test work.  • Evaluated automated systems controls including authentication and authorization,  • Identified emerging issues and recommend solutions to IT Audit & Compliance Management.  • Responsible for the internal controls and risks assessment.  • Identified the weakness in system and help create an action plan.  • Helped plan the execution of internal audit and reporting. Information Security Analyst A T& T - Denver, CO September 2013 to May 2016 • Assess current business practices and promote effective third-party risk management  • Document and report risk to Vendor Assessment management team, business partners, and vendors  • Perform onsite assessments of vendor facilities  • Document risks and recommendations based on a vendor lack of controls  • Identify and measure risk associated with vendor security control  • Evaluated security and privacy controls to determine which are applicable to the system  • Examine and update System Security Plan (SSP), Risk Assessment (RA), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), System Security test and Evaluation (ST&E) and the Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M)  • Led the effort in preparing certification and Accreditation  • Performs third - party vendor Risk Assessment /analysis of the solution provided by vendors  • Works with legal department on contract negotiation and recommends composting controls  • Document and report risk of Vendor Assessment to management  • Perform onsite assessments of vendor facilities  • Support and respond to audit procedures and findings.  • Perform Third party risk assessments to identify Technology risks  • Partner with the business and technology to agree cybersecurity risk findings identified through the Third-Party risk assessment Information Security Analyst Toys "R" Us, New Jersey November 2011 to August 2013 • Reviewed systems security plans to ensure that the plan is place  • Selected baseline security control requirements for systems based on NIST SP 800-guidance.  • Assisted by collecting documentation from stakeholders needed to close POA&M items.  • Provided POA&M quarterly reports to the ISSO  • Prepared and maintained security documentation. (SSP/ RA/ CP/ PIA/ FIPS) Categorization  • Evaluated security and privacy controls to determine which are applicable to the system  • Continuous monitoring and collected data on the system performance.  • Performed risk-based audits of information systems, operating systems, and operating procedures.  • Conducted audit evaluations to ensure compliance of risk management and controls  • Completed reporting control documentation and test work.  • Evaluated automated systems controls including authentication and authorization,  • Identified emerging issues and recommend solutions to IT Audit & Compliance Management.  • Responsible for the internal controls and risks assessment.  • Identified the weakness in system and help create an action plan.  • Helped plan the execution of internal audit and reporting. IT Security Analyst - PCI Compliance Boltos Solutions - New York, NY April 2009 to November 2011 • Perform PCI-DSS assessments, scoping, gap analysis, readiness reviews and consulting  • Perform security assessments of IT systems and evaluate against technical controls and operating procedures.  • Ensure findings are collected, reviewed, remediated, and presented in a clear and concise manner. Education Bachelor of Education in Mathematics University of education Winneba 2004 to 2008 Skills It Audit, SOX, Auditing