Security Sr Data Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> Sr Data <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Senior Data Analyst - Accenture Woodridge, IL Work Experience Security Sr Data Analyst Accenture - Chicago, IL November 2017 to Present ·    International collaboration with teams in India, Philippines, and UK to align tasks, analyze reports, and confirm status updates for compliance efforts.   ·    Performed host integrity checks to make sure the Symantec agent properly communicates to the Symantec servers.   ·    Analyze and reviewed logs daily in the Symantec and AWS servers to send out the data report four times daily to global leadership.  ·    Review and communicate the symptoms of indicators and write scripts (PowerShell) to help package up fixes that will go to deployment.   ·    Create software distribution and package updates for Symantec Enterprise Protectionto both MAC and PC internal and external assets.   ·    Supports infrastructure and network needs for all of Accenture while providing SEP (Symantec Endpoint Protection)  ·    Performed PowerShell scripting, Data Loss Prevention, Encryption, Intrusion Prevention System Systems Administrator Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA) - Chicago, IL March 2016 to November 2017 The Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA) is one of the largest Christian denominations in the United States, with about 4 million members in nearly 10,000 congregations across the United States, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.    • Complete daily task list ensuring proper update and functionality of servers and systems.  • Respond to requests for technical assistance via in person, phone and electronically.  • Troubleshoot and resolve technical issues related to hardware, software, telecom and networks independently with little or no supervision.  • Provide Windows Active Directory user maintenance.  • Provide Office 365 administration  • Research questions using available information resources.  • Logged all help desk interactions via Cherwell ticketing system.  • Conducts follow up when needed to ensure closure of ticket.  • Document processes, resolutions and send email communications to user base.  • After hours systems support on an as-needed basis.  • Support for Commvault backup system with Panzura intergration  • Powershell scripting  • Office 365 migration  • Group policy  • Symantec AV administration  • SCCM & SCOM  • Server Patch Management Studio Manager/ Chief Music Engineer INMusic - Chicago, IL January 2009 to December 2016 • Conduct mixing of recording audio to achieve sonic quality  • Audio recording of vocals and instruments for private and public clientele  • Develop marketing and promotions strategies  • In-house engineering and production support for various production companies  ? Its Knobody's Business, Orlando, FL  ? B.E. Somebody Los Angeles, CA  ? S Men Productions Los Angeles, CA  • Demonstrates exceptional skills in professionalism and responsiveness across a wide variety of areas including customer satisfaction. Systems Administrator, (Consultant) Healthcare Associates Credit Union - Naperville, IL November 2014 to March 2016 HealthCare Associates Credit Union (HACU) is a member-owned, not-for-profit, financial institution that was organized to offer quality, economical services to employees (and their family members) of IHA member hospitals and organizations, as well as their affiliates.    • Development, implementation and support online account opening system from Meridian Links.  • Complete daily task list ensuring proper update and functionality of credit union servers and systems.  • Respond to requests for technical assistance via in person, phone and electronically.  • Troubleshoot and resolve technical issues related to hardware, software, telecom and networks independently with little or no supervision.  • Provide Windows Active Directory user maintenance.  • Research questions using available information resources.  • Logged all help desk interactions via Web Help Desk ticketing system.  • Conducts follow up when needed to ensure closure of ticket.  • Document processes, resolutions and send email communications to user base.  • After hours technical support on an as-needed basis. IT Systems Support Specialist, (Consultant) ArjoHuntleigh - Addison, IL July 2014 to November 2014 ArjoHuntleigh is a global group with 4,400 dedicated employees worldwide and an annual turnover of €750m that serves the needs of acute and long-term care in more than 100 countries dedicated to increasing the quality and efficiency of care.    • Successful completion of migration of four internal departments creating new computers within SRP, and synchronizing users from AD to SRP for approximately 200 employees.  • Trained an IT employee within the Canadian office on how to connect existing computer user's count to new SRP issued U number, and verify existing connections to network drives and resources from previous domain.  • Respond to requests for technical assistance via in person, phone and electronically.  • Troubleshoot and resolve technical issues related to hardware, software, telecom and networks independently with little or no supervision.  • Coordinate Help Desk Activities with regional and global team.  • Work with different levels of the Technical support team to escalate more complex issues for resolution.  • Provide Windows Active Directory user maintenance.  • Research questions using available information resources.  • Logged all help desk interactions via Service Desk Plus ticketing system.  • Conducts follow up when needed to ensure closure of ticket.  • Document processes, resolutions and send email communications to user base.  • After hours technical support on an as-needed basis. (ITSC) Analyst, (Consultant) IT Service Center - Rosemont, IL April 2014 to July 2014 Reyes Holdings, aligned with leading brewers and foodservice providers, delivers the best-known brands and widest variety of food and beverage items to retailers around the world.  • Provides second-level support in the areas of Citrix, JDE EnterpriseOne, PC software applications, desktop/laptop hardware, mobile devices, and networking. Maintain skill level sufficient to provide such support. Respond to error messages by resolving issue or escalating to appropriate support personnel.  • Windows XP and 7  • Utilized Citrix: Adding icons, setting users up, printer trouble shooting. Microsoft: Active Directory and Exchange: setting up users, resetting passwords, and creating groups. Ticketing system.  • Responsible for resolving high levels of computer and application issues on a "first call" basis.  • Responsible for performing routine operational tasks within the clients Data Center.  • Receive and accurately record details of problems reported to the ITSC to include status and resolutions to problems.  • Successfully troubleshoot, diagnose and resolve Tier 1 & Tier 2 service and support issues. Providing accurate Tier 2 services and support metric reporting (i.e. call tracking) as required.  • Handle the efficient escalation of customer service and support issues to the Tier 3 support team.  • Manage execution of assigned tasks against detailed project plans that facilitate the timely completion of infrastructure objectives and deliverables.  • Create and maintain production support documentation including technical support documents and end user instructions.  • Working in a team to provide 24/7 support to locations around the globe. As a team member, discuss with team to evaluate and maintain assigned policies and procedures to keep them current and efficient, and present to supervisor.  • Other tasks and duties as assigned Remote Help Desk Chicago, IL July 2013 to April 2014 Project Leadership Associates (PLA) is a business and technology consulting firm that empowers small, middle market and enterprise organizations.  • Worked with end users remotely via phone, email and remote control applications.  • Windows and Mac OS X program installation and troubleshooting, as well as application installation and troubleshooting on Android and iOS devices.  • Followed predefined processes and procedures.  • Documenting issues and resolutions in BMC Footprints ticket/tracking system.  • Performed Remote Desktop Support, Virus Scan and Removal, Computer Imaging and configuration, Active Directory Maintenance, Remote software installation, VPN configuration and maintenance, and Mobile device setup and support. Information Technology/ Desktop Support Consultant Walgreens Corporation - Chicago, IL April 2013 to July 2013 The nation's #1 drugstore chain operates more than 8,000 mostly freestanding Walgreens stores in all 50 US states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.  • Provided first-level technical support on-site conference call support during meetings, projector repair, web/network presentations, resetting operating systems, and rebuilding PC computers.  • Earned solid reputation for resolving complex issues and providing exceptional customer service  • Performed Mac and PC desktop support, iPhone and Android support, laptop support, device inventory management, user profile management, and basic network  • Perform support, hardware repair and replacement.  • Setup video conference calls for executive meetings, configure audio input/output levels and streams.  • Built a rapport with C-level management assisting with their technical needs  • Achieved the highest levels of productivity, handling over 50+ problem resolution issues per week and averaging a fast paced and high urgency environment daily.  • Extensively utilized Remedy to record and track issues. Technical Support FRS/Genius Bar - Chicago, IL August 2010 to April 2013 American multinational corporation headquartered in Cupertino, California that designs, develops, and sells consumer electronics, computer software and personal computers.The second-largest publicly traded corporation in the world by market capitalization, with an estimated value of US$414 billion as of January 2013.  • Align with consumer and corporate based customers to determine best needs  • Performed Mac computer and mobile device in store repairs  • Relationship repair for customers at Genius Bar including personal training for One to One members  • Escalated issues as needed and maintained communication with customer and Technical teams. Extensively utilized Remedy to record and track issues.  • Demonstrated exceptional skills in professionalism and responsiveness across a wide variety of areas. Education Bachelor's in Audio Engineering / Acoustics Musicians Institute - Los Angeles, CA March 2002 Art/ Animation North Park University - Chicago, IL Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (6 years), HELP DESK (6 years), MAC (10+ years), REMEDY (2 years), SCOM (4 years), Excel (4 years), SQL (2 years), Microsoft Office (6 years), Powerpoint, Visio, HTML Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Software:  • Microsoft Office (word, excel, PowerPoint, outlook)  • Windows XP ,7,8, 8.1, 10  • Windows Server 2003, 2007, 2012, 2016  • Tangoe  • AS400  • iWorks  • BMC Remedy  • iRepair (Apple ticketing system)  • Apple iMovie  • Adobe Photoshop  • Mac OS (Apple computers)  • iOS (Apple mobile device)  • Blackberry OS  • Proxy Pro Master  • Remote Desktop Manager  • Commvault Backup Systems    • Active Directory  • Power Query  • MacAfee Endpoint Encryption  • Symantec Endpoint Protection  • DSM Console  • Cisco Any Connect  • Remote Desktop  • Avid Pro Tools  • Apple Logic Pro  • Apple Final Cut  • MAX  • M3  • Soti  • Web Help Desk  • NCAT  • Shoretel  • SCCM & SCOM Administration    Hardware:  • Mac book Pro, IMac  • Mac book Air  • Mac Mini  • MC65 PDA    • IBM Lenovo  • Dell  • Microsoft Surface Pro  • iPhone  • iPad