IT Specialist <span class="hl">IT</span> Specialist IT Specialist - INFOSEC Paris, KY Work Experience IT Specialist USSOCOM - PEO SOFSA - Lexington, KY April 2011 to Present -Provides IT and Cybersecurity oversight of a 70+ contractor Information Technology division hosting 2500+ end users, 300+ servers, an accredited .MIL network infrastructure, and over 400 applications.    -Ensured confidentiality, integrity, availability, and reliability of PEO SOFSA's UNCLASSIFIED network by implementing policy, processes, regulations, and controls.    -Developed processes and a framework for implementing information assurance/cyber- security activities across the PEO SOFSA enterprise to include Incident Response, Continuity of Operations, Backup and Recovery, Risk Management Framework (NIST based network authorization), Configuration Management, Change Management, Vulnerability Scanning and Analysis, Risk Assessments, etc    -Collaborated with multiple agencies (DISA, CYBERCOM, SOCOM) to ensure PEO SOFSA's implemented security measures were in compliance and adequately protect DoD sensitive information.    -Created initiatives to enhance cyber- security training programs, adequately monitor and manage firewall configurations to a deny all-permit by exception posture, ensure Incident Response processes and tools were implemented and in accordance with Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff Manual(CJCSM) requirements.    -Conducted internal network risk and vulnerability assessments, security evaluations, audits, and reviews of planned and installed systems.    -Provides oversight and coordination with our CNDSP (DISA) for the external penetration testing and monitoring of the PEO SOFSA network.    -Develops functional and technical requirements and specifications.    -Completed DAU Course CLC-222 as well as all courses required for DAU IT Certification Level II. IT Specialist Ifnormation Assurance & Secrity Engineering Directorate (IASED, Federal Government) - Fort Huachua,AZ March 2010 to April 2011 GS-2210-12; Temporary Department of the Army; Fort Huachuca    -Conducted in-depth Information Assurance audits of networks across the nation for both site and type accreditation's.    -Developed highly accurate and professionally written DIACAP packages as products for US Army customers throughout the country.    -Recommended technically accurate security solutions and countermeasures for system weaknesses and vulnerabilities.    -Ability to plan, coordinate, and provide information system security analysis and certification.    -Developed documentation in accordance with the DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation (DIACAP) program to include Incident Response Plans, Continuity of Operations, Functional Architecture, Backup and Restoration Strategies, Training, and Change Control Board Charters.    -Performed technical testing and evaluation on operational systems utilizing tools such as NESSUS Security Scanner, eEye Retina scanning tool, NMAP, DISA STIG's, and System Readiness review scripts, Wire Shark, Nipper, and Air Defense wireless rogue detection.    -In-depth knowledge of the following information assurance resources: DOD 8500.1, DOD 8500.2, AR 25-2, DIACAP, and Army Best Business Practices.    -Skilled in information systems auditing, physical security, application security, identification and authentication, and technical writing.    -Provided technical writing and guidance to peers during internal peer reviews to ensure grammar, accuracy, and technically accurate information is contained in scorecards prior to reaching the customer to ensure a quality product was put forth.    -Achieved DAU IT Level I Certification 5/10/2010 - File Attached IT Security Team Lead NCI Inc September 2009 to March 2010 Lead a team of 5 Engineers in an Army wide effort to implement eEye Retina REM Servers and scanners across the country.    -Developed System Acceptance Test plans to disseminate to customers to ensure 100% customer satisfaction and appliance functionality.    -Managed team members by providing Subject Matter Expertise and guidance/training.    -Wrote performance evaluations for all team members. Information Systems Security Analyst Intermedia Group Inc April 2009 to September 2009 Conducted detailed information assurance assessments of systems both stand-alone to campus area networks.    -Recommended technically accurate security solutions and countermeasures for system weaknesses and vulnerabilities.    -Ability to plan, coordinate, and provide information system security analysis and certification.    -Developed documentation in accordance with the DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation (DIACAP) program.    -Performed technical testing on operational systems utilizing tools such as NESSUS Security Scanner, eEye Retina scanning tool, NMAP, WireShark, and Air Defense wireless rogue detection.    -Knowledge of the following information assurance resources: DOD 8500.1, DOD 8500.2, AR 25-2, DIACAP, and Army Best Business Practices.    -Skilled in information systems auditing, physical security, application security, identification and authentication, and technical writing.    -Training peers in the use of the Gold Disk, eEye Retina, UNIX Security Readiness Reviews (SRR), and the Scriptomatic tool.    -Provided technical writing and guidance to peers during internal peer reviews to ensure grammar, accuracy, and technically accurate information is contained in scorecards prior to reaching the customer. Data Security Analyst PA Liquor Control Board - Harrisburg, PA June 2008 to December 2008 Consultant/Information Security Specialist  -Developed security policy and procedures in support of the Department of Revenue and the PA Liquor Control Board set standards and guidelines within the Bureau of Information Systems.    -Helped coordinate the completion of the (PCI) Payment Card Industry Compliance assessment for the PA Liquor Control Board.    -Managed the utilization and reporting for the Defense Distribution Center in New Cumberland, PA into the (VMS) Vulnerability Management System.    -Using tools such as Hercules, Retina SCCVI, and DITSCAP/DIACAP Guidelines to ensure current and successful Systems Accreditation for the Defense Distribution Center in New Cumberland, PA.    -Restructured the Categories, Types, and Items within the Remedy Help Desk Software to create a more streamlined and logical means for ticket entry and problem resolution. Information System Administrator II BAE Systems - Mechanicsburg, PA September 2006 to March 2008 Network and System Administration to include:  Windows 2000/2003/XP Professional  AIX/UNIX/Linux  IIS Web Administration  Citrix Administration and Management  Terminal Service  Active Directory  Information System Security (STIGS, Retina, IAVA/B, SSAA)  Sybase 12.5.3 Admin  Help Desk and Project Support  Policy and Procedural Development Fire Control Technician US Navy Active Duty May 1996 to October 2005 First Class Petty Officer(E-6 rank)  Combat Systems Operation and Maintenance  Undersea Tactics and Weapons Employment  Network Administration and Maintenance  Information Systems Security Manager  Information Systems Administrator Education General Studies University of Phoenix - Tucson, AZ 2011 High School Diploma New Horizon Computer Learning Center - Enola, PA 1995 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Training & Development (3 years) Military Service Branch: US Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-6 June 1996 to November 2005 Fire Control Technician - Submarine Service Commendations: Navy Achievement Medal  SS Qualfied Certifications/Licenses CISSP February 2018 to Present