Help Desk Analyst Help Desk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Experienced Individual with in the following positions Help Desk, Network Support and Desktop Support Lanexa, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Help Desk Analyst Markel Corporation - Richmond, VA February 2019 to April 2019 Provided support to resolve issues with computer hardware and software, respond to user inquires, assess problems and issues with IT equipment and applications and help resolve these issues for users. Project Engineer PCM Services - Richmond, VA May 2018 to September 2018 Configure windows based laptops and configure Mac laptops for users setting up there email, backing up there data, installing software. Also did projects that got assign that consist of configuring laptops and desktops for users email, backing up data, and installing software, test VOIP phone lines making sure they are working, troubleshoot issues, replace out of date pc's, support teams that test new software. Did G-suite project from Microsoft to G- suite transferred data from one drive to google drive assist users with applications to make no Errors came up after upgrade Cardiology IT Support Engineer VCU Health Systems - Richmond, VA June 2014 to May 2018 • Earned solid reputation for resolving complex issues and providing excellent customer service.  • Support as necessary on a 24-7 basis to limit system down time during internal outages.  • Troubleshoot and resolve technical problems, escalating to internal partners.  • Diagnose and resolve hardware and software issues.  • Assist users with end user support an troubleshooting issues and have them contact the helpdesk  • Receive numerous emails from supervisor for excellent customer service skills and problem technical problems remotely.  • Report issues with Hospital Devices to GE, Phillips and AGFA  • Troubleshoot networking an computer related issues to all devices in cardiology department.  • Help maintain software (xcelera) phillips application  • Test software with different operating systems  • Reimage pc's when needed  • Remote to pc's and servers with team viewer, dazzle(citrix), and sccm.  • Used Desktop Director to help support users remote issues  • Test new software as needed for bugs  • Import and export crystal report files  • Install software as in Crystal Reports and GE applications  • Install DMS Software  • Install and configure Virtualized Mac-lab/CardioLab System  • Develop and maintain installation and configuration procedures.  • Contribute to and maintain system standards  • Create Virtual Pc using Vmware (GE)  • Work in SCCM to remote to pc's, remove them from sccm, and run reports  • System Admin Responsibility for the Q-Path Ultrasound Imaging system Operation Specialist VCU Health Systems - Richmond, VA January 2012 to June 2014 Provide technical support for VCUHS supporting over 9000 employees throughout the Hospital. Troubleshoot hardware, software, and connectivity issues for Windows 7, Windows XP, Ipads, Iphones Android phones and Macs.. Challenge to provide timely resolutions to support mission-critical application users.    • Earned solid reputation for resolving complex issues and providing excellent customer service.  • Support as necessary on a 24-7 basis to limit system down time during internal outages.  • Troubleshoot and resolve technical problems, escalating to internal partners.  • Perform diagnostics of system issues, document help desk tickets and resolutions  • Reset passwords for a number of applications that are supported by VCU Health Systems.  • Receive numerous emails from supervisor for excellent customer service skills and problem technical problems remotely.  • Promoted to Cardiology IT Support Engineer for doing excellent job Systems Operation Analyst I/ Security Department of Social Services - Richmond, VA August 2006 to January 2012 Provide technical support for Department of Social Services supporting over 500 employees throughout the agency. Troubleshoot hardware, software, and connectivity issues for Windows 2000, Windows XP, Windows Vista and mainframe environment. Additionally support cell phones, created logins for city and state applications. Challenge to provide timely resolutions to support mission-critical application users.    • Earned solid reputation for resolving complex issues and providing excellent customer service.  • Assist user in polices an procedures when setting up new accounts.  • Leverage extensive experience in multiple operating environment mainframe connectivity and security.  • Demonstrate exceptional skills in professionalism and responsiveness. Systems Administrator/ Supervisor Department of Social Services - Richmond, VA August 2008 to March 2009 Provide technical support for Department of Social Services supporting over 600 employees throughout the agency. Troubleshoot hardware, software, and connectivity issues for Windows 2000, Windows XP, Windows Vista and mainframe environment. Additionally support cell phones, created logins for city and state applications. Challenge to provide timely resolutions to support mission-critical application users. Responsible for coordinating the technical functions required to support Social Services of the City of Richmond computer end users. In consultation with the Chief Information Officer, technical support analysts staff the incumbent contributes to the efficient allocation of computer hardware and software resources, develops and maintains business applications, an ensures the reliability of information and communication resources.    • Provides work direction, guidance and technical expertise to technical support staff assigned to help desk functions, including coaching, monitoring and measuring the overall success of the team.  • Provides second and third-level help desk support, troubleshooting and problem resolution including the identification and resolution of routing issues.  • Complete payroll for employees, keep track of workers hours for tardiness, provide monthly report to Chief Information Officer for all employees.  • Complete purchase orders for technical department, install network printers as needed.  • Maintains current knowledge of call center, personal computer support, asset and knowledge management, desktop hardware and software architecture and upgrade techniques.  • Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting of system issues, documented help desk tickets/resolutions, and maintained equipment inventory lists.  • Use Sapr web-base application to send information to setup user id for network to login.  • Work with VITA Northrop Grumman with break fix on state equipment. Desktop Support Technician Tek Systems - Glen Allen, VA October 2002 to January 2005 Managed broad range of installation, upgrade, roll-out, and troubleshooting projects for Windows-based networks, with focus on computer/network systems running In addition to technology solutions/support activities.    • Systems Upgrade - Improved stability and performance of system and network by upgrading Windows 98 to Windows XP Professional; saved all customer data on existing PCs, built new computers, migrating existing applications, and customizing configuration settings.  • Application Implementation - Enhanced remote access through installation and configuration of VPN, Remote Desktop, Remotely Anywhere PC Anywhere, VNC, and NetMeeting. Computer Technician / Network Support Phillip Morris - Richmond, VA October 2000 to September 2002 Provide technical support for Phillip Morris supporting over 600 employees throughout the company. Troubleshoot hardware, software, and connectivity issues for Windows 2000, Windows NT and mainframe environment. Additionally support creating user logon ID's for network logon and security. Challenge to provide timely resolutions to support mission-critical application users.    • Disaster Recovery - Reversed prior history of single-drive data protection by implementing use of Ghost software to replicate image from primary to secondary hard drive.  • Troubleshoot laptops, desktops, and Hp laser jet and desk jet printers.  • Installed hardware and software on desktop pc's and laptops.  • Installed logical printers on a print server and preparing print server to host clients. Troubleshooting hardware peripherals like printers modem etc Computer Technician Union Theological Seminary - Richmond, VA April 1998 to September 2000 • Assisted in troubleshooting user problems relating to Operating System issues (Win9x, NT, and Win 2000 Windows 98), Network Connectivity, TCP/IP configuration, upgrades, MS Office products and Internet connectivity.  • Performed upgrades, installation of software and drivers and essential desktop troubleshooting.  • Deployed updates, service packs and hot fixes using Windows Update, Automatic Updates, and Group Policies.  • Assisted on on-site visits and hardware troubleshooting and local system upgrades. Education A.S in Information Systems BRYANT STRATTON COLLEGE - Richmond, VA Skills MICROSOFT WINDOWS (10+ years), MAINFRAME (8 years), VMWARE (3 years), PRINTERS (10+ years), MS OFFICE (10+ years), Service Desk (6 years), MAC (3 years), Desktop Support (10+ years), Help Desk, Active Directory (10+ years), Word, Security, testing Additional Information Technical Summary:  ? Software: Microsoft Office Suites 97,2000,XP, 2003, 2007,2010,2013 Windows98, 2000, XP, Vista, windows 7, windows 8 Print Server, Windows 2003 Server, Exchange 2003, Active Directory, SMS, Info-Connect, Attachmate, City Mainframe, Adobe, IBM Session, Spider, LDAP Administration, TCP-IP, DHCP, DNS, WINS, LAN, DreamWeaver8, citrix , Virtual Pc, LAN Desk Remote Control, Magic, VPN, IDX Web, IDX Term, Cerner, Lotus Notes 8.5, Sametime(lotus notes), xcelera, Agfa, Midas, Patient Keeper, Image Now, telepage, windows 2008 server, citrix, Teamviewer,Dameware, Mars, Muse, xcerlera, Avaya, G-suite, G Suite training Lawson, service now, AssetTrack, Ping ID,outlook web access and Siemens, VMWARE, and G-suite  ? Hardware: USB hubs, Hp Laser Jet printers, Network printers, Faxes, Ethernet Cards, Wireless PCI cards, Wireless routers, scanners, blackberries, network components, switches, ipads, ipones, macs, laptops install VOIP phones, EKG machines and ECHO devices.