Workday Analyst Workday <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Workday Analyst - WASH Multi-Family Laundry Dallas, TX The following illustrates a highly motivated HR system professional who is seeking a full-time position to leverage extensive experience in all aspects of Human Resource business systems implementation and delivery. This background includes working with small and large teams of national and international professionals on system project development, delivery, production support and administration, while maintaining focus on primary business needs. Professional skills include program management, plan development, team start-up and support, budget administration, business process analysis, documentation, training, testing and working on all system types with a keen focus on customer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Workday Analyst WASH Multi-Family Laundry September 2018 to Present IT Business Analyst for HR, Legal, and Workday during system implementation.  Primary project role includes Integration Test Development with key Benefits, 401k, Recruiting, Staffing, General Ledger, and System Access vendors technical and functional support of HR and Legal business areas as follows:  • Establish and manage Workday integration test programs and processes.  • Measure and report on integration status throughout the delivery process.  • Liaison between business users, Information Technology, and vendor teams.  • Document workflows and system processes.  • Work with HCM, Onboarding, Performance, Time Entry, Benefits, and Payroll data processes.  • Work with Legacy UltiPro and ADP systems for data extraction, retention and metrics.  • Establish HR and Legal SharePoint with current and legacy confidential files, forms, and data.  • Provide cross-training and support wherever required for system use, integrations, and business processes. HRIS Engineer Inter-Con Security Systems July 2016 to August 2018 System Administrator for UltiPro HR/Payroll, and Business Intelligence application.  • Lead support efforts for all employee business processes under HR, Benefits, and Payroll.  • Manage system security, audits, reporting, and overall administration in support of 6, 000 U.S. employees.  • Project Manage PTO/Vacation/Sick timekeeping application development, delivery, and support in UltiPro.  • Manage key integration implementations and maintenance across internal and external systems.  • Act as a key liaison and point of contact for all functional and technical vendor relationships and issue resolutions. Manager HR Systems Alta Med Health Services September 2014 to July 2016 Manage a team of 5 technical and functional professionals on administrative and system functions supporting almost 3, 000 Southern California employees.  • Responsible for managing HR operations and administration functions.  • Lead support efforts for all employee business processes under HR, Training, Compensation, Performance, and Succession Management systems.  • Recommend business process updates and implement system components.  • Act as a key liaison and point of contact for all functional and technical vendor relationships and issue resolutions.  • Develop future organizational shared service structures. HR Systems Administrator Lineage Logistics February 2013 to July 2014 System administrator for core HR, Payroll, Training, and Timekeeping functions in the UltiPro Human Resources, Timekeeping, BI Reporting, and Payroll applications.  • Develop internal business processes, upgrades, implementations, and cross-training HR, Payroll, and Finance team members in support of 2, 000 nationwide employees.  • Perform as the leading voice in HR systems and timekeeping functions for conversions, acquisitions, and divestiture processes.  • Represent HR System during replacement system selection and implementation process. IT Project Manager ADP to Workday Implementation DIRECTV - El Segundo, CA February 2013 to December 2013 - Prepare and Manage Project Plan  - Manage team of IT and business participants on integration transformations  - Communicate with Business users and Technicians HR and HRIS Project Management Panasonic Avionics Corporation - Lake Forest, CA September 2011 to February 2013 - Workday HR. Payroll, Administration, Reporting  - Oracle HR, Time and Absence Administration and Reporting  - Prepare and maintain project plans across multiple applications  - Oracle and Workday HR integrations and reporting  - Focal contact for 6 International and Local HR Offices  - Prepare and maintain communications and training materials Project Manager February 2010 to February 2013 Worked under contract for 7 different clients. Served as a project manager and key collaborator with all business and technical participants. Client projects include: Abbott Vascular - Temecula, CA June 2011 to September 2011 - Manage HR program and analysis of HR systems  - Prepare and present collaborative recommendations to project team and executives HRIS Analyst for implementation of ADP Timesaver Pacific SunWear - Irvine, CA September 2010 to January 2011 - Prepare HR Executive dashboard contents  - Write and run reports as required  - Prepare and present Timesaver training materials Senior Payroll processor for legal and administrative employees Paul, Hastings, LLC - Los Angeles, CA August 2010 to September 2010 - Prepare turnover and payroll analysis reports  - Document payroll processes Liaison Watermark Retirement - Tucson, AZ March 2010 to June 2010 - Tucson, AZ (CA telecommute) - 03/10 to 06/10  - Manage ADP HRIS HR, Payroll, Benefits, and Timesaver systems  - Recommend and update system processes to maintain compliance  - Liaison with ADP vendor on process improvements and system updates  - Complete audit analysis and reports  - Document and present training for all processes and reports Hyundai - Costa Mesa, CA September 2009 to November 2009 - Audit all data in ADP system, including HR, Payroll, Benefits, and Training  - Restructure active and terminated HR, Payroll, and Benefits files  - Perform new hire, recruiting, background validation, and termination processes SVP, HR Administration City National Bank - Los Angeles, CA October 2007 to January 2009 Senior Vice President in Human Resources bank administration for employees through the following:  - Manage a $5 million HR, Payroll, Benefits, Training, and Compensation budget.  - Manage 8 direct-reports in Payroll, Administration, and Reporting functions.  - Gather and update budget requirements, track, and review with HR leadership.  - Develop and implement a 3-year HR systems master project plan, with associated proposals and scope documents, executive recommendations.  - Manage a detailed program for an ADP system upgrade of HR, Payroll, automated Benefits Administration, Employee self-service, and Taleo Applicant Tracking system.  - Manage functional and technical HR contract administration, as well as 5 system program plans.  - Prioritize and lead payroll and administrative team efforts in support of all HR processes for 8, 000 employees.  - Cross-train reporting. New hire and administrative processes.  - Prepare the first business recovery plan; SOX compliance audits with associated documentation and executive summaries.  - Manage new hire orientation and processing, including fingerprinting and employee recordkeeping.  - Work with Corporate Tax office to identify opportunities for $1 million bank savings and accountability with legislative processes.  - Analyze, develop business recommendation to change recruiting system from Taleo to Virtual Edge. Project leader with Recruiting team as key participants while reviewing 5 leading recruiting vendors and their applications. HR Program Manager Resource Global Professionals - Los Angeles, CA October 2005 to October 2007 Employed as a full-time employee to work on four different client contract programs, including:  1. TV Guide - North Hollywood, CA  - HR Project Manager for reporting and process improvements  - Lawson system report creation and business analysis  - HR Turnover and Recruiting reports developed and provided  - ADP Payroll and Timekeeping System analysis and reports  - Document and recommend HR business process improvements  - Purchasing system analysis and report  2. Moody's Investments - New York, NY  - Interim ADP Payroll Manager  - Write and run SOX audit Reports  - Work with HR data in PeopleSoft 8  3. Microsemi - Irvine, CA  - HRIS Manager of ADP Employease  - Wrote and administered ongoing HR reports  - Administered Benefits Plans and Programs  - Processed and ran Compensation Studies & Reports  - Assisted Payroll with ADP Upgrade  - Provide System Audit Reports to auditors  4. Mattel - El Segundo, CA  - HR Business process analysis in 3 Mexico locations  - Work with Mexico locations to document HR workflow processes  - Document current and future workflow diagrams with process improvement Recommendations. Director, HRIS Nestle USA - Glendale, CA December 2001 to October 2005 Worked at Nestlé in progressive roles, including HRIS Director supporting a nationwide Human Resources organization. The functions performed included the following:  - Maintain a $10 million, 5 department budgets that came in under or right on plan every year.  - Manage, direct, and prioritize over 50 different HR, Payroll, Benefits, Training, Timekeeping, Reporting, and web Self Service system development, conversion, and upgrade programs from legacy systems to PeopleSoft and then finally to SAP. Legacy systems include ADP, Lawson, Ceridian, and in-house customer programs.  - Mentor, train, and develop a diverse team of 43 technical and functional members with 6 remote and local technical and functional managers. Inter-Con Security Systems Education Certification in Student and Instructor University of Michigan Management Development Program University of Southern California Skills HR (10+ years), PAYROLL (10+ years), TRAINING (10+ years), BENEFITS (10+ years), ADP (9 years) Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) Additional Information COMPETENCIES  Program Management Functional Tests Applicant Tracking Benefits Administration  Business Analysis Compliance System Conversions Documentation  System Audits Data Input Technical Training Development Plans  Timekeeping Systems System Upgrades Sarbanes Oxley Budgeting  HR Systems Reporting & Metrics Staffing Payroll  SAAS Administration Service Center Setup Help Desk Conversion Administration  Workflow Analysis Performance Management Policies & Procedures Process Models    SKILLS & SYSTEMS  Project management, program plan development, Testing tools, Testing plans, Budgeting, Presentations, Security, HR, Payroll, Benefits, Compensation, Reporting, Timekeeping, Employee and Manager Self-service, Change Control, Training, Compliance, Employee Call Center, Applicant Tracking, Staffing Plans, Succession Planning, Program Management, Disaster Recovery, System conversions and upgrades, Security setup and maintenance, Change control, Test plans with Results, Training Design and Delivery, After Action Reviews, Performance Planning, Contracts and negotiations, Process Models, Workflow, Documentation, Dataflow Analysis, Workflow Analysis, Data audit and validation.    Systems experience includes Workday, Oracle HR, OAM, OTL, Clarity, UltiPro, SAAS, Integrations, BI Reporting, ADP EV3 to EV5 and Employease, Payforce, PeopleSoft V3.2 to V8.0, Ceridian, Lawson, Cornerstone, and SAP. Business systems analysis and implementations include Workday, UltiPro, ADP Virtual Edge, Taleo, PeopleClick, iCIMS, Pre-Employ, Great Plains, ADPR, ReportSmith, Plateau, Kronos (TKC 3A, 4.3; WFC 4.2, 5.0), Timesaver, ETime, STAT, OSC, Mercer Benefits, Wells Fargo 401k, Expert Advisor, FrontPage, HTML, SDLC, LDRPS, Active Directory, Jira, The Work Number, Microsoft Product Suite, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, Access, Outlook.