Security Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Security</span> Systems Engineer Cyber Analyst Parkville, MD A professional employee with strong interpersonal skills, I take initiative and pride in my work with a courteous demeanor. My organizational and problem-solving skills enable me to work independently or within a team to handle confidential information, workflow change, and prioritize as necessary. I maintain a proven track record of quality work through creative problem solving and technical ability that allow for optimum productivity. I currently hold a Top Secret Security Clearance with Full Scope and Counter Terrorism Polygraphs, SI/TK, 03/2014 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Systems Engineer CS2 Consulting - Annapolis Junction, MD September 2018 to Present • Responsible for research, development,  testing, and implementing solutions for continuous   security monitoring of End User Devices for CSfC solutions including wireless devices, tablets, and laptops. Main duties included researching, configuring, and recommending products and solutions designed to collect important security artifacts from commercially available devices and operating systems.   • Experience engineering log and event collection technologies including NxLog, Splunk, Elasticsearch Logstash and Kibana (ELK Stack)  • Employed the Metaspolit framework and other means to simulate compromise to ensure that various solutions collected the intended data. I was also responsible for ensuring that the log data was input into multiple SEIM solutions and presented in an actionable manner by   • Created dashboards, queries and alerts for events of interest to present data of relevance for network defense analysts Cyber Analysis Support Specialist Digital Forensic Services - Annapolis Junction, MD October 2017 to September 2018 Served on a computer network operations (CNO) team, focused on the threat to networked   platforms and US and DoD information networks. Collaborated with analytical counterparts and applied knowledge of threat environment, open-source tools, and current implementation of   threat technologies in order to devise all-source strategies to pursue access and exploitation   of targets of interest. Analyzed network events to determine the impact on current operations and conduct all-source research to determine adversary capability and intent.Performed risk and opportunity assessments through synthesis of information analyzing and assessing technical and operational vulnerabilities emerging technologies or operations and determining risk to networks. Helps to develop an agile responsive strategy for coordinating and evaluating tasking of   systems Computer Network Defense Analyst Eagle Alliance - Annapolis Junction, MD 2017 to 2017 Monitor and respond to alerts generated by Intrusion Detection Systems. Capture an analyze traffic relevant to potential security incidents. Investigate potential cases of compromise, exploitation, or violation of policy. Analyze malware and network metadata to provide support for security in large scale network. Data Security Professional Eagle Alliance - Annapolis Junction, MD 2015 to 2017 Configure, Install, and manage corporate network security devices including Firewalls, BlueCoat Proxy Servers, Load Balancers, and VPNs. Perform monitoring of network traffic to ensure security compliance. Updating ACLs to allow or deny traffic as requested. Perform Log analysis for troubleshooting and incident handling. IT Intern Rosen Sapperstein and Friedlander Chartered - Owings Mills, MD 2013 to 2015 Assist with Installing, Configuring, and Maintaining desktops and laptops for users in a windows environment. Management of network and server architecture as directed for mid-sized accoutning firm. Providing helpdesk support for 50 users at multiple locations. Ensuring proper use and storage of data in compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley and Graham-Leach-Bliley legislations Student Manager Stevenson University Tech Connection - Owings Mills, MD 2012 to 2013 Supervise Student technicians. Perform tier 1 and 2 troubleshooting of campus and classroom technology. Perform helpdesk functions for student and staff technology. Perform low level file recovery for students and staff. Field Service Technician Advace Business Systems - Cockeysville, MD 2008 to 2012 Provide onsite and remote support for hardware, software and network functions for copiers, printers, and multifunctional devices. Assist with delivery, setup, and removal of devices from customer spaces. Provide sanitation services for devices with hard drives containing proprietary information. Education Master of Science in Forensic Studies in Digital Forensics STEVENSON UNIVERSITY - Owings Mills, MD May 2017 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Forensics Stevenson University December 2014 Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Ccna (Less than 1 year), data recovery (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Forensics (Less than 1 year), Ftk (2 years), Linux (Less than 1 year), Microsoft office (Less than 1 year), Ms office (Less than 1 year), Outlook (Less than 1 year), Powerpoint (Less than 1 year), realtime (Less than 1 year), tcpdump (Less than 1 year), traffic analysis (Less than 1 year), Unix (Less than 1 year), Visio (Less than 1 year), Visual studio. (Less than 1 year), Wireshark (Less than 1 year), Word (Less than 1 year), Vmware, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ #46743Z931311CZWH CompTIA A+ #COMP001020433552 CEH ECC74443197505 Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) #544148 CDFAE Digital Forensic Examiner Certificate Present