IT Support Center Coordinator <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Center Coordinator IT Support Center Coordinator Henrico, VA Work Experience IT Support Center Coordinator Hunton Andrews Kurth LLC - Richmond, VA June 2019 to Present Primarily responsible for the following:    - Provide IT Support for Lawyers and their Assistants  - Successful migration of all devices from the Windows 7 environment to Windows 10 environment.  - Successful enrollment and support of ALL IOS/Apple Device to the AirWatch Agent.  - Setup & configure and apply the corporate image to corporate PC for deployment for both laptops and desktops service new HP, Dell & MAC desktops, laptops, printers, scanner and polycom projector systems.  - Troubleshoot and advise user on any issues to include network connectivity issues via email, phone call into IT Support Center  - Submit any issues via the ServiceNow ticketing system. Desktop Support Analyst COMPUCOM - Richmond, VA October 2016 to March 2019 Primarily responsible for the successful migration of all Altria Corporate own IOS Devices (IPhone & IPad) to the AirWatch Agent Application from The Good Application Program and the installation of OneDrive for Business and Office 365.    Assist corporate users by taking phone calls and assigning them to the appropriate IS area for problem resolution independently with minimal supervision if needed.    Travel to and provide executive level support and assistance at the Altria Government Affairs Headquarters, Washington, DC as needed and assist the Facilities Coordinator with the following duties & responsibilities to include the following:    • Operating & maintaining the copying equipment by providing preventive maintenance that includes supplying with paper, toner, developer and scheduling calls for repairs and maintenance    • Assist and support events with logistics that include room set-up, name badges, flip charts, signage, audio & visual equipment setup etc.    • Providing event reception coverage including registering guests, greeting and directing guests, answering the switchboard and directing calls, issuing visitor badges, receiving and signing for deliveries, post signage, reserving conference rooms, and coordinating with staff on catering for meetings.    Additional responsibilities:    Maintains, analyzes, troubleshoots, and repairs computer systems, hardware, and computer peripherals.  • Maintains, analyzes, troubleshoots, and repairs computer systems, hardware and computer peripherals.  • Desktop and Network Support  • Setup, configure and issue device and hardware to include correct setup within Microsoft Exchange and Active Directory  • Supports and maintains user account information including rights, security and systems groups.  • Assist Corporate DeskSide Support technicians with corporate issued IMAC devices.  • Documents, maintains, upgrades or replaces hardware and software systems.  • Trains employees, identifies, analyzes, and repairs product failures, orders and replaces parts as needed.  • Determines and recommends which products or services best fit the customers' needs.  • Experience doing break / fix repairs on desktops, laptops  • Install / Re-install various software packages and updates Package Handler (PART-TIME) FedEx Ground - Ashland, VA September 2016 to October 2016 Primary duties include sorting packages for delivery, operating heavy machinery, such as forklifts, trucks, and hydraulic conveyor belts, and, on rare occasions, picking up and delivering packages being responsible for the handling of goods and documents ensuring successful transfer and delivery of goods to intended destinations. Applicants must also possess the ability to lift up to 75lbs. and communicate effectively in often-noisy surroundings. Fulfillment Associate Amazon Fulfillment Center - Chester, VA December 2015 to August 2016 Primarily responsible to pick customer orders on all levels of a multi-level mezzanine, pack and ship customer orders, and troubleshoot problems to resolution. Additional responsibilities include expected to understand aspects of production; quality, and production standards, demonstrate positive work attitude, leadership skills, and excellent job performance in productivity, quality, attendance and must also demonstrate a commitment to a culture of safety.  Also, may be required to receive products using radio frequency scanners, and relocate products using powered-equipment (i.e. forklifts, pallet jacks, cherry pickers, and walkie-riders). Package Handler (PART-TIME) FedEx Ground - Ashland, VA November 2015 to January 2016 Primary duties include sorting packages for delivery, operating heavy machinery, such as forklifts, trucks, and hydraulic conveyor belts, and, on rare occasions, picking up and delivering packages being responsible for the handling of goods and documents ensuring successful transfer and delivery of goods to intended destinations. Applicants must also possess the ability to lift up to 75lbs. and communicate effectively in often-noisy surroundings. Night Team Lead/Supervisor Sam's Club - Winterville, NC June 2015 to November 2015 Essential Roles & Functions includes the following:  - Annually licensed and maintains proper fork lift safety procedures and operations.  - Maintaining merchandise presentation by stocking, setting up, cleaning and organizing product displays, removing damaged goods, signing and pricing merchandise appropriately, and securing fragile and high-shrink merchandise.  - Maintains safety of the Facility by following all safety standards, procedures and guidelines including conducting safety sweeps, following proper procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials, following Company steel standard guidelines and correcting/reporting unsafe situations to Management.  - Assist management with the supervision of Associates overnight by assigning duties, teaching and ensuring compliance with Company policies and procedures, supporting the Open-Door policy and participating in the recruiting, hiring, scheduling, promoting, coaching and the evaluation of Associates.  - Secures Facility during overnight hours by complying with all Company safety standards regarding dock and door security, locking/unlocking secure merchandise storage areas and receiving doors, and securing high theft, and expensive merchandise.  - Assumes the role of Night Manager/Supervisor in their absence. Assistant I, Stock/Inventory REGULAR PART-TIME - Greenville, NC April 2012 to September 2013 Responsible for the loading of all necessary materials and equipment for all Blood Drive Mobile Operations for the Greenville Location of the American Red Cross. Additionally, responsible for sending selected equipment to the headquarters in Norfolk, VA for preventive & corrective maintenance. Selected to ensure that weekly computer and software updates are done in a timely manner. Bus Driver (PART-TIME) Safety Monitor May 2011 to September 2011 Bus Driver & Tactical Security Officer IMAC Services - Strongsville, OH July 2011 to July 2011 Primarily responsible for the safe and timely transport of workers to and from the designated areas to the job site. Additionally, responsible for the transport due to any additional transportation needs throughout the time assigned to the job site during a 14 to 16-hour shift. Sampson School/Lenoir County Schools - Kinston, NC October 2010 to February 2011 Kinston, NC    Primarily responsible to insure the safe transportation of students to and from school in the Lenoir County School system in as timely manner as possible.    October 10 - Feb 11 Corporate Computer Operator / Help Desk Administrator MBM Food Service Distribution Company - Rocky Mount, NC June 2010 to September 2010 Responsibilities include having a role in operating equipment and executing IS production jobs in accordance with the operations schedule. Assist computer users and customers by taking phone calls for help and assigning them to the appropriate IS area for problem resolution independently with minimal supervision.    ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:  - Answer help desk phone and assist users with inquiries and problems. Analyze and evaluate to determine if problems are user, software, or equipment related. Develop database of problems and solutions and effectively deploy them exercising technical knowledge and judgment of the situation. In highly technical incidences, assign severity level, dispatch call to appropriate support group, and follow through to solution.    - Responsible for efficient operation of Corporate AS/400, Development and PC Network Server backup procedures to protect the integrity of the enterprise system.    - Observe and interpret console and peripheral equipment messages for first line of defense. Take corrective action, or in highly technical or unusual instances, the incumbent will notify the appropriate support group, maintain a log of jobs processed, processing failures, and corrective intervention taken. TeleTech @Home Customer Service Agent (PART-TIME) TeleTech Holdings Inc - Englewood, CO July 2007 to May 2010 Englewood, CO    As a @Home Customer Service Associate responsible for all aspects of providing friendly, helpful and professional service to inbound customer calls related to issues with existing orders placed at the Best Buy.com website and to also assist with placing new orders as needed.    July 07 - May 10  High Speed Internet/Cable Television/  Telephony Technical Support Consultant  Suddenlink Communications / Greenville, NC    Primarily responsible for resolving complex technical issues on customer inbound calls concerning their high-speed data, telephony, and cable television services by directing the customer through a series of troubleshooting step in an efficient & professional manner while documenting and communicating pertinent information. Provides customer with information regarding product upgrades and/or changes to their service Resolves problems on the first call and with a minimum of transfers by consistently improving personal technical knowledge and understanding. Additionally, responsible for the setup of Cisco VoIP and other related service areas. Inventory Manager Atlantic Wireless Communication - Greenville, NC April 2006 to May 2007 Inventory Manager for (4) Locations of Atlantic Wireless, a privately-owned US Cellular Retailer. Primary responsibilities include managing over $500,000 of in-stock Inventory Equipment and ordering any equipment necessary to include any special ordered item. Additional responsibilities include sending defective phones and equipment to the different vendors for repair. Also serves as the company Network Analyst and Technical Support Representative. Saved Desk Retention Technical Support Specialist DSL - Tarboro, NC January 2005 to March 2006 Primary responsibilities include being the primary contacts for residential customers having questions concerning the cancellation of their High-Speed Internet / DSL Service. Additionally, responsible for providing customers with assistance pertaining to service inquiries, new service requests, or changes in existing service and assisted with the setup of VoIP services. Also required to sell Sprint products and services and consistently exceeded 100% of the sales objective in a highly structured Call Center Environment. Help Desk Technical Support Specialist DSL - Tarboro, NC February 2004 to January 2005 Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) Help Desk Technical Support Specialist primarily responsible for providing 1st line technical support for Sprint residential and small business DSL consumers. Additionally, responsible for answering customers questions and complaints regarding functionality of DSL related products including but not limited to computer related networking components., interfaces the Receive Repair and Access Care Systems to provide specific account data entry to prepare service orders and coordinate specific technician service appointments. Volunteer PART-TIME Koinonia Christian Center Church - Greenville, NC August 2004 to August 2004 Responsible for maintaining the computer networking & data-based systems in a church-based business environment for over 3,000 members. Best Buy Inc - Greenville, NC April 2002 to June 2003 Responsibilities include the daily operation and supervision of subordinate personnel in the computer and inventory departments of this multi-billion-dollar company. Advises potential clients on various computer related issues that to include computer operating systems, hardware, software peripherals, and networking troubleshooting problems and supplies. Also responsible for the correct procedures pertaining to adding or subtracting ALL incoming or outgoing merchandise to or from the store's current inventory. Education Pitt Community College - Winterville, NC 2001 Basic Law Enforcement Training Robeson Community College - Lumberton, NC 1997 Business Administration & Business Management Fayetteville Technical Community College - Fayetteville, NC 1986 College Prep Nettie Lee Roth High School - Dayton, OH 1978 to 1981 Skills Desktop Support, Help Desk, Service Desk, Active Directory, MAC Additional Information A 14-year Veteran of the United States Military (Army) with 20+ years' experience as a Desktop/Technical Support Analyst. Also 13 plus years Driving Experience with a Class B CDL with "P" & "S" Endorsements.    COMPUTER RELATED WORK HISTORY:  Proficient but experience is not limited to the following programs:  - Windows Operating System (All Editions)  - MAC OS & IOS Operating Systems  - Microsoft Office (All Editions)  - Office 365 & One Drive for Business deployment to include troubleshooting & support  - Apple Mobile Devices & Android Mobile Devices  - 3rd Party Tools (i.e. Work Flow, TSheets, ServiceNow IT Service Management)  - Enterprise SharePoint Configurations & Citrix Receiver Based Programs  - Internet Information Server (IIS) Basic Networking, Active Directory, and Active Directory Federation Service  - Computer Hardware Installation and Maintenance    ADDITIONAL AREAS OF INTEREST  - Selected and Represented the United States as a Basketball  Official at the 1999 Special Olympics World Summer Games held  In Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill, NC (June 26, 1999 - July 4, 1999)  - Selected to Officiate the 2002 Alabama Christian Education Athletic  Association (ACEAA) Division II & Division III State Championship Games  - Rated No# 1 Official at Tommy Mattocks Basketball Officials School,  Mount Olive College, (June 2001)  - Competition Director for the Special Olympics North Carolina 1999  Summer Games also delivered the Officials Oath at the Opening  Ceremonies  - Supervisor of Basketball Officials for the 1999 Special Olympics  North Carolina State Basketball Tournament  - Charter Member Special Olympics North Carolina Sport  Development Team (Basketball)  - Basketball Tournament Screening Team Member (1998 & 1999)  - Supervisor of Softball Umpires at the 1997 Special Olympics  North Carolina Summer Games  - Special Olympics North Carolina Summer Games Management Team  (1996 - 2001)  - Member, Alabama High School Athletic Association  - Varsity Basketball Official (2001 - 2002)  - Varsity Softball Official (2001 - 2002)  - Member, North Carolina High School Athletic Association  - Varsity Basketball Official (1995 - "PRESENT")  - Varsity Softball Official (1995 - 2000)  - Member, Virginia High School Athletic Association  - Varsity Basketball Official (2015 - "PRESENT")  - Member, International Association of Approved Basketball Officials  (IAABO)(1993 - 1999)  - Attended, Nationwide "Invitation Only" Basketball Officials Camp,  University of South Carolina (June 1998, June 1999)  - Attended George Toliver's Basketball Officials School  James Madison University (June 99, June 00, June 01)  - Member, Southern Softball Association of America (1995 - 2004)  - Basketball Official & Softball Umpire for City of Fayetteville  Division of Parks and Recreation (1995 - 2001)  - Basketball Official & Softball Umpire for City of Greenville  Division of Parks and Recreation (2000 - PRESENT)  - Basketball Official & Softball Umpire for City of Dothan  Leisure Service Division of Parks and Recreation (2001 - 2002)