Director Director Director Information Technology Smyrna, GA Work Experience Director CompuCom Systems - Atlanta, GA October 2012 to Present Led the successful delivery of a managed services contract in support of major Retail, Financial and Telecommunications contracts Fortune 50 experience. Contracted services valued at $22M include service restoral for servers, PCs, Point of Sale devices & printers throughout the store, distribution centers and Store Support Centers. Manage overall support strategy, deliverables, contract changes and successful delivery of services and projects. Manage the financial performance of the contract, growing revenue and improving profit margins to meet the company goals.  * Developed a program management office that was refocused on the basics of service delivery and continuous improvement. Upon being appointed the Program Manager the contract was performing significantly below contractual requirements. Set Key Performance Indicators and revised roles, responsibilities and processes to ensure that all were targeted to support these KPI's. Within 6 months the contract was in compliance of the contract and the PMO staff was able to focus on more proactive activities providing additional value.  * Led the financial recovery of the program. The program consistently lost money for the company which inhibited growth and innovation on the contract. Improved the Gross Margin of the contract from 2% in 2012 to 17% in FY 2013. Identified areas of poor performance and set targets for improvements. Several tools were used including contract changes which reduced cost for the customer while improving overall profitability. Implemented problem management focused on managing the program knowledge base and reviewing for areas of needed improvement. This reduced the number of technician dispatches and shipment of parts.  * Focused on process improvement and sustainability. Expanded the program management team and improved process sustainability by appointing process owners and minimizing single points for failure. Developed low cost PMO support team to facilitate critical processes that have a high volume. Assistant VP /Senior Program Manager Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) - Falls Church, VA 2010 to 2012 Oversee the financial management, contract management, and profitability of 15-25 projects, ranging in value from $100k to $20M - generating $60M in annual revenues for the DISN Global Solutions contract for Defense Information System Agency (DISA) - provider of Global Information Grid, Defense Information Systems Network (DISN) services to its customers, the    Executive Experience )  Department of Defense and national security organizations. Lead and manage costs, schedules, and customer requirements. Manage the RFP, selection, and staffing of project from a variety of approved government subcontractors.    * Led a large, geographically dispersed team in the installation of a SONET and IP backbone infrastructure for the U.S. Army in the hostile environments of Bagram and Kabul, Afghanistan within 6 months - identifying an innovative approach to delivery that staged, configured, and tested the solution in the U.S. prior to transport.  * Developed a new project management business proposal for the consolidation of 23 data centers to 2 locations, over 8 years for the Texas Department of Information Resources - resulting in the $100M annual contract award.  * Restructured service renewal contract for DISA, reducing delivery costs by 20%, at the request of customer, by creatively consolidating staffing and data center operations into lower-cost areas. Awarded $500M annual renewal contract. Member of core leadership team conceiving and developing IT solutions Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) 2003 to 2012 2003 - 2012    Overview * Promoted through a series of increasingly responsible technical leadership and project management roles with SAIC - a leading provider of scientific, engineering, systems integration, and technical services and solutions. Member of core leadership team conceiving and developing IT solutions, budgets, and resourcing plans for new business proposals - recognized for expertise in cost development, building cohesive teams, and consistently exceeding customer expectations - in challenging and unpredictable business environments. Assistant VP / Implementation & Maintenance Manager Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) - Stuttgart 2008 to 2010 Selected to lead the European Branch of the Global Implementation and Maintenance Support for the DISN Global Services contract - developing, planning, and executing IT service contracts worth up to $35M annually. Managed contract services from proposal through implementation, while adhering to strict government and budgetary requirements. Managed team of 55 that included a $28M warehouse operation, logistics management, and field engineering.    * Developed and implemented a new organizational model, aligning the structure and processes with the ITIL framework - significantly increasing employee productivity and customer satisfaction within 6 months.  * Matched employee talents with project requirements, resulting in a number of employee awards and recognition.  * Created a small team of operations engineers to assist the operations team in developing solutions to support customer requirements, increasing efficiency and improving the hand-off from the implementation team.  * Executed a phased approach to deliver the Navy's installation of Promina and ATM nodes in the remote area of Djibouti, Africa, developing a low-bandwidth solution that met local Telco providers' support requirements, and building out a foundation upon which to grow/expand operations in that region. Deputy Network Operation Manager Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) - Stuttgart 2006 to 2008 Promoted to lead the 24/7 incident and problem management team. Oversaw Service Desk, Maintenance, and operations of the DISN Video Service (DVS)-II. Led and managed team of 70+ employees to provide troubleshooting and fault resolution for DISA's IP, ATM, Promina, and DWDM optical networks.    * Restored critical front-line communications for U.S. military troops in the Middle East within 2 weeks, following undersea fiber connectivity damage to the region, rerouting communications via satellite, partnering with Telco providers to obtain additional bandwidth from other regions, and establishing a process to monitor fiber vendor's reporting channels.  * Led the turnaround of DISA-Europe's underperforming next-generation video teleconferencing suite, developing an engineering solution that reconfigured the suite, instituted standards, and delivered a useable product within 18 months.  * Developed and executed a service management plan, gaining ISO 2000 registration/certification for SAIC in Europe within 1 year - creating and updating standard operating procedures (SOPs) and processes to ensure compliance. Network Design Engineer, Level II Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) - Stuttgart 2003 to 2006 Hired as a Security Analyst and quickly transitioned to Network Design Engineer following the start of the Iraqi conflict. Led the incident management, IP systems support, configurations, and deployment plans for the Global Information Grid (GIG) Data Communications Network (DCN). Managed the IP Element Management Systems and led the development of the IP Incident Management Desk for any disruptions or interruptions in service. Member of the GIG-Bandwidth Expansion (GIG-BE) Network Management support team - DISA's project of the year in 2005.    * Designed the network architecture for the GIG site network, consisting of 30 sites, leading the full configuration for all devices and implementation - identifying and routing protocol plans to ensure compatibility with DISA.  * Led a special project in Baghdad, Iraq in 2003, assessing the security threat of the network near the Baghdad Palace and surrounding areas in the green zone. Increased network security by removing wireless networks and establishing best- practice processes and procedures that monitored the network for malicious activity.    Executive Experience )    Previous Career Assignments Senior Information Security Analyst and Site Lead Titan Systems Corporation 2002 to 2003 PC/Network Technician Quantum Technology Services Inc - MacDill AFB, FL 2001 to 2002 Network Administrator Media Central - Brandon, FL 1999 to 2001 Network Administrator U.S. Air Force 375th - Scott AFB, IL 1994 to 1999 Intensive Care Unit Technician Cardiac - Keesler AFB, MS 1991 to 1994 Education Bachelor of Arts in Communications Webster University 1998 Air Force U.S. Air Force Leadership School - Scott AFB, IL 1996 Master of Business Administration in Project Management University of Dallas Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Ssgt Certifications/Licenses Driver's License