Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - GOODWIN HOUSE INC Innovative, results-driven Cybersecurity Analyst with Two years of experience. Dedicated professional with an excellent work ethic. Experience in a wide range of technologies with the ability to learn quickly and adapt to new environments. Work Experience Information Security Analyst GOODWIN HOUSE INC - Falls Church, VA May 2017 to Present • Analyzing network traffic and various log data to determine the threat/impact on the network.  • Reviewing IDS/IPS events and identified anomalous activities or potential network security risks.  • Monitoring and investigate suspicious network activities utilizing tool such as (Splunk)  • Evaluating and performing incident escalation in accordance with incident response procedures  • Performed incident handling and documentation within the incident lifecycle (detection, triage, analysis, mitigation, reporting, and documentation)  • Utilizing threat intelligence tools to support the daily cyber security operations, and procedure Intel analysis of threat actors, and vulnerabilities  • Assess risk, threat, and vulnerability analyses form internal and external sources to identify and develop mitigation strategies  • Maintain an up-to-date knowledge of cyber threats  • Drive continuous learning and knowledge of cyber threats IT Support Analyst Intern U.S. International Broadcasting Bureau (BBG)/ U.S Agency for Global Media (USAGM) - Washington, DC January 2017 to May 2017 • Maintain access to email accounts, mailboxes, distribution groups, personal storage tables (PSTs) and calendars.  • Troubleshoot network connectivity issues related to desktops and printers for Computer Support  • Support common applications such as Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, and Internet Explorer.  • Respond to all chats, emails and phone calls consistently.  • Monitor all service request and incident records and ensure that all tickets are addressed in accordance with Remedy processes and procedures.  • Assist with hardware decommissioning  • Assist users in the area(s) of password reset, desktop application support (Microsoft Office products, Internet Explorer, and Adobe). Windows operating system troubleshooting, and basic print and scanner support.  • Enter all relevant data from users contact channels into tracking system  • Performed laptops imagery. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Marymount University Skills Ids, Ips, Splunk, Active directory, Intrusion, Network monitoring, Database, Sql, Intrusion detection, Documentation, Threat analysis