Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Analyst - Bullhorn Watertown, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst Bullhorn - Boston, MA June 2015 to Present • Vulnerability Management  ? Established and documented Vulnerability Management Process and Policy  ? Used Qualys, OpenVAS, and Nessus to establish scanning schedule for production environment scanning and vulnerability remediation  • Internal Audit and SOC 1 Testing  ? Led efforts to maintain SOC 1 Type 2 standing  ? Changed and updated controls that were not effective  • Risk Management  ? Established and documented Risk Management Methodology and executed risk assessments company wide  • Phishing Management  ? Created formalized process for phishing testing on employees with a range of scenarios  • Intrusion Detection System  ? Used Cisco Firepower IDS to monitor and investigate potential malicious threats  • Employee Security Training  ? Updated employee onboarding and annual security training  • Physical Security  ? Monitor and set up new S2 camera and card reader system for Boston office  • Security Refinements  ? Suggested and implemented updates to security practices to better secure client information Security Consultant Pivot Point Security - Hamilton, NJ June 2014 to June 2015 • Technical testing  ? Enhanced the phishing and social engineering testing  ? Performed vulnerability assessments and penetration tests on client servers and hosts  ? Assist clients with remediation efforts for identified vulnerabilities  • ISO 27001 and Audit  ? Helped guide multiple clients through the process of developing an ISMS and comply with all ISO 27001 requirements and controls to receive certification  ? Exposure to industries including: Finance, Print, IT Equipment Manufacturing, Information Management, SaaS  ? Performed various audits for clients that include gap assessments, internal ISMS audits for ISO 27001, Shared Assessment's Agreed Upon Procedures IT Assurance Intern Wolf & Company - Boston, MA June 2013 to August 2013 Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Bryant University May 2014 Additional Information Computer Skills  • Linux  • Penetration testing  • Proficient in Microsoft Office (Advanced in Excel)    Certifications and Professional Studies  • ISC2 Associate: Passed CISSP and can apply February 2018  • CISA Candidate; Passed Exam and can apply February 2017  • Certified PECB ISO 27001 Provisional Implementer