Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst - Digital Information Security Solutions (DIGISS) LLC Silver Spring, MD IT Security focused on advancing the Information Security risk and compliance program by executing cross-platform compliance and penetration testing, vulnerability assessments, incident response, and collaborating remediation efforts to close identified gaps. Excellent analytical and communication skills, ability to multi-task, high tolerance to stress and agility in a fast-paced environment. Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Digital Information Security Solutions (DIGISS) LLC January 2018 to Present • Researching and collecting relevant data from social media platforms and a baseline of open sources of intelligence provided by DIGISS  • Discovering links to new sources of intelligence and delivering a report on highest priority sources based on their value to the outcome of threat intelligence efforts  • Applying specific cyber analytic model to identify, track and support analysis of prioritized threat actors  • Delivering weekly progress reports and participating in weekly stand-up calls  • Maintaining situational awareness of cyber threat landscape on the African continent  • Tracking and reporting on activities of potent cyber threat actors following investigation, analysis and fusion of threat intel information from multiple sources  • Discovering, analyzing and attributing adversarial campaigns (to threat actors)  • Carrying out other threat intelligence duties in line with DIGISS standard operating procedures IT Security Jewish Foundation for Group Homes - Rockville, MD February 2016 to Present Planning and implementing security measures to protect the company's computer systems, networks and data.  ? Installation and use of firewalls, data encryption and other security products and procedures  ? Conducting periodic network scans to find any vulnerability  ? Conducting penetration testing, simulating an attack on the system to find exploitable weaknesses  ? Staying up-to-date on the latest intelligence, including hackers' methodologies, in order to anticipate security breaches.  ? Preventing data loss and service interruptions by researching new technologies that will effectively protect the company's network.  ? Creating, testing and executing network disaster recovery plans.  ? Performing risk assessments and testing of data processing systems.  ? Installing firewalls, data encryption and other security measures.  ? Recommending security enhancements and purchases.  ? Maintaining ongoing awareness of information security, vulnerabilities, and threats to facilitate the company's risk management decisions.  ? Managed groups and permissions for users and workgroups through Group Policy in Active Directory.  ? Implementing and maintaining strong access control measures such as authentication through the use of Multi-Factor Authentication and Role Based Access Controls (RBAC). IT Technician/Help Desk National Social Security and Insurance Trust - Freetown, SL January 2010 to 2011 Sierra Leone  Statutory Public Trust set up to administer the Sierra Leone's National Pension's Scheme  ? Monitored troubleshooting and solved problems comprehending the working with application to current industry. Demonstrated solid foundation skills and competency in networking techniques.  ? Managed administration, operation and maintenance of the network trust and communication infrastructure, provided Tier 1 and 2 support remotely and onsite to 250-300 users/day; used ticketing system to classify cases, processed requests by phone and email  ? Proven ability to troubleshoot and develop creative, innovative solutions to industry challenges. Develop diversified strategies to drive and accomplish continuous IT improvements.  ? Extensive knowledge of Network System Engineering methods  ? Skilled in designing, planning and performing LAN/WAN solutions  ? Good leadership skills and has the ability to guide and provide technical direction and supervision for a given project  ? Proficient in technical and non-technical communication, both in oral and written  ? Was working with technicians, managers, teammates, clients, government authorities because the Trust belongs to the state  ? Excellent communicator with strong verbal, written and interpersonal skills that consistently elicit positive relationships and interactions with clients and individuals at all levels within the organization Education MBA University of Maryland University College (UMUC) December 2019 Master of Science in Cybersecurity in Cybersecurity University of Maryland University College (UMUC) May 2018 Certificate Montgomery Community College - Germantown, MD May 2016 Bachelor of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems Institute of Public Administration and Management University of Sierra Leone - Freetown, SL December 2012 Skills Information Security, Cybersecurity, Cyber Security, Information Assurance, It Security, Nist, Siem, Cissp