Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - Inter-Con Security Upper Marlboro, MD Work Experience Information Security Analyst Inter-Con Security - Washington, DC October 2018 to Present • Experience in Cloud system assessments, primarily with AWS (Amazon Web Server) by utilizing FedRAMP and NIST guidelines. Implementations of NIST 800-53 rev 4 Security Assessment Plans (SAP).  • Experience in interpreting and evaluating implementations of NIST 800-53 rev 4 security controls.  • Work on multiple assessments simultaneously.  • Attend client meetings as necessary  • Provide weekly status reports  • Assisted ISSOs in performing risk assessments, assisted in updating and reviewing System Security Plans (SSP) using NIST 800-18 (Guide for Developing Security Plans for federal information systems) Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M), Security Control Assessments  • Perform vulnerabilities scan and monitor continuously using NIST 800-137 as a guide with the aid of Nessus Junior IT Security Analyst EZ Shield - Rockville, MD December 2017 to September 2018 • Developed, reviewed and updated Information Security System Policies, established security baselines in accordance with NIST, FISMA, FIPS, and industry best security practices.  • Performed vulnerability scanning with the support of Nessus scanning tool to detect potential risks on a single or multiple asset across the enterprise network.  • Updated IT security policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines per the respective department and federal requirements.  • (SA&A) Security Assessment and Authorization using NIST SP 800-53 rev4/FIPS 200 ( Security Controls), NIST SP 800-53A rev4 (Assessing Security Controls).  • Supports the Security Assessment and Authorization process of the clients' systems as a Security Analyst Junior Information Security Analyst Washington, DC November 2016 to November 2017 • Experience in developing and disseminating Security Assessment Plans.  • Documenting finding within requirements traceability Matrixes (RTMs) and security's assessments reports (SARS)  • Worked with client in safeguarding CUIs by performing the necessary assessments which primarily deals with 14 control families.  • Support Cyber Security Analyst in conducting Vulnerability Management, Security Engineering, Certification and Accreditation, and Computer Network Defense. Intern (Information security analyst) Washington, DC June 2016 to August 2016 • Worked with network security (network administrator policies and procedures, firewalls, etc).  • Policy writing and understanding of NIST publication  • Interned as an IT security analyst as well as worked with different SIEM tools at the museum  • Conducted Nessus analysis  • Perform incident response activities such as host triage and retrieval, malware analysis, remote system analysis, end-user interviews, and remediation efforts  • Creates new ways to solve existing production security issues  • Research and test new security tools/products and make recommendations of tools to be implemented in the SOC environment Education B.S. in Business Administration Bowie State University - Bowie, MD December 2017 Skills HTML, access, security, testing, Active Directory