Data Security Analyst Data <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Data Security Analyst Flushing, NY Work Experience Data Security Analyst The Travelers Companies - New York, NY November 2008 to May 2010 Application Architecture Review and Risk Assessment: Performed applications/systems reviews to determine adequacy of information security policy and standards. Delivered various risk assessments and issues reports to ensure corrective solutions and improvement plans are derived.  ? Security Product Deployment and Maintenance: Provided event management log on all Windows, Unix/Linux and Database servers using Quest Intrust software, and also multi-tasked on various ad-hoc requests. Independently executed new product implementations and referred to as the product's SME.  ? Enterprise-wide Mainframe Tape Compliance Project: Coordinated with all business groups and IT personnel to ensure proper product encryption prior to distribution. Conducted system testing and implementation of the mainframe encryption. Analyzed all the security requirements and the project flow and communicated to proper users. IT Security Specialist The Travelers Companies - Hartford, CT June 2006 to November 2008 Mainframe Security Administration: Contributed in the security policy and standard compliance project, resulted on-time delivery, smooth process and reached pre-set expectation result. Responsible and carried out various ad-hoc jobs for analysis and reporting needs. Increased the innovation and efficiency of the overall team performance in the RACF support team by continue initiation of self improvement in both technical and personal aspects.  ? Managed Functional ID Registration Process: Independently completed the company-wide Functional ID approval process, and derived suitable approach and compliance solution based on accurate interpretation of the security policies and standards.  ? Distributed Applications Termination Automation: Automated the 20+ Tier 1 applications process for the account termination team and also provided continues support in a daily basis. Business Analyst Intern Citigroup - New York, NY June 2005 to August 2005 Product Deployment: Worked as liaison between trading desk IT support and operations group on monitoring software implementation used by the fixed income business groups.  ? Process Documentations: documented several software and systems processes used within the department. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Stony Brook University September 2002 to June 2006 Additional Information Extensive experience in security project management, security products and solutions management (compliance, implementation, maintenance and security evaluation), and operational risk assessment. A self-motivated individual with strong technical competences and work ethic, who also works well independently and in a team environment.    SKILLS  IT: Information System Security, event log management on Windows\Unix\Linux and database servers, z/OS administration, RACF, , Vanguard, Java, HTML, .NET, VBScript, Active Directory, LDAP, ADAM, Word, Power point, Excel.