Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - Comcast Philadelphia, PA Work Experience Information Security Analyst Comcast - Moorestown, NJ August 2018 to Present Troubleshot CA Identity Manager and resolve issues in the access provisioning workflow.  ? In conjunction with the support team, created documentation for Identity and Access Management (IAM) incident resolution.  ? Performed weekly Jira reviews to measure IAM team performance.  ? Partnered with customers to ensure that requested accesses have been provisioned.  ? Used CA Identity Manager to update user account information, and process user termination requests.  ? Conducted demonstrations of application access request for stakeholders.  ? Tested use cases for application requests which would be delivered to business partners. IT Security Analyst Intern The PFM Group - Philadelphia, PA November 2017 to June 2018 Supported the vulnerability management evaluation project by thoroughly conducting PoCs of in-scope products, and by presenting my recommendations to select members of the IT department.  ? In conjunction with the Senior Security Analyst, shared the responsibility of managing Tenable SecurityCenter.  ? Created extensive support documentation outlining step by step instructions for managing scan groups, conducting a scan, and generating reports for Tenable SecurityCenter.  ? Conducted an overview presentation of Tenable SecurityCenter to the Senior Security Analyst, Infrastructure Manager, and CIO.  ? Assisted in the preparation of a Phishing Remediation Guide for the Help Desk team.  ? Responded to security events generated within SecureWorks Counter Threat Appliance (CTA); worked closely with members of the Infrastructure team to investigate alerts when appropriate.  ? Maintained regular correspondence with security vendors while researching security tools, and while reaching out for product or service support.  ? Provided support to external security vendors during a pen test engagement.  ? Performed monthly user account reviews within Active Directory to ensure password policy compliance, to detect unauthorized domain administrator accounts, identify terminated accounts which have remained enabled, and identify user accounts which were inactive within a certain period of time.  ? Created a method to automate the Active Directory reviews saving two hours of time necessary to complete the review.  ? Created phishing campaigns for end-user awareness with PhishProof.  ? Supported the Senior Security Analyst to organize security tasks within Jira. Support Technician Eastern Business Software, Great Valley School District - Malvern, PA June 2016 to March 2017 Troubleshot Windows and Mac computers for students and teachers.  ? Created computer images for end users and when necessary, reimaging problematic machines.  ? Configured iPads for students and teachers.  ? Provided efficient resolution of issues such as recovering lost file in OneDrive and resolving connectivity issues with network printers.  ? Reset and unlocked user accounts within Active Directory.  ? Performed basic hardware repairs such as memory and hard drive replacements for laptops and desktops, as well as replacing laptop screens. Education Master of Science in Cyber Security in Cyber Security La Salle University - Philadelphia, PA September 2018 Bachelor of Arts in Information Technology in Information Technology La Salle University - Philadelphia, PA March 2013 to September 2016 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Active Directory (1 year), Forensic (Less than 1 year), FTK (Less than 1 year), Jira (1 year), LDAP (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Metasploit (Less than 1 year), MySql (Less than 1 year), NMap (Less than 1 year), provisioning (Less than 1 year), Visual Studio (Less than 1 year), VMWare (Less than 1 year), Windows 7 (Less than 1 year), Windows Server 2008 (Less than 1 year), Wireshark (Less than 1 year), SQL, security, HTML