Infrastructure Security Analyst Infrastructure <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Datacenter Operations Engineer - San Diego Supercomputer Center San Diego, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Infrastructure Security Analyst Daybreak Game Company - San Diego, CA January 2018 to June 2018 Reporting to the IT Security Manager. Managed constant vulnerability and asset discovery scans.  Manually verified and prioritized vulnerabilities as well as providing detailed reports to assist the IT  Security Manager. Part of the Incident Response team.  ? Managed the employee security awareness training program.  ? Managed and reviewed Cybereason agents daily.  ? Audit changes to firewalls, routers, and switches.  ? Found and reported vulnerabilities to 3ed party software vendor. IT Security Manager Peoplenet - Atlanta, GA 2016 to 2017 Reporting to the CIO, accountable for the physical and cyber security of the enterprise. Manage  network and web application firewalls, antivirus, and corporate access control system; administer  subsequent company firewall blades. Aid in implementing strategic corporate projects. Primary  contact for Incident Response.  ? Preform internal penetration tests.  ? Hunt for vulnerabilities in the enterprise, catalog and prioritize based on actual organization  risk, and serve as project manager to mitigate said vulnerabilities.  ? Create and maintain security metrics to provide trending data for executive team.  ? Created a metrics based social engineering training program.  Addison Wilson addisonbwilson@gmail.com Security Specialist Peoplenet - Atlanta, GA 2015 to 2016 Reporting to the CIO, provide technical assistance to 300 staffing agencies' 1K client  organizations.  Accountable for physical and digital security for 4K+ devices. Manage 3 network and application  firewalls, antivirus, and access control systems at corporate office; administer subsequent  company firewall blades. Primary contact for Incident Response.  ? Investigate and respond to 30-50 daily security alerts and 15 incidents through salesforce.com; consolidate log data across devices.  ? Provide Tier 3 networking support; remedy 10 +/- advanced networking problems monthly.  ? Cataloged and prioritized vulnerabilities on publicly visible servers and complex company  applications, based on actual organization risk; serve as project manager to mitigate risks.  ? Reduced network vulnerability score by 58% during the first year, through diligent  management and correlation of network and application vulnerabilities. Multimedia Marketing Assistant Chateau Elan - Braselton, GA May 2014 to July 2014 Managed search engine optimization of 275 Google adwords campaign. Analyzed data sets to maximize cost effectiveness. Evaluated manual vs paid search results; recommended reallocation of advertising dollars.  ? Developed "Grapevine" publication of multiple guest weekend events. Updated ads,  services, photos and graphics. 300+ color copies produced and distributed weekly.  ? Redesigned multiple wine flights menus; printed for use in the wine market.    Awards Education BA in Web Design Kennesaw State University - Marietta, GA December 2014 Skills Network Security (4 years), Firewalls (4 years), Cisco (3 years), Vulnerablity Management (4 years), Cybersecurity (4 years), Network Analysis (4 years), Python (4 years), Vulnerability Assessment (4 years), SIEM (3 years), Checkpoint Firewalls (3 years), Palo Alto Firewalls (1 year), IPS / IDS (4 years), Web Aplication Penetration Testing (1 year), Incident Management (3 years), Incident Responce (3 years), Windows Server 2003 / 2008 / 2012 / 2012r2 (3 years), VMWare ESX (1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/addisonwilson Awards Eagle Scout 2007 Order of the Arrow 2003 Scouting National Honor Society Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) December 2015 to December 2018