Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Atlanta, GA Work Experience Security Analyst ControlScan - Alpharetta, GA October 2015 to Present • Monitor clients network(s) for security events and alerts clients to potential (or active) threats, intrusions, and/or compromises  • Handle support tickets in line with ControlScan SLA  • Ability to identify anomalous network activity based on log and event data  • Interfacing with customers via phone and email  • Triaging and escalating support issues effectively   • Ability to troubleshoot issues that inhibit the transmission of log data such as; networking, software, or hardware issues  • Initiating in Incident Response processes to a potential compromise  • Respond to alerts and investigate anomalies for various Information Technology ( IT) issues such as viruses, spyware, unauthorized access  • Evaluate and execute application whitelisting and URL filtering requests for IT security access  • Assist Information Security Engineers and Management in developing and refining policies and procedures for logging, monitoring, response, and escalations   • Collect data for IT security metrics and create reports  • Maintain up-to-date knowledge of the Information Security industry including new threats, mitigations, tools and trends; inform management accordingly  • Also performed duties of a SIEM Engineer, onboarding new custom customers, configure Alarm and Advanced Intelligent Engine Rules, create custom Message Processing Rules for logs using regex, maintain production environment of seven servers.  • Support all aspects of Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) initiative.  • Develop content for a complex and growing infrastructure. This includes use cases for Dashboards, Alerts, Reports, Rules, and Filters.  • Participate in the operation of Security Information and Event Management systems to include connectors, loggers/indexers, Windows and Linux servers, network devices and backups.  • Supporting the establishment, enhancement, and continual improvement of an integrated set of correlation rules, alerts, searches, reports, and responses.  • Coordinating and conducting event collection, log management, event management, compliance automation, and identity monitoring activities  • Tunes performance and event data quality to maximized system efficiency.  • Perform routine equipment checks and preventative maintenance.  • Performing systems hardening to PCI & HIPAA Standards  • Security analytics skills. Security Operations Center Sr. Analyst Dell Secureworks - Atlanta, GA June 2014 to October 2015 ? Provide firewall and IDS support for a large global enterprise client  ? Learn fundamentals for current firewall technology (Checkpoint, Juniper Netscreen, and Juniper SRX) as well as any new firewall/IDS technology introduced into the network  ? Answer inbound calls and emails from technical clients (Network Administrators / Application Owners), authenticate callers, create or update tickets for all work, and address the client request or issue  ? Meet service level agreements related to change processing and incident resolution  ? Remotely access managed devices via in-band and out of band connections  ? Work within a 7x24 shift-scheduled security operations environment  ? Demonstrate excellent communication and client care skills by documenting all activities within our client delivery system and communicating with the client in a timely manner  ? Support and Monitor Network Firewalls such as Nokia Checkpoint, Juniper, Cisco ASA 5500 firewalls, Proventia, SRX, and Tipping Point.  ? Working knowledge and support of IPS(Intrusion Prevention Systems), NIDS (Network intrusion Detect Systems), and HIDS (Hardware Intrusion Detect Systems) and i-sensors  ? Monitor Syslogs for Threat intrusion such as DOS, DDOS, malicious logic, sequel injections among other malwares.  ? View and monitor EFD – Event Flow Data for Anomalies – Trending History of Security Devices  ? Historical reports for third parties and Work with high visibility clients within a dedicated team  ? Liaison between the Service Delivery teams, IT managers, Device Engineers and clients.  ? Provide support for Customers in a 24/7 Security Support Center (SOC)  ? Provide System upgrades and create and submit RMAs  ? Monitor the HIT – Health Information Technology Systems for a varied of clients/Platforms  ? Interpret network diagrams IT Support Engineer GNAX - Atlanta, GA October 2013 to March 2014 ? Provide IT and customer support for user and backend support for a Vendor Neutral Archive (VNA)  ? Setup and maintain the integrity and security of the Cloud environment in a VMware environment  ? Conduct system analysis and development to keep systems current with changing technologies in a closed environment, Proxy, Cloud and Transfer Servers for Red Hat Linux, Cent OS Linux, Oracle Linux and Windows 2008 Server systems.  ? Setup and administering of Operational tools virtual machines via VMware VCenter, like Puppet Labs  ? Setup and administered and maintained a server running McAfee ePO orchestrator, including deployment and administering McAfee Agent, McAfee Endpoint Security products, such as McAfee VirusScan Enterprise, McAfee Realtime ePO, McAfee Host Intrusion Prevention and Endpoint Firewall  ? McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) administrator experience  ? McAfee Anti-Virus administration experience  ? Experience with VMware vSphere 5.x products and services (vCenter, ESXi, SRM etc.)  ? Solid understanding of virtual and physical network and security concepts and practices  ? Proficient with Linux operating systems, i.e. Red Hat Linux server, Oracle Linux, CentOS Linux server and command line operations  ? Working knowledge of data center management concepts and practices  ? Maintaining Microsoft windows patch management and adhering to system security standards  ? Monitoring and optimizing the performance of both physical and virtual servers  ? Backup and recovery of OS and application information  ? Working knowledge VMware infrastructure specifics of vSphere 5.x and View  ? Experience consolidating policy sets, simplifying rules, and building documentation for handing down operations.  ? Creating/maintaining virtual servers  ? Disaster recovery for virtual environment  ? Creating, managing, and deploying Active Directory Group Policy Objects (GPOs) and associated custom GPO templates for the virtual environment.  ? Experience with Desktop VDI Environments such as VMware View  ? Backup and Recovery strategies using Idera  ? managing virtual hosts in a Data Center Environment  ? Knowledge of web server services like Microsoft IIS and Apache  ? Knowledge of storage technologies such as RAID, Snapshots, SAN and NAS Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching June 2015 to June 2020 Security+ March 2013 to March 2017