Assistant Vice President, Sr. Auditor Assistant Vice President, Sr. Auditor Assistant Vice President, Sr. Auditor - Bank Of America Plymouth Meeting, PA • CISA certified professional with experience in Internal and External Audits.  • Team leader in Identity Access Management, Audit, AML, and Service Desk roles.  • High-performing security specialist with background in third-party risk management, SOX compliance, and various security frameworks (COBIT 5, NIST, COSO, ITIL 3). Work Experience Assistant Vice President, Sr. Auditor Bank Of America - Wilmington, DE June 2017 to Present IT Security Analyst Vanguard, INC - Malvern, PA October 2016 to June 2017 Led team by completing 150 security requests per month, supporting over 10,000 employees to monitor systems and provide various audit support.  ? Managed security requests to grant, update and delete access on various target systems such as telephony, mainframe, financial systems, shared drives, and various reporting software such as Cognos, Siebel, Keyfast, KDA, WMS, Verint, AdReview, Prisma and Rightfax.  ? Reduced the backlog of security requests by 1000% to BAU in 6 months.  ? Investigated potential or actual security violations or incidents in an effort to identify issues and areas that require new security measures or policy changes.  ? Identified vulnerabilities, recommend corrective measures and ensure the adequacy of existing information security controls.  ? Ensure compliance with security related regulatory requirements in all countries commercial banking products operate in.  ? Developed technical expertise in application administration and cross-trained security consultants across application streams resulting in increased productivity.  ? Recognized for excellent customer service and systems knowledge in handling of technical security requests.  ? Completed all security requests within team and departmental service levels and objectives; and provided clients with non-technical answers to security questions.  ? Implemented process changes that resulted in improving on-time completion of security administration process from about 25% to about 98% within one year.  ? Updated technical documentation, procedures and workflows when necessary to assist the team in performing its security administration functions.  ? Executed test cases on security administration tools used by BAM to perform its security administration services. Staff Ernst & Young, LLP - New York, NY August 2015 to July 2016 Global Energy Trader  ? Led audit engagements by developing risk-based audit programs determined through planning discussions, conducting walkthroughs, testing controls and managing completion of work.  ? Assisted in recommendations based on independent judgment of corrective action and suggested improvements to operations and reductions in cost.  Global Specialty Insurance Company  ? Interacted directly with clients, including members of C-suite, to gather audit evidence and communicate any findings during the audit.  ? Reviewed SSAE16 reports for financial audit teams for reliance, and trust service purposes.  ? Evaluated ITGCs around Change Management, User Access Management, and IT Operations and led weekly/monthly status meetings.  Global Financial Institution  ? Supported a top global financial institution in conducting qualitative due diligence in the area of Know Your Customer (KYC) procedures in response to AML regulations.  ? Promoted to document remediation team during the AML engagement, including developing process documentation and leading requirements gathering meetings.  Global Japanese Bank  ? Assisted client in remediating risk assessment population by addressing issues identified by quality assurance team.  ? Performed quality assurance of a multinational bank's audit reports by utilizing GRC to support assertions. IT Security Consultant Campbell Soup Company - Camden, NJ May 2014 to May 2015 - May 15    ? Spearheaded team of 7 performing identity access management for $10 billion dollar global consumer goods company increasing efficiency by 500%.  ? Maintained 100% SLA in resolving UAM tickets and requests and identified problems to report to management.  ? Participated in operational meetings as SME to identify and mitigate security issues.  ? Acted as SPOC for escalations points and timely resolution with various business units.  ? Administered Unix/Linux accounts with appropriate privileges and security settings.  ? Provisioned/deprovisioned user accounts for various target systems like Microsoft Office O365 licensing, AS/400, Unix, Lotus Notes, Oracle databases, internal applications, shared drives, distribution lists, conference rooms, admin rights, VPN.  ? Collaborated with programmers and system architects to automate global software distribution through SCCM.  ? Assisted team in troubleshooting identity access management tool issues, provisioning employee transfers, provisioning the DMZ, and creating and managing Unix and Lotus Notes accounts. Analyst - IT Services DecisionOne - Devon, PA March 2012 to May 2014 Developed technical knowledge with MS Access and created database of 1000+ technology knowledge articles.  ? Researched and constructed knowledge-base articles for desktop issues, resulting in an increase in first-call resolutions of 20% that saved company $200,000 annually.  ? Used system diagnostic tools to troubleshoot operating system issues, network connectivity, TCP/IP configuration, mail and MS Office products.  ? Directed project for installation of the Dell Optos Medical image database at 200+ medical facilities.    INFORMATION SYSTEMS PROJECTS  ? Developed a rudimentary web application in PHP querying a MYSQL database for taking orders, managing inventory, and viewing reports for tool rental Company.  ? Analyzed requirements, mapped processes, and built data models in the development of a prototype to track customers, products, orders, payments, and BI reports for Blinds retailer.  ? Created a risk assessment plan for a national health club franchise that identified risks, evaluated the frequency and impact of risks, and made recommendations for mitigation. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Information Systems TEMPLE UNIVERSITY, Fox School of Business - Philadelphia, PA Skills CISA (Less than 1 year), Citrix (Less than 1 year), CompTIA (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), PHP (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) January 2017 to December 2017 Passed CISA exam in top 10% of test takers. Additional Information SKILLS & INTERESTS  ? PHP, SQL, HTML, CSS, Unix, VBScript, MS Project, SCCM, Citrix, Visio, JustInMind  ? CISA, CompTIA A+, CompTIA Network+, CompTIA Server+, Win7, Win8 certifications  ? Passed CISA exam in top 10% of test takers  ? Conversational in French, Gujarati  ? Philadelphia sports fan, former state champion basketball player, music