Security Analyst, Contractor <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span>, Contractor Security Analyst, Contractor San Antonio, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst, Contractor Mariden Search LLC May 2017 to September 2017 Assisted with the maintenance of the clients File Integrity Monitoring (FIM) tool. Did vulnerability analysis and provided feedback to the Operations and Architecture Managers on specific vulnerabilities, wrote position papers that gave feedback to the business; as well as other departments, showing the risk associated with not patching, maintaining, or upgrading certain tools. Built a Cuckoo Sandbox on top of Kali Linux, to utilize for malware analysis and some penetration testing, as well as created flow diagrams for various tools and processes for the client. Starr, Security Architect, Contractor Tri August 2015 to May 2017 Developed the new documentation format for exception to policy requests. Assisted the Senior Security Architect in proof of concepts (POC) by analyzing, troubleshooting, evaluating and reporting on tool alignment with security requirements. Subject matter expert for various security tools used in the client's environment. Collaborated with various departments/teams dealing with tool evaluations, tool deployment and tool training. Assisted with, and conducted risk assessments for various applications and systems. Starr, Security Architect, Intern Tri May 2015 to August 2015 Assisted the Manager of Security Architecture with maintaining and utilizing the client's vulnerability scanner, Network topology tool, Web Application Security tool, and assisted with the design, implementation, and understanding of an endpoint protection tool Falcon Host CrowdStrike. IT Technician, Intern Lockheed Martin June 2014 to August 2014 Worked on a project with a team of two individuals. Conducted inventory checks, troubleshooting various computer issues, re-wired server racks, fixed printers, and assisted with any networking issues that may have occurred.    Designations  Computer Forensics Certificate, Cisco Certified Network Associate Level 1 Certificate, Information Security and Assurance Level 1 certificate, Cyber First Responders Marketable Skills Award, CompTIA Security+ Network+ and A+ Marketable Skills Award, Linux Pro Certified Education BAAS in Information Technology Texas A&M University at San Antonio December 2017 CC, San Antonio College, Work Force Center of Excellence August 2016 Information Technology & Security Academy May 2015 Skills C+ (Less than 1 year), Citrix (Less than 1 year), HIPAA (Less than 1 year), Incident Response (Less than 1 year), Security (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/xavier-lopez-442281103 Additional Information Skills  Linux / Unix Operating Systems, Vulnerability Management, Policy and Procedures, Technical Writing, Assessing Risk, PCI, Cloud Security, Malware Analysis, Incident Response, HIPAA, Certification and Accreditation, Microsoft Office, Tenable Nessus, Visio, Nexpose, RedSeal, Skybox, SIEM tools, HP WebInspect, Crowdstrike Falcon Host, OpenVAS, Lotus Notes, Outlook, HP Service Manager (HPSM), Tripwire, Snare, Citrix ShareFile, Avanan - a Cloud Security Platform, Cherwell, C++, Wireshark, Netskope