IT Technical Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Technical <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Technical Analyst - Gibraltar Private Bank & Trust Pembroke Pines, FL Gain a position as an Information Technology Security Engineer that will allow for career progression and attainment of managerial and administrative skills. Work Experience IT Technical Analyst Gibraltar Private Bank & Trust - Coral Gables, FL September 2015 to Present Assist employees with computer's, scheduled maintenance reports, assist with troubleshooting applications, following up with users, and opening closing tickets.  ? Manage and set company mobile devices for all employees  ? Install, configure, and deploy PCs, and other technical equipment as required  ? Assist end-users with password resets  ? Documented and maintain IT inventory  ? Hardening steps to insure security, and handling of sensitive data  ? Communicate with other Technology Support team members to provide feedback on issues encountered, measures taken, and how issue was resolved  ? Professionally and effectively handle customer and dealer phone calls and emails that require product & service troubleshooting  ? Assist customers via telephone with software installation and configuration Help Desk Newport Beachside Hotel and Resort - Sunny Isles Beach, FL January 2015 to August 2015 Assist employees with connections of computer's, schedule maintenance calls, Assist with troubleshooting, follow-up on open tickets.  ? Responded to guest complaints and support requests to gain customer satisfaction  ? Inputted and organized data on customers  ? Processed guest payments and prepared record keeping  ? Managed incoming calls Security Guard Mirage Yachts - Miami, FL May 2014 to August 2014 Check for proper ID when entering gate to access marina. Do daily checks and accept deliveries of parts for owners. Education Associate Degree Broward College - Pembroke Pines, FL June 2016 to Present High School Diploma American High School Academy - Miami, FL December 2014 Skills Detail-oriented (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), Presentation Skills (Less than 1 year), real-time (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS:  ? Active Listening  ? Customer and Personal Service  ? Critical Thinking  ? Detail-oriented  ? Active Learning  ? Judgment and Decision Making  ? Time Management  ? Computers and Electronics  ? Writing  ? Mathematics  ? Punctuality  ? Proficient in Microsoft Office  ? Presentation Skills  ? Communicate through email and real-time communication programs