IT Support Technician <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Technician IT Support Technician - PlaceIQ Queens, NY Work Experience IT Support Technician PlaceIQ - New York, NY July 2014 to Present Currently working as a technician at a fast growing NYC data analytics startup. Responsibilities include infrastructure deployment and upgrades, new user setup and training, Active Directory rollout, VPN administration, user support, and access management for  corporate IT systems.    • Assisted in the configuration and rollout of Active Directory to meet security compliance standards set by our  clients. Configured and deployed automated backup system to all corporate machines  • Assisted in an office move from 23rd St. to Bryant Park. Helped coordinate teardown and redeployment of office  infrastructure, as well as configuration of new conference rooms and offices  • Designed corporate IT Training deck. Currently in charge of running training sessions for new hires  • Assisted in the planning and deployment of infrastructure at remote offices. Traveled to satellite offices, deployed  networking gear and IT systems including switches, routers, wireless access points, printers, VOIP phones, and AV  systems  • Provide remote support for offices in Boulder, Chicago, Palo Alto, Detroit, London, and New York City. Maintain and troubleshoot printers, videoconferencing gear, wireless access points, and all other IT related systems  • Configured and deployed VOIP phone system. Currently in charge of administrating the phone network, managing  inventory, and deploying new phones  • Coordinate with HR to manage new hires and terminations. Responsible for deploying OSX images, backing up  OSX and Windows based computers, and distributing access for IT related systems Information Security Analyst Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL May 2012 to May 2014 Part of a three-person team overseeing security operations for the entire campus. Responsible for supporting over 40,000 students and 10,000 faculty members on the main campus and in satellite offices. Security duties included patch management, vulnerability  scanning and assessment, antivirus protection, creation and implementation of security policies, and integration of new security tools into existing network infrastructure.    • Managed campus-wide vulnerability scanning with Nexpose, developed scan schedule, distributed access, ran server  backups, applied upgrades, preformed server maintenance, and created training resources for users in other  departments  • Tested, packaged and deployed Microsoft security updates via the WSUS and SCCM 2012 servers, managed  computer groups, remediated server issues  • Analyzed security threats with McAfee EPO & SCCM, managed user access, applied updates, backed up data  • Remediated security incidents throughout campus, worked with system admins to locate and neutralize malicious  software, tracked wireless incidents with Aruba Airwave  • Assisted in implementing Microsoft SCCM 2012 and oversaw the transfer of 8,000 users from Mcafee EPO, created and managed a virtual lab to test the compatibility of SCCM with campus resources  • Assisted in the installation and configuration of new hardware, including CISCO ASA Firewall, Nexpose Scanner  Appliance, and Nitrosecurity SIEM Education B.S. in Information and Communication Technology Florida State University Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS Software Applications: Office 365, Open office, Oracle Virtualbox, VMware Fusion,  Parallels, Adobe Creative Suite, Prezi, Bluejeans, CISCO Anyconnect, Remote Desktop,  Bomgar, join.me, Teamviewer, HyperV, Aruba Airwave, Google Apps Admin Panel,  Active Directory, Centrify, Crashplan ProE, JIRA, Confluence  Security Applications: Nexpose Vulnerability Scanner, Metasploit Pro, Mcafee E Policy  Orchestrator, WSUS, Microsoft Security Essentials, IBM Rational Policy Tester, SCCM  2012, Ncase, McAfee Intrusion Prevention System, Nitrosecurity SIEM, Fortigate VPN  Operating Systems: Mac OSX, Windows XP, Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8, Ubuntu,  Debian, Backtrack, Gentoo, Centos 6.5, Kali, Fedora, Windows Server 2003 - 2012 R2