Senior IT Security Analyst Senior <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Senior IT Security Analyst - SecureWorks, Inc Atlanta, GA Work Experience Senior IT Security Analyst SecureWorks, Inc - Atlanta, GA August 2016 to Present Manage security device platforms and execute customer change requests with a focus on firewalls and IDS/IDP devices. Support enterprise-level client networks by inspecting, troubleshooting, resolving, and stabilizing routing and interconnectivity issues, including broken VLAN settings, incorrect span port setting, changed or duplicated IP addresses, changed access control lists, and misconfigured Network Address Translations (NATs). Collaborate with vendors and internal teams to diagnose problems and return network to a healthy state. Configure Syslog Server/Log Collectors and review managed security devices to determine implementation of logging to the syslog server. Charged with answering and authenticating client inbound calls and emails. Adept at prioritization and quickly researching and resolving client requests and issues.  Key Achievements:  * Recognized by executive management for reaching Productivity Level 50% over team while maintaining 100% Quality Score for the past two quarters.  * Selected for special projects involving high priority clients. MPLS VPN Implementation and Performance Tuning 2015 to 2016 - Designed a core network for tunneling VPN packets between four sites by implementing MPLS LSRs across Provider Edge Routers. Achieved improved network performance by minimizing time to propagate topology changes between these sites.  * OSPF configured between PE and CE; MP-BGP used to transport prefixes between sites.  * Sham-Link configured to prevent sites preferring backdoor links over MPLS VPN.  * Peer advertisement interval reduced between PE routers and scan time interval reduced on PE routers.  Design Enterprise Network using GNS3 - Designed, developed, and implemented a multi-facility IP network in GNS3 that included multiple branch offices in varied Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) areas and connections over a private cloud using DMVPN.  * Multi-area routing incorporated to add hierarchy and scalability to the design.  * Network summarization as well as discontinuous area issue resolved by configuring stub areas and virtual link.  * Traffic engineering implemented over stub areas with multiple exit points. Electrical Engineer Pristine Switchgear (I) Pvt. Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra June 2012 to June 2013 India  Led a team of four engineers managing annual sales of $20M for Schneider-manufactured Switchgear Panels, a combination of electrical disconnect switches, fuses, and circuit breakers used to control, protect, and isolate electrical equipment. Guided technological-commercial meetings with high priority customers to educate clients on equipment and capabilities. Provided technical support for projects throughout the product development lifecycle. Education Master of Science in Telecommunication Technology Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY 2016 Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Yeshwantrao Chavan College of Engineering, Nagpur University - Nagpur, Maharashtra 2012 Skills BGP (1 year), EIGRP (Less than 1 year), MPLS (1 year), OSPF (1 year), VPN (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rohan-vishwakarma-468a796b