IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - StatCare Urgent Care Yonkers, NY More than three (3) years of experience in information Technology. I have experience in conducting IT Security  Risk Assessment for internal Systems as well as Vendor provided systems. HIPAA Security and Privacy  Compliance, Certification and Accreditation, Security Awareness and Training, and development and review of  Security Policies and procedures. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst StatCare Urgent Care March 2018 to Present Assessed the adherence of Administrative, Physical and technical defenses in order to comply with HIPAA standards and regulations based on Office of Civil Right (OCR) protocols, NIST SP 800-66  Rev1 and NIST SP 800-53  • Conduct Security assessment to evaluate compliance with the organization's Security policies.  • Conduct security assessment on medical devices and also for clinical systems.  • On site review of data systems to support risk assessments and compliance with business guidelines  • Aid management in developing essential security standards, policies and procedure.  • Perform 3rd party/vendor risk assessment on new and existing vendors.  • Identify gaps and produce detailed reports of assessments.  • Perform remediation activities on identified security gaps after an assessment.  • Communicate issues to business units, ensuring their understanding of associated risks and actions  needed to remediate those risks. IT Security Compliance Analyst (contract) CityMD June 2017 to February 2018 Review of operational and technical security controls adhere to NIST SP 800-53 and NIST 800-66  framework, to identify the threats and vulnerabilities, and rates the impact.  • Performed security risk assessments with a focus on existing and new systems, against the HIPAA,  HITECH, and Meaningful Use requirements.  • Perform Third Party/Vendor Risk Assessment to assess the effectiveness of vendor's controls against ISO 27001, HIPAA, FISMA requirements through the use of GRC tool.  • Conducted security control assessments to assess the adequacy of management, operational privacy, and technical security controls implemented.  • Developed HIPAA compliance reports documenting auditing finding and corrective actions.  • Involved in the security awareness and training for new hire and existing staff on HIPAA requirements  as it related to information technology.  • Conducted HIPAA Compliance Program and documentation for regulatory purposes and monitor the success of Compliances program. Help Desk Support (Intern/Contractor) Stony Brook University Hospital August 2014 to May 2016 • Install and train various company issued software  • Support users in setting up new hardware systems including workstations, printers and other mobile  devices  • Respond and diagnose problems in person, over the phone and via Skype  • Proactively escalate incidents and ensure that all incidents are handled in a timely manner  • Regularly communicate progress towards departmental goals  • Distribute and inform users about new procedures, policies and technologies established to help them be  in accordance with compliance as well as using the tools to the maximum potential to help them in their  business Stony Brook Recreation Center Operation Coordinator VOLUNTARY WORK September 2013 to June 2015 • Monitored patrons and organized equipment in the campus recreation center  • Provided a safe and enjoyable environment through exemplary customer service.  • Opened and closed a facility that host approximately 2000 patrons per day. Education Bachelors of Science Stony Brook University Skills Federal Information Security Management Act (Less than 1 year), FISMA (3 years), HIPAA (3 years), ISO (3 years), Security (4 years), Information Security, It Security (4 years) Additional Information SPECIALTIES/STANDARDS/FRAMEWORKS  • HIPAA & HITECH  • ISO 27001  • Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA)  • The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)  • Anti-Phishing training    TECHNOLOGIES  • Archer GRC  • Software: Microsoft Office- Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook  • Cloud Computing