IT technician <span class="hl">IT</span> technician Technician - Dixie San Francisco, CA Experienced Information Technology Technician and aspiring professional programmer with a demonstrated history of working in the education management industry. Looking for summer 2019 Software Engineering and Information Technology internship opportunities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT technician Dixie - Saint George, UT September 2017 to April 2019 Inventory Technician  ? Assisted IT Auction team with Testing and Updating hardware for the interior Sale and Auction.  ? Took responsibility for securing and destroying sensitive hardware including HDD and SSD drives  ? Maintained proper and timely records and data of every product shipped, received, and purchased for the inventory  ? Assisted in keeping the overall computerized records, manual files, and associated documents for tracking the inventory function with management tool Cherwell. Information Security Analyst Intern Twitter - San Francisco, CA July 2016 to January 2017 Checked ~1,000 hosts for internal/external network vulnerabilities in Security Center, ensuring all software,  peripherals, and WiFi were compliant; detected device vulnerabilities in FireEye and delegated follow-up to IT  ? Investigated VPN access to corporate network from high-risk countries by using tools such as FireEye, Twippy, and Loogy, enforcing policy by issuing/denying VPN access after communicating with users  ? Resolved ~25 security-related tickets and ~15 device compliance tickets weekly by acting as liaison between IT,  Info Security, and end user, communicating to users via JIRA tickets and email  ? Tracked and maintained 4,000+ company assets/peripherals via ServiceNow, JAMF, and Excel, auditing assets to ensure compliance for user data security, assignment to specific owner, and current status  ? Used Linux and Loony internal tool to detect security risk level of certain users being compromised, based on group  membership and access, confirming info with managers across Twitter  ? Issued Chromebook devices to employees, authenticating, tracking, and ensuring return to inventory  ? Conducted and tracked metrics for internal phishing campaign to 3,000+ employees Education AS in General Engineering in Engineering Northwest College - Powell, WY August 2013 to May 2015 BS in Information Technology - Software Development Emphasis in Computer Science Dixie State University - Saint George, UT August 2017 Skills CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), Java (Less than 1 year), Linux (1 year), Python (1 year), Help Desk, Desktop Support, Tech Support Additional Information RELEVANT SKILLS  Software: Hardware:  ? Nessus/ Security Center ? Python ? Computer Troubleshooting  ? JAMF/ Service Now ? Unix/Linux ? Computer & Software Updates  ? FireEye / Java (intermediate) ? Phishing / Cherwell ? Apple Products Repair  ? HTML/ CSS ? Loggy/ Twippy/ Loony ? PC Maintenance