IT Risk Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Risk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Motivated With A Recent Graduate Degree Highlands Ranch, CO Interested in investigation and communication. Work Experience IT Risk Analyst Nelnet - Highlands Ranch, CO December 2016 to Present Duties: Works as a technical advisor to recommend solutions for project managers, analysts, system development resources and trainers.     Performs information technology risk management functions, providing expertise and direction in support of internal reviews, and internal /external audits.  Coordinates and participates in audits, vulnerability testing, and compliance reviews representing information technology functions in support of security, audit, and risk needs.   Defines, implements, maintains and trains, on information technology processes supporting industry best practices and information security standards.   Knowledge expert on PCI compliance practices.  Knowledge expert on NIST industry security standards and procedures.  Performs regular reviews, and contributes to development and maintenance of information technology processes, standards, templates, tools and techniques.   Performs technology business continuity and disaster recovery risk assessments, and supports corrective actions.   Acts as a liaison between corporate functions, internal/external clients, operations and technical staff. Security Operations Support Coordinator HSS - Denver, CO March 2015 to December 2016 Duties: Dedicated to helping with the preset up, coordination, and training for new healthcare facility security teams across the nation.     Coordinated and participated in audits, vulnerability testing, and compliance reviews representing “physical” functions in support of security.   Assisted in creating audit documentation procedures for medical offices and local healthcare facility.   Provided assistance to the HSS iLEAD training team.  Taught continuing officer’s education through TEAM series defense and de-escalation techniques.   Taught new officer orientation and TEAM series defense and de-escalation techniques.   Organized facility records and facility orders materials and tools.   Provided emergency support to local Centura security site leads, including sites in; the state of Colorado, Wyoming, and Nebraska.   Ensured payment for new officers through Vision software.   Managed officer’s use of Perspective and Vision data collection programs.   Executed risk analysis drills and assessments per hospital regulations.   Coordinated, participated and reviewed infant abduction drill across Colorado.   Filled in for shifts as a security officer/ supervisor/ manager when needed.   Scheduled officer’s hours and tracked overtime.  Assisted with monitoring company employment and facility size relating data. Education Master's in Cybersecurity University of Maryland-University College - Work at Home 2014 to 2016 BS in Criminology/Criminal Justice Northern Arizona University - Flagstaff, AZ January 2009 to January 2012 Boise High School January 2009 Skills Software Skills: Expert with MS Word products. Proficient with Risk Sense. Proficient in Vision software. Proficient in Perspective (PPM). Proficient in SharePoint. Proficient in visual and marketing advertising through Constant Contact. Rapid 7 (limited experience). Splunk (limited user experience). Change Gear (limited user experience). CAD (limited experience). eClinic skills (limited experience). SNORT (Limited experience). Completed CompTIA A+ computer training. Expert on Cybersecurity prefered measures and social and cultural views. Experience with designing Cybersecurity programs fit for specific industry settings. Character Skills: Proficient in de-escalation and communication skills. Highly knowledgeable on cybersecurity and physical security measures/applications. Proficient in organization and research. Dedication to continued education. Highly attentive to detail. Proficient in scheduling and event planning. Physical Skills: Blue Belt in Kenpo Karate. Orange Belt in Judo. Experience teaching basic self defense. Experience teaching TEAM self defense. Experience performing Physical security reviews according to industry standards. Experience designing physical security measures for specific industry settings. Experience researching physical and cyber security options. Language Skills: Basic Spanish Beginner French (3 years) Awards Washington Semester Program Fall 2011 2011-08 Semester in D.C. at American University. Focuses study on American Justice system and allows for an intensive internship with any organization located within the immediate area of D.C.. Dean's List 2010-12 Dean's recognition for academics Dean's List 2011-05 Dean's recognition for academics Certifications/Licenses Alpha Phi Sigma the National Criminal Justice Honor Society March 2011 to Present Membership Certification The Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy Studies December 2011 to Present as an expression of appreciation, in recognition of distinguished service as Research Associate in the Washington, D.C. National Office of the Federalist Society on behalf of our joint efforts to further the ideals of freedom and separation of powers in the law. Groups Tri Delta September 2009 to Present Alpha Phi Sigma the National Criminal Justice Honor Society April 2011 to Present National Criminal Justice Honor Society