Federal Cyber Risk Consultant Federal Cyber Risk Consultant Arlington, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Federal Cyber Risk Consultant Deloitte - Arlington, VA August 2016 to Present Daily collaboration with impacted stakeholders, auditor, and subject matter experts in each phase of the audit life cycle to prepare stakeholders for audit activity, while effectively managing risk. IT Security Analyst Textron Aviation - Wichita, KS August 2015 to July 2016 Currently responsible for performing security risk assessments. Responsibilities include reviewing policies/standards, best practices, SSAE16 SOC reports, penetration testing results, system configurations, and audit findings. In addition, a risk summary is created and presented to management.    Supporting PCI and SOX compliance initiatives and assessment across all areas of business operations.    Performing day to day operations by assisting in the support of the security ticket queue. Tasks include resolving technical issues, creating user accounts (FIM, AD), and miscellaneous requests (Remedy). Leadership Development Program - Business Integration/Project Management Textron Aviation - Wichita, KS August 2014 to August 2015 Responsible for various projects that impacted customer/end user. Main project focused on implementing a solution for the after market division. Responsibilities included planning, preparing a capital authorization request (budget requests), meeting and keeping stakeholders up to date on strategy and action items, rapid understanding of our supply chain processes and architecture, preparing a security assessment for the software, and building functional specifications to develop interfaces for data transfers. Leadership Development Program - IT Security Analyst Textron Information Systems - Fort Worth, TX August 2013 to August 2014 Supported a myriad of different systems and projects.During this experience, I was exposed to different segments of IT. The primary focus was on IT Security. Projects involved working with the DMZ, firewall, firewall rules, security risk assessments, incident remediation, and email security migration. Received multiple awards by executive management. Education Business Management in Management Information Systems State University of New York, Binghamton - Binghamton, NY 2011 to 2013 Business Administration Imperial Valley College - Imperial, CA 2008 to 2010 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Microsoft Sharepoint (2 years), Microsoft Access (2 years), Microsoft Visio (4 years), Adobe Photoshop (7 years), Adobe After Effects (2 years), Adobe Premiere (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Java (1 year), Python (1 year), SQL (2 years), Active Directory (2 years), Html5 (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Spanish (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Foundation October 2014 to Present