IT Systems Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Systems <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Systems Analyst Moline, IL • 2+ years in Information Technology working as a system Analyst supporting a wide variety of systems in both team and self-driven settings.  • Deadline-driven Project management in addition to everyday tasks and front-line support for Gaming, Hotel and entertainment related Computer systems.  • Maintained relations with associates, customers and outside service partners.  • Practical understanding of marketing and customer service concepts for a variety of industries. Work Experience IT Systems Analyst Jumer's Casino & Hotel - Rock Island, IL June 2010 to September 2012 Performed user support across all systems and networks such as gaming, Hotel, digital signage, finance/accounting systems including AS400, etc. Trained and mentored associates as needed.  • Performed on-call duties one week a month 24 hours a day. This included daily and weekly tape backups, updates to the State regulated trespass database, various other procedures.  • Stayed current on company product knowledge studying the latest news and events pertaining to both customer and employees. Our department reviewed and challenged each other regularly as a team.  • Created, updated, and adhered to a standard for documenting various tasks and procedures carried out by the IT staff and for those that we support. This included everything from Installations, daily tasks, emergency procedures, etc.  • Created and managed daily, weekly project to help with organization and deadline management.  • Supported and maintained the Oasis "Casino management System" provided by Aristocrat gaming. This included a wide variety of applications and servers used by both IT staff and other departments to track data and perform various procedures for casino guests. Most commonly it involved administrating the addition and disabling of users and position rights. As part of this system I had to become familiarize with all departments procedures used within the various applications.  • Built and maintained a Symantec Endpoint Protection anti-virus server protecting around 150 client workstations and company servers.  • Maintained a Microsoft Access database to track and maintain IT assets and licensing. Created query's and reports to streamline data and track dates coming due.  • Performed bi-annual preventive maintenance on company workstations. Maintenance was done on several workstations a week to spread across a 6 month period. Dates were tracked in the IT database previously mentioned.  • Helped to setup and administer two different bio-metric key box systems.  • Supported and maintained an IBM Point of Sale system with software provided by Agilysys.  • Built and maintained a server to support a CAD program with the supporting vendor. The system pulled data directly from the Gaming database and used by the Slot and marketing departments to analyze data.  • Maintained copier administration for company copy machines. Each user was assigned a retention code to track usage and ensure confidentiality.  • Researched various systems to compare functionality and pricing. Analyzed and presented the data in to management.    Other systems supported as needed:    • Active directory, exchange, Windows system update server, Spiceworks server, PoE phone system, and the Hotel electronic key lock system. Security Supervisor / EMT Jumer's Casino & Hotel - Rock Island, IL October 2007 to June 2009 2 ½+ years of experience in the gaming industry with Jumer's Gaming operations as an EMT and Dual rate Security Supervisor. Duties included fulfilling requirements of Company and State gaming policies, while providing quality of customer service and interdepartmental relations. Responded to medical emergencies and provided pre-hospital in accordance to local protocol. Documented a wide variety of incidents on company property including criminal, medical and non-emergency. Helped to oversee departmental operations and provide guidance for work associates.    Sales Representative: AFLAC, Oskaloosa Motors:  ? Attended Sales training for both companies. Leveraged strengths in persuasive communications and consultative sales to earn a reputation for top sales at Oskaloosa Motors. Licensed in Life, health and accident insurance in Iowa, considered among the most challenging state testing. Reciprocal licensing obtained for several other states.    ? Emergency Medical Technician: Trained and licensed to provide pre-hospital emergency and ambulatory medical services. Completed well over minimum number of hours of clinical real-world training and testing.    ? Network Administration Track: Studies include hardware troubleshooting and repair, basic networks, Cisco, Computer Math (Binary, Hexadecimal), C++ programming, programming logic, HTML, Microsoft Office and Windows Operating Systems. Education Indian Hills Community College - Ottumwa, IA