Advanced Technician Advanced Technician Advanced Technician - Peak Systems West Palm Beach, FL IT technician, with experience using Remedy to process customer requests and resolve application issues. Proficient in handling VPN requests for clients. Support client systems software, hardware and operating systems as well as smart phones. Work well independently and within a team, and possess strong verbal and writing skills. Work Experience Advanced Technician Peak Systems - New York, NY July 2010 to Present Participate in deployment projects for vendors in replacing and imaging several computers.  • Set up new systems and perform data migration for multiple users sequentially.  • Monitor and troubleshoot software and hardware related issues as well as machine assembly. Determine proper configurations and system functionality.  • Verify LAN connectivity, check printer functionality and dual monitor configurations.  • Assist users with system configuration and technical issues.  • Provide smart phones support and troubleshoot issues. Peak Systems - New York, NY June 2014 to August 2014 Troubleshot and resolved desktop support issues.  • Performed data migration and assisted users with login and application issues.  • Mapped network printers and troubleshot printer problems.  • Worked with the bridge over the phone to provide additional assistance to users for specific applications or network connectivity.  • Provided desktop support and educated users with the new system functionality. Peak Systems - New York, NY February 2014 to May 2014 Migrated users from Windows XP to Windows 7, created user accounts, and managed access control.  • Configured and installed desktops and laptops, installed various applications for brokers in a fast paced environment.  • Provided desktop support for several users and resolved issues as quickly as possible.  • Assigned, closed and resolved tickets within a short time.  • Contacted software companies to resolve installation problems. IT Security Analyst Consultant Peak Systems November 2010 to August 2013 Verizon Wireless - Orangeburg, NY  • Managed the daily flow of information received through the Automated Customer Service Request (ACSR).  • Provided resolution on trouble tickets related to application failures, logon issues.  • Ensured that access to applications is granted on a need-to-know least privilege basis.  • Approved Virtual Private Network (VPN) requests and troubleshot token issues or connectivity problems.  • Enabled and disabled accounts in Active Directory and added users to specific groups.  • Logged and monitored reports for several servers and researched hostnames to avoid hacking.  • Created new identities and keys for RSA Access Manager and Key Manager Clients, imported certificates, validated passwords for application team.  • Trained interns and employees on applications and troubleshooting techniques to decrease time to resolve trouble tickets. Peak Systems - New York, NY July 2010 to November 2010 Participated in deployment projects and performed data migrations for several users.  • Set up and maintained end-user machines.  • Provided desktop support and escalated issues to appropriate departments.  • Performed system wipes and reimaged machines accordingly.  • Flashed Bios and performed system configurations. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science St John's University 2001 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Remedy, LAN, WAP, WEPx  • MS Windows (2000/XP/Vista/7), Ubuntu 9.10  • WPAx, SSID settings, TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS  • MS Office suite, SQL, Active Directory  • VPN/ SecurID, Quality Center, QTP  • Symantec Ghost Microsoft Exchange Server 2007  • Altiris deployment console