IT Security GRC Intern <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> GRC Intern IT Specialist Mundelein, IL Current Masters Student Graduating in June 2020 looking for IT related positions. Experience in IT Support and security projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security GRC Intern Trustmark - Lake Forest, IL June 2019 to Present Working with the IT Security team on hands-on projects including; Business Continuity / Disaster Recovery, Active Directory, Contracts, Vendor Risk Management, Project Management, Security Awareness Training, Penetration testing and more tasks as assigned.    Working with other interns on project to develop more effective productivity in our assigned departments. IT Technology Specialist Harper College - Palatine, IL November 2018 to May 2019 ·        Providing college-wide training, support and delivery of technological solutions. Responsible for support and implementation of end user technology needs. Serves as a liaison between the user community and Information Technology, providing support services in person, online, or by phone.  ·        Installs, upgrades, supports, maintains, and troubleshoots software, computers, laptops, printers, projectors, classroom technology, and other hardware and peripheral equipment used by various departments.  ·        Contributing to technical support documentation of resolutions, processes, and procedures. Participates in the development, implementation, and communication of guidelines and procedures for the usage, deployment and management of systems and software supported by Information Technology. IT Support Technician CDW Corporation - Vernon Hills, IL October 2017 to November 2018 Remote support for all internal employees as a first point of contact. Exceeding and leading service call  statistics; 40+ service call volume on a daily basis. Handled and resolved IT incidents in Remedy and  ServiceNow ticketing systems. Working on both Windows and Mac OS.  • Escalating to Tier II and appropriate teams for complex issues and resolving tickets on an SLA basis.  Collaborating with other internal departments to report outages and resolve complex tickets.  • Active Directory, Exchange, SCCM, MDM management for iOS and Android devices, Citrix Published  Desktop, RSA SecureID, Office 365, Skype for Business, and other applications supported in an  Enterprise Environment.  • Educating co-workers on best practices, managing and updating database of procedures and documents  relating to FAQ and access guides. Managing Active Directory Group access and VPN access. Transportation Security Officer Department of Homeland Security - Chicago, IL October 2016 to October 2017 Maintaining focus and awareness while working in a stressful environment which includes noise from alarms, machinery and people, crowd distractions, time pressure, and disruptive and angry passengers, to  preserve professional authority with customer service attitude.  • Engaging in continuous development of critical thinking skills, necessary to mitigate actual and potential  security threats, by identifying, evaluating, and applying appropriate situational options and approaches to passengers and property screening.  • Retaining and implementing knowledge of all applicable Standard Operating Procedures, demonstrated by catching test explosive threats, integrity testing, and quarterly training. Adapting to new information or unexpected obstacles as FAA regulations change. Information System Analyst / Information System Security Analyst I Medline Industries - Mundelein, IL June 2015 to October 2016 Began working as both employee and customer support for the company website with an emphasis on customer service. Supported the company's continuing education website as an administrator. Supported  warehouse hardware scanners. Provided general IT support for employees.  • Moved into specialized position within 3 months with the IT Security team as a level I Security Analyst.  Removed malicious software from infected company computers using anti-virus software. Triage and documenting company spam and suspicious email box. Spent time in a NOC monitoring the network  using tools such as fir eye, magma and reported any incidents to senior team members. Migrated users  .pst files in exchange migration project that was finished before set annual deadline.  • Key role as a project coordinator for company server and database patching project. Updated  spreadsheets and records for patching and changes on servers. Intern Mundelein Police Department - Mundelein, IL July 2014 to August 2014 Ride along with sworn officers, observing police equipment and policing methods. Ticket writing and analytic report writing. Worked hands-on with CID systems and local community citizens directing  traffic and questioning individuals.  • Investigations Database Search tool researching. Investigation interviewing and follow up with department detectives.  • Court room observation and legal knowledge on obtaining warrants, discussing plea bargaining, and initial hearings.  • Community focused support; setting up community events, assembling community engagement signage,  forming relations and community awareness. Education Masters of Science in Cyber Security DePaul University September 2018 to May 2020 Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice & Criminology Loyola University Chicago 2012 to 2014 A.A.S in Network Administration & Security College of Lake County 2009 to 2012 Skills Windows (3 years), Mac OS X (2 years), IT Support (2 years), Service Desk, MAC, Help Desk, Active Directory, Desktop Support, security Certifications/Licenses Security Guard PERC Card Additional Information Working on Network+ Certification and ITIL Certification.