IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - TEXTRON INC Baltimore, MD Finished a 2-year leadership development program at Textron across different business units. Now based out of Baltimore, MD at Textron Systems.    Information Technology professional skilled in Security, Business Analysis, User Experience, and Design. Grew up and studied in 4 different countries. Implementing new technologies to solve unique problems is my passion. Work Experience IT Security Analyst Textron - Hunt Valley, MD August 2017 to Present • Business Unit liaison collaborating with corporate IT Risk Management to deliver projects expeditiously. Reducing cost and overhead by utilizing cross-business relationships and tools   • Conduct risk assessments, assess confidentiality, integrity, and availability of new and current information systems with security controls to deliver secure solutions to business stakeholders   • Administer and monitor numerous security controls across +400 servers and +3000 endpoints Infrastructure Analyst Textron - Hurst, TX August 2016 to August 2017 • Started the Tech Bar by initiating, designing, and planning of all operations. The Tech Bar is an internal service shop with experienced contracted technicians to resolve IT requests/issues of employees on the spot. This model brought cost savings and increased customer satisfaction  • Business Unit Lead in delivering the upgrade to Office 2016. Coordinated with business partners to communicate effectively with all users. Over 7,000 users and several thousand machines were impacted. Application Analyst Textron - New Orleans, LA July 2015 to July 2016 • Stood up printers and designed the new labels used on +2000 military parts shipped globally  • Researched and built a successful proof of concept to replace a legacy and costly digital signage system with Raspberry Pi across different sites. Designed and documented the new process by implementing an open source presentation toolkit, lowering costs to a fraction Web Developer Intern Penn State University - Harrisburg, PA February 2014 to April 2014 • Maintained, updated, and fixed university website using HTML and Drupal CMS  • Collaborated with campus webmaster on creating weekly event pages using PHP  • Implemented new interactive functionalities on several webpages using JavaScript  • Matched the server tiers of staging with production on 50 webpages with inconsistencies Education B.S. in Information Sciences and Technology PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY May 2015 Skills Active Directory, SQL, Microsoft Office, Python, C++, Security, Javascript, HTML, Content Management Systems, CMS, Qradar, CyberArk, Visual Studio, Xcode, Drupal, Figma, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visio, Workfows, Presentation Skills (3 years), Training & Development, Troubleshooting, Public Speaking, Team Building, Requirements Analysis, Requirements Gathering, Project Management