Senior Operations Analyst Senior Operations <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Senior Operations Analyst Somerset, NJ • Over 5 years of experience in Information Security and User Administration with Cross-Functional experience in Data Analysis, Quality Audits and Customer Experience Management.  • Extensive hands-on experience and knowledge of Microsoft Operating systems and Microsoft Office Suite applications.  • Experience in Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange 2003, Mainframe (RACF).  • Incident Management.  • Understanding of SOX User Account Administration policies.  • Good understanding of MySQL.  • Experience in delivering end user support services to executive groups.  • Able to multitask, prioritize and realign to changing priorities. Work Experience Senior Operations Analyst IBM February 2011 to September 2011 Responsibilities  • Performance Reporting and Behavioral analysis for backup servers, incident handling time, success rate etc.  • Publishing SOX evidence reports for backup servers to Executive Management.  • Providing Qualitative Analysis and Root Cause analysis for Sev 1, Sev 2 Incidents and SRs.  • Incident Management.  • Providing routine and ad-hoc management information reports.  • Preparing and maintaining Functional Procedures and Standard Operating Procedures.  • Ensuring Adherence of SLAs and OLAs.  • Monitoring and scheduling jobs in various backup sites. Senior IT Security Administration Analyst Allianz Insurance Services November 2007 to December 2010 Responsibilities  • Complete user account management including Creation, Password Resets, Amendments and Deletion.  • Incident Reporting and Management.  • Responsible for New Hire Training and involved in course creation for new hires.  • Adhering to policies and procedures as per SOX compliance.  • Working on XP/ NT, Microsoft Exchange, Active Directory, Support tools, Coronet Production, ( RACF, Natural Security) Development, VMware, Unix, Oracle based applications, SAS, SAP, HPOVSA etc.  • RACF User Administration.  • Amending user accounts with various Security Admin Reports.  • To ensure the SLA is met on daily basis.  • Sharing daily updates with the team and ensuring their adherence.  • Keeping all statistical information updated & Notification of system availability.  • Maintaining and updating Security Admin procedures/document, request forms, application licenses regularly.  • Answering high-priority calls and providing solutions.  • Providing routine and ad-hoc management information reports.  • Monitor and audit the systems periodically to ensure compliance with the company's information security policies.  • Motivate systems users to comply with information security policies and procedures.  • Provide clear and accurate advice to systems users on correct computer security and access authorization procedures.  • Quality monitoring and providing feedback.  • Work with the testing team to perform the UAT and QAT (Quality Acceptance) of different applications.  • Ordering Broadband connection for Allianz Home users. Technical Analyst HCL - IN September 2006 to November 2007 Client: British Telecom    Responsibilities  • Providing Technical Support for Internet, Outlook & Wireless Connectivity Issues  • Escalation Management.  ? Involved in other Cross functional activities. Education BS in Computer Science Kerala University Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (3 years), EXCHANGE (3 years), MICROSOFT EXCHANGE (3 years), RACF (3 years), SECURITY (3 years) Certifications/Licenses MCP April 2009 to Present ITIL v3 August 2009 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills  • ITIL V3 Foundation Certified.  • MCP Certified.  • Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange 2003, Mainframe (RACF).  • User Interface experience in Peregrine Service Center, Seibel, Remedy and Maximo.  • User Administration and awareness of IT Security policies and procedures.  • MS- Office suite.