Data Analyst Intern Data <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Intern Experience in IT Business/Data Analysis and IT Risk Analytics Harrison, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst Intern New York Life Insurance Company - Jersey City, NJ June 2016 to August 2016 ? Designed a database schema for NYL Marketing Division by adhering to the ACORD data model standards using MS Access and SQL  ? Designed entity relationship and class diagrams for the database schema using UML  ? Performed testing of the database using MS Access and complex SQL queries  ? Extracted, compiled & performed pre-processing to remove redundant and unwanted data (ETL), and performed data profiling, identified data issues and data gaps  ? Performed data analysis to gather insights using SQL and TOAD  ? Developed statistical reports that concisely and accurately communicate the business insights and analytical findings using MS Excel  ? Worked with multiple teams to analyse user stories and compile business requirements & build business use cases to provide actionable insights Information Security Analyst e-SecUdit - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2014 to May 2015 ? Analysed vulnerability of web applications using BURP Suite and by performing OWASP Top 10 security checks  ? Performed Risk Management Analysis by studying the applications’ activity diagrams, authorization & access controls, user stories and results of the vulnerability tests  ? Developed detailed IT audit reports including suggested Risk mitigation actions  ? Analysed business impact of suggested changes for Change Management Audit IT Analyst HAV Solutions - Mumbai, Maharashtra February 2013 to May 2014 ? Interacted with stakeholders & clients to gather requirements across functional teams to create business specification documents and technical specification documents  ? Created, defined and maintained the complete product development life cycle  ? Performed market research for the development of the product  ? Acted as a liaison between the stake holders and the development team at each iteration of the product development lifecycle  ? Designed, developed and tested database schema using SQL and MS Access Education Masters in Information Technology Rutgers University, Rutgers Business School - Newark, NJ September 2015 to January 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2009 to May 2012 Skills Data Analysis (2 years), Business Analysis (1 year), SQL (3 years), Microsoft Excel (3 years), Microsoft Access (2 years), Microsoft Project (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (3 years), Toad (1 year), Reporting (1 year), Market Analysis (1 year), ETL (1 year), Tableau (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), UML (2 years), IT Audit (1 year), Risk Analysis (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Database: SQL Certified Expert September 2013