IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst Saint Paul, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst CHS Inc. - Inver Grove Heights, MN August 2016 to Present •Daily use of Active Directory.  •Resolves incident tickets via Cherwell ticketing system. Remotely or by phone.  •Provisions user accounts for both new and existing users within the company.  •Troubleshoots various different incident and request/change tickets.  •Pulls reports of user accounts, applications, servers, databases that need cleaning up.  •Creates shared folders and restricts access to specific folders.  •Run lockout, termination reports for auditing purposes through the use of AD Toolkit.  •Works with multiple applications, iSeries, AS400, GM400, JDE, iNET400 and many more.  •Resolves issues in Exchange and Outlook.  •Creation of distribution lists and shared mailboxes.  •Provides file or RDP access to multiple Servers and Databases. Data Security Analyst Allina Health April 2016 to June 2016 • Conducts evaluation of security required for 325 applications/systems.  • Responds to access requests and troubleshoots issues with access rights through web carfs.  • Resolves incidents tickets via ServiceNow ticket system. Remotely or by phone.  • Use of Active Directory to provide and remove user access to applications/groups.  • Creation of Active Directory shared areas folders and permission provider, dependent on approvals. Support Analyst II Data Recognition corporation February 2016 to April 2016 • Provide support for escalated incident tickets via ServiceNow ticket system. Remotely or by phone.  • Set up and configure installations and updates of all necessary software and applications across Windows, Linux, Macs, Ipad, chromebooks, and Adroid.  • Troubleshoot issues regarding connectivity, applications, and software across the aforementioned devices.  • Document technical notes regarding troubleshooting steps, procedures and outlining standards of best practices. IT Security Analyst Optum Technology- United Health Group February 2015 to February 2016 • Provisioning for users in both Windows and Unix platforms adding, deleting, modifying and troubleshooting of global groups upon user requests/tickets.  • Administer daily incoming workflow of incident tickets, requests, and escalations for users.  • Assigning, distributing, and troubleshooting of VPN access for users with both hard and soft RSA Tokens both domestic and international.  • Work with ticketing system "Secure" and "HPSM"  • Backup for multiple applications "CommunityCare, RxClaims, Batch, Unet, etc "  • Part of "Bconnextions" project team, provisioning of 3 newly added applications into UHG's Secure system.  • Part of Active Directory team for "Boost" project, provisioning of multiple AD Legacy Domains.  • Helped with distribution of Smart Card access cards Project to entire UHG Company.  • Part of Oracles Database Functionality Testing implementation into Secure group Operations Administrator, Package Handler FedEx Ground April 2014 to January 2015 • Enters data into computer system/document trailers coming into facility and figuring out where trailer locations are through YMS (Yard Management System) program.  • Communicate with managers, security guards, line haul, local city and switchers in case problems arise to find solutions and quickly resolve them.  • Communicates with managers through headset to make sure that trailers are unloaded before deadlines and puts trailers onto door through YMS in order to have trailers worked by package handlers.  • Answer customer phone calls and direct them to the appropriate personnel for help. Done through the use of a headset and telephone.  • Answers calls coming up to the control room and provides excellent customer service.  • Merchandise handling.  • Ensure that merchandise is properly packaged and undamaged.  • Unloading of customer merchandise from company trucks into company building.  • Loading of customer merchandise into company trucks for shipping.  • Responsible for scanning merchandise for customer tracking. Business Unit Administrator Cargill June 2014 to October 2014 • Set up new users for the company through the use of ticket incident management tool "Remedy".  • Worked on tickets in ticketing system "Remedy" and resolve tickets in a timely manner.  • Used Lotus Notes to track and add users for Network Access.  • Distributed and updated RSA secured tokens to employees and contractors and troubleshoot issues such as duplicate checks, and damaged token replacements.  • Completed monthly Password reset control audit for the entire North America users and Asian Pacific service desk team.  • Granted access permissions to users depending on request during set up.  • Escalated users to the appropriate teams depending on service requests. Education Bachelor of Science in Network Communications and Management DeVry University - Fresno, CA 2013 Skills Information Security, It Security Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS  • Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, MS outlook, PowerPoint), Active Directory and Ticketing Systems  • Highly self-motivated with organizational and time management skills  • Great team player  • Attentive to quality and detail  • Excellent interpersonal skills and ability to communicate effectively with diverse populations