IT Audit Specialist <span class="hl">IT</span> Audit Specialist IT security analyst and auditor Bakersfield, CA Eager to be engaged with and learn, sharp retention abilities, and picks up information  quickly. A passion for automation, programming, problem solving, and helping others. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Audit Specialist Kern Schools Federal Credit Union - Bakersfield, CA January 2017 to Present • Implement methods for gathering data from various technologies for reporting on patching, anti-virus compliance, email compliance, system standards, and others.  • Maintain operational configurations of auditing technologies such as vulnerability scanning, end of life software detection, patch management system, sensitive data scanner, and more.  • Working with large data sets using scripting languages to produce actionable reporting.  • Developing new processes with documentation and implementation.  • Usage of change controls, standards adherence, and access admin controls.  • Communicating results upward using automated reporting with SQL, Access, and Excel.  • Interpret policies, procedures, and standards as outlined by Chief Information Security Officer.  • Assessing the technology and business risks levels and determine adequacy of implemented controls.  • Validating implemented controls by executing audit tests during system, application and business process reviews.  • Identifying relevant issues and make recommendations regarding internal control processes and related procedures as they relate to effectiveness and compliance with policies and regulatory requirements.  • Familiarity with internal audit, IT, and regulatory standards such as FFIEC, NIST, NCUA, CIS, ISO, ACET, etc. IT Security Analyst Kern Schools Federal Credit Union - Bakersfield, CA January 2016 to December 2016 • Establishing system controls by developing framework for controls and levels of access; recommending improvements.  • Maintain access by providing information, resources, and technical support.  • Ensuring authorized access by investigating improper access; revoking access; reporting violations; monitoring information requests by new programming; recommending improvements.  • Establishing computer and terminal physical security by developing standards, policies, and procedures; coordinating with facilities security; recommending improvements.  • Safeguarding computer files by performing regular backups; developing procedures for source code management and disaster preparedness; recommending improvements.  • Developing security awareness by providing orientation, educational programs, and on-going communication.  • Updating job knowledge by participating in educational opportunities; reading professional publications; maintaining personal networks; participating in professional organizations.  • Accomplishing information systems and organization mission by completing related results as needed. Service desk technician 3 Kern Schools Federal Credit Union - Bakersfield, CA February 2015 to January 2016 Overview: Carry out the deployment, maintenance, support, documentation and upgrade of network workstations, hardware, software and distributed printers.  • Apply software fixes for common issues including configuration, operating system and application use  • Deploy software packages  • Create, update and manage relevant support system tickets and communicate status changes to affected parties  • Create, update and track IT related assets within the Asset Management System  • Maintain Active Directory user, printer and computer object descriptions and details for all non-resource accounts, printer and workstations  • Assist in maintaining disk encryption and boot protection software  • Assist in maintaining Operating System patch deployment software  • Customize applications and Operating System to meet organization and user needs  • Repair print devices  • Advanced configuration of print devices for hardware and software  • Maintain print objects on print servers across organization  • Monitor effective use and generate reports as requested for use of print devices  • Provide requested documentation to Information Security, Management or other departments within IT  • Generate documentation for applications, operating systems and assist Technical Writers with Adobe Acrobat and other publishing software  • Generate training materials for cross-training IT staff, departments and training end users  • Generate templates for use by other Information Technology Specialists  • Assist other IT Support Specialists with advanced software and hardware issues or those of exceptional complexity  • Research, design and deploy new hardware technologies for the organization  • Scripting and light programming  • Remote Management of software packages through policy and centralized solutions  • Maintain, Troubleshoot and install Print Servers  • Advanced documentation on long-term projects and complex solutions Education Associate Skills Scripting, Automation, Databases, Cyber Security, Documentation, Regulatory Compliance, SQL, Access, Excel, Powershell, FFIEC, NIST, NCUA, CIS, ISO, ACET, training, security, Active Directory, testing, Microsoft Office Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/andrewbrodbeck80/ Certifications/Licenses GSEC Security+ ITIL Additional Information References available upon request.