Information Security Consultant Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Consultant Information Security Consultant - Wells Fargo Concord, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Consultant Wells Fargo June 2015 to Present • Support line of businesses with guidance to identify and mitigate information security risks.  • Conduct annual certifications for assigned asset portfolios and develop follow up action plans that are realistic and can be executed with a set date.  • Effectively communicate and work with different groups or subject matter experts in ensuring all asset details are documented and analyzed correctly in security assessments.  • Collaborate with team members to provide guidance to identify and understand information security risks. IT Systems Technician CU Direct Lending February 2015 to June 2015 • Working actively with several teams of the I.T. department and coordinating with other business departments on project roll outs.  • Data Center Cabling and Racking (Server / Switches)  • Imaged and setup various internal company products for users.  • Provide End to End solution resolving to remote and internal user issues through an internal ticketing system (OpsCentral).  • Supported and interacted with Active Directory, Shared File System, FTP, and Printer Servers. IT Support Systems Analyst Niagara Bottling LLC June 2014 to February 2015 • Helped Desk technician with different level tickets for corporate end-users on and off-site.  • Responsible for the maintenance, repair, and support of office computers, phones, audio visual systems, video conferencing, printers, faxes and copy machines.  • Worked on a Microsoft SharePoint 2010 platform migration to 2013 SharePoint.  • Configure new workstations, repair applications, and hardware problems for end users.    TECHNOLOGY SUMMARY:  Familiar with these technologies.  • Front-end Development: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Responsive design, and Bootstrap3 framework.  • Programming: Coursework with Java, ASP.NET, SQL, and Visual Basic.    PROJECTS:  Senior Project - Client Website Redesign  • Our senior project group was tasked with creating and redesigning a client's website to meet their specifications in terms of overall site appearance, responsiveness, and user experience.  • This project included front-end development of site pages with site template but importantly taught me how to effectively cooperate with a team in separating our workload and communicating progress to meet our project deadline. Ignited an incredible desire to learn more about web development technologies and possible career paths. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration CALIFORNIA STATE POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY - Pomona, CA June 2015 Skills HTML (1 year), CSS (1 year), Javascript (1 year), Information Security (2 years), Information Technology (3 years), Research (1 year), Risk Management (2 years), Web Development (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/luisrdimas/ Additional Information I have a huge passion for web development and web technologies that I am developing on my own time at home. I would love the chance to work with web technologies and support business groups in technology related projects as an analyst or specialist. I am young but incredibly driven and determined to learn any new skill so my I do not lack anywhere in my job responsibilities. Please take a chance to get to know the type of person that I am and the value that I could bring to your organization.