IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - Fordham University Queens, NY A comprehensive Cybersecurity Specialist with a passion for Information Security. Planned and installed 40% of the network layout at the Academy Charter School with the assistance of other team members. Performing updates and software installations to all company devices as at when due thereby keeping all company devices constantly running and ready for use always. Highly regarded for taking SPAM and phishing mails very seriously, staying ahead of potential attackers by keeping up to date with new forms of attack and consulting with other team members on best ways to handle large security breaches. I teach STEM as well, educating students on the secure use of today’s evolving technologies and also helping to close the Cybersecurity skills gap. Work Experience IT Security Analyst Fordham University - New York, NY July 2016 to Present * Diagnosing, troubleshooting and resolving a range of software, hardware and connectivity issue. Known for asking appropriate questions, analyzing and researching solution to problems.  * Utilize Nessus, Alien vault and Microsoft Protection for security testing.  * Send out weekly vulnerability assessments and written reports.  * Improving office efficiency and customer service by providing remote assistance to staff and students, especially non-tech-savvy staff and this helped to cut product replacement costs by 35% and decreased downtime from 45% to 20%.  * Providing Information Security tips to Fordham staff and students such as installing updates, choosing strong passwords, how to use the Internet browsers safely and controlling access to personal devices. Stem Teacher/Network Specialist The Academy Charter School - Hempstead, NY August 2015 to June 2016 • Used Active Directory to create e-mail accounts and computer logins for new staff members and carrying out password recovery assistance.  • Utilized Advanced Protection for security testing. Utilized Cisco Meraki and Cisco Advanced Malware Protection.  • Assisted Network Administrator in periodical deployment of updates, patches and installing new software on company computers, iPad and other devices within the building  • Developed, designed, and taught a STEM program and curriculum that helped to bring a new STEM program to the school. Taught Automation and Robotics, Mobile App Device creation, and other Technology courses that prepare students to think deeply and persevere at problem solving which in turn caused an 18% growth rate in New York State Math Test amongst 7th and 8th grade classes. IT Support/Helpdesk Globacom - Lagos, NG August 2012 to January 2014 • Managed a high volume of inbound and outbound calls and administered weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual departmental reports.  • Partnered with Tier 2 and Tier 3 helpdesk agents to resolve complex problems that required escalation.  • Provided detailed description of issues using a ticket system and followed up to ensure quick resolutions to customer complaints or challenges. Education MSc. in CyberSecurity Fordham University - New York, NY September 2017 to May 2019 BSc. in Mathematics Covenant University June 2012 Skills SECURITY (3 years), NESSUS (2 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (Less than 1 year), FANUC (Less than 1 year), ROBOTICS (Less than 1 year), Cissp, Cyber Security, Information Security, It Security Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) ITIL v3 Automation and Robotics(PLTW) Tracing the history of robotics, development, and influence of automation and robotics and learning about mechanical systems, energy transfer, machine automation, and computer control systems. Making use of the VEX Robotics® platform to design, build, and program real-world objects such as traffic lights, toll booths, and robotic arms. App Creators(PLTW) App creation. Computer Science for Innovators and Makers Learning about programming for the physical world by blending hardware design and software development, discovering computer science concepts and skills by creating personally relevant, tangible, and shareable projects. Additional Information Technical Skills  Process Flows/Tracking Tools: ITIL incident management service processes, Zendesk, Freshdesk, Service Now  Platforms: Unix Systems, Windows, VMware, Virtual Box, iOS/Android.  Networking: LAN, WAN, TCP/IP, Active Directory Firewall/Router configuration, Remote Desktop Connectivity, VPN.  IT Security/Forensic Tools: Wireshark, Splunk, FTK, Encase, Paladin, NMAP, Nessus, Antivirus, HIDS, IDS, SIEM tools.  Other: Microsoft Office, MIT App Inventor, ROBOT-C, Automation and Robotics, STEM, Teaching, NIST, COBIT frameworks.