Security Automation Analyst (ITS2) <span class="hl">Security</span> Automation <span class="hl">Analyst</span> (ITS2) Security Automation Analyst (ITS2) - State of Minnesota MNIT at DHS ? (ISC)2 SSCP Certified  ? ITIL Foundation Certified  ? CompTIA Security+ Certified  ? CompTIA Network+ Certified  ? Military trained leader  ? Previously held Top Secret/SCI Clearance Work Experience Security Automation Analyst (ITS2) State of Minnesota MNIT at DHS - Saint Paul, MN October 2018 to Present Moved laterally within the State of Minnesota Application Security Team to better utilize my technical skill set. As an Automation Analyst, I am tasked with planning and implementing methods to streamline our security processes. Utilizing security tool API's, I am working to automate vulnerability reporting to our developers to cut down the remediation timeframe.    ? Daily use of Visual Studio, utilizing ASP.NET, JAVA, HTML, SQL, and API languages  ? Created automated "War Room" dashboards for comprehensive vision of security metrics  ? Deep familiarity with DevOps process using JIRA, RTC, and Remedy for defect tracking Security Analyst (ITS2) State of Minnesota MNIT at DHS - Saint Paul, MN March 2018 to October 2018 Worked to ensure the security of over 500 applications developed and maintained by the State of Minnesota. Ran periodic scans on applications, tested/replicated vulnerabilities, and wrote documentation and oversaw efforts for remediation. Managed technology projects using our Security Lifecycle Management (SLM) program. Worked closely with application development teams and the SOC to ensure remediation efforts were effective.    ? Daily use of Burpsuite, Nessus, Webinspect, Contrast, Threadfix, RTC, Veracode and other security/development applications. Exposure to ArcSight  ? Personally managed dozens of projects through SLM process from cradle-to-grave  ? Broke new ground with the State leading the installation of Contrast dynamic scanner on 100+ applications User Provisioning Analyst Fairview Health Services - Minneapolis, MN January 2017 to March 2018 Facilitated healthcare operations for 8 hospitals and 36 clinics in the Minneapolis metro area. I provided timely user account access to 22,000 Fairview doctors, nurses, and staff for nearly a dozen different healthcare applications. Contained user access using concepts of Least Privilege and Separation of Duties.    ? Utilized Active Directory and EPIC to add/remove/change security on thousands of users  ? Maintained SLA of 72 hours for thousands of user provisioning requests  ? Worked 100% independently remote with little management oversight Bachelors Program Student Cybersecurity - Bellevue, NE December 2015 to November 2017 Online)    Studied full course load on personal time while working full-time. Courses included Database Management (SQL), Java/Python Programming, Threat/Vulnerability Detection, Cisco Networking, Web Application Vulnerability Testing, Ethical Hacking, Regulatory Compliance Auditing, Could Service Administration, Data Forensic Analysis, Incident Management, Cybersecurity Policy Shaping, Cybersecurity Frameworks, and Cybersecurity Best Practices.    ? SIEM/Monitoring Tools Used: Splunk, Wireshark, OpenVas, Windows Event Viewer  ? Vulnerability Scanners/Exploitation Tools Used: nMap, Nikto, Burpsuite, Metasploit, Kali Linux  ? Programing Languages Exposed To: Java, Python, SQL, Bash, Windows Batch Scripting IT Technician Cybersecurity - Shakopee, MN July 2016 to January 2017 Shakopee, MN    As an Amazon IT Technician, I personally oversaw the deployment, and daily maintenance of thousands of workstations, thin-clients, printers, laptops, scanning/RF devices, mobile-cart workstations, and switching/routing network equipment. Offered desktop and networking support for 1300 associates and operations managers in Amazon's 800,000 sq. ft. Shakopee Fulfillment Center.    ? Assisted in monitoring over one hundred routing and switching network devices using Nagios  ? Utilized Active Directory and LDAP systems to manage user/computer accounts  ? Maintained millions of dollars worth of IT infrastructure at one of the world's largest companies Help Desk Analyst Cybersecurity - Chanhassen, MN June 2016 to July 2016 Offered remote desktop support to 25,000 employees in 130 health clubs nation-wide. Supported a myriad of different proprietary computer systems and devices including: SQL databases, Cisco phone systems, club POS systems, scheduling systems, workstations, printers, and basic network connectivity support. Work include the use of Active Directory and LDAP systems as well as the Office15 suite of programs. Short-term contract position.    ? Offered remote desktop support to 25,000 employees in 130 health clubs nation-wide  ? Worked with SQL, Active Directory and many desktop peripherals  ? Assisted with maintaining network connectivity within fitness clubs Education Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE November 2017 Associates of Applied Science in Network Systems Administration ITT Technical Institute - Omaha, NE March 2016 Associates of Applied Science in Logistics Community College of the Air Force - Maxwell AFB, AL April 2012 Skills CISCO (1 year), PYTHON (1 year), DATABASE (1 year), SQL (2 years), JAVA (2 years) Additional Information Certified IT professional looking to strengthen his knowledge and skills in the IT Security field. Motivated to succeed, and has the willingness to take on any challenges this job will present. A consummate professional with soft-skills to match his technical prowess.    IT SKILLS AND CERTIFICATIONS    (ISC)2 - SSCP Certified (1/2018)  ITIL Foundation Certified (9/2017)  CompTIA Security+ Certified (1/2017)  CompTIA Network+ Certified (4/2016)  CompTIA A+ Certified (2/2016)  Windows CMD/MS Office  Linux Administration  VMWare/VirtualBox  Cisco Routers/Switches  Database Management (SQL)  Java/Python Programming  Threat/Vulnerability Detection  Web Application Vulnerability Testing