Sr. Security Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Sr. Security Engineer - CloudPassage Sunnyvale, CA • Information security professional, having an experience of 3+ years in POC, incident management, malware analysis and troubleshooting of network and security related issues.  • Familiarity with AWS and Azure  • Strong hands-on experience in SIEM tools like Splunk, QRadar, ArcSight  • Strong background on Insider Threat, Cyber Analytics and Cloud Security, UEBA  • Exposure to ITIL process and ISO 27001 Security Framework as applied to ISMS.  • Strong analytical and problem solving skills as needed to perform the job of a SOC analyst.  • Tools used Snort, Nmap, Wireshark, BurpSuite, Metasploit.  • Good understanding of CISPA and CASB and SaaS Solutions with CSA Matrix.  • Threat & Vulnerability Management, Change Management and being a key member of a successful Security Operations Centre. Work Experience Sr. Security Engineer CloudPassage April 2018 to Present • Experience in cloud security program for CloudPassage Cloud Secure.  • Hands on knowledge on CISPA.  • Performed security engineering for complex, multi-platform systems. datacenters, AWS and/or Azure cloud environments  • Experience in creating detection content and writing correlation rules and business specific use cases  • Analyze security breaches, perform root cause analysis and plan and implement corrective measures  • Experience in researching and assesses new threats and security alerts and recommends remedial action Security Engineer Securonix November 2016 to April 2018 • Working on Implementation of new data sources, writing parsers and policy for Insider Threat Management.  • Monitor the Securonix ecosystem including infrastructure, application, database, and data feeds for performance and efficiency  • Troubleshoot and remediate issues with the Securonix ecosystem quickly to minimize impact on customer environment  • Work with DevSecOps team to automate tasks that require more effort on daily basis  • Build and maintain standard operating procedures (SOPs) documentation for each customer  • Align with co-managed services team where applicable to provide 24x7 support for customers  • Worked on SecuronixCloud platform using AWS. IT Security Analyst (SOC) NTT DATA August 2016 to November 2016 • Creating Dashboards and Reports according to business needs using Advance XML and search queries in Splunk  • Writing Splunk SPL Queries and Correlation rules  • Configuring Indexers, Forwarders (Universal and Heavy) and Deployment servers  • Participated in daily and weekly standup calls with client for SecOps briefing  • Responsible for the immediate escalation of Security issues ensuring adherence to SLAs and driving resolution/mitigation in 24/7 environment.  • Monitoring Splunk health status on daily basis.  • Build and fine tune custom correlation rules which were used to define the security incident alerts with various priorities.  • Good working experience in scripting languages(bash) Internship Interactive Intelligence September 2015 to November 2015 • Housekeeping of IT assets to prepare them to integrate with SIEM tool  • Onboarding Data Source to QRadar SIEM  • Work with various departments like Networks, Systems, Application, Database and Security to solve communication issue between SIEM and data sources  • Sort events under various categories to meet the compliance requirements of ISO 27001:2013  • Modify built-in dashboards and reports Security Analyst ConscienceSoft June 2013 to July 2014 Client - Mercedes Benz  Tools - ArcSight, Endpoint Encryption, Data Loss Prevention  • Responding to and managing security incidents and breaches as appropriate  • Investigating incidents, remediation, tracking and follow-up for incident closure with concerned teams, stakeholders  • Assess network activity and system configuration for anomalous activity to determine system security status.  • Provide network security monitoring, reporting, and incident handling with SIEM  • Compose security alert notifications.  • Advise incident responders on the steps to take to investigate and resolve computer security incidents.  • Create and track investigations to resolution.  • Assisted in creating an internal knowledge base forum Education Masters of Science in Computer Science THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT ARLINGTON - Arlington, TX August 2016