IT Support Technician/ Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Technician/<span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Consultant / Analyst Philadelphia, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Technician/ Analyst Drexel University, Westphal College - Philadelphia, PA April 2016 to Present • Support and Maintain helpdesk for assets of the college (i.e. PC, Mac, printers, scanners, etc).  • Diagnose, troubleshoot and resolve a range of hardware, software and connectivity issues. IT Security Consultant Co-op Protiviti Inc - Philadelphia, PA September 2017 to March 2018 • Executed and provided assistance for multiple external/internal vulnerability assessments, vendor reviews, ITAM  assessments and penetration tests across various industries.  • Performed GAP assessments across various industries aligning with NIST CSF, FFIEC CAT, GLBA, and PCI  • Communicated directly with clients' management and traveled onsite to better understand security environments  through interviews and to deliver reporting on ongoing and completed projects.  • Provided assistance for social engineering assessments to determine the effectiveness of an organization's security  awareness training. IT Technical Support Technician Co-op Philadelphia Fire Department - Philadelphia, PA September 2016 to April 2017 • Managed and Supported a directory of over 1,000 users across the city of Philadelphia.  • Built, Deployed, and Retained new assets that were used across 78 stations.  • Produced new changes created policy to both the internal website as well as the Philadelphia City SharePoint. IT Security Analyst Co-op Interdigital Communications, Inc - King of Prussia, PA September 2015 to March 2016 • Complied daily reports for monitored live systems to discover real-time threats and possible vulnerabilities  • Utilized and Investigated Security Information and Event Management (SIEM), Rouge Detection, Data Loss  Prevention (DLP), Policy Non-Compliance, Anti-Virus Forensics and Malware Analysis tools  • Designed, Implemented, and Supported corporate SharePoint database/wiki populated by documents to be deployed  company wide Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA June 2019 Skills DLP (Less than 1 year), Mac (2 years), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (1 year), Security (1 year), SharePoint. (1 year), Service Desk, Active Directory, Desktop Support, Tech Support, Help Desk, SIEM Tools Additional Information Skills    Computer: Antivirus tools, IDS/IPS, DLP, SIEM, Vulnerability-scanning, Web gateway, Proxy appliances and  Microsoft Suite (Excel, PowerPoint, Word, Visio, SharePoint)  Programming Languages: Knowledge of Python, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, PHP, MySQL    Operating Systems: Windows, Mac, Linux    Security Research Projects    College of Computing & Informatics Drexel University  Researcher Sept 2017 to Jan 2019  • Utilized Tableau to visualize and compile raw data on Data Breach trends over the last decade  • Designed research project to analyze scam/phishing emails to determine scammer primary motives