Principal IT Support Specialist Principal <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Specialist Principal IT Support Specialist - Symantec Corporation Chantilly, VA To obtain a challenging position in the software industry with a dynamic and growing organization, where I will be able to learn and contribute to the growth of the company and progress into a management level position. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Principal IT Support Specialist Symantec Corporation June 2014 to Present • Provide customer support to over 600 customers.  • Coordinate scheduling of resources and establish deployment schedules for Production and Staging enterprise environments.  • Conduct training for Tier 2 Support Team regarding Production and Staging Environment maintenance and support tasks.  • Team Leader who handles all Production and Staging Environment maintenance and support issues.  • Coordinate assignment of Tier 2 support task to team members.  • Lead projects to eliminate gaps between applications in the Production and Staging Environments.  • Develop SQL queries in order to identify system errors and provide additional monitoring on specific application platforms.  • Coordinate with Project Managers and Development Team members regarding scheduled releases and post release deployment concerns.  • Coordinate efforts to automate manual support tasks and application release deployments.  • Coordinate with Environment Release Manager regarding technical aspects of scheduled releases. Security Infrastructure Administrator Symantec Corporation March 2013 to June 2014 • Provided customer support to over 600 customers.  • Deployed and maintained current version of the applications in Production and Staging Enterprise environments.  • Used SQL queries to troubleshoot application issues and monitored application performance.  • Coordinated with manager and team lead to create and modify application maintenance processes.  • Lead projects to eliminate single points of failure in Production and Staging environments  • Monitored application's performance on production and staging servers.  • Deployed new releases of applications in production and staging environment  • Provided 24/7 on call support.  • Maintained working relationships between Infrastructure, Operations and the Development Team.  • Forecasted issues and monitored for trends within the environments.  • Anticipated and interpreted business/customer needs, assessed requirements, and identified solutions.  • Participated with the various development teams to ensure that communication and implementation between the teams were met with success.  • Provided guidance and accepted accountability for the performance and reliability of various cross-platform applications and services, and ensured that system failures were restored in a timely manner, measured against SLAs.  • Provided root-cause analysis, contributed to the knowledge base, and provided recommendations for continuous improvements to workflow, process, and technology.  • Demonstrated the ability to grasp complex interactions among differing applications (written in-house vs COTS products) and working with various technologies, diagnose integration issues to ensure smooth production operations across the applications portfolio. Production Support Analyst/QA Analyst Astor & Sanders February 2012 to March 2013 • Provide customer support for Department of Labor's Wage & Hour Division.  • Supported of multiple Delphi Client Server applications which included monitoring, performance analysis, troubleshooting, resolving, escalating, and documenting problems.  • Monitored daily system and application problems & activities, ensuring effective and timely resolution and communication to the customer.  • Troubleshot production application issues via CITRIX.  • Explained complex technical information to others, both technical and non-technical audiences.  • Documented and tracked users' issues with HEAT and IBM ClearQuest systems.  • Developed system and user acceptance test plans, scenarios, and scripts. Coordinated and conducted testing and verification, to encompass functional, operational, and performance criteria.  • Created SQL queries to troubleshoot and resolve application errors.  • Created SQL queries to test functionality of new enhancements and bug fixes.  • Provided comprehensive functional, regression and integration testing for developed applications  • Developed call scripts for Department of Labor IT department.  • Created User Training Manuals and Released Notes for upcoming software releases.  • Served as liaison between business and technical teams.  • Submitted Change Requests through Remedy ticketing system. Support Analyst FICO November 2010 to February 2012 • Tracked customer issues through to resolution.  • Investigated, documented, and resolved software related problems of end users Java based Web Application.  • Monitored problems received via phone, email and web portal.  • Analyzed how the application interfaced with the database on either company's dialer or 3rd dialer.  • Resolved application errors through querying customer's database and understanding the application's interface.  • Performed testing through isolation, duplication, and other techniques to determine whether the problem was caused by a hardware, software or user error.  • Trained customers on the functionality of the software.  • Provided 24/7 on call support for users as needed.  • Investigated and resolved users' issues by remotely accessing client's servers.  • Investigated and resolved configuration issues between the application and LDAP server.  • Investigated and resolved application errors and configuration issues with standard and custom ETL's.  • Conducted user acceptance testing with clients custom ETL's prior to system implementation.  • Coordinated weekly conference calls with client to review ongoing cases.  • Logged and tracked issues using SugarCRM case management system, and submitted customer requests for enhancements to the company's software products.  • Reported all bugs and enhancements to the software through JIRA.  • Occasionally traveled to customer sites for new installation or recovery processes. Education M.S. in Applied Information Technology George Mason University 2007 to 2008 B.Sc. in Information Security and Network Administration Information Technology George Mason University 2008 Certifications/Licenses Security+ August 2015 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Web Design: HTML, Flash, Dreamweaver  • Applications: Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Office Suite, VMware, IBM Rational Suite, Star Team  • Programming Languages: Java, C/C++, T-SQL, Batch scripting  • Operating Systems: Microsoft XP, Vista, Unix/Linux, MAC OS, Microsoft Server 2005, Microsoft Server 2008  • SQL Platforms: Microsoft SQL Server 2005 & 2008, DB2  • Ticket Tracking: Sugar CRM, HEAT, ClearQuest, JIRA, Remedy, HP Service Desk  • SDLC Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall  • Application Server: JBOSS  • Understanding of SDLC  • Understanding of TCP/IP and Security concepts