Security Guard <span class="hl">Security</span> Guard Security Guard Washington, DC Very ambitious. Been doing IT security, security surveillance, an security contractor, Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Guard ICS protective services - Washington, DC April 2019 to Present Secure the post    Check bags an I.Ds Driver Helper, UPS UPS - Maryland City, MD August 2017 to December 2017 Deliver packages to house the house.    Help driver deliver packages from the truck to the house Pizza Maker &pizza - Washington, DC April 2017 to April 2017 Make pizza dough an place them to be ready. Call out orders. Washing dishes in the back IT Security Analyst Cyber Security Operations Center - Washington, DC March 2015 to April 2016 Data entry    To see do the date work on software Temporary Employee Body Bliss day spa - Washington, DC January 2013 to June 2015 Refill oil    Bringing fresh hot towels to all the rooms.     Answer phones and type in appointments on the computer. Manager in Training GameStop - Seatt plaza Maryland January 2013 to July 2014 Make sure games and everything Is restocked.     Make sure The stores is clean.     Open up the store everyday.     Count money and cash register. IT Security Analyst PRIVATE SECURITY SERVICES - Washington, DC Security surveillance. Education High school in Student Luke C Morre - Washington, DC Associate in Criminal justice/law University of district of Columbia - Washington, DC Skills 45 wpm (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Word (Less than 1 year), PowerPoint (Less than 1 year), Typing (Less than 1 year), Surveillance, basic computer skills (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Security Guard January 2015 to May 2017 Security check customers coming in and out of the building check security cameras check doors. Additional Information I am a professional offering a wide-range of knowledge in organizational and administrative management, quality assurance with a proven record of facilitating managerial and administrative in a fast-paced environment. Strong organizational and communication skills with the ability to multi task complex business affairs. Advanced understanding of customer service needs by paying attention to detail. Detailed oriented regarding customer service, especially, recognizing and subsequently servicing high level repeat customers in order to enhance the business    SKILLS    Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Typing speed of 45 wpm, phone, fax, and other office machines.