Senior Information Security, Risk, & Governance Analyst Senior Information <span class="hl">Security</span>, Risk, &amp; Governance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Senior Security Analyst Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Information Security, Risk, & Governance Analyst Deloitte - Austin, TX June 2018 to Present IT Resident Google July 2016 to June 2018 • Provide internal technical support for Google's Employees worldwide.  • Act as a liaison between technical and non-technical groups to improve Google's internal services and infrastructure.  • Support Google's fleet of Linux, Mac, Windows, ChromeOS, Android and iOS machines.  • Develop, support and maintain Google's IT Tools.  • Automate workflow processes to increase efficiency for IT services, and provide faster more efficient service.  • Assist in the Upkeep of Google's corporate network. Security Engineer Google - Sunnyvale, CA July 2017 to January 2018 Software Engineer - Testing Interactive Intelligence August 2015 to July 2016 • Contributed to Automation Test Framework and automated tests to ensure product quality.  • Facilitated test-driven development by building testing tools that greatly improved the efficiency of the test case creation process.  • Ensured product quality of the entire platform from UI through back-end services including scalability and reliability. Information Security Analyst The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter January 2014 to August 2014 6 months)  • Significant hands-on experience with enterprise and open source information security tools working in the ISOC(Information Security Operations Center).  • Responsible for active and concurrent monitoring of logs for network firewall, application firewall network  intrusion and prevention systems in a fast-paced 24/7 environment.  • Instigated and coordinated the incident handling process; documented detection of active threats with ongoing research. Usability Engineer Interactive Intelligence May 2014 to July 2014 • Worked closely with developers using agile methodology on Product Integration Testing Team  • Maintained virtualized environments including servers and Linux distributions.  • Wrote and executed test cases for Interactive Intelligence's software. Education Master of Science in (M.S.), Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Western Governors University 2017 to 2019 Bachelor of Science in (B.S.), Computer Information Technology Brigham Young University 2012 to 2016 Skills Information Security (5 years), Java (1 year), Linux (5 years), Security (5 years), Testing (3 years), Python (4 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/eahernandez http://github.com/snipav1 Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) Security+ Certified Hacking Forensic Investigator (CHFI)