Lead Third-Party Risk Analyst Lead Third-Party Risk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Lead Third-Party Risk Analyst Analytical and Logical Approach - Strategic and diligent in problem solving, with an unwavering goal of achieving optimization and efficiency Work Experience Lead Third-Party Risk Analyst Prevalent Inc October 2017 to March 2019 • Testing TPRM software application for various environments and customers  • Manage large enterprise clients and their Third-Party Due Diligence requirements  • Creating reports, presentations and spreadsheets as required by management  • Solely managed 30 clients and following up with all of their vendors  • Communicate with lines of business on third party risk management questions and assist in training  • Created SOP on software workflow as a tool for onboarding new hires  • Reviewing of Sig Lite 2017, Sig Lite 2018, GDPR and H-ISAC assessments and providing guidance and feedback to vendors where necessary IT Support Forester Financial March 2017 to October 2017 • Routinely exceed call-handling goals, closing an average of 60 calls daily (25% above quota) with a 75% first-call resolution ratio and an average talk-time of 5.5 minutes -- well below 7-minute goal.  • Primarily troubleshooting for executive level management  • Diagnose, troubleshoot and resolve a range of software, hardware and connectivity issues. Excel in asking probing questions and researching, analyzing and rectifying problem Desktop Support Analyst MOL Inc March 2016 to November 2016 • Interacting with (up to 750+) end users via telephone, desk-side, e-mail, etc. providing technical support and problems solving abilities (especially supporting them remotely via VPN)  • Supported troubleshooting of IOS, Android and Microsoft related issues.  • Utilizing all technical resources to solve customer problems Field Support Technician Brainlink International, Inc April 2015 to January 2016 • Provided front-line Level 1/Level 2 client support managing up to 20 different calls in a day ranging from printer to server issues  • Responded to client tickets within the standard SLA - 2 hours of email notification.  • Experience with VMWare for creating and deploying production servers/workstations.  • Used Confluence in order to document Standard Operating Procedures for live environment.  • Responsible for employee onboarding and off-boarding processes within the organization.  • Controlled and maintained daily server backups Security Analyst Dun and Bradstreet December 2013 to April 2015 • Worked with various departments and learning roles  • While working with the Customer Security team our objective were to fill out questionnaires for security audits as well as gathering information to provide evidence of work done.  • Demonstrated effectiveness of security controls.  • Identified and evaluated potential threats and vulnerabilities. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Information Systems Security DeVry University February 2013 Skills Compliance, AD, Assessment Additional Information Areas of expertise  Strong Communication Skills - Well spoken, articulate, and able to communicate with individuals on all levels  Computer Skills - Proficiencies include Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Access and Microsoft PowerPoint  Security Tools - Webroot, Norton Backup Exec, Nmap and Wireshark