Staff IT Compliance Analyst Staff <span class="hl">IT</span> Compliance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Staff IT Compliance Analyst at Sony Electronics Oceanside, CA Work Experience Staff IT Compliance Analyst Sony Electronics - San Diego, CA July 2010 to Present • Tested and documented IT general controls and application controls for in-scope systems (SAP, Oracle 11i, webMethods, and AD) through inquiry with process owners, sample selection, and evidence analysis.  • Implemented new audit procedures which resulted in the detection and remediation of issues related to automated provisioning (Sun Identity Manager), Firefighter ID and role review (SAP), and admin activity.  • Documented process improvement recommendations, discussion points, issues, and action items in detailed agendas and meeting minutes.  • Completed control testing documentation prior to established deadlines in a quality manner and consistently followed up with process owners with regards to outstanding items and remediation plans.  • Provided weekly status reports which include detailed descriptions of outstanding items and issues detected.  • Evaluated the operating effectiveness of automated application controls through code and configuration review, as well as through the inspection of sample transactions.  • Organized work papers and evidence through the administration of SharePoint and SOCRATES (Open Pages). IT Advisory Associate KPMG, LLP - Los Angeles, CA September 2007 to March 2009 • Interviewed and observed IT and finance personnel at large corporations, mostly financial institutions, while documenting control procedures and managing document requests for SOX engagements.  • Documented and evaluated IT controls for user and administrator access, computer operations, change control, segregation of duties, and server security, and provided client management with the results of the assessment and regular status reports, including identified risks and recommendations for the following systems: Windows® Server 2008, Active Directory, UNIX (AIX), SAP, MAS500, Oracle®, AS/400®, RACF, z/OS, Control M, DB2, SQL Server 2005, MySQL, Metavante, FiServ  • Evaluated the existence and effectiveness of automated application controls for many financial applications by following the life of sample transactions or observing and documenting system configurations.  • Conducted SAS 70 assessments for major service organizations and reviewed SAS 70 documents to determine if service provider's controls were consistent with those of the company being audited.  • Conducted investigations of customer bank accounts to identify patterns indicative of money laundering and prepared reports on suspicious activity that were submitted to FINCEN for further investigation. IS Assurance Associate BDO Seidman, LLP - Los Angeles, CA January 2007 to August 2007 • Interviewed and observed key personnel at various organizations and created IT and business process narratives from which to extract existing internal controls.  • Created document request lists to send to clients and followed up to ensure that items were received in a timely manner for multiple clients simultaneously.  • Tested and documented the design and effectiveness of key IT General Controls based on the COBIT framework for the following systems: Windows® Server 2003, Active Directory, AS/400®, RACF, z/OS, Control M, DB2, SQL Server 2005, Oracle®, Great Plains, JD Edwards Computer Forensics Intern First Advantage Consulting - Rancho Cucamonga, CA July 2006 to January 2007 • Acquired, analyzed, and documented client data on site and in a lab using Tableau write-blockers and EnCase.  • Extracted electronic evidence for use in the litigation of corporate investigations by using EnCase and FTK.  • Maintained chain of custody and confidentiality when handling and analyzing evidence. Information Security Intern Information Security Office - Riverside, CA April 2006 to July 2006 • Documented information security policies and procedures and developed the Security Intranet portal.  • Reviewed and reported suspicious network activity using the Manhunt console for Symantec's IDS.  • Analyzed county database designs for personally identifiable information. Education Palomar Community College January 2010 to May 2010 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems California State Polytechnic University December 2006