Q/A IT Analyst Q/A <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Q/A IT Analyst Phoenix, AZ To pursue a career in Information Technology, Finance, Corporate Security Cyber and Fraud detection. Work Experience Q/A IT Analyst American Airlines - Phoenix, AZ September 2017 to August 2018 • Developed a strong understanding of the applications and domain to perform hands-on extremely detail oriented testing of the flight services from a technical standpoint including non-functional aspects such as load, response time, end-to-end connectivity, availability, security etc.  • Created test cases based on requirements and conducted reviews with development team and business users.  • Managed the status of defects/enhancements in the change management system and provided written and oral updates to the team on a regular basis.  • Troubleshoot issues that arise during project life-cycle and operations.  • Participated in meetings with the IT teams to discuss requirements, Agile development design and testing updates on a daily basis.  • Proficient with HP Application Life-cycle Management software, Sabre Mainframe(FOS) and XML. Transportation Security Officer Department of Homeland Security - Phoenix, AZ July 2016 to June 2017 • Retain and implement knowledge of all applicable Standard Operating Procedures, including application of risk-based security screening protocols based on program requirements.  • Operate various screening equipment "Backscatter technology and Millimeter wave scanner X-ray".  • Identify and locate potentially life threatening or mass destruction devices, and make effective decisions in both crisis and routine situations.  • Mitigate and resolve potential threats at the airport security checkpoint and Create Inspection Notices.  • Use different processes, methodology, and approaches risk-based, intelligence-driven strategy.  • Identify potential security risks by observing the behavior and legal travel documentation. IT Technician MSI Multi-Systems, Inc - Phoenix, AZ July 2015 to July 2016 • Client Service Consultant 1/ System Test and Support Incidents  • Support for installation of MSI Cloud CRS, calls, accounting, internet billing, credit cards, ID scanner interfaces  • Responsible for installing merchant credit card processing solutions at customer locations and remotely via telephone, including standalone credit card terminals, Internet payment gateways, and point-of-sale systems• Resolve client concerns, questions and problems pertaining to financial transactions  • Planning and identify appropriate solutions in a call center environment, using business related computer software such as MS Office to record and look up information.  • Analyze system errors, conduct root-cause analysis for critical defects and improve processes  • Report on results of manual test runs, reproduce and clearly document all issues found during verification and validation by Identifying risks and issues proactively and drive creative solutions  Clients First Realty  Real Estate Agent  Phoenix, Arizona  April 2008 - Present  • providing guidance and assisting sellers and buyers in marketing and purchasing property for the right price under the best terms.  • Determining clients' needs and financials abilities to propose solutions that suit them.  • Performing comparative market analysis to estimate properties' value.  • Legal contract writing. Police (Volunteer) Phoenix Police October 2011 to October 2011 - October 2011  • Ride along police programs. Observed officer actions, Including responding to calls for service, making arrests, resolving disputes, taking crime reports, conducting traffic enforcement, other crime prevention measures.  • Report workplace, Incidents through a number of channels Integration with existing systems and Send emails to i-Sight referral form on intranet. Education Bachelor of Science in Criminology and Criminal Justice in Phoenix Arizona State University January 2014 Associate degree in Criminology and Criminal Justice in Phoenix South Mountain College January 2011 Associate of Applied Science in One year Durham College - Oshawa, ON January 2007 statistics, and methods Institute of Counter Terrorism Skills SECURITY (Less than 1 year), CYBER SECURITY, CUSTOMER SERVICE, REAL ESTATE (1 year), DETAIL ORIENTED (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Professional Skills  IT Quality Assurance: ? ? ? ? ?  CUSTOMER SERVICE: ? ? ? ? ?  REAL ESTATE: ? ? ? ? ?  Detail Oriented: ? ? ? ? ?  Finance/Investing: ? ? ? ? ?  Cyber Security: ? ? ? ? ?