IT Help Desk Technician <span class="hl">IT</span> Help Desk Technician IT Help Desk Technician - Fitchburg State University Leominster, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Help Desk Technician Fitchburg State University - Fitchburg, MA January 2015 to Present • Provide phone support and on-site technical services for faculty, staff, and students.  • Monitor and record incoming issues initiated SysAid and KACE ticketing software from on-site incidents to computer repair.  • Train new technicians in the operations of the help desk. Make sure they are confident in being able to troubleshoot issues.  • Perform routine audits and inventory checks on computers. Make sure that computers are where they need to be located.  • Routinely update school's software in computer labs (i.e. Maple, MATLAB, Autodesk, Adobe suite, and etc.).  • Image, setup and deploy computers for upcoming staff and faculty.  • Troubleshoot software and hardware issues for student, faculty and staff systems.  • Maintain university technology such as, VMWare thin Clients, Extron Podiums, and etc.  • Follow up with initial troubleshooting to the next level of support. Assist the IT department on all spectrums of issues. IT Security Systems Analyst Internship Fitchburg State University - Fitchburg, MA January 2017 to May 2017 • Conduct security awareness events for school administrative personnel.  • Perform Routine Audits on information security access. Identify what computers meet specific security requirements.  • Analyze incoming networking traffic using EIQ software. Make sure nothing suspicious is happening without our knowing.  • Write reports for server administrators of vulnerabilities. Tell them where the vulnerability is and how to fix it.  • Maintain and troubleshoot McAfee Antivirus on the backend. Make sure EPO is able to distribute McAfee properly.  • Test new security software for future implementation such as Counter Strike, Identity finder, and etc.  • Code scripts to analyze data from security applications and mac packages for McAfee. Research Internship Fitchburg State University - Fitchburg, MA June 2016 to September 2016 • Analyze and research computer algorithms on digital image analysis.  • Program a Contourlet Transform as a component for the Wings Workflow System.  • Learn and utilize Amazon Web Services as a SaaS platform for the WINGS Workflow System.  • Write documentation of how each component of the application works.  • Present research findings with my fellow colleagues to faculty from other schools.  • Provide assistance for team members on multiple projects.  • Debug issues that may have occurred in their programs. Education B.A. in Computer Science and Applied Mathematics in Computer Science and Applied Mathematics Fitchburg State University - Fitchburg, MA December 2017