I.T. Security and Auditing Junior Specialist I.T. <span class="hl">Security</span> and Auditing Junior Specialist I.T. Security and Auditing Junior Specialist Evans, GA Proven experience in customer care in telecommunication industry and have skills of public  communications with several external participants and competitors, in addition having  experience in IT security and Monitoring processes. Work Experience I.T. Security and Auditing Junior Specialist Zain Telecommunications Iraq - Baghdad May 2014 to October 2014 Monitoring and maintaining network servers (mostly with Cisco Servers)  • Maintaining computer's ant viruses and licenses  • Keeping critical data and information of the company  • Creating and modifying the company's users on different systems like TABS and Intranets  • Reconciling users after a predefined period of time (Example: ensuring all resigned  employees have their accounts closed immediately in all systems related to the company  security). Corporate Communications Officer Zain Telecommunications Iraq - Baghdad May 2013 to May 2014 As a telecommunications company, one of the main company's goal was to have a social  responsibilities towards the society of Iraq, that included projects increasing our value to customers and having the customer satisfaction through  • Implementing projects include helping families who's in need.  (Our department was in charge of being a part of Iraqi society by supporting families in different occasions like distributing groceries and food to needy families in RAMADAN)  • Improving Company's Brand and Value by coordinating Events and Conferences (includes  sponsoring and participating in different conferences with different purposes in order to enhance the Company's value among all important fields). I.T. Analyst Zain Telecommunications Jordan September 2012 to March 2013 Solving and supporting customer problems  • Network elements reconciliations (Ex: ensure that all elements on switch match the elements in real Database)  • Writing and maintaining SQL codes  • Testing products before being released to market Document Translator and Typist Nadir Bureau for Legal Translations - Baghdad June 2012 to August 2012 Transcribing and translating documents from Arabic to English Language  • Improving skills in Microsoft Word  • Managing and sealing translation documents Education B.S. in Computer Science/ Information System University of Technology - Baghdad 2008 to 2012 Additional Information • Leadership Skills • Communications Skills  • Anger Management Skills    Ericson Company Iraq, Baghdad, Iraq 2014  • ITIL (Information Technology Infrastructure Library) Principles Certification.    • Volunteering Work included rebuilding a school in Zarqa, Jordan 2012-2013  (As a part of corporate Communication activities of Zain Jordan, we were asked to  participate in two or more Volunteering work to enhance the company's brand and to  ensure that Zain is a part of the Jordanian society).