President President President - HarbinSEC Greensburg, PA Seeking contracts as a part time Office 365 Administrator, and Information Security Consultant.    Available for remote work, and local on-site work. Will consider roles that require travel.     ADDRESS  122 Park Ln.  Greensburg PA, 15601  United States    PHONE  703.675.6470    EMAIL  charbinson@harbinsec.com    WEBSITE  www.harbinsec.com  LINKEDIN  www.linkedin.com/in/chadwickqh/ Work Experience President HarbinSEC - Greensburg, PA August 2018 to Present Primary Information System Security Consultant and president of HarbinSEC, a small business whose primary contract is with Robindale Energy. Manage all aspects of client's security needs. Current contracts held with companies in financial, energy, architecture, and retail. Create Incident Response Policy, implement password policy, setup policy and procedure for handling a potential breach. Manage Office 365, Azure AD, Sharepoint, OneDrive, Microsoft Teams, Skype for Business, and Azure Cloud infrastructure for clients. Migrate on prem exchange to Office 365. Manage HarbinSEC's annual budget. IT Security Consultant M3 Technology Consultants - Centreville, VA February 2018 to August 2018 Continued as primary consultant for all clients with compliance needs. Coordinate new DFARS compliance and NIST 800-171 compliance for DoD clients. Coordinated PCI compliance and audits for our clients. Coordinated, maintained and managed HIPAA compliance for our companies in health care. Continued to manage Office 365 and cloud infrastructure. IT Consultant M3 Technology Consultants - Centreville, VA September 2017 to February 2018 Primary IT Consultant for small and medium sized companies. Propose, plan, and implement projects. Managed cloud migrations from on prem exchange to Office 365. Primary consultant for our DoD contractors, companies with PCI compliance needs, and companies with HIPAA compliance needs. Client Analyst M3 Technology Consultants - Centreville, VA October 2016 to September 2017 Worked as client analyst for small and medium sized companies. Job functions include reviewing network for security issues, standardizing deployments across clients, mass deployment of AV, mass deployment of RMM updates and upgrades. Managed Office 365 deployments for clients. Managed client cloud infrastructure. Managed client cloud identity. Network Engineer Network Management Inc - Washington, DC April 2015 to October 2016 Promoted to Network engineer after internship concluded. Functions include system administration for Server 2003, 2008, and 2012. Upgraded network infrastructure to Gigabit for small and medium sized clients. Worked in Azure AD, Azure Cloud, SharePoint, OneDrive and Office 365. Network Engineer Intern Network Management Inc - Washington, DC August 2014 to April 2015 Assist clients with desktop issues. Shadow primary Engineers and assist with network implementation and project work. Worked on client project planning, implementation, and documentation. Created test deployments in Azure. Assist with client migration to Office 365. Education GED in COMMUNICATION Guilford Technical Community College - Greensboro, NC