Director Security Program and Relationship Management Director <span class="hl">Security</span> Program and Relationship Management Technology Director Royal Oak, MI Strategic technology leader with over 20 years' experience in financial services/insurance, automotive, and pharmaceuticals, with a focus on business transformation through design thinking, cost optimization, business process improvement, and portfolio and project delivery.  Specializing in cultivating relationships with internal business partners to serve as a trusted technology advisor in order to shape business demand and enable business strategy. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director Security Program and Relationship Management Meadowbrook Insurance Group September 2017 to Present • Coordinated the development of a Corporate Cyber Security function by collaborating directly with the Chief Security Officer to create a security program, policies, and incident response plan.  • Attained compliance in one month with first phase of the NY Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Requirements for Financial Services Companies (23 NYCRR 500) regulation.  • Created a month-long enterprise-wide cybersecurity awareness program consisting of presentations, videos and newsletters to coincide with the National Cyber Security Awareness Month (NCSAM).  • Succeeded in implementing two-factor authentication rollout in 8 weeks after taking over as project lead. IT Business Relationship Management Director Meadowbrook Insurance Group September 2016 to September 2017 • Progressed the maturity of the IT department and its capabilities by introducing the Business Relationship Management discipline.  • Strengthened level of IT and Business strategic alignments by creating technology Portfolio Planning and Governance Process.  • Conducted enterprise-wide portfolio prioritization of a $6.4MM capital (external expenditure) constraint by preparing and presenting multiple spend options to Senior Executives, resulting in agreement on technology budget, staffing and projects.  • Directed and Managed staff of Business Analysts, Quality Assurance Analysts, Data Analysts, and Trainers, both FTE and contract.  • Developed job descriptions, established career paths, and evaluated candidates through an interviewing process for open FTE and contract positions. IT Business Analyst Manager Meadowbrook Insurance Group February 2014 to September 2017 • Proposed and executed a Business Analyst Center of Excellence (BACOE) in order to optimize and standardize requirements and business processes.  • Drove determination of scope for future Data Warehouse and Predictive Analytics enterprise implementation.    313-399-7283  MATews@gmail.com  linkedin.com/in/ melissa-tews/ Education Bachelor of Arts in English Michigan State University 1991 to 1995 Skills Budgeting (3 years), Business Analysis (10+ years), Business Architecture (5 years), Relationship Management (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/notifications/ Additional Information Skills  Business Relationship Management  Cybersecurity Program Management  Program Management  Vendor Management  Business Architecture  Portfolio Planning and Delivery  Business Process Improvement / Cost Optimization  Risk Management  Team Leadership  Business Analysis  Risk Assessment  Budgeting  Communication