Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - WellSpace Community Health Sacramento, CA Seeking an Information Security Analyst/Cyber Security Analyst position in a growing organization with the focus on Commercial Framework ISO, COSO, COBIT Sarbanes-Oxley 404, HIPAA, HITRUST, PCI DSS, System Information Monitoring, FISMA, Risk Assessment and utilizes both academic credentials and hand on experience to strengthen the company in increase company productivity. Work Experience Information Security Analyst WellSpace Community Health - Sacramento, CA May 2017 to Present Collects evidence from various point of contact to update COSO, COBIT, or PCI DSS finding reports to test for effectiveness and adequacy of controls by analyzing test plan against evidence collected via examination, testing and interview.  ? Conduct IT system testing based on the appropriate analysis and review technique provided by NIST.  ? Develop and updates information system documentation. e.g, System Security Plan, Contingency Plan, Contingency Plan Test, Business Impact Analysis, FIPS 199, Privacy Impact Assessment, Privacy Threshold Analysis, e Authentication, System of Records Notice.  ? Substantially increase security and performance of systems by implementing new anti-virus software and critical system updates.  ? Knowledgeable in NIST SP 800 series including SP 800-60, SP 800-53, SP 800-53A, SP 800-18, SP 800-34, SP 800-62, SP800-37.  ? Access adequacy and efficiency of security controls by updating Security controls Assessment, ST&E and SAR. I conducted gap analysis on missing systems and in capabilities between existing systems  ? General knowledge and understanding of networks principles and internet protocols including TCP/IP, LANs, WANs, HTTPS.    ? Plan, develop, implement and maintain an Incident Response and audit programs for events of interest and address Plan of Action and Milestone POA&M in continuous monitoring with various point contact.  ? Did frequent compliancy checks, updated it and submitted the audited results to management.  ? Determined the scope for system audit. Usually started with a kick off meeting with key officials and the audit committee  ? Implemented Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX 404) requirements including COSO, COBIT, HIPAA and ISO 27001 and 27002 where applicable  ? Created a test plan to determine controls to be tested as well as methods of testing.  ? Effectively participated in testing of IT General Controls per SOX and HIPAA requirements.  ? Conducted audit within specific timeframe utilizing subject matter expects and other system owners.  ? Performed security reviews and periodic audits to identify security gaps, violations and inefficiencies in the security architecture to make recommendations for conclusion in the risk mitigation strategy.  ? Conducted IT controls risk assessments that included reviewing organizational policies,  standards and procedures and provided advice on their adequacy, accuracy and compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS  ? Conducted security awareness training on GDPR.  ? Knowledge in cloud technologies.  ? I managed an incident properly with the computer incident response team by following our incident response plan in place.  ? I was responsible for tracking remediation process to ensure imminent threats were neutralized fast.  ? I used Nessus V7 to scan the entire network, existing systems and incoming systems before it went online. IT Technical/Help Desk Support Teleperformance - Richmond, VA January 2016 to May 2017 Provide Tier 1/Tier 2 technical support to clients on software and hardware issues  ? Research and recommend installation of advanced applications and anti-virus software  ? Create login IDs and password for members to access/establish new accounts.  ? Maintain end-users workstations, laptops, and electronic devices  ? Prioritize and escalate problems to Tier 3 level and follow up with solutions  ? Work on ticket systems and tracked help desk requests  ? Process inbound and outbound technical support calls at a 20% faster rate than team average.  ? Research issues on various computer systems and databases to resolve complaints, answer  inquiries, and outline solutions.  ? Inform customers about issue resolution progress.  ? Escalate service questions to appropriate client representatives using Service-Now Technical Support Amazon Fulfillment Center - Norwood, MA June 2015 to January 2016 Install and configure computer systems  ? Diagnose basic hardware and software faults and solve technical and application problems  ? Provide first-level technical support to end-users on proprietary software and applications including installation basic usage and appropriate service level to warranty.  ? Modify configurations, utilities, software default settings, etc. for the local workstation  ? Utilize and maintain the helpdesk tracking software (JIRA)  ? Manage PC setup and deployment for new employees using standard hardware, images and software  ? Perform troubleshooting techniques over the phone to identify and resolve issues.  ? Establish patterns to reoccurring issues and provides input to development teams. IT support WebSoft Solutions - GH July 2013 to May 2014 to consumer clients.  ? Supported customers with online billing and account issues.  ? Assign users and computers to proper groups in Active Directory  ? Resolved customer complaints and concerns with strong verbal and negotiation skills.  ? Maintained composure and patience in face of difficult customer situations.    REFERENCES Education Bsc. in Geological Engineering Kwame Nkrumah University Of Science And Technology Skills TRAINING (1 year), CUSTOMER SERVICE (Less than 1 year), RECEPTIONIST (Less than 1 year), RETAIL SALES (Less than 1 year), SELF-DIRECTED (Less than 1 year), Information Security, It Security, SEC Additional Information LEADERSHIP SKILLS  ? Ability to effectively multi-task and work in a fast pace environment while providing high quality results.  ? Excellent organizational and time management skills.  ? Ability to adapt easily to a constant changing environment.  ? Dedicated, self-directed, self-motivated and a team player  ? System support and upgrading, troubleshooting and effective training experience.  ? Strong interpersonal analytical, and strong customer service skills  ? Strong oral and written communication skills  ? Critical thinking and strategic planning abilities.