Active Member Active Member Active Member Collegeville, PA My objective for creating this Indeed account is to obtain a full-time position related to Information Technology or Cyber Security. I graduated from Pennsylvania State University - College of Information Sciences and Technology with a 3.71 GPA. I have a technical background but I believe that my personable skills will help me excel in the business world. I am searching for a job related to IT/Cyber Security consulting as well as a business analyst or sales position. I believe that the combination of my outgoing personality and ability to learn new things will help me succeed in my professional career moving forward. Work Experience Active Member Security and Risk Analysis Club, Penn State University October 2016 to November 2018 Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition March 2017  • Collaborated with a team of students to design and defend a virtual network from red team professionals. Utilized a variety of network tools to safeguard.  Active Member October 2016 - November 2018  • Attended weekly club meetings and club offerings.  • Intend to receive funding from future employers to learn & achieve a variety of technical certificates including CompTIA+, Network+ & CISSP. IT Desktop Support Technician/ Security Analyst Intern AssetWorks LLC - Wayne, PA May 2018 to August 2018 • Analyzed and documented network vulnerabilities using Alien Vault. Provided solutions to those network vulnerabilities in a document to later be rolled out to the affected systems.  • Implemented a conference room management system within the office to optimize the usage of meeting rooms. Was tasked with configuring an event board in the office common area to be synced in real time.  • Learned valuable information in regard to safeguarding network assets via permissions and policies within Active Directory. IT Desktop Support Technician Intern AssetWorks LLC - Wayne, PA May 2017 to August 2017 • Diagnosed and resolved software and hardware incidents, including Windows issues and a wide range of software applications. Ordered and replaced defected hardware.  • Accurately recorded, updated and documented requests using Zendesk.  • Installed and configured new IT equipment.  • Imaged new employee laptops through a Dell KACE Systems Deployment Appliance. Education The College of IST: Security & Risk Analysis - Cyber Security Option Pennsylvania State University - University Park, PA August 2015 to May 2019 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), C++ (Less than 1 year), Technical Support (2 years), Networking (1 year), Network Security (1 year), Active Directory (2 years), Personable (10+ years), Outgoing (10+ years), Relationship Building (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/8/8.1/10, Linux/Ubuntu  Software/Tools: Microsoft Office, MS Visual Studio, MS Access, Kali Linux tools, VMWare    RELATED COURSEWORK  • Conducted research and analysis to address the issue of Cloud Security Auditing.  • Network security simulations.  • Basics of penetration testing.