Cyber Security Consultant Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Consultant Cyber Security Student Huntington, NY I am currently a student working towards my bachelor's degree in Emergency Preparedness, Homeland Security, and Cyber Security with a minor in business from the University at Albany, SUNY. I am a creative, motivated, and responsible individual with a passion for technology and innovation. I specialize in cyber risk management, digital forensics, and information security. As I continue exploring the vast world of ever-expanding technology, I plan on furthering my knowledge of cloud computing, internet of things technologies, cryptocurrencies and artificial intelligence.    My interest in technology initially sparked while developing my first website in middle school. Since then I have been dedicated to expanding my knowledge of emerging trends in technology. Various internships have led me to develop a deep desire to devote my studies to both the policy and technical sides of the cyber security industry. I am driven to be in an environment where I can both advance my skills within cyber security and emergency response as well as contribute a unique perspective on issues based on my previous experiences. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Consultant LHL Communications - New York, NY September 2017 to Present Maintain the digital security of the firm's systems and networks.   Continuously manage firewalls and system scans for detection of malicious hardware or software.   Conduct threat/vulnerability assessments and awareness training.   Identify and implement new security practices based on latest industry attacks. Loss Prevention Lead Old Navy - Huntington, NY June 2017 to December 2018 Implemented and monitored processes to reduce property and financial losses.  Train personnel in loss prevention activities.  Identified and reported merchandise or stock shortages.  Recommended, selected, and helped locate or obtain merchandise based on customer needs and desires. Information Security Intern Adelphi University - Garden City, NY June 2018 to August 2018 Worked with the Information Security Engineer to monitor and maintain security on the University's network.  Assisted the Information Security Analyst with forensic analysis and fact gathering.  Aided in the deployment and upkeep of the information security team's new intrusion detection system using Splunk.  IT Risk Analyst The Threat Within - IQ4 - Albany, NY August 2017 to December 2017 Created insider threat mitigation proposals and presented them to industry mentors.   Followed the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Framework to conduct risk assessments.   Identified critical IT assets and administered mitigation techniques to counter threats. Web Design Intern New Media Marketing - Huntington, NY April 2014 to August 2015 Assisted the lead graphic artist in client website, logo, and social media design.   Conferred with clients to review website layouts.   Learned to use various adobe programs including: Photoshop, Illustrator, and After Effects. Education Bachelor's in Emergency Response, Homeland Security and Cyber Security State University of New York at Albany - Albany, NY August 2016 to May 2020 Study Abroad in Cyber Security and Counter Terrorism Ben-Gurion University of the Negev - Beer Sheva, Israel January 2019 to July 2019 Skills Cyber Security (1 year), mitigation, Information Security, Nist, It Security, Cybersecurity, Linux Links http://linkedin.com/in/zacharylanz Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nxk6yql0oty8mvj6 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.