Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Austin, TX Work Experience Information Security Analyst General Motors - Austin, TX August 2016 to Present General Motors is a leading global technical innovator in the automotive industry.   • Analyze risks and trends in the movement of data inside and out of the company’s   • infrastructure.   • Innovate and create rulesets in data monitoring policies.   • Data loss prevention by analyzing exfiltration of data through various methods.   • Assisted in various projects within the company as an advisor with data loss prevention in   • mind.   • Tested various applications for holes in secure data transfer and visibility.   • Generated various reports and metrics to show risks and trends of daily/quarterly findings.   • Work closely with Cyber Forensics and Cyber Defense teams to stop or mitigate potential   • threats.   • Attended various Cyber Security workshops and conferences to keep up with the threat   • landscape.  Information Technology Specialist/System Administrator Logisoft Computer Products and Next Web Solutions - Fairport, NY June 2015 to December 2015 1. Logisoft Computer Products and Next Web Solutions deals with hosting websites and providing software solutions for companies and school districts on the east coast as well as parts of Canada. Various levels of customer support are provided to customers meaning that the customer has support for their user experience tailored to their level of technical experience and comfort.   • Maintained server clusters managing Windows Active Directory.   • Setup network file shares to allow various departments efficient access to data with privacy in mind.   • Setup new users in Active Directory and applied appropriate NTFS permissions.   • Analyzed traffic to hosted websites and determined if threats were detected.   • Helped migrate email and other data for customers.   • Worked as Helpdesk and troubleshooting for customers and employees.   • Worked towards getting certifications needed for the company.   • Attended summits and networked with other companies in need of our products and services.  IT and Information Security Specialist LandtitleUSA Inc - McAllen, TX June 2014 to December 2014 LandtitleUSA is a company responsible for providing customers with a service in accessing land titles/trusts/deeds. LandtitleUSA has developed a centralized online database with all land titles/trusts/deeds for the various counties of Texas. With various branch offices all over Texas LandtitleUSA provides future property owners with legal and escrow services to make the process of purchasing property easier.   • Maintained server clusters managing Windows Active Directory.   • Setup network file shares to allow various departments efficient access to data with privacy in mind.   • Setup new users in Active Directory and applied appropriate NTFS permissions.   • Deployed new services needed on in house servers to supplement remote locations.   • Deployed network monitoring software.   • Did threat and vulnerability analysis on internal servers.   • Deployed and managed systems in remote offices.   • Composed daily reports of suspicious traffic after work hours.   • Helped configure firewall rules for company needs.   • Assisted in catching an internal abuse of company resources in IIS.  Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Security Rochester Institute of Technology September 2015 to 2016 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jorgerojasiv Certifications/Licenses Security+ October 2017 to October 2021 A+ Certified June 2010 to Present Sophos Engineer December 2015 to Present Sophos Architect December 2015 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE & SKILLS   • Penetration Testing   • Network and System Security Audit   • Computer System Security   • Steganography   • Malware Observation (OllyDBG)   • English & Spanish   • System Administration   • Risk Management   • Windows System Forensics     Hardware  • Computer Assembly  • Cisco Routers  • Cisco Multi-layer Switches Cisco Access Points    Certifications   • Sophos Engineer   • Sophos Architect   • Comp TIA A+   • Comp TIA Security +     Windows OS   • IIS  • Exchange  • Active Directory   • Apache    Programming   • Python • C++  • Perl     Software   • Symantec Data Loss Prevention  • Orion Network Performance Monitor • Orion Netflow Traffic Analyzer  • SNORT  • Cisco Packet Tracer  • FTK  • Encase  • Wireshark  • VMWare Workstation  • Metasploit Framework  • Microsoft Azure  • Nmap  • DiskExplorer for NTFS  