Sr. Information Security and Compliance Specialist Sr. Information <span class="hl">Security</span> and Compliance Specialist Information Security Professional Daphne, AL Work Experience Sr. Information Security and Compliance Specialist ECFIRST - Daphne, AL August 2016 to Present Provided On-Demand-Consulting to clients including services such as project management, developing and managing policies and procedures, incident management, process review, reviewing technology solution  options, business continuity and disaster recovery planning, and other related engagements as negotiated in order to drive client information security.  • Conducted external and internal Vulnerability Assessments using a variety of security tools such as  Nexpose, Nipper, Metasploit, Burp, FOCA, Powershell scripting, Python scripting and others in order to test  DNS configuration, web application security (OWASP Top 10), Active Directory access management  configuration, firewall/router configuration and rules, wireless network configuration and segmentation,  enumeration of mass storage devices, and system configuration.  • Conducted comprehensive risk analyses to determine client's compliance with HIPAA and HITECH related  regulatory requirements by evaluating likelihood and impact of potential risks to PHI, evaluating  effectiveness of implemented controls, documenting risk management and mitigation strategies, and developing recommendations for corrective action plans to remediate any deficiencies found.  • Conducted business impact analyses for clients in order to identify business disruption events and measure  their probabilities; identify critical business functions; identify critical information system resources and data  that support key business functions; and develop recovery priorities.  • Guided clients through completion of HITRUST CSF self-assessment reports.  • Wrote assessment reports including executive summaries, dashboards, and corrective action plans.  Presented findings and recommendations to senior management, IT staff, and other stakeholders. IT Auditor POARCH CREEK INDIAN - TRIBAL GAMING COMMISSION - Atmore, AL April 2015 to August 2016 Planned and performed comprehensive regulatory audit engagements of IT infrastructure, gaming systems,  databases, and applications based on NIGC regulatory requirements and IT risk assessments.  • Wrote audit reports and presented findings and recommendations to the gaming operation senior  management and the Tribal Gaming Commission.  • Conducted follow-up audits to assess final determination of compliance vs. non-compliance. Presented  findings and made recommendations for punitive fines to the Notice of Violation (NOV) committee.  • Reviewed submitted IT systems of internal controls (policies and procedures) and made recommendations on appropriateness and adequacy of controls before presenting finalized versions to the Tribal Gaming  Commission for approval.  • Passed Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) exam.  • Passed Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) exam in top 5% of those testing. Information Security Analyst THE SSI GROUP - Mobile, AL June 2013 to April 2015 • Developed policy and procedure set using NIST and FISMA frameworks and guidance.  • Planned, created, implemented, and audited security measures/controls for computer systems, networks, and data in order to protect information system assets in a public cloud providing SaaS services as well as corporate information system assets.  • Conducted risk analysis and vulnerability assessments as part of a risk management program. Identified  areas of risk and developed recommendations for mitigation, reduction, transfer, or acceptance of risk.  • Project Manager for design and/or implementation of information systems projects such as email encryption,  full disk encryption and mobile encryption on applicable devices, and data loss prevention (DLP).  • Coordinated/facilitated external audits and assessments with third-party auditors, vendors, and regulators.  • Conducted incident response and forensic analysis of security incidents.  • Administration and maintenance of information security controls such as McAfee EPO, VSE,  WebGateway, etc.  • Conducted information security education and awareness training sessions for new hires, annually, ad-hoc, and for specific groups such as senior management and system administrators.  • Coordinated Software Licensing such as Microsoft Enterprise Agreement and Volume Licensing.  • Served as the designated Information Security Official (01/15-04/15). Education Master of Science UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH ALABAMA - Mobile, AL 2018 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science ATHENS STATE UNIVERSITY - Athens, AL Skills SECURITY (3 years), INFORMATION SECURITY (2 years), TRAINING (1 year), DISASTER RECOVERY (Less than 1 year), METASPLOIT (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/davyalancook2 Additional Information Skills Summary  • Core Skills: Information Security Program • Operating Systems: MS Windows Server  Management, Policy Formulation and 2016/2012R2/2008R2, Ubuntu Server  Implementation, Threat Modeling, Threat and 16.04/12.04 LTS, MS Windows 10/8.1/7/XP,  Vulnerability Assessment, Vendor Risk Amazon Linux AMI.  Management, Mobile Device Management,  • Other: Wireshark, AWS (EC2, S3, Route53,  Project Management, BIA/Disaster Recovery  etc.), Citrix XenServer, VMware ESXi, Kali Linux,  Planning, System Administration, and Information  Samurai WTF, Metasploit, Burp Suite Pro,  Security Education and Awareness Training.  Nipper, Nessus, Nexpose, McAfee ePolicy