IT Technician <span class="hl">IT</span> Technician IT Technician - Computer Maintenance Facility Hoboken, NJ To obtain a summer internship so I may be able to share and utilize the skills I have gained through my professional and  academic career in an environment in which will foster my growth Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Technician New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ September 2015 to Present Diagnose and resolve issues beyond the scope of NJIT's computer helpdesk  ? Provide on-site and in-shop support for both faculty and students  ? Issues supported included: Deployment of new workstations and networked printers, software compatibility problems,  replacement of faulty hardware, advising clients on hardware or software solutions  ? Design maps of PC Labs for a web-based monitoring tool, allowing technicians and lab consultants to easily locate  unresponsive PCs and printers  ? Upgrade and deploy PCs during NJIT's migration from Windows XP to Windows 7, ensuring software compatibility and familiarizing faculty with new features of Windows 7 Undergraduate Research Assistant McNair Summer Research Institute (NJIT) - Newark, NJ May 2015 to July 2015 1 of 10 students chosen for the summer 2015 McNair Program  ? Area of research: Development of a high accuracy pedometer with the purpose of remotely monitoring walking speed of  Parkinson's patients  ? Performed research under Dr. Roberto Rojas-Cessa, Associate Professor for the Electrical and Computer Engineering  Dept.  ? Developed and executed experiments using tri-axle accelerometers  ? Presented at NJIT's International Undergraduate Summer Research Symposium Quality Assurance Engineer - Spring Internship Program ADP, Inc - Roseland, NJ January 2015 to April 2015 Performed manual and automated testing of web based applications  ? Performed testing of SQL Scripts - fixing non-working components  ? Developed automated testing scripts using HP's Unified Functional Testing platform, JavaScript, and Selenium IT Technician New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ October 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities  Diagnose and resolve issues beyond the scope of NJIT's computer helpdesk  ? Provide on-site and in-shop support for both faculty and students  ? Issues supported included: Deployment of new workstations and networked printers, software compatibility problems,  replacement of faulty hardware, advising clients on hardware or software solutions  ? Design maps of PC Labs for a web-based monitoring tool, allowing technicians and lab consultants to easily locate  unresponsive PCs and printers  ? Upgrade and deploy PCs during NJIT's migration from Windows XP to Windows 7, ensuring software compatibility and familiarizing faculty with new features of Windows 7 Cyber Security Analyst Procysive Corp - Durham, NC May 2012 to May 2013 Monitored for leaks of vital information for a variety of clients ranging from large corporate entities to small personal  clients  ? Produced weekly reports, independent of supervision IT Support Cancer Genetics Inc - Rutherford, NJ June 2010 to October 2011 Organized and executed migration of CGI email from POP3 email to a hosted Exchange platform  ? Developed and launched backup solution for both workstations and servers  ? Maintained company servers (domain controller, file, print, and application servers) and deployed a Windows Server  2008 to act as a backup Active Directory domain controller  ? Established smart phone standardization for sales staff as well as educating them on functionality beyond the basic  usage of smart phone Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering New Jersey Institute of Technology May 2017 Skills C++ (1 year), Java (1 year), Matlab (1 year), Multisim (2 years), Java (1 year), Microsoft Office (10+ years) Publications Accurate Measurement of Walking Speed of Patients Suffering from Parkinson’s Disease https://centers.njit.edu/uri/sites/uri/files/Book%20of%20Abstracts%202015.pdf 2015-08-01 Abstract containing information on my research into the development of a novel method of measuring walking speeds when the subject has a non-normal gait. Additional Information Technical Skills  C++, Java, JavaScript, Matlab, Multisim, PSpice  Windows Server 2008, Windows Operating System, Windows Active Directory, Microsoft Office, setup of network devices  such as printers and wireless access points, virtualization software including: Hyper-V and Virtualbox, Imaging and  deployment tools such as Symantec Ghost and ImageX