Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst, Delphinus Engineering INC Reading, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst DELPHINUS ENGINEERING, INC - Philadelphia, PA July 2018 to Present • Support the integration and test of cyber security technologies into existing USN systems.  • Manage existing documentation such as user manuals, installation guides, and testing procedures. Create new documentation as required. Support A&A analysts with creation of security artifacts to support RMF process including PIT.  • Install and configure the systems to facilitate testing in the shipboard environment  • Monitor system performance and ensure that security features and functional requirements meet the performance needs of the system by performing routine vulnerability analysis using ACAS/Nessus, SCAP compliance checker, DISA STIGs, NIST SPs, and vendor guidance when required.  • Verify with engineers that the system meets the needs of the USN while adhering to cyber security controls  • Conduct routine vulnerability assessments of lab and shipboard systems using NESSUS/ACAS, STIGs, and SCAP. Provide compliance reporting to VRAM  • Install and test patches and other fixes in a shipboard environment to ensure no degradation in performance or functionality  • Develop delivery procedures and techniques to ensure systems are deployed in a secure manner to the fleet  • Develop DISA STIG checklists, integration and test of security patches/features, and develop security CONOPS for all system software.  • Participate in the Information Assurance Vulnerability Management process for all Energy related software.  • Performs day-to-day interface activities with program management, other developers, SAs, installation team, and users involving issues and concerns regarding cybersecurity for both lab and fleet systems. IT Specialist, Customer Support Supervisor United States Air Force 111th Attack Wing - Horsham, PA September 2017 to July 2018 IT Specialist, Customer Support United States Air Force 111th Attack Wing October 2016 to September 2017 Description: Identify, plan, and execute solutions to challenges regarding information systems and network accounts at Horsham Air Guard Station. Installs, patches, and upgrades software and  hardware. Advises senior leadership on all cyber matters. Administrates network account programs.  Maintains government compliance in all areas.  • Promoted to work center supervisor in under a year of employment.  • Planned, executed, and managed the Windows 10 conversion of Horsham Air Guard Station.  This includes over 700 client systems. All deadlines were met, and we were able to avoid  spending more resources on contractors.  • Member of the security vulnerability management team.  • Assisted the Cyber Operations Squardon in a phishing e-mail test that was pushed out basewide. IT Specialist, Customer Support Joint Force Headquarters G6 October 2015 to October 2016 Description: Provides tier I and II support for all IT assets of the Pennsylvania Army National Guard  remotely and over the phone. Installs, patches, and upgrades software and hardware. Creates and extends user Guard Net accounts. Maintains government compliance with all actions and user  accounts.  • Performed wiring and cable management for Warfighter event  • Exercised level 1 administration rights over Active Directory forest.  • Enforced patching with weekly suspenses  • Obtained CompTIA Security + certification 4 months from hire through self-study    SEI (12/2014 to 10/2015) Middle Office Regional Consultant December 2014 to October 2015 Description: Assists financial planners and their clients with technical and financial matters remotely and over the phone.  • Worked in high volume call center, fielding 70+ customer calls daily  • Developed step-by-step training manuals for end-users to ensure a seamless transition following  application upgrades for upgrade to Windows 7  • Member of Windows 7 upgrade project management team  • Data download administrator (e-money, redtail, albridge, etc.) Education Associate Skills SHAREPOINT, REMEDY, SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION, DISA STIGs (3 years), ACAS/NESSUS (3 years), SCAP (3 years), HBSS/McAfee (3 years), PKI (4 years) Military Service Branch: Air Force National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: Senior Airman November 2013 to Present Air Force Specialty Code 3D1X1 - Client Systems    Manages hardware and software. Performs configuration, management, and troubleshooting. Removes and replaces components and peripherals to restore system operation. Installs and configures software operating systems and applications. Provides service to end-users for operation, restoration, and configuration of information systems. Reports security incidents and executes corrective security procedures. Commendations: Army Achievement Medal - 2014  Air Force Achievement Medal - 2018 Certifications/Licenses Security+ February 2016 to Present CompTIA Security+ Certification Additional Information Motivated information security professional seeking a challenging position in which to grow alongside  an established leader in the field.    - Areas of Expertise -  • Testing & Troubleshooting • Effective Communication  • Project Management • Team Leadership  • System Administration • Information Assurance (COMSEC,  TEMPEST, REMSEC, COMPUSEC)  • Public Key Infrastructure  • Data Backup & Recovery  • Strategic Planning  • Vulnerability Management  • Resource Allocation  • Windows OS transitions    Technical Proficiencies  Platforms Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10    Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint), Dameware, SharePoint,  Software  DISA ACAS, EITSM (Remedy)    Languages Familiarity with C++ and Visual Basic