CLIENT INTEGRATION ANALYST-SERVICE MANAGEMENT CLIENT INTEGRATION <span class="hl">ANALYST</span>-SERVICE MANAGEMENT CLIENT INTEGRATION ANALYST-SERVICE MANAGEMENT - Becton Dickinson Hoboken, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CLIENT INTEGRATION ANALYST-SERVICE MANAGEMENT Becton Dickinson - Franklin Lakes, NJ 2015 to Present Facilitates operational purchasing process to global IT associates for finance, executive-level IT management, and indirect procurement approval for statement of work (SOW) creation & corporate compliance. Maintains  ServiceNow IT purchasing workflow system, continuously incorporating end user feedback for all new features and functionalities, including additional use/test cases and workflow process improvements.  • Established and launched internal end-to-end conditional workflow process for IT purchasing for all global IT  associates (3,000+ associates), capturing finance, IT, procurement, and legal stakeholder approval within  SharePoint and ServiceNow, integrating multiple applications and stakeholder requirements to reduce the amount of required approvals for process optimization. Collaborated with global developers to test all new  functionality using agile methodologies.  • Trained IT associates for both SharePoint and ServiceNow purchasing processes, documenting new  requirements and end user feedback.  • Created weekly executive-level scorecard metrics of all IT buying activity using QlikView & Excel Macros for the  CIO and IT VPs by cost center, vendor, and authorization type.  • Led IT asset management audit.  • Facilitated vendor performance management cadences for top IT strategic accounts to ensure alignment and service-level agreement (SLA) accountability.  • Implemented AirWatch and 2Factor MobilePass to over 400 global associates' mobile devices and trained users as part of companywide Active Directory project. SAP PLM SYSTEMS ANALYST, IT LEADERSHIP PROGRAM DMS to SAP PI - Singapore 2014 to 2015 2014 - 2015  • Redesigned transitional work process interface to replace legacy FDA-regulated quality document management  system (QDMS) to create automated batch job interface connecting SAP ECC 6.0 DMS to SAP PI to SAP 4.0b.  • Created project plan and strategy for all migrations, executing pilot migration site in Tuas, Singapore, to move  all existing FDA-regulated documents from legacy QDMS to SAP ECC 6.0 using CIDEON migration tool for  Microsoft document conversion.  • Responsible for training users, data cleansing, ensuring all legacy documents types were mapped to current  document types and engineering change management policies were met with correct version control, migrating  each document during non-working hours, and validating migration success.  • Applied repeatable methodology process to continue global site migrations for 800 users and 23,000 quality  medical device documents from 7 countries, using multiple document languages. E-COMMERCE IMPLEMENTATION ANALYST, IT LEADERSHIP PROGRAM Becton Dickinson - San Jose, CA 2013 to 2014 • Managed e-commerce budget and financial projections, and facilitated project management meetings with SAP  e-commerce, business marketing, bioscience catalog, and new product development teams for EU  implementation of B2B e-commerce website of BDBiosciences.com on the Hybris platform replacing legacy SAP  Web Shop. Gathered new functional requirements.  • Project-managed implementation of Baynote product recommendation tags to increase revenue for all  BDBiosciences.com country specific web pages. Improved product recommendations by identifying similar  products based on voice of the customer feedback and purchasing information.  • Drafted and created request for proposal (RFP), master service agreement (MSA) and statement of work (SOW) for the project, as well as customer experience management strategy for customer segmentation groups. GLOBAL INFORMATION SECURITY ANALYST, IT LEADERSHIP PROGRAM Becton Dickinson 2013 to 2013 • Identified scope and project management plan of Symantec DLP rollout to all global digital assets.  • Created DLP use cases to identify IT Security breaches, incidents and suspicious activity. Correlated incidents with many different IT security applications, and participated in identification of associate who attempted to confiscate highly confidential proprietary information (Link to Article).  • Deployed FireEye solution across all digital assets apart of project funded by the board of directors, providing  daily executive-level reports and summaries. Scheduled SCCM deployment schedule on all machines and servers. TEST TEAM ANALYST, IT LEADERSHIP PROGRAM PQ SPS8 for SAP ECC 2012 to 2012 Created and executed OQ, PQ SPS8 for SAP ECC 6.0 regression test scripts within HP Quality Center (HPQC),  providing daily execution reports for executive-level leadership.  • Facilitated global performance testing activity, including testing calls to summarize process and highlight defects and issues. Created SAP test cycle windows for SAP ECC 6.0 implementation.  • Managed program for all SAP defects for SAP ECC 6.0, and automated scorecard for daily SAP testing extracts. WEALTH MANAGEMENT PMO OPERATIONS ANALYST, INTERN UBS Financial Services - Weehawken, NJ 2011 to 2011 Business requirements and process mapping creation for automation to showcase efficiency potential for Client  Verification Unit Department.  • Acted as a liaison between IT and Business SMEs to create and execute test scripts for a $3 million monetary  disbursement workflow system project.  • Reported test script status and defects within HP Quality Center (HPQC) software.  • Attended various round table discussions involving central product and operation departments (Retirement  Services, Alternative Investments, Mutual Funds, Managed Accounts, etc.)  • Participated in various Business & IT system design and analysis workout sessions to determine system  functionality components. Education BA in Information Technology and Informatics Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ