Technical Consultant Technical Consultant Technical Consultant - Dell Nottingham, MD Work Experience Technical Consultant Dell - Baltimore, MD August 2019 to Present • Provided technical support, Windows migration, performed trouble-shootings functions and resolve customer issues.  • Conducted training sessions and seminars  • Provided the standardization of hardware and software across a business in order to improve operation efficiency.  • Lead the design and implementation of technology across a business.  • Research and resolved issues for customers, business partners, and staff when necessary Network Security Analyst/Enforcement Baltimore City Office of Child Support Services May 2018 to August 2019 • Conduct periodic network monitoring and intrusion detection analysis to determine if there have been any attacks  • Responds to threats, takes mitigation actions to contain the activity and minimize damage.  • Work with stakeholders at all levels of the organization to communicate the state of information security, inform of possible risks, and suggest ways to improve security.  • Design and implement new safeguards to protect the system  • Identify unsuccessful and successful instruction attempts by reviewing and analyzing security events logs and events summary information.  • Ensure the integrity and protection of networks; audit networks security system to identify and protect areas of vulnerability.  • Monitors Intrusion Detection System for potential, successful and unsuccessful attempts. IT Security Support and Threat Analyst VOA Chesapeake - Baltimore, MD March 2017 to March 2018 • Analyze and triage of security alerts escalating incidents when necessary.  • Assist with creating and turning security monitoring use cases.  • Assist with creating and improving Threat Management process and procedure.  • Monitor incidents and report relevant incidents to management in compliance with corporate operational risk management policy.  • Responsible in determine initial threat impact and making empowered decisions to escalate, handoff, and/or respond to a potential investigation or incident.  • Assists security team that responds to alerts that have been identified through automated alerts and detections as well as human-reported events.  • Responsible for attempting threat resolution, intelligence and indicator capture, requesting mitigations, and recommending additional detections.  • Participate in Cyber Intelligence Analyst team that is responsible for maintaining the integrity and security of enterprise-wide cyber systems and networks. Technical Support University of Baltimore - Baltimore, MD March 2013 to April 2015 Seamlessly assists both local and remote clients with computer errors using RDP and other remote access.  • Proactively provides status updates to clients in support of a positive customer experience.  • Diagnoses hardware issues and orchestrates the resolution plan.  • Spearheads the installation and configuration of user VPN access.  • Designs and delivers training to network specialists focused on daily support functions and how to verify network conditions.  • Utilizes HP Open View to open trouble tickets, and regularly follows up until resolution of the issue.  • Contributed expertise in prospecting and closing negotiations.  • Communicated corporate processes and procedures to clients.  • Documented all tasks, resolution, and activities in the master log. Education MSc in Cyber Security University of Maryland University College December 2018 BSc. in Criminal Justice University of Baltimore - Baltimore, MD May 2015 BA in Social Science University of Cape Coast Ghana August 2008