IT Risk Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Risk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Risk Analyst Richardson, TX Information Technology • Information Security Analyst • Security Operations Center  * An organized, meticulous professional with 10+ years of military, IT and other industry experiences influencing business results through strong project leadership, exceptional customer service and a strong focus on attention to detail for analytical processes.  * A proactive contributor who excels in delivering the right tools, resources and support - at the right time -with little or no direction. Able to communicate with leadership and understand their needs and then respond in a decisive, impactful manner to complete the task or job.  * An energizing, culture-focused coach and mentor. Committed to providing the team clear vision, meaningful feedback and motivating them to achieve unprecedented results. Has developed team members who have become managers and leaders in their respective professions. Work Experience IT Risk Analyst Texas Capital Bank - Richardson, TX 2019 to 2019 Hired on a contract to assist with Texas Capital Banks growth from a small to medium tier commercial bank on the backlog of work and program refresh the president of Information Technology wanted to accomplish.  • Built and updated policies, standards and procedures around the Bank's Information Technology department, for the first time in five years from growing to a small to medium tier commercial bank. Assisted the Assistant Vice President and officers of IT Risk department with the Bank's program refresh by updating and completing the proper documentation on how information technology departments would function and mitigate issues internally and externally.  • Applied knowledge of a cyber risk register from the Federal Reserves to TCB Bank. This gained knowledge from the Federal Reserve and translating it to TCB assisted with the program refresh and the direction that TCB wanted to move forward towards to with the FAIR methodology. National IT OCISO Cyber Security Analyst Federal Reserve Bank, NPower - Dallas, TX 2018 to 2019 Initially hired as a technical intern to learn the general functions of cyber security. Now serving as a workgroup member on the Enterprise Cyber Risk Register supporting the development of the associated end-to-end risk register processes.  • Supporting the development of the Cyber Risk Register. Collaborate with multiple information security SMEs within the Federal Reserve to assist with development of a Cyber Risk Register process. Assist with the development of processes to collect, analyze, articulate, manage and monitor enterprise cyber risks to support data-driven and informed decision making by stakeholders.  • Continually improved efficiency for information system managers and Federal Reserve business. Work diligently to ensure that processes are streamlined, and potential challenges are anticipated in advance, ensuring that key essential leaders can maintain focus on the core business functions and priorities of the project goals.  • Assist with weekly cyber risk register team updates and monthly ITOC reports. Work closely with the senior manager to develop the weekly cyber risk register 4-Blocker status report and monthly Information Technology Oversight Committee (ITOC) information security executive dashboard to provide the stakeholders a view of our project progress and our security posture. Assistant Service Manager / Business Development Manager Park Place Mercedes - Dallas, TX 2017 to 2018 Dallas, TX 2017 - 2018  Multiple-store automotive dealer group offering new and pre-owned vehicles, expert in excellence through service. Brands represented include Mercedes, Bentley, McLaren, Lexus, Rolls-Royce, and Porsche.  Assistant Service Manager / Business Development Manager  Following record-breaking performance at Park Place Mercedes, was recruited into the dealership's assistant service manager role. Earned consistent achievements and recognition in the service department, new car sales with assisting customers in new car purchases, and bringing new business to the brand. As assistant service manager, oversaw all variable and fixed operations for one of the top Mercedes dealerships in the DFW area. Assisted a multi-purpose team with indirect leadership over 50 employees.  • Built processes and structure around the company's customer experience for the service and sales department, which help developed new clients to the brand and Park Place company as a whole.  • Established a working relationship with the manager and executives of Mercedes Benz and Park Place to enhance the client experience with their car care and the dealership. This improvement enhanced the process of the service department and the service advisors, which led an average sales volume of 250-300 units each per month. This increased the dealerships profits each month with excellent customer experience reviews. Quality Assurance Engineer I Samsung Electronics America - Richardson, TX 2015 to 2017 Help launched multiple developments to coordinate the SDLC process between the software and QA engineers, consumer insight managers, and directors to support all functions from different departments within Samsung and Google as needed.  • Developed a standard operating procedure of key functions of QA engineering for SEA. Refined each departments separation of duties and assisted with a process flow chart with key team leaders to eliminate miscommunication of each QA test phase and Samsung Group Headquarters Korea.  • Mentored and molded a diverse team to innovate new features for major Samsung flagship phone models. Formulated a plan for Samsung's Bixby to add an additional language outside of Korean and English. Explained to the Korean directors on the importance of including Spanish, and how this could capture a bigger market share against Samsung's competitors. Within a short period of time a Spanish division was created for Bixby. Education B.S. in Business Administration Richland College - Dallas, TX University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX Skills Business Development (1 year), Customer Engagement (Less than 1 year), Employee Relations (Less than 1 year), Problem Solving (Less than 1 year), Quality Assurance (2 years) Links http://Linkedin.com/in/jaybrowncho Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    * Team Leadership  * Team Building  * Employee Relations  * Process Improvement  * Business Development  * Automation  * Problem Solving  * Customer Engagement  * Quality Assurance  * Agile Methodologies  * Flexibility/adaptability  * Interpersonal Skills