General Controls Analyst Information Technology General Controls <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Technology General Controls Analyst Information Technology San Antonio, TX Analyst Internal controls relating to computing with intermediate level of English focused primarily on:  Assurance IT General Controls public and private companies.  Internal Audit.  Risk assessment.  Review of controls on business cycles (SAP).  Manager master data in SAP implementations.  As well as offering solutions results of tests. Teamwork, project leader and development, responsible  and able to meet targets. With knowledge in applications, audit and administrative tools.    OBJETIVES  Growing as information analyst or project manager, bringing my experience and commitment in the  field of Information Technologies, SAP, Data analysis and risk-based consulting and best practices. As  follow capacitance in the environment of Information Technology for better professional development.    Currently learn the English language to grow as a professional and have a wider panorama growth. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience General Controls Analyst Information Technology PriceWaterHousecoopers January 2014 to October 2014 Focused primarily on CGTI reviews (General Controls Information Technology) in these reviews the information security is paramount, depth reviews are conducted from users, configurations,  segregation of duties as well as new developments.    The analysis is for both public and private companies.    Some projects are:  • Internal Control Assurance.    • Diagnosis Risk, internal control and IT processes.    • Suggestions for improvement in processes.    • Evaluation of Information Technology controls information. Internal Systems Security Analyst www.deloitte.com April 2012 to December 2013 Focused mainly on audit, advisory and consultancy on various topics, such as public and private  companies in the part of IT to identify risks both: Networking, Applications, Infrastructure and Data  Security and roles in SAP. Review and control business cycles (SAP) and participation as master data  management implementations of the same to provide business solutions and recommendations to the findings on the part of audits and reviews.    I am currently involved in a project to international company where control tests are performed J-SOX,  evaluating tests to demonstrate the design and existence of internal control and its proper execution within entities.    Some projects are:    • Internal Control Assurance.    • Diagnosis Risk, internal control and IT processes.    • Suggestions for improvement in processes.    • Evaluation of Information Technology controls information.    • Revision control business cycles, SAP.    • Manager Master Data in SAP implementation.    • Compliance review contracts according to law. Resident in the area of IT Networks CIATEC August 2011 to December 2011 Responsibilities by:  • Making Residential project "System Analysis and Infrastructure Information Technology  Simple Management Protocol SNMP" in conjunction with the WMI protocol and PRTG  program.  • Troubleshooting network.  • Monitoring Servers and all teams both physical and virtual network.  • Setting wyse terminals.  • Network Configuration.  • Making new network nodes and wiring.   Support and Maintenance CIATEC August 2009 to December 2009 Responsibilities by:  • Preventive and Corrective Maintenance.  • Installing and Configuring multiple packages SW administered by the organization; as well as network printers.  • Troubleshooting.  • Organize Software Company.    Software / Products:  ACL (Data Analysis)"single workout", SAP (Data Manager, role, security), "intermediate", AS2 (Software  audit)"experience in the project", Project "experience in the project", SAE "single workout".    Hardware / Operating Systems:  Windows "experience in the project", Computers "single workout Dell-HP".    Data Base:  SQL "single workout", MySQL "single workout", Access "single workout".    General Tools:  Microsoft Office Parcel "experience in the project", Visio, Project. Education Computer Science Instituto Tecnológico de León August 2007 to February 2012