IT Specialist/Lead Reimage Technician <span class="hl">IT</span> Specialist/Lead Reimage Technician IT Specialist/Lead Reimage Technician - AT&T Government Solutions Fredericksburg, VA Work Experience IT Specialist/Lead Reimage Technician AT&T Government Solutions - Quantico, VA November 2012 to Present Quantico, VA ITR Contract, MITSC-NCR Base G6 November 2012 to present  ? Installs, configures, and troubleshoots a range of hardware and software throughout the MITSC-NCR (Marine Information Technology Support Center) in Quantico, VA. Performs hardware/software upgrades to existing computers (desktops and laptops) per customer request.  ? Performed Administrator level access to install software or drivers, remove software, put workstations back on the domain, renew Antivirus definitions for Symantec Endpoint Protection and McAfee Antivirus, and update BIOS.  ? Migrated data using DoD approved software.  ? Coordinated with other government organizations/sections to replace hardware components relating to in-warranty and out-of-warranty workstations.  ? Responsible for imaging and reimaging Windows 7 systems.  ? Created documentation on how to decrypt/backup/restore user data and reimage to XP/Windows 7 systems.  ? Use Remedy to process troubleshooting tickets.  ? Provided phone and account troubleshooting requests for AMHS (Automated Messaging Handling System) Unclassified. ANALYST/Tier 1 Incident Manager TIER - Quantico, VA December 2011 to October 2012 Perform Initial Call Receipt. Open, route, and close Trouble Tickets/SRs. Resolve routine issues such as password/certification issues and low level connectivity issues. Resolve/answer system error notices or escalate to GCSS-MC PMO Help Desk Mgr. Manage the call lists to contact and coordinate Tier 2/3 resources for emergency outages, and server/instance restarts.  ? Maintain data required to support metrics. (i.e. availability and number of issues for a particular event) Report resolution of issues and Trouble Tickets/SRs to the user. Resolve routine previously scripted issues RCA (Root Cause Analysis). Update the GKB when a T1 level Trouble Ticket/SR issue response is not already scripted in the GKB (Global Knowledge Base).  ? Operate, maintain, and use the Government approved Help Desk management and tracking software. Service requests will be received, logged, worked and resolved or passed to Tier 2 team for resolution. Information Security Analyst General Dynamics IT - Quantico, VA October 2008 to October 2009 Serves as the first line of defense for customer issues, concerns, problems, orders, requirements, guidance, and oversight of the Navy Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) environment. Assists the team by providing guidance on acquiring IT assets in the NMCI environment, provide assistance to the Office of the CIO staff in their efforts to ensure conformance to NMCI SLA's.  ? Assists with providing comprehensive customer satisfaction by ensuring that the Command staff has the IT tools available to perform assigned duties without interruption. Maintained Remedy 5.2 to track IT issues and pending service desk tickets.  ? Enforced quality assurance and performance, upgraded and provided support in resolving network problems of IT hardware and software either directly on site or via telephone. Responsible for identifying, ordering, updating, and tracking NMCI seat order information for assigned command staff through the use of Active Directory.  ? Implemented policies and procedures regarding how problems are identified, received, documented, distributed, corrected, and evaluate new information systems products or services while suggesting changes to existing products or services to better aide the end user. Education B.S. in Business Marketing Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA 2003 to 2007 High School Marketing Additional Information HIGHLIGHTS OF QUALIFICATIONS  ? Customer-focused IT with experience and knowledge of information security, and systems/networking. Strong analytical, effective team leader with strong communication and interpersonal skills. Hold a current Top Secret Security Clearance.    CREDENTIALS  ? DoD Top Secret - SSBI Clearance  ? Security + certification  ? ITIL V3 Foundations certification  ? IAT Level 2, DoD 8570 compliant    Operating Systems:  ? Windows 7, Vista, XP, and NT  Applications:  ? MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, MS Project, FrontPage, Active Directory, Net Meeting, Adobe Software, Remedy 5.2, RAS Tools