IT Support/ Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Support/<span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Raleigh, NC Analytical Technical Support representative adept at resolving complex network issues. Critical thinker who addresses customer support issues quickly and consistently exceeds performance standards. Level-headed and clam in stressful situation with well-developed people skills. Well versed in providing quality support and customer support service supported by excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support/ Security Analyst Genworth April 2016 to Present ? Executed SQL, Patrols, and Change Controls  ? Generated and prepared daily reports  ? System Administrator  ? Authorized access request for access to company shared folders and different permissions for Production/QA/DEV  ? Analyze, detect, identify, and correct technical problems and deficiencies  ? Prioritize and escalate problems within given guidelines  ? Utilize Remote Management software to remotely install software, setup printers and assist customers with problems  ? Experience with desktop and server operating systems, including Windows 7,10, Server 2003 and Server 2008  ? Manage virtual desktops, physical desktops, physical phones and headsets  ? Installed and configured 30+applications  ? Conducts systems security evaluations, audits, and reviews  ? Worked in Disaster Recovery Software  ? Proficient in Office products and McAfee Help Desk Specialist Ann Service Desk - Cary, NC October 2015 to March 2016 ? Diagnosed application problems by consulting with clients to evaluate procedures and processes  ? Helped in the post-implementation troubleshooting of new applications and application upgrades  ? Troubleshoot and resolved web application issues   ? System Administrator  ? Installed and supported over 30 applications   ? Devised workarounds for problems  ? Created new account, reset passwords and configured access for users  ? Implemented network security measures to protect data, including configuring, monitoring, and maintaining virus protection software Help Desk Analyst Magnus Health - Raleigh, NC June 2015 to September 2015 ? Provided technical assistance and support for issues related to computer systems, software & hardware  ? Displayed courtesy and strong interpersonal skills with all customer interactions  ? Maintained composure and patience in the face of difficult customer situations  ? Responded to email messages for customers seeking help   ? Support customers with online billing and account issues   ? Create accounts and update information on existing accounts   ? Follow-up with customers to ensure issue has been resolved  ? Assisted customers with technical issues via email, live chat, and telephone  ? Created new account, reset passwords, and configured access for users Technical Specialist Big Win - Raleigh, NC April 2014 to May 2015 ? Coordinated and implemented network security measures to protect data  ? Configured, monitor, and maintain virus protection software  ? Formulated, defined and documented system specifications  ? System Administrator  ? Assisted in the post-implementation troubleshooting of new applications and application upgrades  ? Defined application problems by consulting with clients to evaluate procedures and processes  ? Issued license codes to new and existing customers  ? Resolved customer complaints and concerns with strong verbal and negotiation skills  ? Assisted in the monitoring and reporting on website traffic and performance  ? Created new account, reset passwords and configured access for users  ? Installed routers, switches, and wireless controllers  ? Maintained company computers, printers, cables and other equipment Call Center Representative Aetna - Cary, NC May 2013 to April 2014 ? Made reasonable procedure exceptions to accommodate unusual customer requests  ? Demonstrated mastery of customer service call script within specified time frames  ? Addressed customer service inquiries in a timely and accurate manner  ? Maintained up-to-date records at all times  ? Properly directed inbound calls in phone queues to improve call flow  ? Verified and logged in deadlines for responding to daily inquiries Education Bachelor's in Education Shaw University - Raleigh, NC August 2010 to May 2015 Master's in Information Technology Strayer University-North Carolina - Morrisville, NC July 2016 Additional Information Analytical Technical Support representative adept at resolving complex network issues. Critical thinker who addresses customer support issues quickly and consistently exceeds performance standards. Level-headed and clam in stressful situation with well-developed people skills. Well versed in providing quality support and customer support service supported by excellent communication and interpersonal skills.    * Diverse PC knowledge * Active Directory Knowledge * Dedicated team player  * Patient and diligent  * Proficient in Printers PC Security systems  * Proficient troubleshooter    * Vast technical experience  * Quality Focused  * Exceptional telephone knowledge    * Proactive  * Microsoft Office Expert  * Knowledgeable in virtual machines & Citrix