PEO Project Coordinator PEO Project Coordinator PEO Project Coordinator - Reinsurance Group of America Foristell, MO I am an accomplished professional with enterprise level experience in Business Operations and Information Technology. Demonstrated success in executing Project Management techniques to optimize processes and streamline operations. Insightful and proficient in analyzing data, discovering root causes and developing and implementing solutions. Highly organized with an exceptional ability to multi-task and lead others while making strategic and tactical decisions. Possess a very professional demeanor and communicate efficiently when working closely with senior managers, business owners, stakeholders, VPs and executives, external clients as well as technical staff to ensure projects are completed accurately and on-time. Work Experience PEO Project Coordinator Reinsurance Group of America - Chesterfield, MO March 2014 to Present ? Perform highly complex coordination and administrative support activities for the AURA Technologies Department.  ? Oversee small projects, with responsibility over all aspects of the project for the entire life of the project (initiate, plan, execute, control and close).  ? Perform financial analysis including gathering, formatting, and presenting information regarding budget status of projects across the AURA Program.  ? Carry out program records management duties (electronic and paper), including organizing, retrieval, archiving and storage.  ? Compile department statistics and overall department status report.  ? Monitor PM projects for compliance and develop project scorecards.  ? Track project progress against project milestones.  ? Maintain the AURA PEO SharePoint site.  ? Ensure the gathering of feedback via Customer Satisfaction Surveys.  ? Prepare project team meeting agendas and takes minutes.  ? Conduct weekly project reviews of all active tasks. IT Security Analyst Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO February 2013 to March 2014 ? Performed as a liaison to project teams within the IT Infrastructure of Express-Scripts.  ? Built Cross-Company Processes aligned with corporate strategy and goals.  ? Assisted in development, review and finalization of presentations and training modules through SharePoint.  ? Constructed system access playbooks to help guide business users through the company integration.  ? Executed root cause analysis of complex business issues and collaborated with team members to develop possible solutions.  ? Calculated Daily Metrics for the Security Administration department - Open & Past Due Tasks, Requests and Incident Tickets utilizing Excel Pivot tables. Project Coordinator Citigroup - O'Fallon, MO June 2012 to February 2013 ? Oversaw multiple IT projects at one time through the full lifecycle of the project.  ? Created all project documentation including project charters, project plans, and related initiation phase documents that support business goals in collaboration with senior management and stakeholders.  ? Prepared, presented, and drove complex project meetings.  ? Developed and conveyed weekly status updates, proposals and presentations to all stakeholders and sponsors.  ? Monitored and controlled all issues, risks and appropriate mitigation plans associated with the project.  ? Mentored team members and implemented full-scale training models based on requirements of the project plan. Critical Incident Manager Citigroup - O'Fallon, MO December 2011 to June 2012 ? Lead Incident Management team to detect and assess problems and ensure efficient resolution for Citigroup's retail banking, cards, and consumer finance issues.  ? Managed relationships with branch support teams and business representatives to develop issue resolutions, determine root cause behind incidents and recommend future prevention methods.  ? Delivered high quality communication reports to senior management in a timely manner.  ? Opened and ran Severity1 and Severity2 bridge lines for Citigroup's O'Fallon Command Center. Systems Analyst Citigroup - O'Fallon, MO May 2011 to December 2011 ? Audited problem tickets created by the Infrastructure department, ensuring compliance with banking regulations.  ? Executed pro-active Health checks and Real-Time transactions that monitor "end-to-end" user performance and availability for Citigroup's websites, servers, networks, and business critical applications. Education B.A. in Business Administration Lindenwood University Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  ? Project methodologies: project initiation, planning, execution, and closing (full life cycle development).  ? Achievable developmental plans, schedules, business assessment, analysis of needs, and managing project resources.  ? Maintaining scope/requirements while consistently comparing forecasts to actuals and mitigating risks.  ? Conflict management, decision making, problem solving, issue escalation and implementation of action plans.  ? Identifying and coordinating key project milestones and implementing achievable timelines.