Risk Assurance Experienced Associate Risk Assurance Experienced Associate Risk Assurance Experienced Associate Tampa, FL A committed auditor with an ability to implement and assess effective auditing procedures and also to  evaluate systems for efficiency. Proven ability to manage multiple projects with competing priorities, and  concurrent deadlines. Strong proponent of efficiency, and recognized for introducing new change concepts  adopted through the organization at a vertical and corporate levels. Work Experience Risk Assurance Experienced Associate PricewaterhouseCoopers - Tampa January 2015 to February 2016 Identified and evaluated risks during review and analysis of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC),  including design, testing/QA, and implementation of systems and upgrades.  • Performed testing of IT General and Application controls in support of external and internal financial audit  engagements for clients include those requiring compliance with SOX utilizing UNIX, Linux, SAP and  Oracle.  • Coordinated with IT department and external auditors during SOX IT testing.  • Evaluate physical access and environmental controls to determine whether information assets are  adequately safeguarded.  • Report findings and remediation status for IT Management  • Analyzed systems for adequate management controls, efficiency, and compliance with policies and regulations for internal audit clients.  Vishal Desai Process Engineer Associate - IT Compliance Analyst Highway - Tampa, FL November 2012 to December 2014 Tampa, FL 33607 Phone: (904) 769-1299 E-Mail: VishalDesaiY@Gmail.com    W ellCare Health Plans, Inc.  Process Engineer Associate - IT Compliance Analyst November 2012 - December 2014  • Conducted risk assessments of all IT applications, systems and processes.  • Reviewed systems for adequate management controls, efficiency, and compliance with policies and regulations.  • Coordinated with IT department and external auditors during SOX IT testing.  • Coordinated with various departments to create remediation plans for deficiencies found during audit.  • Conducted monthly & quarterly federal Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS) internal  audits.  • Performed internal and external IT risk assessments, conducted gap analysis against industry standards, and provided recommendations on mitigation options.  • Created documentation and performed assessments of compliance risks and internal IT controls.  • Maintained Internal IT control and audit program narrative for all in scope SOX systems.  • Provided change consulting and hands-on effort to define, scope, and implement company-wide business  process refinement strategies, plans, and solutions.  • Developed new business processes using SharePoint 2010 based forms creating intake solutions for Audit  Information, Project Plan Request and Resource Request, creating process flows, user interfaces, and procedural documentation. Business Analyst - Security Administrator Highway November 2012 to June 2013 Developed "future state" process models demonstrating improved efficiencies within WellCare's  applications and processes with metrics reporting using dashboards and quantitative reports.  • Functioned as a multitasked project analyst responsible for implementing IAM/SailPoint, an enterprise  level software, and provided user support during application software implementations  • Assisted in assessing company needs and creating project documentation for an Enterprise CMDB  Implementation.  • Conducted business requirement gathering sessions for implementation of new Business Continuity  Planning and Emergency Mass Notification System software. Education Masters of Science in M anagement Information Systems University of South Florida - Tampa, FL December 2014 Bachelor of Science in Econom ics University of Florida - Gainesville, FL August 2009 Additional Information Core Competencies  Risk Analysis Business Process Analysis IT Audit Framework  Logical Security Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) Oral/Written Communication  Change Management Governance, risk and control HIPPA Regulations  Computer Operations Project Management  Control Assessment Enterprise Risk Management    Technical Proficiencies  Microsoft Excel (Advanced) Microsoft SharePoint Microsoft Project  Microsoft Word (Advanced) Microsoft Access Microsoft SQL Server  Microsoft Visio (Advanced) Microsoft PowerPoint