Jr. IT Security Risk Analyst Jr. <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Risk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Atlanta, GA Work Experience Jr. IT Security Risk Analyst Global Payments inc. - Atlanta, GA August 2018 to Present • Tracks IT Security Risks with Global Payments’ Book of Record and with RSA Archer  • Conducts Vendor Risk Assessments for different business units’ applications and consults on remediation deadlines and plans.  • Consolidates the Security Risk Assessment results from Vendor/Business Unit and/or any other Risk Assessment activities. Business Analyst MIST Systems Analysis and Design August 2017 to December 2017 Assists in the Development of a new database and integrates the old features of Campus Kitchen at UGA's old database with  SCRUM methodology while using Salesforce. Analyzed and documented requirements of the system. Risk Advisor MIST Systems Analysis and Design August 2017 to December 2017 Analyzes case studies on a weekly basis given from major consulting firms. Presents the case analysis every week and gives  detailed recommendations on findings. Team Member MIST April 2017 to May 2017 Network Based Application Development  ? Designed a MVC programming development which included using HTML on the client side, java, javascript and SQL on the client side. Team Leader RMIN Commercial Property and Liability Insurance August 2016 to December 2016 Analyzed a local business's insurance policy including any risks or hazards the company may experience and proposed a detailed  insurance recommendation. Consultant Coast to Coast - Lithonia, GA January 2013 to December 2015 Assisted various business groups with document organization and dissemination during acquisitions.  ? Analyzed departmental documents for appropriate distribution and filing.  ? Assisted in the everyday activities of using Adobe and Excel software; was able to teach my fellow  employees how to properly use the software as well. Education Bachelors of Business Administration in Management & Insurance UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA - Athens, GA December 2017 Skills EXCEL (2 years), DATA ANALYTICS (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), PROJECT MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills & Abilities  Programming Languages: Java, SQL, R, HTML, Javascript  Project Management: SCRUM, Agile, XP  Conflict Resolution Team Leadership  Salesforce Risk Management Processes and analysis  Powerful negotiator Proficient in Microsoft Office Excel, Word and Project  Yellow Belt Certificate in Lean Six Sigma Certificate in Google Data Analytics