Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Worcester, MA Work Experience Security Analyst ENCONSULT Corp January 2017 to Present • Performed risk assessments of vendors/third parties, applications, systems, tools, and infrastructure. Included risk identification, assessment reports, evaluation, control monitoring and testing. Weighed business needs against security concerns and articulates issues to management.  • Developed recommendations on managing risk and vulnerability analysis to identify and quantify security exposures. Identified and risk rates exceptions to company policy and standards.  • Presented Bi-weekly report to executives on current risk management activities, created vendor and contract database, assigned trust level, performed security assessment, validated trust level, and monitored. Advised and consulted to other departments on information security topics.  • Provided information and assistance in support of Regulatory Exams and reviews conducted by the Audit Office. Provided recommendations for resolving audit issues and manages issue resolution.  • Contributed to specific objectives within the Security Awareness and Education Program owned by Information Security.  • Conducted detailed & comprehensive investigation and triage on wide variety of security events.  • Drove an incident handling process which included implementation of containment, protection, and remediation activities as well as defining and documenting root cause and lessons learned. Incident response process resource person Connolly, LLC November 2013 to December 2015 • Monitored security events and conduct triage and escalation.  • Investigated and tracked security incidents.  • Assisted in audit remediation program  • Performed assessment and risk analysis  • Participated in responses to RFPs and security questionnaires from clients and prospects.  • Produced periodic and ad-hoc management reports.  • Supported development and implementation of information security materials such as policies, standards, and memos.  • Participated in the development of training and awareness materials  • Provided information security guidance and training IT Compliance & Information Assurance Analyst MJHS Corporation Group January 2012 to October 2013 • Conducted the IT risk assessment and documented key controls for MJHS clientele.  • Conducted meetings and supported the IT division team to gather evidence, develop test plans and test procedures and documented test results and exceptions.  • Information policies and procedures development.  • Developed remediation plan (RP) reports.  • Supported remediation actions to correct assessment findings.  • Conducted SSAE-16 reviews including SLA's and control exceptions with vendors.  • Performed IT operating effective tests in the areas of security and operations.  • Created and documented the change management process and email authentication.  • Developed the audit plan and performed the general computer control testing of information security and business continuity planning. Education Certification Central University College 2011