Consultant, Data and Analytics Consultant, Data and Analytics Consultant, Data and Analytics - FSO Advisory Atlanta, GA Data Analytics professional who is currently working in the Financial Service industry with a strong concentration in IT Advisory. Has worked with Top Ten Banks and Fortune 100 companies to understand the core business problems plaguing their analytical capabilities and perform financial transformations. Proficient at building data visualizations to help support the identification of key business strategies. Knowledgeable of the federal reporting processes and the implementation of controls within this space. Work Experience Consultant, Data and Analytics FSO Advisory - Atlanta, GA June 2017 to Present • Delivered a complete view of data and technology capabilities used within current federal regulatory reporting for nationwide, community-based financial service company this allowed for the assessment of the current state of data governance program and deliver operational improvements.  ? Identified and mitigated procedural gaps to reduce common reporting errors impacting over 70+ reports. In turn, streamlining the reporting process by 10% and increasing compliance with COSO framework.   ? Used data analytics tools to create visualizations highlighting areas of key risks and control improvements within reporting process. Allowed for immediate identification of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities and remediation of reporting issues.   ? Ensured the validity of data by evaluating current data sourcing, structure, data mapping, implementing controls, identifying risks, and communicating findings.   ? Providing consultation and subject matter expertise for process and control related remediation matters including evaluating severity of control deficiencies and related remediation efforts to ensure compliance with COSO based policies for internal controls over financial reporting (SEC and Regulatory Reporting) managed by EC&O.  • Identified opportunities for data enrichment, increased security, mitigated money laundering risk, improved compliance, and improved profitability by reducing potential regulatory fines.   ? Improved current transaction analysis process by creating visualization of customer data and resource utilization. Reducing manual transactional analysis efforts by 25%.  ? Conducted suitability analysis on customer’s transactions based on services rendered in relation to transactional relationship with identified high risk foreign countries.  ? Utilized analysis to determine inherent risk posed to client by high risk profiles and remediation steps Analyst Good Measure Meals (GMM) - (Capstone Project) - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to May 2017 • Analyzed customer data profile utilizing Tableau and SQL to measure KPI's and gain an understanding of customer needs to improve customer outreach strategies.  • Provided recommendations for improvements to methodologies and processes and lead implementation to more effectively deliver support to the business operation. SAP Security Analyst Co-op Koch Business Solutions - Atlanta, GA September 2016 to February 2017 • Administered users, roles, profiles, and authorizations in an operational SAP environment.  • Identified continuous trends through system analysis and reporting utilizing Pivot Tables.  • Implemented new strategy to track performance metrics, organizational structure, resources, core work activities, and existing documentation to reduce daily manual reporting process by 50%.  • Researched strengths and weaknesses in current environment to identify vulnerabilities and areas of improvement.  • Redesigned the team's SharePoint site to implement document retention strategies and decrease time in process workflows by 2+ hours. IT Intern Document Technologies Incorporated - Atlanta, GA May 2016 to August 2016 • Improved workflow and productivity by analyzing KPI's to execute process and strategy improvements.  • Participated in an ISO27001 certification to determine risk associated with current vendors. Education Bachelor of Science in Informatics Georgia State University May 2017 Skills ACCESS (Less than 1 year), EXCEL (Less than 1 year), HR (Less than 1 year), MYSQL (Less than 1 year), OUTLOOK (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  • SQL, Tableau, MySQL, SAP, GRC, SAP HR  • Knowledge of Microsoft Suites (Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Project, Visio, Access, Outlook, SharePoint).