IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> System Operations Senior Specialist - IBM India Hopewell, NJ Seeking to apply my knowledge, experience and technical skills, in addition to my team and leadership qualities, in an organization with a challenging work environment with original thinking, experimentation and innovation.    Total Work Experience: 5 years  1) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst IBM India - Bangalore, Karnataka September 2007 to April 2010 Client: AstraZeneca - One of the world's leading pharmaceutical companies providing effective prescription drugs  Roles: Security Specialist -- Server Health Checking, Security Compliance with GSD331  Responsibilities: Security health check of servers on following platforms:   • Intel: Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows 2003  • Databases: DB2, Sybase, SQL, Oracle  • Unix: AIX, HP-UX, Irix, Linux, Solaris, Tru64/Digital Unix, Linux, Solaris  • Messaging: Exchange, Lotus Domino  • Webservers: IIS  • Other: OS400, Openview, Net-IQ, ESX, NT, Citrix, SM-TEG, WebLogic  • Performed BAU Health checking  • Scored automated & manual health check returns, identify deviations and raise CIRATS for remedial work   • Executed health checking activities using approved ‘end-to-end’ strategic automated tools e.g. ESM tool  • Driven technical contacts to perform manual health check exercises on platforms where approved strategic automated tools (e.g. USC in Mainframes / SCM / ESM / etc.) are not implemented  • Actioned all automatic notifications sent by the Compliance Database  • Reviewed and maintained data integrity monthly (i.e. New Builds, Decommissions, Frequency, Contacts etc.).  • Updated all server documents in the Security Health Checking Document Library when the health check cycle is complete.  • Raised and closed issues on the CIRATS database  • Provided weekly updates on progress of due and overdue health checks  • Updated the Compliance Database  • Liaised with AST (Account Support Technician), ASA (Account Security Advisor) and ASM (Account Security Manager) and providing updates as and when required regarding any queries, problem, change, etc.  • Liaised with Service Management regarding CIRATS issues  • Health Check Audit Support  • Owned Documentation + Education courses  • Communicated issues, queries, problems to the UK Health Check Support Team for resolution  • Took part in the roll out of new and enhanced health check tools that is led by the UK IT Security.  • Collaborated with ‘Lean’ team and worked in the roll out and implementation of “Global Delivery Framework” (GDF is a set of delivery practices based on The Lean principles that enables consistent Global Delivery Excellence. This approach is designed to support the GTS (Global Technology Services) strategy to be ‘the world's premier IT services provider’ by delivering the highest quality solutions at the most competitive prices) System Operations Senior Specialist IBM - Bangalore, Karnataka February 2007 to September 2007 Client: GM Cars - It is call center account handling calls from clients and distributors from North America.  Roles: VoIP, IP Telephony Management, monitoring voice / call queue / status of trunks, analyzing call traffic, creating and updating matrix call type.  Voice over IP (VoIP) network monitoring and support for the GM CARS account. Proactively monitor and support roughly 1100 network devices (switches, routers, circuits, firewalls, cache appliances, voice gateways) and support ongoing reporting activities with regard to network performance, RCAs, outages, SLA metrics and inventory for all network devices.  Responsibilities: • Proactively monitored and supported roughly 1100 network devices (switches, routers, circuits, firewalls, cache appliances, voice gateways) and supported ongoing reporting activities with regard to network performance, RCAs, outages, SLA metrics and inventory for all network devices.  • Responsible for Fault Monitoring, Incident Management, Problem Management, Problem Determination, Problem Resolution and Change Management as it relates to the following:  o Vendor coordination with Avaya and AT&T, and third party site support contractors.  o Problems determination of PBX, phone, and voice mail, LAN, and WAN  o Helped in problem determination of associated call center devices and applications that interconnect to the Avaya PBX. I.e.: Siebel, IVR, CMS, CTI  o Completed IMAC requests as it relates to phones, agent ID’s, voice mails, and agent ID’s on CMS.  o Provided coordination between other IBM teams as it relates to problem determination on Severity 1 tickets that were directed to the GNMC.  o Weekly Reporting on Voice Mail Box Status. Quality Analyst HCL Technologies Ltd - Noida, Uttar Pradesh December 2006 to January 2007 Client: British Telecom (BT) – The leading and the dominant fixed line telecommunications provider in the United Kingdom.  Roles: Direct interaction with the client to work on their network related problems.  Responsibilities: 1) Integration of data related to issues which the BT broadband customers have been facing due to a problem in the BT network and not their premises, since a long time and has been escalated to higher levels in BT but not been taken care of.  2) Send reports on daily basis to client in order to discuss those issues with them on the conference calls and find solution to those problems. Technical Support Officer HCL Technologies Ltd - Noida, Uttar Pradesh November 2005 to December 2006 Client: British Telecom (BT) – The leading and the dominant fixed line telecommunications provider in the United Kingdom.  Roles: To troubleshoot the problems faced by the customers while connecting to the Broadband Services provided by BT.  Scope of Support: • Remotely assisted users in the physical setup, installation and configuration of home networks and small office networks using devices such as wired and wireless Routers, Hubs, Switches provided by BT.  • Assisted in LAN interface configuration, TCP/IP settings, DNS/DHCP client settings.  • Assisted users in the configuration of Outlook Express, IE configuration, Yahoo issues, email issues.  • Raised service requests for internet connectivity and intermittent & slow speed issues. Education B.TECH. in Electronics and Telecommunication UP Technical University - Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh 2001 to 2005 Additional Information SUMMARY   • Over 5 years, hands on experience in working in Network Services and IT Security.  • Experienced as an Account PM/Focal for AstraZeneca account in IBM.  • Have trained and mentored new employees for the health check process.  • Experienced in coordinating with technical teams based across multiple geographic locations and time zones.  • Experienced in remotely assisting and troubleshooting network issues.  • Extremely productive, consistent performer and a team player.  • Willing to learn new technologies and update my knowledge skills to perform efficiently.     SKILLSET:  Network & Security testing tools: Symantec ESM, IBM SCM, Prognosis  Programming Languages & Technologies: Java  Web Services: HTML, CSS, JavaScript  Databases: SQL, Oracle   Operating Systems: Windows, Linux  Business Tools: Lotus SmartSuite and MS Office Suite    ADDITIONAL TRAININGS:  • IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL)  • Training on Network and IT Security  • Process and security tools  • CCNA & Cisco IP Telephony (CIPT)  • VoIP training  • Training on different tools used for monitoring the network and for performing IMAC issues.  • Cross-Competency training received (as a part of GDF) on Software testing, coordinated with testing teams and learnt: technical specification analysis, documentation, development of test cases, test scenarios, test process, testing at the partial development stage, bug report documentation, etc.