Sr. IT Data Analytics Analyst Sr. <span class="hl">IT</span> Data Analytics <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Business Intelligence Analyst North Las Vegas, NV Experienced Business Intelligence Analyst with a background working in the automotive industry. Skilled in Data Warehousing, Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), and various BI Tools. Team-oriented professional with a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration focused in Managerial Information Systems from the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville. Looking for new opportunities in Las Vegas Nevada area. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. IT Data Analytics Analyst UNITED HEALTH GROUP - OPTUM Technology - Las Vegas, NV August 2018 to Present Business Intelligence Analyst General Motors - Austin, TX June 2015 to June 2018 • Design, develop, and implement reporting solutions utilizing large data sets  o Subject areas include (Finance, Manufacturing, Purchasing, Supply Chain)  • Collaborated with operations team to create automated data quality frameworks  • Outlined project resources, timelines, and dependencies needed for deliverables  • Meet with business partners to document requirements  • Provided 24/7 support for root cause analysis of production issues Security Operations Intern Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. - Little Rock, AR June 2014 to August 2014 • Facilitated Mandiant NTAP Sensor Recovery Project  o Recovered est. sensors valued at $75,000 Education Masters of Business Administration in Information Technology West Texas A&M University - Canyon, TX November 2020 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Information Systems University of Arkansas, Sam M. Walton College of Business - Fayetteville, AR May 2015 Associates Degree in General Business NorthWest Arkansas Community College - Bentonville, AR May 2015 Associates Degree in Information Technology NorthWest Arkansas Community College - Bentonville, AR August 2014 Skills IBM Cognos Suite v10 (3 years), IBM Cognos Suite v11 (2 years), Tableau (1 year), Microsoft Power BI (2 years), Data Quality / Data Profiling (4 years), Agile Development Methodologies (3 years), Waterfall Development Methodologies (2 years), SQL (5 years), T-SQL (3 years), Advanced Excel, Word and PowerPoint Skills (5 years), Requirements Gathering (3 years), Requirements Management (3 years) Awards Team GM White Glove Award 2018: 2018-06 The Team GM White Glove Award is presented by senior leadership to individuals who go above and beyond the line of duty to help customers get the most out of GMIT products and services. Team GM Transformers Award 2017: 2017-04 The Team GM Transformers Award is presented by senior leadership to a project team which has either increased revenue generation on a large scale, and/or reduced cost creating an impact that would consider significant cost savings to the company.