Senior NOC Analyst Senior NOC <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Pittsburgh, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior NOC Analyst PPG Industries - Pittsburgh, PA December 2017 to Present Execute DNS requests by removing adding or modifying DNS entries in the application Men & Mice.  Audit routers and switches in sites around the world for accuracy.  Datacenter walkthroughs to ensure proper working conditions of EAC units and Water/moister sensors.  Respond to Data Center alerts regarding power, water, and temperature alerts.  Configure iDRACs for remote access.   Unix/Linux file system full remediation and mounts.  Backups with NetWorker, Avamar, and HP Data protector.   File restores with Networker, Avamar, and HP Data Protector.  Hardware replacements to key servers in the Headquarters datacenter such as disks.   Schedule server shut down to key environments for maintenance.  Handle customer requests such as DNS requests, file restores, server reboots, networking issues with virtual as well as physical machines.   ESX Updates, and VMWare VSphere reboots.  Resolve Orion alerts for devices reports as down.   Collaborate with teams across the globe for server downtime and maintenance. Information Security Analyst Solutionary (NTT Security) - Pittsburgh, PA August 2014 to October 2015 Command all aspects of tool (Proprietary) usage in the SOC.  Accurately and completely investigate validate escalate and disposition all event types.   Achieve internal and external customer loyalty.   Excellent judgment analyzing and escalating specific events and well as context of trending.   Played an active role supporting process improvement.  Was Flexible with shift assignments and duties.   Communicated with clients via email and phone.   Inspected logs from multiple firewalls, IDS, and IPS to determine if attacks are legitimate or are a false positive. IT Systems Operator I Clear View Federal Credit Union - Township of Moon, PA August 2012 to August 2014 Troubleshoot Episys and Cash Machines in windows XP and windows 7 environment.  Maintain Episys and OpCon environments.   Create and edit User account in the Episys environment.  Maintain daily file transfers, backups, and tape replacement.  Transmit files to and from vendors using IPSwitch FTP software.   Assisted with month end jobs such as preparing statement files for members, backup Syms in Symitar.  Created modified and removed employee’s user accounts from Episys.   Supported over 300 PCs in a Windows XP, Windows 7 environment.  PC imaging support.   Create, edit, and remove OpCon automated job.   Install patches and upgrades to core systems.   Create, modify, and revise documentation on daily and monthly activities. Internship West Penn Allegheny Health Systems - Pittsburgh, PA April 2012 to June 2012 Assisted with administrative task such as, editing user permissions on an FTP server for user and folder permission maintenance.  Research spikes in Windows/Unix logs, and research vulnerabilities to patch.  Audited firewall IP list using Nmap to scan for inactive hosts and created a script to automate the process. Identifying in 400-600 IP’s possible result removal from the firewall rule set as stale or un-needed lines.  Assisted in vulnerability scanning of the network with Nessus that addressed vulnerabilities on XP machines. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Pittsburgh Technical Institute - Pittsburgh, PA December 2017 to March 2019 Associate in Network Security Computer Forensics Pittsburgh Technical Institute - Pittsburgh, PA October 2010 to July 2012