IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - Owens Corning Phoenix, AZ Work Experience IT Security Analyst Owens Corning - Toledo, OH October 2018 to Present Job Type: Full-Time/ Part-Time  Supervisor: Brian Pitera, (734)502-3877, maybe contacted  * Responsible for resolving reported DLP incidents pertaining to USB permissions, HTTP protocols, uploading attachments, etc utilizing Symantec DLP and Service Now.  * Leading new project of a knowledge base " Security Scorecard" documentation for all plant sites to mitigate risk.  * Leading the communication with TCS to gathering data for the Scorecard highlighting; Server Patching, Vulnerabilities, Viruses, Phishing Emails, and DLP Incidents.  * Develop a plan for communicating with all business functions Emerging Technology and Security Trends. Analyst IT Customer Relationship Management January 2018 to September 2018 * Independently delivered Azure Blob for hosted CRM environment in three business functions and trained support on functionality.  * Led data migration from SAP BW and SQL into SAP Hana; identified field parameters and column filters, modifying relationship management for simplicity with external developers.  * Assisted quarterly enhancements for Dynamics 365 resulting in Mobile Application deployment and Microsoft Outlook integration for the global sales team, which simplified day-to-day operations.  * Led IT Support for Acquisition using SAP as master data source.  * Managed project integration from SAP BW to SAP Hana by creating a one source sustainable solution for importing data into Customer 360, leading to a faster system and accurate data reporting.  * Redesigned the corporate webpage for communication outreach for CRM including; training documentation, executive sponsorship videos, frequently asked questions, and weekly event updates.  * Integrated Microsoft application, Azure Blob Storage to create an optimal and sustainable cloud storage solution.  * Aided in enabling system features for migration of international acquired company from on-premise to cloud-based environment. Information Systems Development Program PIM June 2017 to December 2017 * Launched two independent Proof of Concept studies to enhance the security environment and reduce risk of Privileged Identity Management (PIM) and Alternative Enterprise Authentication.  * Steered internal auditing of security framework for governance and compliance with Sarbanes Oxley.  * Monitored White Hat Vulnerabilities and gathered data to create organized structure of threat resolution.  * Aligned internal security standards with ISO and NIST to restructure security framework to target internal pain points.  * Learned to monitor security network using Palo Alto scanning, Data Loss Prevention integration using Symantec software.  * Discovered all technical specifications to integrate PIM software for an enterprise environment specifically targeting Active Directory and Linux/Unix based systems.  * Investigated new findings to further protect security infrastructure to handle cloud-based applications including; Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Security Information and Event Management applications. Specialist Apple, Inc - Toledo, OH September 2015 to August 2017 Job Type: 25 hours per week, part-time  Supervisor: Lesley Herald, (419)473-4250, may be contacted  * Led district in reaching the Accessories Revenue goal by increasing store revenue by 14% within the Mid-West District.  * Surpassed expectations in Specialist role through aligning personal goals with company values which led to increased job responsibility.  * Developed the skill to troubleshoot technical issues in a fast-paced environment in a two-minute time frame.  * Mentored healthy peer-to-peer relationships and mentorship amongst team members.  * Promoted positive energy and excitement around all Apple products.  * Demonstrated strong customer service to strategically provide proper solutions for customers.  INVOLVEMENT  * Graduate Research Assistant, Dr. Richard Baskerville, CyberSecurity  * Undergraduate Research Lead. McNair Scholar  * Undergraduate Research Assistant, Dr. Professor Stinson, Criminal Integrity  * Bowling Green State University, Dean List Recipient, 2015  * Bowling Green State University, Exceptional Intellectual Ladies, President Information Systems Development Program January 2017 to June 2017 * Customized Project Management tools to effectively communicate with high -level stakeholders on project progress in an Agile environment.  * Provided high-level vendor oversight to assert accountability amongst key players for all duties assigned in Roofing and Warranty Optimization Deployment.  * Established collaborative relationships with key team members of multiple business functions to ensure efficacy and optimal business changes that limit disruptions the production environment.  * Mitigated administrative action on Risk and Action items from test plan scenarios and forecasted future optimizations for Quarter 3 and Quarter 4.  * Ensured optimizations deployed for operating business teams and supported with standard work documentation.  * Exercised leadership skills organizing daily meetings for integration with vendors that lead to successful monthly production testing.  * Fostered a relationship with 2017 Intern Cohort to engage in a business case; "Social Office: Facebook Workplace", testing social engagement in the office using millennials as target audience. Internship IT Service Delivery/Emerging Technology - Toledo, OH May 2016 to August 2016 Job Type: 40 hours per week, full-time  Supervisor: Dean Lazenby, (419)340-0512  * Led IT Service Portal redesign project with User Interface and User Experience Digital Team to redesign the structure of the IT Service Portal using online optimal design tools.  * Organized a five- month project proposal to enhance the IT Service Portal by identifying business needs including Risk Management Solution Software and Honeypot Servers to protect Security Network.  * Administered focus groups and conducted surveys to obtain user feedback and requirements for the IT Service Portal redesign.  * Engaged in providing technical troubleshooting solutions for hardware and software on Mac and Windows devices.  * Utilized data analytic tools: Minitab and Power BI to filter information that serves as valuable data for determining business improvements.  * Assisted with multiple projects related to detecting and reporting cyber threats with the Security Analyst team.  * Organized multiple community service projects for United Way and Habitat for Humanity with fellow interns.    OTHER WORK EXPERIENCE Education Master of Science in Information Systems and Audit Control in Cybersecurity Georgia State University - Atlanta, GA July 2019 Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice in Criminal Justice Bowling Green State University - Bowling Green, OH December 2016 Skills testing, security, powerpoint