Data Analyst / Java Developer Data <span class="hl">Analyst</span> / Java Developer Data Analyst / Java Developer ? 4 years of Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and testing of e-Commerce and  enterprise applications using Java/J2EE Technologies  ? Experience in developing custom web and distributed applications using J2EE features (like Servlets, JSP) and  JDBC  ? Worked extensively with open source frameworks like Hibernate, Spring, Log4j and JUnit  ? Experience with design patterns like Factory, Value Objects, Singleton, Data Access Objects, Business Delegate  and MVC  ? Good understanding of Object Oriented concepts  ? Experience in all the phases of software development lifecycle (SDLC) of a project  ? Business Analysis experience using UML, Use Cases, class diagrams and Sequence diagrams  ? Experience in building both SOAP based web services using Axis2 and RESTful web services using Spring  ? Experience in client side technologies such as JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AJAX  ? Experience in using AngularJS as a development framework to build a single page Applications  ? Experience in using IDEs like Eclipse and JBuilder  ? Good experience in Python programming  ? 1+ years of hands on experience in Hadoop Framework and its ecosystem like MapReduce Programming, Spark,  Hive, impala, Pig, Sqoop, Hbase, Oozie, Hdfs.  ? Tuning, and Monitoring Hadoop jobs and clusters in a production environment.  ? Experience in importing and exporting data using Sqoop from HDFS to Relational Database Systems and vice-  versa.  ? Experience in developing and deploying on application servers such as WebLogic, JBoss Application server and  Apache Tomcat server  ? Experience in capital markets, banking, finance and real time systems  ? Extensive experience in writing test cases and capturing testing defects  ? Strong testing experience of all testing phases such as Unit testing, Integration testing and System testing  ? Worked extensively with SQL, configuring, queried and utilized Oracle databases and MySQL  ? Possesses strong work ethic and ability to handle tough tasks with quick turnaround  ? Excellent communication skills. Adept at building strong working relationships with coworkers and management Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst / Java Developer Fortune Spark Inc - Houston, TX February 2015 to January 2016 Managed and migrated large amounts of data, utilizing NoSQL as a backup database  ? Re-modified and edited Web Application for client satisfaction  ? Designed customized software application for information management system using Java Standard Edition  ? Implemented core J2EE patterns like MVC, Dependency Injection (DI), and Inversion of Control (IOC)  ? Deployed the applications in development, staging and production environments  ? Designed web service clients to retrieve the information from distributed systems and testing with SoapUI  ? Analyzed data and conducted compatibility and quality assurance testing  ? Designed web application with some modern framework like WordPress and Joomla  ? Worked with Business Analyst team to understand the requirement  ? Developed JQuery Ajax components and integrated with Java Server Pages  ? Configured Data Source in Tomcat for database connections  ? Used Maven to setup and build the project  ? Developed SOAP based web service client, to store and retrieve documents from Documentum server  ? Involved in supporting the application at the time of User Acceptance Testing and Post Production  ? Used Piggy bank and Data Foo collection to for data analysis on Hadoop.  ? Worked on Streaming, Hadoop Streaming, Pig Streaming.    Environment: Eclipse IDE 3.3, Perl, JDK 1.6, Spring Framework 3.0, Hibernate3, Oracle 10g, SQL, JavaScript, JSPs, JSTL,  JQuery, RESTful, Struts, WebLogic, Subversion, Hadoop Ecosystem Intern Programmer / System Security Analyst Miraculous-Info Security Service PVT LTD October 2013 to August 2014 Wrote code and design program in java  ? Configured small scale network firewalls  ? Conducted a cyber- security awareness program in schools and organization in partnership with Datapoint-Micro  System  ? Prepared flowcharts and organized a structure for the data defining the program code as per the software needs  ? Coded the program within the systems and conducted test runs  ? Validated if the tests results match with the expected ones  ? Designed Data Driven software for management system  ? Deployed the applications in development, staging and production environments  ? Implemented exception handling mechanism in the persistence layer designed and developed presentation Layer  using MVC framework, JSP, HTML 5, XML, XSLT, JavaScript and CSS  ? Developed XMLs, JavaScript and Java classes for dynamic HTML5 generation to perform the server side processing on the client requests  ? Wrote stored procedures, triggers, and cursors using MySQL Database  ? Worked on existing framework with Java, Oracle 10g and XML    Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, jQuery, JBoss Server, Web Services, Toad, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MKS IT Technician Intern New Horizons Computer Learning Center March 2012 to March 2013 Performed administrative duties with Microsoft Office (Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Power Point)  ? Diagnosed computer problems  ? Monitored computer processing system  ? Installed software and tested computer programs  ? Performed SQL Queries and Managed Database system  ? Worked with programs written in Java Education Information Management System American Medical Institute April 2015 to December 2015 B.A. in Eng Houdegbe North American University Benin Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Java, JDK, SQL, PL-SQL JavaScript, C++, Python    J2EE Components: JSP, JSF, JPA, Servlets, JNDI, EJB, JMS, RMI, JAXB, UML 2.x    Internet Technologies: HTML 4/5, JavaScript, XML, CSS 2.x/3.x    App Servers/ Middleware: WebLogic 9, JBoss 5.1, Tomcat 6.x/7.x    IDE Programming Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans    Design Tools: Rational Rose for UML    Frameworks: Hibernate, Log4j, JUnit, Spring, AngularJS    Databases: Oracle 10g/11g, Hadoop Ecosystem, MySQL 5.x    Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Mac OS X    Version Control: CVS, SVN, Git