IT User Support <span class="hl">IT</span> User Support Online Technical Support Representative Henrico, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT User Support Apex Systems - Glen Allen, VA August 2018 to Present Provide excellent customer service to customers, efficiently and effectively solving Tier I/II issues presented over the phone, via email, or voice mail. Support PC/Laptop Thin-Client environment including installation and hardware/software troubleshooting for a user base of 1000+ associates at the corporate office and remote locations. Respond to all customer incidents or request in a timely manner, provide consistent updates including incident resolution and fulfillment. Track and report all incidents and request received within the ticketing system. Process security badges and access request. Other duties as assigned by management. Service Desk Analyst HCA Corporate - Richmond, VA March 2016 to July 2018 Provide support for basic incident resolution and requests reported to the division service desk. Responsibilities include initial assessment, triage, research, and resolution of basic incidents and request regarding the use of application software products and/or infrastructure components. Provide after hours and on-call support as needed. Provision, maintain, and remove security privileges for users of HCA systems. i work with active directory, Cisco Prime, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, 8, and 10, Dameware, LogMeIn Rescue, Centricity Perinatal, Patientkeeper, Centricity PACS, and Meditech 5.6 to name a few. Triage issues with corporate iPhones including software issues with iMobile application. Help Desk Intern NewMarket - Richmond, VA January 2016 to March 2016 Responsibilities  Monitor the dispatch que and assign technical issues to field technicians. Answer incoming calls and assist users with technical issues including password resets, account lockouts, etc. Enter all incidents and service request in the SLA ticket system. Remote into user’s systems to install software, troubleshoot, and run malware scans. Receive shipments and update inventory records. Perform various other duties as assigned including formatting hard drives, and crushing old drives.     Skills Used  Troubleshooting, problem solving, customer service, attention to detail, time management, and data entry are skills that i demonstrate on this job. Information Security Analyst RiskBased Security - Glen Allen, VA September 2015 to October 2015 Responsibilities  Monitor the vulnerability que for updates to various software products. Enter new vulnerability discoveries in the database for escalation. Research fixes and available patches for vulnerable software products. Enter all recent data breaches in the database for further analysis. Appropriately track all incidents in the database, including follow up information including data loss, person(s) responsible, the type of breach, the organization responsible for the data, and what type of attack was implemented.     Skills Used  Computer research and data entry Online Technical Support Representative Aerotek - Richmond, VA August 2014 to September 2015 August 2014)  Assist online users with password resets, online enrollment, advance access transactions, and various other inquiries. Resolve general account questions. Provide technical assistance such as browser issues, locked accounts, mobile application issues, and text banking issues. Education Bachelor's in Computer and Information Science in Network Security ECPI University - Richmond, VA 2016 Skills Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8.1, Linux Red Hat Fedora, Kali Linux, Windows Server 2008, Microsoft Office, OpenOffice, Microsoft Visio, VMware, Active Directory, PacketTracer (3 years), Helpdesk Support, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Service Desk Military Service Branch: Airforce Service Country: United States Rank: E-2 March 1990 to April 1992 Aircrew Life Support Specialist Awards Presidents Award 2014-06 Maintained a 3.7 GPA Certifications/Licenses Comptia Network+ May 2015 to May 2018 Comptia Security+ August 2015 to August 2018 Groups Network Security Club January 2014 to June 2016 Active member of the Network Security Club at ECPI University. I actively participate in network labs, and learning Wireshark. Additional Information I graduated from ECPI on June 17, 2016. My concentration is in Network Security and Cyber Security. Completed courses of study include Unix Administration, Routing and Switching I and II, Cloud Computing Concepts, Network Security I and II, Storage Area Network and Disaster Recovery, Computer Applications, Web Interface Design, Introduction to Operating Systems, Logic and Design, Digital Imaging, Computer Configuration, Windows Client Server, and Network Virtualization.