Cloud & IoT Security Analyst Cloud &amp; IoT <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cloud & IoT Security Analyst - Cybersecurity, Sealed Air Corporation Charlotte, NC Work Experience Cloud & IoT Security Analyst Cybersecurity, Sealed Air Corporation January 2018 to Present • Illustrate and provide secure networking solutions for applications and use-cases brought by the business in a timely and compliant manner.  • Design security infrastructure involving the communication between corporate networks, local  and cloud-based firewalls, cloud infrastructures (Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure,  VMWare ESX) and public facing internet and applications.  • Provide solutions regarding site-to-site VPN's, as well as connecting customer equipment to on- premise networks using firewall technology from Palo Alto, Cisco Meraki, and Fortinet.  • Reduce incident response and investigation time by properly managing and utilizing logging  services such as Splunk and Rapid7.  • Build and provide a remote access solution for both internal use and for external vendors using  software already existing with the business. IT Specialist, various roles Talent Development Program, Sealed Air Corporation January 2017 to Present Participate in program rotation within the different functions of IT at Sealed Air Corporation.  Previous rotations held in Project Management and Software Architecture. Currently rotating  within Cybersecurity for Identity and Access Management, Cybersecurity Engineering, and Cloud/IoT Security.  • Project Management: Managed a multi-site, multi-year, and multi-million dollar project  concerning a worldwide voice technology refresh, switching from Verizon VaaS to Cisco VoIP.  • Software Architecture: Provided the business and in-house developers the necessary use-cases  and needs as defined by the customer. Create stories to represent both customers and developers and track them in JIRA. Provide acceptance criteria as well as end-to-end testing for the product in development.  • Demonstrate agility and creativity for the advancement of technology within Sealed Air  • Understand Sealed Air's global business footprint and ways in which Information Technology  provides strategy, guidance, and support Technical Assistant University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC May 2015 to December 2016 Support university provided IT resources including Moodle, WiFi access, VPN, user accounts,  email, and software such as Microsoft Office and SAS    Skills, Languages, and EUC Analyst Intern End User Computing, Sealed Air Corporation June 2016 to August 2016 • Provide technical support to end users in a Windows/MacOS environment  • Provide user support for peripherals and applications such as, but not limited to, printers,  tablets, telephony, mobile devices, audio/visual equipment, monitoring tools (such as Patrol),  Citrix, and Google Education Bachelor of Science in Networking and Distributed Computing The University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC August 2013 to December 2016 Skills Splunk, Network Security, Nist