Information System Security Risk and Assurance Analyst Sr Information System <span class="hl">Security</span> Risk and Assurance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Sr Information System Security Risk and Assurance Analyst Sr - Lockheed Martin Orlando, FL Work Experience Information System Security Risk and Assurance Analyst Sr Lockheed Martin January 2018 to Present • Develop and maintain information security SharePoint site.  • Adhere to the process of creating system user accounts and media.  • Responsible for maintaining multiple RMF ATOs which includes determining risks and vulnerabilities,  mitigation efforts, and continuously monitoring.  • Install Windows and other vendor patches on systems.  • Perform weekly audits to verify system activity by analyzing log data and reporting any anomalies to management.  • Update ATO documentation and cyber security processes for continuous improvement.  • Perform and integrate security Continuous Monitoring (ConMon) weekly, monthly, quarterly, semi-annually  and annually self-checks for compliance with system development lifecycle.  • Conduct quarterly security assessment plans using SCAP, STIGs and MBSA to develop and deliver POA&M  and RAR updates. Cyber Security Engineer I Textron/AAI January 2016 to January 2018 Responsible for implementing Risk Management Framework (RMF) architecture for Army and Navy  unmanned systems ensuring that the business requirements aligned with the technical aspects of the products to meet Information Assurance Controls and obtain a multi-year ATO for this effort.  • Manage and distribute contract hours in work package to support RMF implementation.  • Participate in customer facing judication meetings to determine cyber security funding on a Performance  Based Logistics (PBL) contract.  • Lead the creation of control family documentation to present at third party auditing events such as account management plan, contingency plan, configuration management plan and, etc.  • Identify, select and tailor information assurance controls in eMASS and import applicable RMF artifacts,  STIGs and ACAS results to create Plan of Actions and Milestones (POAM).  • Institute a Risk Assessment Report that aligns with the (POAM)  • Create system requirements and communicate these requirements to various engineering disciplines via  the (Change Control Board) CCB process on Confluence and Jira.  • Develop quarterly Security Assessment Plans using guidance from NIST SP 800-37 that outline system  assessments and tests to security posture.  • Conduct in-depth analysis of vulnerabilities scans and mitigate risks to exceed DoD compliance  regulations.  • Re-image systems quarterly to apply system patches and vendor updates. Configure firewalls,  workstations and switches to become security hardened machines.  • Develop procedures for upgrading scanning tools and work instructions on how to use scanning tools  including ACAS, Nessus, STIGs to enhance overall security program.  • Communicate unresolved security exposures, misuse or non-compliance situations to management. Information Systems Security Officer (Intern) Textron/AAI June 2015 to January 2016 • Perform DSS Baseline Technical Security Configurations on computers.  • Operate and follow guidelines of the NISPOM, and NIST.  • Support Cyber Security team by monitoring, troubleshooting, and testing their internal tools to ensure  compliance.  • Create System Security Plans for our classified laboratories at the company.  • Assist security department by tracking and maintaining security clearances through JPAS.  • Contribute to the creation of Security Assessment Plans (SAP) with appropriate documentation.  • Ensured compliant information systems, security infrastructure, design and configurations to deliver  dependable information systems.  • Experience with managing and ensuring the timely response and investigations of security events and incidents.  • Perform weekly audits on information systems by analyzing security logs, updating virus definitions, and remediating known vulnerabilities. IT Intern Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority May 2014 to August 2014 • Provided systems operations support and troubleshooting.  • Shadow project managers in various meetings.  • Tested system software for quality assurance and routine maintenance.  • Attended bi-weekly intern/leadership training and activities.  • Contribute to all employees within the IT rail operations control systems department. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Sciences and Technology Pennsylvania State University - York, PA May 2016 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ October 2015 to October 2019