IT Help Desk Representative <span class="hl">IT</span> Help Desk Representative IT support Phoenix, AZ Seeking an entry level opportunity where I can put to use my education and skills and apply it to   the technical field. Proficient in software and hardware troubleshooting, hardware repair,   network management, server management and installation, remote access and Windows based   PCs.  Relevant Courses  Data entry| Unix/Linux | Network + | Desktop support |Troubleshooting |A+   software/hardware | Server 2012 R2 Computer support & maintenance |Microsoft office   professional 2013 |Technology in action introductory Application & Information technology   |Managing users in network environment |Microsoft Windows 10 configuring window devices   | Administering Microsoft Windows Server 2012  Core Studies  |Google fu |Windows 10 |Office 365 |Command prompt |Word application| Microsoft  operating unit Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Help Desk Representative R.H. Johnson Recreation Center - Sun City, AZ August 2019 to Present • Tasked with responsibilities for IT related various issues, installing computer, updates, solving technology issues & documenting issue's.  • Applied skills to help with IT problems in golf center's, offices, Library, bowling place, & various buildings, such as computers, laptops, printers, scanners, network connections, ipads.  • Teaching various shortcuts on the keyboard, taught employees how to use windows outlook other applications more efficiently to their needs.  • Investigates and resolves software and hardware problems of computer users by performing the following duties  • Administers the online Help Desk Ticketing system including root causes and resolutions.   • Answers, evaluates and prioritizes incoming telephone, voice mail, e-mail and in-person requests for assistance from users experiencing problems with hardware, software, networking and other computer-related technologies.  • Determines whether problem is caused by hardware or other sources and handles problem recognition.  Handles problem resolution recognition, research, isolation and follow-up for routine, user, hardware or website problems.  • Escalates to appropriate IT staff as needed. Prioritizes the daily workload with minimal supervision.  • Tracks Help Desk tickets and builds Knowledge Database for recurring problems/solutions.    • Works with Systems/Network Administrator to maintain up-to-date log of Association’s hardware, software and licenses to enable routine replacement schedule.  • Analyzes and evaluates incident reports and makes recommendations to reduce help line incident rate.    • Consults with IT team to explain software errors or to recommend changes to programs.   • Tests software and hardware to ensure end user ease of use and production improvement.  • Writes software and hardware evaluation and recommendation for management review.    •Writes or revises training manuals and procedures. Develops training materials on an as-needed basis.    • Self-starter able to work independently with minimal supervision. Must have strong customer service and communication skills.  •Computer Skills: support all departmental software, Familiar with Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, Microsoft Office (all versions), various Windows desktop operating Systems, Adobe Acrobat, Visio and Quark. Tir 2 IT help desk Blood systems/vitalant - Scottsdale, AZ March 2019 to May 2019 Providing operational management to include day-to-day operation, maintenance and   problem resolution of all computer systems, equipment and software in the organization  • Help Desk ability to identify, support and resolve problems with end users. Ability to operate   comfortably and effectively in fast-paced work environment. responding to calls and emails and   keeping track records on technical issues. They assist cooperate staff as a second-level support.  • Track all devices that are ship to or from. Documenting all pertinent end-user information,   including name, contact details, and nature of problem or issue.  • Installing, configuring, testing, monitoring, maintaining, and troubleshooting hardware and   software problems. Assisting in preparing, maintaining procedures for monitoring PC   performance.   • Accurately documented all technical support and customer’s help-desk interaction. And follow   help-desk policies, Prepared reports of activity and stayed up to date regarding system  information.  • Regularly provided efficient technical support over the phone, maintaining presentable phone   demeanor, courteousness, and creativity. Diagnosed software-hardware problems, responding   quickly, clearly, and resourcefully.  • Maintain and pursue I.T (information technology) training competencies and certifications per   company's established training schedule and requirements.  • Software/Hardware applications- Cherwell ticking application, outlook 2010,2016, Office 365,   WebEx meeting. AD (activate directory), Dameware (Remote support) Hardware- HP, Dell, Fujitsu. IT Security Analyst SecValMsp - Phoenix, AZ July 2018 to September 2018 • Provide remote desktop, laptop, table, phone, support and network problem, resolution   services to customers and end-user via company's communications, remote and support   solutions, processes and procedures  • Perform proactive customer support to end-user, software and services per company's   established processes and best practices  • Maintain and pursue I.T (information technology) training competencies and certifications per   company's established training schedule and requirements  • Identify, document, prioritize, troubleshoot and escalate service requests per company's   problem management and resolution processes and SLAs (service level agreement)  • Utilize company's PSA (professional services automation) solutions per company's established   processes to deliver resolution services to customers and end users  • Maintain communication with all affected parties during problem management and   resolution per company's established processes and procedures  • Maintain company's standards for customer satisfaction, utilization and compliance policies   Investigate potential or actual security violations or incidents in an effort to identify issues and   areas that require new security measures  • Research in IT security in order to recommend against threats, procedures and operating   doctrines across companies. Define, establish and manage security risk and track effectiveness.   Performed security research, analysis and design for all client computing systems.  • Routinely exceed call-handling goals. Received "outstanding" ratings on performance reviews   each year, with top marks in teamwork, customer service, communication skills and technical   problem-solving.  • Provided level 1 technical support users. Ensured quick resolution of user concerns and   escalated more complicated issues to helpdesk. callback to users analytical and communication   skills to accurately identify user needs and provide effective solutions.  • Software application- ConnectWise Ticketing system(courses/training), slack (IM   communications) office 365 (outlook 2016/excel 2016) Bomgar (Remote application for end-  users), web-x meetings (End of Report shirt) IT Technician Visionary.IT - Tempe, AZ June 2018 to September 2018 • Provide remote and onsite desktop, laptop, server and network problem management  and resolution services to customers and end-user via company's communications and  remote and onsite support solutions, processes and procedures  • Perform proactive maintenance of customer and end-user hardware, software and  services per company's established processes and best practices  • Maintain and pursue I.T (information technology) training competencies and  certifications per company's established training schedule and requirements  • Utilize company's PSA (professional services automation) and RMM (Remote Monitoring  and Management) solutions per company's established processes to deliver  maintenance and problem management and resolution services to customers and end users  • Identify, document, prioritize, troubleshoot and escalate service requests per company's  problem management and resolution processes and SLAs (service level agreement)  • Maintain communication with all affected parties during problem management and  resolution per company's established processes and procedures  • Maintain communication with all affected parties during problem management and resolution per company's established processes and procedures  • Maintain company's standards for customer satisfaction, utilization and compliance  policies  • Hardware Install- tv, ram (random-access memory) docking station, printers Phones,  Surge Protector, UPS (uninterruptible power supply) desktop, laptop, monitors, routers  (Sophos xg firewall, cisco, netgear, ubiquiti, sonicwall, arris) switches (netgear, cisco,  ubiquiti) AP (ubiquiti access points) server (Dell)  • Software application- windows, Mcafee, chrome, adobe, cc cleaner, office 365,  Microsoft word, skype, remote support, LogMeIn, TeamViewer, Autotask, continuum, IT  support247, pass portal, Sophos central, ubiquiti(access point) AD(activate directory)  server 2008,2012,2016  • Low voltage- fiber optics cables, making ethernet cable, running ethernet cable,  phone/ethernet cable install, ethernet cable testing, power cords  • Cable management- documentation, mapping, logging, cable manager, labeling,  securing cables, taking notes, zip ties  • Office/clients- midsize/small hospital, small dental office, small law office, small  landscape office, general office, construction site, face to face interaction, client  communication. work flow. Assembly Line Worker EPI-HAB( warehouse) - Phoenix, AZ June 2015 to June 2018 • Customer service: provide commutation, help & assist customers with other services  • Machinery: operate forklift, floor jack, lift walkie, load and unload, place pallets  • Boxing: create boxes, package, sort items and place in boxes  • Assembly items: take apart or build, iPad stands, Salt River Project M-power units,  shrink wrap  • United Parcel Service: data entry, ship and receive packages, fill out orders for pick up   • Janitor: clean, wipe, mop, sweep floors, and pick up trash  • Delivery: drive company truck, load and unload, deliver and pick up  • Other duties: Lock up, help workers, and work with people with disabilities Education Diploma/certification in Computer Networking UEI College - Phoenix, AZ July 2017 to March 2018 Skills Data entry| Unix/Linux | Network + | Desktop support |Troubleshooting |A+ software/hardware | Server 2012 R2 Computer support & maintenance |Microsoft office professional 2013 |Technology in action introductory Application & Information technology |Managing users in network environment |Microsoft Windows 10 configuring window devices | Administering Microsoft Windows Server 2012 Core Studies |Google fu |Windows 10 |Office 365 |Command prompt |Word application| Microsoft operating unit (2 years), Help Desk, Desktop Support, Service Desk, Active Directory, Tech Support, Comptia, Helpdesk Support, MSP, VPN, MAC Certifications/Licenses Computer networking July 2017 to Present Data entry| Unix/Linux | Network + | Desktop support |Troubleshooting |A+   software/hardware | Server 2012 R2 Computer support & maintenance |Microsoft office   professional 2013 |Technology in action introductory Application & Information technology   |Managing users in network environment |Microsoft Windows 10 configuring window devices   | Administering Microsoft Windows Server 2012  Core Studies  |Google fu |Windows 10 |Office 365 |Command prompt |Word application| Microsoft  operating unit Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS:  Data entry Unix/Linux Network + Desktop support Troubleshooting A+ software/hardware Server 2012 R2 Computer support & maintenance Microsoft office professional 2013 Technology in action introductory Application & Information technology Managing users in network environment Microsoft Windows 10 configuring window devices Administering Microsoft Windows Server 2012