Information Security Analyst (Contractor) Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> (Contractor) Penetration Tester Alpharetta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Analyst (Contractor) McKesson - Alpharetta, GA 2016 to Present Remote Position working with the 5man Product Security and Assurance team with the scheduled analysis and auditing of software (both compiled binaries and source  code) to ensure product security upon release. Began as a highly handson position and developed into consultation.  ? Utilized advanced scanning programs Veracode and Coverity, encrypted  storage software Cyberark, and encryption software Encryption Wizard.  Produced scripts in Windows Powershell and Java programs. Also  performed basic tasks in Sharepoint, Sharepoint Designer, and Infopath.  ? Produced formal documentation and schema for team functions and compliance structure. Frequently referenced OWASP Top Ten, HIPAA, and  PCI standards.  ? Communicated in a highly formal environment with sensitive topics between developers, managers, and team members.    Reason for Departure: Position become extremely "handsoff" over time and more  management focused as the company changed IT Manager, Systems Administrator RL Trac - Dahlonega, GA 2015 to Present Control and support of server systems, user databases, network, and office  computers. Admin of all security protocol development and testing, as well as repair and IT support of mobile applications/website and user interfaces  ? Provided IT support to customers and staff, maintaining a friendly interface while also establishing security and functionality of systems  ? Established the company's first security policy, applying to databases,  websites, mobile applications, and company hardware. Began frequent  network and system tests utilizing penetration testing techniques to harden  systems.  ? Managed Debian Linux server system, Windows primary network, and remote data system.  Reason for Departure: Graduation, left for improved opportunities Developer, IT Manager, Security Administrator RL Trac - Dahlonega, GA August 2015 to September 2015 Managed highrisk network system containing patient documentation. Supported  professional staff and medical personnel in the development of security protocol and framework referencing HIPAA standards.  ? Managed a complex network single handedly utilizing open source tools for monitoring traffic and activity. Established a software based firewall and  formulated a budget to assist in securing the network and attempting to bring the company into HIPAA compliance  ? Managed the C and Linux based maintenance of systems  Reason for Departure: Company Failure due to heavy fines brought by lack of  HIPAA compliance System Administrator, Lead Reptile Handler North Georgia Zoo - Cleveland, GA 2013 to May 2015 Lead Reptile Keeper and Educator, as well as public ambassador for Reptile  presentation. Also in charge of all zoo networks, file management, computer  maintenance, and security.  ? Experience with guests and visitor service and education. Long hours in highstress environments working with people, animals, and fellow staff  maintaining Level 5 animals (Crocodilians, Venomous Snakes, and Large  Breed Snakes)  ? Constructed the zoo's entire network from the ground up, including  establishment of security protocols, information structure and transfer, and communication lines with other zoos through secure channels.  ? Performed file forensics on dated storage systems to retrieve long lost files  (first use and experimentation with The Sleuth Kit)  Reason for Departure: Was not developing in my field, diminished animal care  standards Developer, IT Assistant, System Administrator Innobots - Gainesville, GA 2014 to 2015 High variety job including programming, IT help and support, network management,  hardware construction, and robotics. Specialization in law enforcement robotics and services.  ? Direct support contact for software, programs, and robotics to users from backgrounds of military, law enforcement, and casual use.  ? Constant adaption to new languages, programs, and systems  ? Understanding of Java, C++, C#, Javascript, node.js/Grunt/Mocha, PHP,  Arduino, and software associated with radio control, iOS, and Android  systems.  Reason for Departure: Nearly two months work without payment Front Desk Assistant Hamilton Dermatology and Vein - Alpharetta, GA May 2011 to August 2013 Front desk assistant, paperwork and patient care management, phone operation, and minor IT responsibilities  ? Understanding of customer service and communication via phone and inperson. Maintaining professional demeanor while resolving issues  ? Exposure to HIPAA  Reason for Departure: Left for university Education Bachelors in Computer Science University of North Georgia March 2013 to June 2016 Skills Penetration Testing, Penetration Testing (8 years), Linux (8 years), Windows Admin (4 years) Additional Information Skills and Interests ? Fully Functional: Java, C++, C#, Python  ? Partially Functional: Javascript, HTML, PHP, Assembly  Penetration Testing:  ? Recreational penetration testing since 2008  ? Kali Linux Suite of open source programs (Burpsuite, Snort,  Wireshark, Hydra/John the Ripper, NMap/ZenMap, ZAP, etc.)  ? Windows SET (Social Engineering Toolkit), Windows 7 hacking  experience  ? Active community participation on forums, Red Team Events, and  Forensics Events (ie Black TShirt)  ? Professional penetration testing between 20132015  Operating Systems and Scripting  ? Linux:  ? Debian (desktop and server)  ? RedHat  ? Gentoo  ? Windows: Vista, 7, 10, 2012 and younger server systems  ? UNIX (Bash) and Windows Powershell