Identity & Access Management/ Global Security Analyst Identity &amp; Access Management/ Global <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Identity & Access Management/ Global Security Analyst Vadnais Heights, MN Work Experience Identity & Access Management/ Global Security Analyst St. Jude Medical February 2015 to June 2015 Job duties: Provisioning and De-provisioning user accounts, active directory administration, creating and maintaining network user accounts, completing work orders and incidents submitted by end users, creating process documentation, enforcing security standards and policies, I.T. compliance, project work, direct support to customers. I.T. Business Analyst/ Access Management- Provisioning Systems Configuration UnitedHealth Group January 2014 to October 2014 Job Duties: Onboarding and Life-cycling Applications, Planning and execution of new applications on our network, acting as a liaison between client and technical solutions/support groups to develop a plan that is attainable from all aspects for the task being presented, documenting plans and progress in a high level manner that will be used for audit, supporting and catering to all aspects of the business cycle and processes of the request. Setting realistic deadlines. Detailed requirement gathering and understanding pre-existing systems as well as proposing new solutions as needed. Maintain and develop RBAC for applications being on boarded or currently in use. Information Technology Specialist Army Battle Command System May 2010 to February 2014 Job Duties: Providing Brigade-wide assistance in maintaining information assurance measures. The installation, configuration, troubleshooting and repair of computer systems and their components using Solaris and Windows operating systems, installation and configuration of routers and switches from basic to advanced networking, the execution of digital common tasks as they pertain to the Army Battle Command System, Tactical Internet Management Systems; supporting Joint Network Nodes. Constructing, editing and testing computer system programs; conduct data system studies and preparing documentation and specifications for proposals to command leadership. Help to maintain, support, and troubleshoot video teleconferencing equipment. IT Analyst U.S. Army/ MN ARNG May 2010 to February 2014 Drill Status) Identity & Access Management/ Global Security Analyst St. Jude Medical October 2013 to January 2014 Job duties: Provisioning and De-provisioning user accounts, active directory administration, creating and maintaining network user accounts, completing work orders and incidents submitted by end users, creating process documentation, enforcing security standards and policies, I.T. compliance Service Desk Representative / I.T. Operations Blue Cross Blue Shield June 2013 to September 2013 Job Duties: Direct support for over 5,000 users on and off shore within the company, remote-support, helpdesk and desktop services, software installation, VOIP troubleshooting and management, Blackberry Enterprise Server administration. Civilian Contractor MN Army National Guard /B.P.S.I December 2011 to May 2013 Automation Specialist/ I.T. Operations  Job duties: Support over 300 network users within the state, asset management, helpdesk support, imaging workstations, installing software, remote-support, hardware repair, conducting user training, telecommunication support, wireless device management, Active Directory Administration, SharePoint administration, Group policy and security administration. Recruiting and Retention NCO MN Army National Guard June 2011 to September 2011 Job Duties: Finding recruits to join the National Guard, Cold Calling, Customer Service, filling out enlistment packets and documentation, community outreach and activities. Education A.A.S in I.T. Security Century College 2012 Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 May 2010 to February 2014 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Present