Security Incident Response & Forensic Analyst, Incident Response Team <span class="hl">Security</span> Incident Response &amp; Forensic <span class="hl">Analyst</span>, Incident Response Team Security Engineer | IT Security Altamonte Springs, FL Broadly skilled cyber security professional with proven expertise in driving cyber intelligence requirements for protecting assets domestically and overseas. Through contributing towards pro-active network security strategies, earned a reputation as someone who is able to think critically and creatively, able to work in a team or autonomously, and is renowned for achieving excellence in results. Relentless thirst for knowledge in all IT Security facets including pen-testing, computer forensics and investigations, vulnerability research/mitigation/exploitation, incident response and network/systems security and monitoring. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Incident Response & Forensic Analyst, Incident Response Team Vijilan Security LLC - Fort Lauderdale, FL April 2015 to April 2018 Responsible for advanced threat detection, security monitoring and investigations, log aggregation, and event correlation as part of protecting organizational systems and infrastructure.    • Trained level 1 technicians on Incident Response practices and methodologies  • Conducted network packet analysis using different technologies  • Analyzed malware and overall system forensics to determine level of impact  • Recognized potential, successful, and unsuccessful intrusion attempts and compromises through reviews and analyses of relevant event detail and summary information  • Communicated alerts to agencies (CSIRT, CERT.CC and Law Enforcement) regarding intrusions and compromises to their network infrastructure, applications and operating systems  • Coordination of incident response activities (escalations, notifications, conferences calls, etc.)  • Prepared incident reports of analysis and results  • Worked on other special projects IT Manager, Studio Operations Shiver Entertainment - South Miami, FL January 2014 to April 2015 As IT Manager at Shiver Entertainment Studios, I oversaw all IT operations. I interfaced with the executive  team and engineering leads to determine the future needs and anticipated growth of the company, and then  committed the necessary research and resources to ensure that the IT infrastructure grew in a direction that  will support that growth. Meanwhile leading the day to day IT operations staff in a fashion that would  ensure programmers had the most effective tools operating at peak efficiency.    • Managed, monitored and maintained network security  • Responsible for all IT purchasing  • Served as technical contact for vendors and services  • Created and maintained asset management for the organization  • Configured and maintained network servers such as file servers, print servers, antivirus, domain controllers  and application servers.  • Administered servers, routers, access points, desktop computers, printers and smartphones  • Maintained network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.  • Responsible for software deployment, image deployment, security updates and patches.  • Scripts creation (Powershell, Batch files, Basic Python scripts for automation)  • Created, changed, and deleted user accounts per company growth.  • Responsible for Active Directory Group Policies creation and modification.  • Maintained and monitored AWS and Digital Ocean virtual infrastructure and billing.  • Repaired and recovered from hardware or software failures. Coordinated and communicated with impacted constituencies. IT Technician, Studio Operations Shiver Entertainment - South Miami, FL January 2014 to April 2015 As IT technician at Shiver I was responsible for resolving day to day technical user issues. I was also in charge of deploying and managing new equipment and software as needed by the development, design and  art teams. This related to all technology and included: workstations, servers, printers, networks, and vendor  specific hardware and software.    • Supported Phones, LANs, WANs, and network segments.  • Maintained system efficiency.  • Ensured design of system allowed all components to work properly together.  • Troubleshot problems reported by users. Investigated and resolved issues.  • Made recommendations for future upgrades.  • Evaluated and modified system's performance.  • Identified user future needs.  • Assigned configuration of authentication and authorization of services (LDAP and later AD). Network Security Instructor, Miami Campus The Academy South Florida - Coral Gables, FL November 2013 to July 2014 Florida    Cyber- Security instructor training vocational students, veterans, DoD and Federal agents, analysts, and operators in conducting Network Investigations and Security Penetration Tests. This position served  Department of Defense personnel and several Federal agencies, offering courses in several categories of specialization including CEH exam preparation. The program provided world-class formal learning  instruction in several delivery modes including in-residence courses presented in modern classroom  facilities and online training delivered across leading-edge digital platforms.    • Delivery of CEH course exam material  • Responsible for preparation of daily lesson plans, quizzes, exams and virtual labs.  • Served as mentor for new students entering the IT Security industry. IT Sales Consultant Best Buy - Florida City, FL July 2013 to January 2014 Florida  • Partnered with other floor sales employees to ensure customers' end-to-end needs for are met and that no  customer was left unserved or underserved.  • Provide friendly, fast, and accurate processing for all customer transactions at the front lanes and customer  service while providing velocity solutions to customers.  • Developed strong relationships with customers by becoming a trusted advisor and partner in assisting them in making technology more functional in their lives.  • Utilized all relevant sales tools (including "Path to Excellence") to assist profitable growth drive and exceed  department and individual goals.  • Helped answer questions and resolved customer issues.  • Engaged customers using Best Buy Selling Skills while providing fast and friendly processing of all  transaction types. Education Associate of Arts in Computer Science in Computer Science Broward College - Pembroke Pines, FL The Academy Skills Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Less than 1 year), AWS (1 year), Cisco (Less than 1 year), forensics (3 years), Python (1 year) Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified Network+ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Google Rapid Response Toolkit, Accelops SIEM, OSSIM, Splunk, Wireshark, Metasploit, Nmap,  SysInternals, Snort, Sonicwall, Kali Linux, Ubuntu, CentOS, Nessus, Office365, Python, PHP, SQL, TCP/  IP, AWS EC2 & VPC, Cisco Routing & Switching, Windows Server 2012 ADDS, Cyber Incident  Response, File Forensics, FTK