PROGRAMMER IV/ CYBER SECURITY ANALYST PROGRAMMER IV/ CYBER <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> <span class="hl">ANALYST</span> Pflugerville, TX ? To Prevent loss of millions for companies and individuals by utilizing my skills in cyber security to prevent hackers and others with malicious and criminal intent from gaining unauthorized access to computer systems and networks.  ? To provide high quality software, network development and support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PROGRAMMER IV/ CYBER SECURITY ANALYST Texas Secretary of State - Austin, TX July 2016 to Present ? Developed a new election management system used by the state of Texas  ? Create secure and functional software and application security  ? Supervise application development and security  ? Work with other areas in the IT department, such as programming, security, web development, and Windows Administration teams  ? Perform pen testing and incident response for systems and monitor network  ? Adapt to changing circumstances, policies, and conditions  ? Perform backup duties as CISO FIELD ENGINEER Merchandising Technologies INC - San Antonio, TX August 2013 to May 2017 Provide break/fix services and administration for large companies by:  Working with electronic hardware, programming software, networking, troubleshooting, and resolving issues for many different physical and virtual systems  ? Work with various clients such as hospitals to provide many IT services SENIOR IT CONSULTANT Stress Free Driver Rehabilitation - Austin, TX January 2013 to July 2016 Researched, assessed, and implemented existing and new technologies  ? Assisted with the evaluation, planning, and execution of changes or additions to processes, computer operations, and technical systems  ? Created and modified all documents and forms necessary for business operation and maintained online presence  ? Managed documents and sensitive information of over 1000 clients  ? Worked with firewalls, routers, switches, and configured networks CYBER SECURITY ANALYST UTSA Cyber Security Lab - San Antonio, TX June 2015 to May 2016 Enabled access to the lab for students, created specialized VMs, tested for security vulnerabilities on hosts and the network  ? Provided Windows administration, programmed applications, used remote desktop to interface with multiple servers, and assisted with diagnosis and resolution of problems within the virtual environment  ? Assisted with developing a lab application controlling all computers in the lab IT MANAGER AND WEB DEVELOPER Stress Free Driver Rehabilitation - San Antonio, TX May 2013 to August 2013 Managed the network, designed and maintained company websites, managed SEO and online presence  ? Supervised telemarketers, maintained company and sales rep reports, created and maintained commission hoppers for sales reps, assisted in processing of sales and verified sensitive documents  ? Reported to and worked directly with CEO JUNIOR SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR HostGator - Austin, TX June 2012 to August 2012 Provided technical and non-technical support via chats and phones and resolved technical issues on servers with a shared infrastructure  ? Performed troubleshooting and problem resolution with Apache, HTML, CSS, MySQL databases, cPanel, WHMCS and Virtual Private Servers    Activities  UTSA $100K Student Technology Venture Competition, Dec 2015  Lead a diverse team tasked with developing a business plan and an innovative technology demonstration for the development of a new company. Education Bachelor's in Cyber Security University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX 2016 Skills NETWORKING (3 years), FIREWALLS (3 years), CYBER SECURITY (2 years), SECURITY (2 years), TESTING (2 years) Additional Information Skills Summary  ? Advanced knowledge of Windows and Linux operating systems, VMs  ? Familiar with multitude of programs for Windows including Adobe programs  ? Familiar with Ubuntu, RHEL, Kali, Fedora, and Qubes Linux  ? Active Directory, Firewalls    ? Experienced with Oracle Databases, PLSQL, HQL  ? Experienced with HTML, CSS, PHP, Java, Python  ? Experienced in penetration testing techniques, methodologies    ? Endpoint security tools, SIEMs, Splunk, FireEye, SourceFire  ? Experienced in networking and network security  ? Experienced in cyber security concepts and principles