Senior Consultant - Risk Consulting / IT Advisory / Strategy & Governance Senior Consultant - Risk Consulting / <span class="hl">IT</span> Advisory / Strategy &amp; Governance Senior Consultant - Risk Consulting / IT Advisory / Strategy & Governance New York, NY Dynamic Business Strategist & Consultant offering around 4 years of experience in driving  IT & Information Security Projects in various industries including Banking, IT, Telecommunication, Pharmaceutical, & Credit Card. Adapt at successfully executing transition efforts while fostering positive team and stakeholder relations. Experience includes utilizing technology to achieve desired outcomes. Practiced in evaluating processes and procedures and making recommendations on efficiency and operational improvements that positively impact the bottom line.    Currently working as a Senior Consultant with KPMG in Risk Consulting / IT Advisory / Strategy & Governance.    Tools: AXIS (GRC Platform), Tenable Network Security, LDRPS,   Assurance, ESAP Solution Manager, Assurance, RSA Archer, IBM Rational Tools for Manual Testing, NetBeans, Eclipse.    Assessment & Auditing Standards: ITGC, ISO 27001:2013, SOX 404, PCI DSS 3.1, NIST 800-53, COBIT, COSO, GLBA, HIPAA, HITECH, HITRUST, FFIEC. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Consultant - Risk Consulting / IT Advisory / Strategy & Governance KPMG January 2016 to Present • Interacted with Associate Directors of Information Security Business Resilience & ITGC Control Testing for SOX 404 for maintaining IT Compliance and Issues Remediation.  • Consulted the client to implement the controls derived from ISO 27001:2013 / NIST 800-53 / FFIEC / GLBA governance models via control mapping to support business security requirements.  • Compiled evidences for each ITGC control based on risk and frequency of the control to demonstrate compliance with SOX 404.  • Analyzed the gaps in the industry policy by doing control mapping through industry standards HITRUST, HITECH & HIPAA.  • Reviewed client IT policies and procedures to ensure compliance with best practices.  • Organized and documented test plans, gap logs and evidence in form of work papers.  • Designed, shared, presented and supervised implementation of guidelines for developing secure software, database monitoring and data masking. As accomplished presenter, engaged audience and heightened security awareness throughout enterprise.  • Evaluated technologies, processes and vendors, and selected superior service. Assessed SOW, SLA and service contracts and derived best value proposition.  • Researched and documented security recommendations and outline a roadmap for implementation.  • Design and detail an upgrade plan that was reviewed and approved by all business owners.  • Trained and mentored team members on security role in all projects.  • Consulted in implementing innovative structured policy guide rules based on compliance directives for review where necessary and recommended written revisions to the internal audit guidelines and policy and controls protocols.  • Designed the risk control matrix based on the control objectives identified during scoping process.  • Defined the scope of the assignments and got sign off from the user organization.  • Performed control testing and documented gaps and recommendations.  • Conducted meetings with the service organization and user organization to discuss gaps identified.  • Analyzed the client IT infrastructure and key risk areas, evidence collection, documenting and preparing inferences based on tests performed & CGI testing.  • Analyzed and documented the mitigating controls, risk analysis, final audit report preparation, & 3rd party vendor assessments. IT Service Delivery Analyst – Information Security & Risk Management Xerox January 2015 to December 2015 • Directed an Audit Program from the ground up for SOX 404.  • Facilitated the security awareness program and assisted to increase the participation and completion percentages, including the implementation of metrics to conduct tracking.  • Created and maintained a comprehensive set of operational policies, procedures and general documentation. This documentation played a critical role in maintaining SOX 404 compliance.  • Served as official liaison to PwC auditors in gathering evidence they required and assisting them as needed.  • Developed and implemented Information Security Awareness Training.  • Wrote multiple policies and procedures, developed presentations for upper management and contributed IT Security articles for the corporate security newsletter.  • Led remediation efforts, revised processes, and improved security controls to reduce inefficiencies and successfully complete corporate audits. Presented audit findings and results to senior and executive management.  • Prepared written report for Executives/Stakeholders that explained the vulnerabilities and provided recommendation for mitigation.  • Utilized security administration tools and technology to generate reports, used in an ongoing security compliance monitoring as well as internal access control assessment. Provided the IT Risk Management and audit committee with status report regarding regulatory compliance.  • Managed and ensured user account creation, deletion and modification, as well as user passwords, system access rights and privileges, adhered to the organization's security standards and requirements.  • Developed a vulnerability/patch management strategy with metrics to measure improvement.  • Assessed gaps and provided oversight of implementation for thousands of internal applications to comply with Information Security policies, procedures, methodologies, regulatory compliance.  • Performing an independent audit of Information Security Management System (ISMS), creating risk treatment plans and providing corrective actions on all findings.  • Responsible for submitting status reports of policy approval process and on audits done to the Audit Committee.  • Provide Information Security Expertise and Risk Assessment and Consulting for internal projects.  • Periodically review Information Security Metrics and ensure compliance as well as assist with related Risk Mitigation efforts.  • Documented exceptions to compliance with established IT & Information Security policies, standards & practices (SAR/PEER).  • Conducted BIA by working with the teams to define critical time sensitive systems & business functions and assisting in DR drill exercises.  • Scanning of all IT Severs that are in scope of PCI DSS 3.1 & inventory management.  • Facilitated the monthly patch management process.  • Developed company wide Risk Register. Senior Business Analyst 300 Plus Consultant July 2013 to January 2015 • Managing Information Security & Risk Management team for client assignments.  • Conducted Walkthroughs, process understanding, creating process flows, performing risk assessment, creating risk and control matrix (RCM).  • Assisted in benchmarking infosec policies for clients like Aon Hewitt, Evalueserve & FIS.  • Assisted in the creation of the roadmap & guiding it through each phase i.e. Define, Measure, Explore, Develop & Implement.  • Strong analytical & compliance skills for performing / assisting IT General Control testing & handling internal and external auditors  • Good exposure to compliance standards ISO 27001, SOX 404 & SSAE16.  • Coordinated build schedules and code releases with Project Leads, Development Managers, and Change Managers.  • Responsible for oversight of Companies security and compliance Policies, Processes, Procedures and Standards.  • Threats, vulnerabilities and violations were reviewed with outsourced partner by doing in depth scrutiny and come up with best solution.  • Coordinate with IT and business units in testing Data Loss Prevention (DLP) and Crisis Management programs.  • Planned and lead the SOX compliance activities for organization to sustain SOX Compliance.  • Reduced workload of CIO, Director of Application Engineering and Infrastructure Project Manger so they can focus on business development.  • Maintained system security roles, permissions and privileges while maintaining SOD controls with Security committee approvals.  • Strong technical skills with high credibility to communicate within all levels of an organization.  • Conducted meetings with the service organization and user organization to discuss gaps identified.  • Constructed audit test plans utilizing COBIT & SOX 404 standards for general and application controls.  • Interviewed process owners, supervisors and end users to determine correct application and functioning of controls.  • Assisted client with the preparation and review of security and privacy sections of SEC: Def 14 A, 10 K & 8K filing submissions. Business Analyst 300 Plus Consultant July 2012 to June 2013 • Got a clear understanding of IT infrastructure of the organization and prepare application, database, network and operating system security guidelines.  • Complete understanding & knowledge of SDLC & STLC.  • Assisted in preparation of IS security policies, process and procedure documents for IT Applications.  • Assisted in execution and preparation of control matrix containing controls to be tested based on management assertions for IT Applications.  • Assisted in business continuity and disaster recovery activities for IT Applications.  • Documented and suggested mitigating controls to secure application, database, network and operating systems.  • Assisted in identity and access management activities based on authorization matrix prepared for various applications.  • Coordinate with internal auditors to ascertain that financial applications supporting purchase and sales processes are working as per the IS policies.  • Formulated analysis plan & acquiring client sign-off. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Engineering Maharishi Dayanand University - Rohtak, Haryana 2008 to 2012 Ryan International School 2008 Skills Strategic Planning (4 years), IT Governance (4 years), Vendor Management (4 years), Information Security (4 years), Business Analysis (4 years), Information Technology (4 years), Data Analysis (4 years), Mentoring (4 years), Project Management (4 years), Auditing (4 years), Risk Assessment (4 years), Team Management (4 years) Links https://in.linkedin.com/in/kunal-malhotra-774979a6