Cyber security Business Analyst II Cyber <span class="hl">security</span> Business <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II BUSINESS ANALYST II Pleasant Hill, MO I possess a background both educationally and professionally in the sciences. However after working for 2 years as a Scientist I sustained an injury, which unfortunately forced me to adapt. My path led me into a Business Analyst position with a biopharmaceutical/clinical testing laboratory. Surprisingly, I found that the meticulous nature of a laboratory scientist lent itself perfectly to adapting into the work of a business analyst. It is my hope to continue to grow professionally with a company that has the potential for growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber security Business Analyst II Sprint - Overland Park, KS May 2018 to Present - Utilized SQL to perform necessary data mining.  - Performed workforce forecasting for team.  - Assisted in developing processes for reporting compliance issues.  - Compiled data reports as requested for compliance issues.  - Assisted in compiling requirements for the development of reporting dashboards.  - Acceptance testing of developed dashboards. IT Systems Analyst Sprint via Modis - Overland Park, KS December 2017 to March 2018 • Designed Price Plans from customer contract data to present to third party billing service to ensure that corporate customers were billed correctly.  • Developed internal user guides utilized for training purposes.  • Completed Special Pricing linking of corporate customers to existing price plans.  • Collaborated with team to create clear and concise reference documents for departmental use.  • Performed updates to data tables as required for business needs.  • Reviewed other IT Systems Analysts work as needed to ensure quality.  • Performed SQL queries to research pricing trends when building/designing Price Plans.  • Applied Lean Six Sigma Ideologies to existing processes in order to increase efficiency. Project Coordinator Vitalograph Inc - Lenexa, KS November 2017 to January 2018 • Performed detailed user acceptance testing on newly developed software used to collect clinical research data by clients, including full documentation of discovered defects and tracking to completion and final approval.  • Performed UX testing on newly developed software for client use.  • Conducted installations of upgraded programs to medical devices prior to them being sent to clients.  • Performed initial quality assurance reviews of data received from client studies to ensure that uncorrupted data was being obtained from clinical studies.  • Conducted quality control review and edits of all documentation prior to publication and transmittance to clients.  • Regularly communicated with clients to determine needs and determine pain points with developed software for clinical studies.  • Implemented Lean Six Sigma ideologies to software development processes to increase efficiency. Substitute Teacher Pleasant Hill School District - Pleasant Hill, MO September 2017 to November 2017 • Provided instruction in all assigned grade level subject matter.  • Ensured the safety of the students.  • Adhered to the provided lesson plans.  • Regularly communicated effectively with coworkers to ensure seamless transition for students. IT Business Analyst ViraCor Eurofins Laboratories, Inc - Lee's Summit, MO March 2015 to March 2017 • Experienced in Agile/Waterfall methodologies from initial planning through user story and defect tracking to acceptance testing and final implementation of developed software.  • Performed technical and functional acceptance testing of complex software systems including full documentation and tracking of discovered defects to completion and final approval.  • Performed as Project Manager for multiple projects overseeing the creation and multiple phases of during enhancements of existing off-the-shelf software as well as for newly developed software  • Authored technical documentation and created wireframes used by internal developers to produce new software systems and enhancements in order to meet business needs.  • Performed diagnostic analysis of preexisting software for end-user pain points and collaborated on change initiatives to meet the workflow expectations of the business.  • Conducted interview sessions with stakeholders throughout all phases of SDLC to determine functional, technical, and business requirements as well as specifications for software systems and strategies to accomplish goals for BioPharma, Production, Clinical, Research & Development, and Billing departments. Maintained project scope and set expectations with business stakeholders.  • Provided high-tier support of internal systems for business users upon completion of implementation of enhancements and newly developed software.  • Served as a liaison between business users and technical resources, including internal development teams and third party development consultants.  • Conducted implementation and project closure activities consisting of implementation planning, formalized business stakeholder communication, review of deliverables, and documenting final solutions for handover.  • Performed as lead Business Analyst for technical projects including delegation of duties to other Business Analysts as well as supervision of their work performed.  • Conducted UX testing on newly developed software and excel spreadsheets for internal company use.  • Implemented Lean Six Sigma ideologies to software development projects in order to increase efficiency. Quality Assurance Technologist Thermo Fisher Scientific - Lenexa, KS September 2014 to November 2014 • Performed quality assurance auditing of documentation from production environment to ensure compliance with GMP.  • Authored Quality Assurance documentation for internal company use.  • Performed sampling/testing of contamination of biological medium and reported findings in order to initiate investigations. Scientist I APU III Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica - Saint Joseph, MO August 2012 to April 2014 • Performed all facets of bacterial fermentation process to produce bacterial antigen.  • Oversaw blending procedure of bacterial antigen to produce final product.  • Performed quality assurance testing of bacterial antigen using optical density to determine bacterial growth.  • Obtained samples of bacterial antigen to be used for quality control.  • Supervised of all processes on shift including the work of union staff.  • Performed the initial quality assurance review of production batch records prior to documentation being passed along to the laboratory director to ensure compliance with 21CFR and GMP protocols.  • Collaborated with other staff to troubleshoot and enhance processes. Education Bachelor of Science in Biology Missouri Western State University - Saint Joseph, MO May 2010 Skills GMP (4 years), LABORATORY (3 years), EXCEL (8 years), GLP (4 years), MICROSOFT EXCEL (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Lean Six Sigma Yellow Belt Additional Information Related Skills  • Good Laboratory Practices (GLP)  • Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP)  • Good Automated Manufacturing Practices (GAMP)  • Microsoft Excel  • Microsoft Word  • Microsoft PowerPoint  • Microsoft Visio  • SharePoint  • SpiraTest  • C-Global  • STARLIMS  • Copia