Project Manager Project Manager Project Manager - Nestle Waters North America Ridgefield, CT To obtain a career in a dynamic organization focused on innovation and customer success, providing me the opportunity to apply my knowledge toward solving real business problems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Manager Nestle Waters North America - Stamford, CT August 2016 to Present Project Manager for several high priority/high visibility projects utilizing Agile Scrum  methodologies with Jira product.  • Manage all phases of the project life cycle, including requirements, design, documentation,  development, and testing.  • Facilitate collaboration between team members, and ensure each member has the tools,  knowledge and resources needed to successfully perform their tasks.  • Hold daily scrum meetings for status reports, to plan next steps, and to resolve any blockers  team members are facing.  • Triage tasks based on level of impact and time restrictions.  • Ensure all deadlines are met with the proper documentation provided for each step of the process.  • Constantly communicate with the business unit to align needs, goals and provide updates.  • Report progress, issues faces, and solutions back to the director on a weekly basis Senior Solutions Analyst Nestle USA - Stamford, CT August 2016 to Present • Provide comprehensive impact analysis on the conversion of large-scale legacy systems and applications to newer and cloud based technologies.  • Organize and facilitate cross-stream integration testing, and create detailed test plans and status reports.  • Maintain the integrations between frontend and backend systems.  • Identify information gaps or inconsistencies in data, documentation, etc., pinpoint the root  cause of the issue and produce effective solutions to the issues identified.  • Create comprehensive FDD's and present them to the development vender to guarantee  their complete understanding. Technical Business Analyst Putnam Investments - Boston, MA July 2015 to August 2016 Responsible for defining technical requirements and User Interface (UI) for both new  applications and upgrades to existing applications, as well as release notes.  • Developed Test Plans and performed the actual testing on UI, cache and databases for various Putnam systems, which required SQL and JMS knowledge  • Tested and tracked system to database messaging for Putnam's trading systems to ensure  100% correct and complete transactions.  • Led several projects utilizing Agile Scrum methodologies to organize and track project teams  and workflows. System Analyst/Office of Information Security and IT Risk Compliance Intern State Farm - Bloomington, IL June 2014 to August 2014 Conducted regular working sessions with the cross-functional team to update State Farm's  Enterprise Information Security Policy in order to maintain compliance with company, state and federal regulations and standards.  • Responsible for the introduction of updated or new security policies and the translation of  the technical aspects to VPs and AVPs across business functions to ensure all employees  understood and complied with the updated policy.  • Analyzed the different policy risks and breaches that were submitted by department AVPs to determine the severity and actions required to remediate and mitigate future risks. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Massachusetts at Amherst - Amherst, MA May 2015 Skills Excellent communication skills, leadership skills, Scrum (3 years), Project Management (2 years), Project Development Additional Information Personal Skills  • Strong leadership skills  • Quick learner who easily adapts to new situations  • Excellent communication skills  • Reliable and customer service oriented