Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Tampa, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst ReliaQuest - Tampa, FL January 2018 to Present Senior IT Support Specialist B&I Contractors - Fort Myers, FL September 2017 to December 2017 IT Support Specialist B&I Contractors - Fort Myers, FL September 2016 to September 2017 Provide deskside and remote support for internal users both in the office and in the field at job sites across  Florida for laptops, desktops, tablets, and mobile devices.    Perform hardware troubleshooting, replace and repair defective or broken parts for laptops, desktops, and mobile devices. Maintain a stock of commonly used replacement parts for these repairs.    Keep a physical inventory of IT equipment tagging and labeling devices as they are received and assign  these in an inventory system.    Deploy and refurbish equipment for new company employees, setup and personalize replacement equipment for current employees. Also, document licensing for any products licensed to the user or machine that are  limited.    Administrate new, and current user Active Directory accounts including managing security groups,  distribution groups, and credentials.    Troubleshoot building network issues on wired and wireless systems for all company office locations including  new punch downs and tracing wire.    Maintain Shoretel IP phone system both on the appliance end as well as on the user end with their desk  phones.    Create new, and maintain existing internal documentation for businesses applications and infrastructure both for IT use with common troubleshooting solutions, and for our users with usage instructions.    Streamline user experience with internal processes both related to IT and with processes for other  departments that utilize IT resources.    Administrate IBM MaaS360 MDM solution and maintain user fleet of cellular devices including Verizon cellular  account details and billing. Technical Customer Service - Abuse Associate Herndon, VA June 2015 to May 2016 Receive and process internal and third-party reports of network abuse including DoS, Spam Email, Port  Scanning and more.    Parse network logs to ensure that abusive behavior has taken place.    Communicate with the customer implicated in network or resource abuse to facilitate repair of the compromised  resource and ensure satisfactory results for the reporter.    Interact with enterprise level accounts to stop abusive instance behavior without jeopardizing production  environments.    In addition to the standard responsibilities, monitor AWS Support social media accounts creating actionable  steps to resolve customer issues. Technical Customer Service Herndon, VA October 2014 to June 2015 Provide prompt, efficient, detailed, customer-oriented service to AWS customers.    Work with other support teams around the globe to ensure a consistent and high-quality level of support.    Be a voice and advocate for our customers to service teams and management.    Drive projects that improve support-related processes.    Actively seek solutions to customer needs, communicating trends to leadership, and suggesting innovative  solutions on behalf of the customer experience.    Assist with customer communication during AWS critical launches and support events.    Assume responsibility for developing detailed knowledge banks about new product lines for internal reference.    Summarize technical customer issues into notes that are readable by other parties.    Pattern recognition for possible fraudulent activities.    Create weekly training exercises for other employees regarding new work processes and AWS offerings. Alarm Engineer Vector Security Systems - Gainesville, VA May 2014 to October 2014 Provide support to repair technicians and store managers with over the phone and remote connection  troubleshooting.    Troubleshoot in depth with technicians ensuring device wiring and security panel programming meet the customer intended function and need.    Learn and master modem communication software specific to each type of security panel to complete  programming changes.    Ensure security of company and store specific data including procedures, passcodes, and system setup  information. Education Network Systems Technology Florida SouthWestern State College - Fort Myers, FL August 2018 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ March 2014 to March 2017