Minneapolis, USA - IT Security Consultant Minneapolis, USA - <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Consultant Minneapolis, USA - IT Security Consultant - UnitedHealth Group Minneapolis, MN IT Security Consultant at UnitedHealth Group, with a primary focus in Vendor Risk Assessments, Cyber/ IT Security and Risk management and Remediation. I would like to leverage my academic and professional experiences to make a significant contribution towards your organization's growth as an IT Risk & Assurance professional. As a part of developing my skill set, I have passed the CISA exam and studied various cybersecurity courses during my Master's at Georgia State University. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Minneapolis, USA - IT Security Consultant UnitedHealth Group April 2016 to Present • Conduct and manage vendor risk assessments utilizing PCI-DSS, SSAE16, HITRUST Common Security Framework (CSF 7.0).  • Act as a liaison, SME for IRM, internal departments, and vendors to successfully manage Vendor Risk Assessment and Remediation.  • Understand information security risks that are inherent to a business and articulate those risks in business terms and Engage VMO (Vendor Management Officer) regarding any delays/deviations during remediation.  • Communicate, escalate, and track vendor progress on assessment remediation activities.  • Created and standardized business requirements templates and processes that are now implemented across the organization.  • Worked on the Acceptable crietria and guidelines for the assessment questionnaire and test cases risk findings. USA - IT Risk Management Intern Habif Arogeti & Wynne LLP - Atlanta, GA August 2015 to December 2015 • Managed and performed tests of effectiveness for SSAE 16 Audit independently to identify the ineffective and missing controls.  • Performed IT Risk and Cyber Security Assessment to ensure the identification of possible privacy and data security risks.  • Managed a variety of engagements for clients including SSAE 16, SOC1, SOC 2, GAPP Assessments, and PCI compliance to identify the GAPPS and effectively meet the control objectives.  • Mapped the control criteria for compliances like PCI DSS, ISO 27001, NIST 800-53 and SOC 2 to result in control harmozation. India - Operations - Team Lead ORP Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2013 to December 2014 • Managed and developed a strategic plan of action to reduce the costs by 12% and improve customer experience while increasing event profitability by 15%.  • Communicated with professionals and suppliers to effectively manage the event requirements and coordinated the activities with subcontractors and vendors. India - Senior Data Analyst Datamatics Global Services Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2012 to June 2013 • Point of contact between the client and the offshore team to strategize a long term solution for scaling up accuracy of product classification by 20% and inventory size by 1.5 million items for a leading multinational retail chain.  • Gathered technical requirements and executed solution delivery to automate processes such as inventory classification, product type creation and attribute extraction. Education Master's of Science in Information Systems Georgia State University - Atlanta, GA 2015 to 2016 Post Graduate Diploma in Business Management Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies - Mumbai, Maharashtra 2012 to 2014 Bachelo in Business Management University of Mumbai - Atlanta, GA 2008 to 2011 Skills MS excel (7 years), Information Security, eGRC (1 year), HITRUST (Less than 1 year), SSAE 16 (1 year), SDLC (2 years), ISO 27001 (1 year), SQL (2 years), Sharepoint (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ayushbarot Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) Groups ISACA April 2015 to Present Additional Information Skills  • Compliances: HITRUST (CSF 7.0), ISO 27001, NIST 800-53, SSAE 16, SOC2 Type 2, PCI 3.1, COBIT  • Technical: Java, C++, HTML, XML, Oracle SQL, MySQL, Tableu, Advance MS Excel, MS Access, MS Visio.  • Functional: Requirements Gathering and Analysis, Resource Management, IT Project Management, Business Process Improvement and Modeling and SAP-SD, MM & PTP, SDLC, BPMN, Signavio, Bizagi.  • Software Development Models: Agile/SCRUM, Waterfall.