Deskside Technician Deskside Technician Tier 2 Technician - Abbtech Dedicated professional with exceptional computer skills. Excellent ability to work well with customers including assisting difficult individuals by utilizing a variety of conflict resolution techniques. Strong aptitude in multi-tasking and organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Deskside Technician Calance - Broomfield, CO February 2019 to Present • Monitors and follows up on incidents/problems/change orders and escalated tickets in Deskside queue  • Follows up on resolved/closed tickets to ensure customer satisfaction  • Provides support for hardware and software issues over the phone, in person and/or remotely  • Provides resolution and assistance for current operating systems (Microsoft Windows 7 and Windows 10).  • Deploys new or rebuilt computers based on OIT and agency security and operational policies  • Enterprise Configuration Management Tool platform installations  • Supports desktop, laptop and tablet users and solves problems with Microsoft, Adobe, Java, and other software in the production environment.  • Provides answers to end-users by researching answers; provide training, and guiding users through corrective steps by direct assistance Tier 2 Technician Abbtech - Lakewood, CO December 2018 to February 2019 Used Service-Now to organize work flow related to multiple machine refreshes for around 300+ employees. Process included imaging the new machines, installing Ivanti LAN Desk, and pushing software for use by end-users at Terumo BCT. Other software utilized were: • MS PowerShell • Active Directory • BitLocker • Command Prompt (ipconfig /dnsflush and gpupdate /force mostly) IT Analyst Jacobs Engineering Group - Englewood, CO September 2018 to December 2018 Created tracking forms for every inbound issue while utilizing relevant technical guidance to assist the customer in troubleshooting of hardware/software suites for the Jacobs Engineering Group. Took incoming calls for IT related issues and triaged the problems, sending the more complex problems to higher level teams. Email Agent Camping World - Englewood, CO February 2018 to September 2018 Composed tracking forms for every inbound issue while utilizing relevant guidance to assist the customer with any inquiry they may have in regards to order status.  • Handled customer retention and service aspects dealing with online orders • Obtained order tracking information • Became position knowledgeable to the degree of teaching within one month • Accomplished refunds and return processes Opener Representative Universal Printing Solutions - Westminster, CO 2017 to 2017 Contacted potential customers via cold calls to generate new business. Utilized a script provided to ensure the success of the call and developed answers quickly to any questions which deviated off of the script.  • Made 20 successful sales during first week which was higher than the average for a new employee • Responsible for knowing the latest information on printing products and prices Prep Cook 24 Carrot Bistro - Erie, CO 2017 to 2017 Prepared food items before handling by cooks through utilizing appropriate kitchen techniques and following food codes. Responsible for the cleanliness of dishes and bused dishes to cooking line and front area. Ensured that cleanliness and safety of kitchen was maintained through keeping the area swept and clear of debris before and during service.  • Was promoted through the ranks to being able to plate meals such as deserts and appetizers. IT Agent IBM - Boulder, CO 2016 to 2017 Composed tracking forms for every inbound issue while utilizing relevant technical guidance to assist the customer in troubleshooting of hardware/software suites for the State of New York and their supporting agencies. Took incoming calls for IT related issues and triaged the problems, sending the more complex problems to higher level teams.  • Assisted a VIP client with elevating their concerns to a higher level and reducing their stress • Assisted with implementing new practices among employees to improve customer satisfaction Security Officer Securitas Inc - Longmont, CO 2016 to 2016 Secured buildings through conducting patrols and utilization of CCTV. Kept track of visitors and employees within the building. Kept records of equipment checked in and checked out. Issued ID badges to appropriate visitors, as well as replacement badges to employees and contractors.  • Customer focused, ensuring that all issues were resolved expediently • Ensured that company sensitive information was guarded Customer Serice Representative U-Haul - Longmont, CO 2015 to 2015 Completed basic repair and maintenance on outdoor storage facilities. Cleaned and inspected vehicles after every return to the site. Conducted collections calls to customers who had gone delinquent on the account. De-escalated dissatisfied customer through utilizing active listening and reflection. Education Associates of Science in Microbiology Front Range Community College - Boulder, CO 2013 to 2016 Diploma in General Studies Ardmore High School - Ardmore, OK 2005 Skills file management (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), multiline (Less than 1 year), telephone (Less than 1 year), Windows 7 (Less than 1 year)