IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Rexburg, ID Work Experience IT Security Analyst The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints - Riverton, UT January 2017 to Present Performed live monitoring of all live resources in an enterprise environment ensuring a safe and stable virtual work environment for all  company employees.  • Recorded all suspicious activity on high priority services using security tools to understand and document vulnerabilities to prevent  nefarious activity.  • Worked with industry standard tools like Splunk, Source Fire NIDS, and Security Analytics to determine different attack types coming into the enterprise network. Assistant Network Administrator BYU-Idaho IT Dept - Rexburg, ID September 2015 to January 2017 Rexburg, Idaho  • Maintained and managed 100% of the wireless access points, associated switches and network cabling systems across the entire campus by working with network engineers to monitor the campus networks and implement solutions through the use of monitoring software and network audits.  • Worked with a team to configure, install, and maintain over 800 Wireless access points using Xirrus' access point management system and  Xir-con software.  • Configured switches and switch ports to allow access points to authenticate using 802.1X protocols.  o Recent Project: configuration, installation and testing of access points in the new science and technology building before established deadline. IT Department Intern Madison Memorial Hospital - Rexburg, ID May 2015 to September 2015 • Handled of inbound calls and assisted end users resolve issues ranging from network connectivity to device security configuration for various software platforms (Meditech, Citrix, Imprivata, Microsoft)  • Exceeded goals for service level agreements by tracking customer issues through ServiceNow ticketing system, while working with technicians and engineers to implement solutions.  • Utilized Agile/Scrum project management methodology.  • Maintained physical security of data center. Enterprise Application Management Operations Intern Riverton, UT May 2015 to September 2015 Improved ticketing procedures for the team of administrators over through innovating and creative thinking to reduce time spent managing  tickets and increased the availability time for engineers and administrators.  • Using agile methodologies, assisted my team by managing the migration of updates from Development and Quality Assurance  environments to the production servers and databases.  • Supported servers that ran both Windows and Linux OS.. Assistant System Administrator (ASA) BYU-Idaho IT Dept - Rexburg, ID September 2011 to May 2012 1/3/14-12/31/15]  Rexburg, Idaho  • Worked with a team of other assistant administrators to monitor campus wide networks, enforce security protocols for campus datacenters,  monitor backup services and campus.  • Followed specified procedures when services go down.  • Created and implement documentation procedures for new technologies.  • Provided support for administrative software accounts and campus wide print jobs and printers.  o Projects: -Updating security certificates for IBM AS 400 around campus and for all workstations in Student Heath Center.  Located, mapped, and created training materials for finding all networking closets on campus. Education BS in Computer Information Technology BYU-I - Rexburg, ID September 2008 to February 2017 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ November 2016 to November 2019 Amatuer Raddio General class June 2015 to June 2025 Call Sign KG7UEE