Service Desk Analyst Service Desk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Service Desk Analyst Fort Collins, CO IT Professional who is seeking to work for the world's most innovative technology. I graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Information System and Security (CISS). My concentration is security and I am deeply interested in working for a company that needs a technical savvy individual. I can provide and maintain the company, with a high-level degree of security, so that no proprietary information is leaked out. I can also provide end user support by creating technical solutions for tactical problems that the company faces everyday with my high-spirited drive to help make develop, install, implement and manage computer systems within the company. Work Experience Service Desk Analyst Targa Resources - Houston, TX March 2018 to September 2018 Job Description: Receives and records customer problem/request/issues and captures necessary documentation. Performs initial level of problem identification and attempts to resolve; assigns ticket to next level support as needed. Monitors and tracks incident queue with the goal of timely addressing customer requests consistent with SLA requirements. Performs follow up on incidents with customer to ensure customer satisfaction. Develops and maintains knowledge of customer and customer specific business environment so as to provide great service. Maintains current knowledge of end-user computing hardware and software. Serve as a liaison between the business and technical support staff. Cultivate good working relationships with the business. Work closely with management to prioritize business goals and information needs.    • System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) by imaging laptops and desktops to push out a specified operation system and business applications.  • Install/ login to ensure Trend Micro is working properly as a security solution for any threats.  • Install/ login to ensure Global Protect is working properly as a security solution for at home threats.  • Assign assets in Maximo and pull data inventory to ensure every asset has been accounted for in the secured room and the receiving room.  • Install software or other business applications remotely using a console using admin credentials.  • Address user needs and track by documenting through a ticket system. Must resolve user request within a four-day business turnaround unless specified as a high priority.  • Run a software scan on a user computer to determine what business applications are installed on the computer  • Create a bat file for the user's H Drive.  • Setup user workstation (setup docking station, desk phone, ethernet port (Wi-Fi), provide mouse, mouse pad, keyboard, cable lock and key and travel charger).  • Train interns in the secured room to introduce and assist the different aspects of IT.  • Transfer data over the network or using the IP Address of a user computer.  • IT Order Form and IT Request Form used for managers to fill out two weeks in advance prior to bringing someone on board to ensure access, applications, email, workstation and computer were properly setup before the user arrives to their workstation.    TECHNICAL SKILLS & PROGRAMS Information Technology Specialist Xtreme Drilling Corporation - Houston, TX February 2017 to September 2017 Job Description: Perform provided end user support for applications, maintain and update hardware, implement backups for servers, and backup data throughout the company. Resolve related connectivity issues, research new and improved technology, implement the latest technology, keep safe company data and access to approved authorized users.  • Prioritize and respond to tickets in the ticket system and phones calls in a timely manner by developing a work schedule to facilitate resolutions with minimal disruption of business operations.  • Create and assist documentation of knowledge-based articles to enhance end user self-help systems.  • Document work performed in the ticket system and communicate with users via email and service desk software remotely.  • Provide assessment reports to management based on a status, recommend and implement improving service levels, and notify management of any immediate unrecognized security usability.  • Manage and maintain Active User Directory to setup new users account generation, termination passwords, assign users authorized access to different security groups and problem resolution. (Assign access to different organization groups and security groups of a network drive).  • Install, troubleshoot, maintain, Microsoft Client systems and products, including Windows 7, 10, and the full MS Office 365 application suite. (Assign/ Remove licenses, enable/ disable sign-on access, assign roles, user profile transfer and transfer of .pst and .ost files).  • Create, maintain, and update IT inventory system, record and log different systems used throughout the entire company, third party applications, antivirus, registration keys for different programs or companies and admin login credentials.  • Maintain and assist with day-to-day maintenance and administration of infrastructure including security of Wi-Fi, third party applications, system programs (AV/Malware protection), firewalls, servers, update, download, and install system updates, etc.).  • Ensure setup, configuration, and coordinate support for copiers/ multi-function devices, Internet, and Telecom services with the appropriate providers.  • Setup workstations by setting up computer monitors, docking station, connecting the Ethernet cord, setup and connect workstation phones and test connection.  • Remove Hard drives (HDD) and replace with Solid State drives (SSD), add or remove RAM, replace monitor screen, replace battery, power cords, and recycle unwanted IT equipment.  • Test new software applications, purchase and implement for assigned project or multiple projects.  • Order new laptops, setup new laptops, assign new laptops and connect laptops to the domain, reimage laptops, and refurbish laptops to be sent out to other locations throughout the company.  • Assist with activities in support of user training for new IT programs, procedures, and processes.    TECHNICAL SKILLS & PROGRAMS  Active Directory, Azure, HappyFox (Ticket System), LogMeIn Technician Console Rescue (Remotely Logging into Users Computers) and RDP. KwikTag (Business Process Automation for any department), Microsoft Dynamics Great Plains and Build Source, SureFox (restricted website use for field employees), SureLock (restricted applications that are not intended for work use), and SureMDM Console (mobility management of the company devices) and Microsoft Office 365. IT Customer Support Assistant Our Lady of the Lake University IT Help Desk - San Antonio, TX September 2015 to December 2016 Job Description: The Help Desk is your first point of contact for instructional and communication technologies at the University in San Antonio, La Feria, and Houston locations for students who are doing online courses, off site or onsite courses.  • Answer phone calls and document end user information, assign other technicians to assist in resolving user issue.  • Create new tickets, respond to tickets in the ticket system and update ticket with any additional information the user has provided, and close out tickets.  • Create, setup and provided university account information for faculty, staff, students, and Alumni (including password resets).  • ID card encoding for computer lab access building access and identification purposes for all campuses.  • Computer hardware and software maintenance for computer labs as well as prepare the labs.  • Wireless access configuration to the OLLU network for your personal devices such as laptops, Macs, Android and iPhones.  • Provide guests with assisting Wi-Fi and password for certain amount of days.  • Updated list of computer labs and software available on OLLUSA website under Campus Technology.  • Assist in lending out and retrieving school computers in a timely fashion.    TECHNICAL SKILLS & PROGRAMS  Cisco Physical Access Manager (Locate and Verify User Info), Fargo Workbench Program (Encoding Cards), SysAid (Ticket System) and Image Now (Perceptive Content). IT Technician -Intern (Internship) Our Lady of the Lake University IT Help Desk - San Antonio, TX November 2015 to May 2016 Job Description: IT Technician Intern who is responsible for assisting the network administrator with the following: servers, desktop systems, communications hardware/software and office systems. Assistance was provided in San Antonio and Houston.  • Assist in administration (including backup, security management, user account management, e-mail systems including e-mail web server, internet access, office systems and applications support).  • Assist the IT Supervisor with supports server, network and desktop hardware, software and applications.  • Performs technology needs analysis.  • Rolls out hardware and software to ensure optimal deployment of resources.  • Plans, implements, and supports the network and computing infrastructure plan.  • Assist with small to medium sized projects according to agree upon budgets and schedules. Assist with technology planning through ongoing research.    TECHNICAL SKILLS & PROGRAMS Imaging Technician Kayako (Ticketing System) - Houston, TX June 2015 to August 2015 Job Description: Team with others to index scanned documents and organize them in a manageable database. The prepared data is then submitted to project managers for quality inspection. As a technician, work with historical records including digitized microfiche, and learn a wide range of technical imaging skills. Trend Host Email Security Maximo (Enterprise Asset Management) 2012 to 2012 LogMeIn (Remote Access), ServiceNow (Ticketing System), Active Directory Users and Computers, SQL Server Reporting Services 2012 (Software Scan), Citrix Receiver (Access to Virtual Applications), Microsoft Office 365, RP1 Cloud, WebEx Productivity Tools, Trend Host Email Security, Global Protect, Trend Micro, ShoreTel Communicator, and Microsoft Teams. Education Bachelor's in Computer Information System and Security Our Lady of the Lake University - San Antonio, TX August 2012 to December 2016 High School Diploma Saint Pius X High School - Houston, TX May 2012 Skills ORGANIZATION SKILLS, PROBLEM SOLVER, Help Desk, Tech Support, Desktop Support, Service Desk, Helpdesk Support, Active Directory, Customer Support, Customer Service, Call Center, Linux, MAC Additional Information SKILLS  • Problem Solver Interpersonal Skills  • Strong Organization Skills Self-Motivated/ "Can Do" Attitude  • Willingness to Learn Willingness to Help