Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Analytical, quick learner, great multitasker Bethlehem, PA To obtain an outstanding professional career in the field of Information Security. Would be especially interested in information security analyst positions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Computing Technologies LLC (CTL) - Bethlehem, PA September 2018 to December 2018 ?       Managed, analyzes, and troubleshot all information security events/incidents for customers and CTL.  ?       Setup and configured managed security service tools and applications in customers environments.  ?       Penetration Testing – perform in-depth tests on customer sites to identify weaknesses and vulnerabilities.  ?       Oversaw all vulnerability scanning, remediation steps, and research on vulnerabilities/threats for customers.  ?       Evaluated and test new information security products and tools for organization.  ?       Provides daily/routine IT support for managed customers. Information Security Analyst TEKsystems - on contract with Lutron Electronics - Coopersburg, PA December 2016 to May 2018 ?       Managed, analyzed, and troubleshot all information security events and incidents.  ?       Vulnerability management – scanning, remediation steps, research on new vulnerabilities/threats.  ?       Analyzed network traffic for signs of anomalies and performed threat hunting.  ?       Maintained PCI, CUI, and GDPR security operations and metrics.  ?       Conducted a bi-weekly Threat Management meeting with security committee.  ?       Provided ad-hoc information security metrics for Senior Management.  ?       Integrated a new enterprise managed security service for the entire organization. Information Technology Specialist Sample Supports - Longmont, CO August 2016 to October 2016 ? Managed all IT, IT projects, and IT budgets for entire organization.  ? Oversaw all IT troubleshooting and IT support for 100+ employees spanning across three locations.  ? Maintained all desktop, information security, and telecommunications applications and policies.  ? Requisitioned and installed new computer hardware and software applications for all employees.  ? Setup an IT help desk ticketing system that linked with the organizations email system.  ? Wired Cat5e cabling and configured the wireless networks at all locations.  ? Created and completed an IT Inventory Database for the entire organizations assets. Hub Dispatch Supervisor (Part-Time) United Parcel Service(UPS) - Bethlehem, PA November 2015 to January 2016 Part time job between my last two semesters of college    ? Reviewed UPS Small Package dispatch activity to ensure timely and proficient service  ? Assisted with dispatch planning and was ensured that service and safety goals were met  ? Coordinated with others to ensure that dispatch plans were executed efficiently   ? Anticipated adequate staffing and equipment levels for transportation needs  ? Monitored trailer load movement and tracked the condition of equipment Assistant IT/Facilities Manager (Internship) Koch Automotive - Easton, PA May 2015 to August 2015 ? Managed IT troubleshooting and daily IT support for 200+ employees.  ? Maintained all desktop, information security, and telecommunications applications.  ? Requisitioned and installed new computer hardware and software applications.  ? Ensured all IT and facility requirements met state/county guidelines to open a new dealership location.   ? Developed strong interpersonal communication skills by working closely with senior management.  ? Prioritized technology projects and completed all under budget. Information Security Analyst (Internship) Abercrombie & Fitch - New Albany, OH May 2014 to July 2014 ? Managed and assessed risks, vulnerabilities, and assets of the organization.  ? Developed strong public communication and teamwork skills.  ? Created a virtual environment for penetration testing on company networks.  ? Researched, tested, and provided cross-training to entire InfoSec team on new security software.   ? Upheld and oversaw daily technology standards and processes to meet PCI compliance.  ? Worked alongside senior management on updating Abercrombie and Fitch’s IT Project Charter. Assistant IT Manager/Project Coordinator (Internship) Koch Automotive - Easton, PA May 2013 to August 2013 ? Integrated a new dealership information system to improve efficiency and assist with the business plan.  ? Oversaw and prioritized IT projects to meet scheduled deadlines and budget requirements.  ? Requisitioned, planned, and installed new computer hardware/software applications for 75+ terminals.  ? Wired and terminated Cat5e cabling to 75+ locations.  ? Managed IT Troubleshooting and daily IT Support for 200+ employees. Education Bachelor's in Information Sciences and Technology The Pennsylvania State University - State College, PA August 2011 to May 2016 Skills Information Security, Cyber Security, It Security, Nist, Siem, Cybersecurity, Network Security, Information Assurance Additional Information Skills:    ? Security Event and Incident Management  ? Research and Analysis  ? IT Troubleshooting  ? Vulnerability/Risk Management – Assessments, remediation steps, research into new vulnerabilities/risks  ? Symantec Enterprise Protection Management  ? Symantec Advanced Threat Protection Management  ? Web Application Firewall Management (Incapsula)  ? Application/Device Monitoring and Logging  ? Splunk Enterprise - Logging, Alerting, Reporting, Analysis, and Dashboard creations  ? Microsoft Office 365 Security and Compliance Center Management – basic  ? Microsoft Operations Management Suite (OMS) - Logging and Alerting  ? Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM)  ? IT Project Management  ? Access Management  ? Systems Patch Management   ? Enterprise Scanning – PCI and GDPR compliance scanning  ? Tripwire Enterprise Management and Administration   ? Cat5e Wiring and Terminating  ? Penetration Testing (LAN/Wireless) - basic   ? Azure Advanced Analytics  ? Salesforce Analytics – basic  ? Google Admin Management  ? Computer Networking  ? PowerShell – basic  ? Java Programming – basic    Relevant Coursework:    ? IST 240 Introduction to Computer Languages  ? IST 220 Networking and Telecommunications   ? IST 302 IT Project Management  ? IST 331 Designing Information Systems(HCI)  ? IST 402 Emerging Issues and Technologies: The Internet of Things (IoT)  ? IST 420 Fundamentals of Systems and Enterprise Integration  ? IST 421 Advanced Enterprise Integration: Technologies and Applications  ? IST 432 Legal and Regulatory Environment of Information Science and Technology  ? IST 440W Information Sciences and Technology Integration and Problem Solving  ? SRA 211 Threat of Terrorism and Crime  ? SRA 221 Overview of Information Security