IS Analyst Trainee IS <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Trainee IS Analyst Trainee - TMNA HQ Frisco, TX Hard working individual with persuasive communication, customer service and analytics skills, seeking to use my education and work experience in the business/information technology fields to contribute to your business. I am currently a full-time team member for Toyota North America as an IS Analyst Trainee. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IS Analyst Trainee TOYOTA MOTORS NORTH AMERICA - Plano, TX August 2017 to Present Dealer Systems / End User Services  • Collaborate with other business units and stakeholders to gather project requirements.  • Aid in developing and documenting new strategies, systems and enhancements.  • Research and implement changes in Office 365/SharePoint administration portals.  • Lead End User Services communications efforts. IT Help Desk/Desk Side Support Technician Grand Canyon University - Phoenix, AZ January 2014 to April 2017 • Utilize excellent critical thinking and customer service skills to understand staff/faculty/executive IT needs and get their systems running properly again.  • Consistently achieve high call scores.  • Train new student workers on IT procedures. Active Directory & Security Tools Summer Intern Toyota Motors North America - Torrance, CA May 2016 to August 2016 • Use problem solving along with Excel and Active Directory skills to analyze data and develop action plans for discovered issues.  • Present findings and solutions to management.  • Demonstrate effective communication skills through emails, phone calls, and in person interactions.  • Develop and document new systems.  • Manage IT Projects. Education B.S. in Business Intelligence Grand Canyon University - Phoenix, AZ 2013 to April 2017 Skills Excel (3 years), SQL (2 years), Active Directory (2 years), SharePoint (1 year), Tableau (1 year), SPSS/Modeler (2 years), C++ (1 year), Powershell (Less than 1 year), Business Analysis (2 years), Business Intelligence (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/collin-beisel-2aa5b310b Additional Information Driven, adaptive, strong communications, superior customer service, analytical thinker, attention to detail    Technical Software Experience:  • Excel/Frontline Solver (3 years)  • SQL Server (2 years)  • Office Suite (10 years)  • O365/SharePoint Admin (1 year)  • SPSS/SPSS Modeler (2 years)  • Tableau/ Power BI (1 year)