Leader Leader Leader Fallston, MD Meticulous and process-driven analyst experienced with access control models, SOD violations, remediation solutions, basic network security, cryptography, and audits. Looking to gain additional experience in Cyber Security/Threat Assessment.  Excellent Communicator • Microsoft Office • SharePoint • Oracle PeopleSoft • CAPI • Oracle GRC • Oracle Hyperion • Sentinel • Saviynt AccessNow (IAM) • Wireshark • CompTIA Security+ Certified • IAM • Threat Analysis • Malware Identification • Snort (IDS) Work Experience Leader LAUREATE EDUCATION - Baltimore, MD January 2018 to March 2019 in for-profit higher education colleges and online universities. Primarily focused in Latin America with over 875k students.  Application Security Engineer  Collaborated with application SME's to identify and document existing access for in-scope SOX applications including job functions, user groups, roles & user authentication methods. Analyze and convert these applications to the appropriate access control model (RBAC) for ease of provisioning and to reduce SOD violations.  • Collaborated with IT Compliance and process SME's to identify sensitive data requiring masking in all applicable environments  • PeopleSoft data masking POC using Sentinel tool  • Collaborated with IAM team to engineer and test automated solution for user provisioning/termination for PeopleSoft access Security Administrator October 2015 to January 2018 Member of L4 PeopleSoft Security team responsible for applying security in various environments to complete tickets within SLA. Ongoing collaboration with project and development teams to engineer solutions for change requests. Deployed security objects to test environments as part of the change management process. Responsible for user access, controls configuration/maintenance & reporting in Oracle GRC.    • PeopleSoft Role Remediation project with IT Compliance and Internal Audit (IA) (dependency for IAM project)  • Assisted in the design and testing of SharePoint form used to automate access requests and approval workflow for PeopleSoft access IT Analyst UPS - Timonium, MD August 2014 to September 2015 Timonium, MD Aug 2014 - Sept 2015  Founded in 1907 as a messenger company in the United States, UPS has grown into a multi-billion-dollar global corporation focused on enabling commerce around the globe. Each day, UPS manages the flow of goods, funds, and information in more than 200 countries and territories worldwide.    IT Analyst  Responsible for defect management for UPS WorldShip application. Lead global acceptance testing with IT partners worldwide. Coordinated with QA team to identify and confirm defects. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Walden University - Minneapolis, MN 2013 Certifications/Licenses Security+ July 2019 to July 2022