Consultant Consultant Consultant - NOLIJ CONSULTING Annandale, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant NOLIJ CONSULTING - Vienna, VA February 2017 to Present Quoted as “critical personnel” by leadership, through leading teams in Configuration Management, Risk Management, and Testing efforts. Developed and administrated SharePoint sites, management of schedules, and deliverables to client.   ? Lead Configuration Manager  o Led Process Improvement Group (PIMG) Strategy Team focused on risk management, continuity, mitigation, reconstitution and improving internal standards and procedures:   • Implemented risk-based approach to IT security NIMS and NIST standards that involved the protection of Personal Identifiable Information (PII)  • Assessed logistics of expenditures for future contract option years involving procurement of software, licensing, warranties, and travel costs  • Created Rules and guidelines for the usage of Quality Assurance tools  • Applied risk-based approach to all aspects of process improvement  o Coordinated closely with government Test Managers and Government Leadership to form positive and constructive relationships   o Prepared, reviewed and delivered over 500 deliverables for project, assuring that the company-face was represented in a professional manner  o Provided end-to-end workflow review - from verifying documentation upon delivery, installation of products, Functional QA testing, and reporting to government clients  ? SharePoint Developer  o Created and administrated project’s SharePoint site to ensure ease of access to thousands of critical documents across the PMO  o Designed custom web-parts, modules, calendars, and other business functions   o Set specific permissions, views, and policies to restrict and contain access to controlled documents  o Designed workflows, trainings, and SOP’s for utilization of SharePoint sites  ? Software Test Lead  o Verified functional integrity of systems deployed to the Theater of Operations when new patches/critical updates/maintenance updates/major updates were released by developers  o Designed test scripts to target specific requirements to test for communication between products and database registry  o Assured quality results from team that directly supported and impacted medical commanders overseas  o Uncovered defects across 4 products which were later fixed in applied patches after defect management and review  ? System Administration  o Configured and maintained integrity of systems for functional testing, updating to current hotfixes, baselines, patches, and maintenance updates  o Installed several DoD applications/products on Windows 10 and Windows 7 utilizing sever 2008 and server 2012  o Troubleshooting network connections, DoD application/products, and hardware issues  o Experience with VMware and VCenter for visibility of servers  o Implement STIG settings to DoD standard  U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS) ? US CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION SERVICES (USCIS), WASHINGTON DC   Intern Information Systems Administrator, 5/2016 – 8/2016   Defined system/user requirements to design, develop SharePoint solutions supporting emergency preparedness training and other crucial business functions.   ? Worked alongside project managers agency-wide utilizing different programs to rapidly complete and deliver 21 technical projects within a 3-month term  ? Developed and administrated various SharePoint internet and intranet sites  ? Designed Infopath forms for distribution, filling and electronic submission using structured data for large projects, such as the ‘USCIS Journeyman’ immigration training program, accelerating a 3-month delayed project to its expected delivery date  ? Expedited page creation and workflow for future SharePoint administrators   ? Facilitated national webinar training with l00-plus training coordinators, managing dynamic pods and monitoring communications using Adobe Connect  ? Customized learning modules for staff with different skill sets and levels of computer fluency  ? Assessed skill level of staff and adapted training to their individual needs    DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (DOL) ? OFFICE OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS, WASHINGTON DC   Intern Security Analyst, 7/2013 – 8/2013   Directly supported Director of IT Security & Governance on key organization efforts including overall information security program and set up of ETA Privacy Office  ? Participated in meetings discussing new technologies and potential solutions for modernization from a risk management perspective  ? Revamped and redesigned the Employment Training and Administration (ETA) Information Security Program Newsletter focusing on end user engagement using more effective layouts and content to attract reader attention  ? Participated in Organizational Change Control Board (OCCB) meetings to discuss ongoing changes and potential impacts of operations roadmap   • Identified key elements of the privacy program to minimize operational risks and incidents associated with the collection, use, handling, protection, disclosure, and disposition of Personal Identifiable Information (PII) in accordance with the Privacy Act   • Developed privacy training to include best practices when dealing with PII to minimize breaches  • Developed rules of behavior identifying end user responsibilities with respect to PII handling  • Recommended best practices to support audits and monitor privacy compliance    OFFICE DEPOT ? FALLS CHURCH, VA ?   IT Department Supervisor, 6/2012 – 8/2012   Hired as Customer Support Specialist in June and rapidly promoted to Supervisor due to initiative, organizational skills and technical capability   • Tasked with training junior staff in the IT Department in accordance with company standards for quality and customer service  • Demonstrated adaptability in dealing with a wide variety of customers from different technical backgrounds and cultures, and challenges to build positive Intern Information Systems Administrator U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS) - Washington, DC May 2016 to August 2016 5/2016 - 8/2016  Defined system/user requirements to design, develop SharePoint solutions supporting emergency preparedness training and other crucial business functions.  ? Worked alongside project managers agency-wide utilizing different programs to rapidly complete and deliver 21 technical projects within a 3-month term  ? Developed and administrated various SharePoint internet and intranet sites  ? Designed Infopath forms for distribution, filling and electronic submission using structured data for large projects, such as the 'USCIS Journeyman' immigration training program, accelerating a 3-month delayed project to its expected delivery date  ? Expedited page creation and workflow for future SharePoint administrators  ? Facilitated national webinar training with l00-plus training coordinators, managing dynamic pods and monitoring communications using Adobe Connect  ? Customized learning modules for staff with different skill sets and levels of computer fluency  ? Assessed skill level of staff and adapted training to their individual needs Intern Security Analyst DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (DOL) - Washington, DC July 2013 to August 2013 Directly supported Director of IT Security & Governance on key organization efforts including overall information security program and set up of ETA Privacy Office  ? Participated in meetings discussing new technologies and potential solutions for modernization from a risk management perspective  ? Revamped and redesigned the Employment Training and Administration (ETA) Information Security Program Newsletter focusing on end user engagement using more effective layouts and content to attract reader attention  ? Participated in Organizational Change Control Board (OCCB) meetings to discuss ongoing changes and potential impacts of operations roadmap  • Identified key elements of the privacy program to minimize operational risks and incidents associated with the collection, use, handling, protection, disclosure, and disposition of Personal Identifiable Information (PII) in accordance with the Privacy Act  • Developed privacy training to include best practices when dealing with PII to minimize breaches  • Developed rules of behavior identifying end user responsibilities with respect to PII handling  • Recommended best practices to support audits and monitor privacy compliance IT Department Supervisor OFFICE DEPOT - Falls Church, VA June 2012 to August 2012 Hired as Customer Support Specialist in June and rapidly promoted to Supervisor due to initiative, organizational skills and technical capability  • Tasked with training junior staff in the IT Department in accordance with company standards for quality and customer service  • Demonstrated adaptability in dealing with a wide variety of customers from different technical backgrounds and cultures, and challenges to build positive Education BA in Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness VIRGINIA COMMONWEALTH UNIVERSITY, L. Douglas Wilder School of Government and Public Affairs - Richmond, VA December 2016 Skills MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (3 years), OPERATIONS (2 years), ACCOUNTING (Less than 1 year), FEMA Concepts (3 years), System Administration (2 years), Configuration Management (1 year), Management (1 year), Quality Assurance (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Secret Clearance November 2017 to November 2027 Active Secret Clearance 100b Introduction in Incident Command Present 200b Single Resource and Iniial Action Present 242b Effective Communication 546a Continuity of Operations Awareness Course 548 Continuity of Operations Program Manager 700a National Incident Management Systems Introductions 800b National Response Framework Introductions Emergency Support Function (ESF) #8 Public Health and Medical Services Institute Present 860b National Infrastructure Protection Plan 913a Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Additional Information Skills:    JIRA * Accounting * Info Path 2013+ * Adobe Connect * HP ALM RQM  IBM JAZZ RQM * SharePoint 2013 - 365 * HTML * MS Office Suite * CMDB tools  Statistical Analysis * Strategic Communications * Management * Accounting * Privacy Policy Development * Conflict Resolution * Understanding of FEMA Concepts and Operations