IT Support Analyst Tier 2 <span class="hl">IT</span> Support <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Tier 2 IT Support Analyst Tier 2 - KRS IT Consulting Jersey City, NJ Seeking a position as a System Administrator, which will require me to utilize my computer skills, abilities and experience in the Information Technology field to ensure success and productivity of the company as well as myself. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Analyst Tier 2 KRS IT Consulting - Clifton, NJ January 2016 to Present • Provide technical support and troubleshooting assistance a wide variety of companies operating in both Windows and Mac operating systems.  • Manage client's requests and escalate tickets to different technicians or vendors using the ConnectWise ticketing system.  • Administer client user accounts across multiple services such as Active Directory and O365, etc.  • Install, configure, and troubleshoot local and network printers.  • Manage backups systems and restore operations for data, application servers, and workstations.  • Provide technical support for VPN, MS Office, mobile devices, and a wide variety of systems.  • Troubleshoot and fix security related issues caused by viruses, spyware, adware, and malware.  • Provide preventative cyber security training to managed clients to improve cyber security awareness.  • Prep, setup and deploy a wide range of servers according to a client's needs.  • Create and develop standard operating procedures for both internal and external usage.  • Maintain and upkeep technical documentation for all clients. Security Officer | Receptionist Summit Security Services - Fort Lee, NJ June 2015 to November 2015 • Carried out routine patrols to ensure the complete security of employees and the facility.  • Overlooked a high volume of guests and visiting employees entering the facilities.  • Verified identity of authorized personnel, visitors and vehicles in and out of office grounds.  • Demonstrated ability to handle a variety of administrative tasks and efficiently resolve personnel matters with expediency. Executive Cellular Cellphones T-Mobile - Jersey City, NJ February 2015 to May 2015 • Effectively demonstrated ability to provide in-store customers with excellent customer service.  • Conducted sales and drafted all paperwork for customer accounts, setup auto-pay, added and deleted features.  • Followed stores opening and closing procedures and handled all necessary paperwork.  • Managed incoming and outgoing shipment in addition to replenishing stock. Education AA in Liberal Arts Hudson County Community College - Jersey City, NJ September 2014 to March 2016 Skills BACKUPS (2 years), CISCO ASA, DISASTER RECOVERY, VPN (2 years), MALWARE (2 years), Help Desk, MAC, Desktop Support, Active Directory Additional Information • Fluent in speaking, reading, and writing in both English and Spanish.  • Ability to create and cultivate an active network of relationships both inside and outside the organization.  • Strong decision making, problem solving and conflict resolution skills.  • Good organization skills with the ability to multi task, prioritize and follow up.  • Admirable communication and interpersonal skills.  • CompTIA A+ Certified    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems:  Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10 /Windows Server 2008 /Windows Server 2012 /Windows Server 2016 /VMware ESXi /MacOS /Linux /Ubuntu /Fedora /iOS /Android    Software and Related Skills:  Microsoft Office Administration, Windows Server Domain Services, VMware vSphere, VMware Workstation, Virtual box, Parallels, Bootstrap, Antivirus and Malware Solutions, HTML, Java, Print Servers, Office365, SharePoint, Cisco ASA, Cisco VPN, Disaster Recovery Systems, Network Attached Storage, Smart Switches, Battery Backups, Spam Filtering, Web Filtering, Firewalls, Amazon S3, Cloud Computing, ERP Systems, License Servers, Autodesk administration, KnowBe4, ConnectWise