Distributed Computer Systems Analyst Distributed Computer Systems <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Desktop Engineer Macclenny, FL Friendly and responsive IT Support Technician with over 10 years of progressive experience in all levels workstation, network, security, and migration support, including all hardware repairs, Active Directory maintenance, network configuration, and system migrations, with minimal down time.   • Recognized for outstanding end user support, including guides and training.   • Ability to hand multiple projects simultaneously as an individual or as with a team.  • Using multiple ticket systems to resolve service requests and maintain inventory.   • Communication with team members, to provide the best service and resolutions.   Technical Skills    • Windows XP / 7 / 10  • Server 2008 / 2012 / 2016  • Active Directory Management  • Exchange 2007 / 2010 / 2013  • Office 2007 / 2010 / 2013  • Office 365 (Cloud)  • Hardware (ALL)  • Desktop Support (FULL)  • Network Configuration  • CAT 5/6 and Fiber Optics  • Powershell & BATCH scripting  • Mobile Devices (ALL)  • HIPPA IT Security  • VOIP configuration  • Multiple Ticket Systems Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Distributed Computer Systems Analyst State of Florida - Department of Corrections - Lake City, FL May 2016 to May 2017 Florida  • Provided support for specialized systems and software in a high security environment.  • Installed, moved, and repaired all desktops, laptops, and peripherals.  • Led and assisted with new and specialized projects requiring new policies and designs.  • Supported, organized, and repaired all on-site networks, including CAT5/6, fiber, VLANs, and voice.  • Assigned and setup personalized access, workstations, voice, Office 365, and mobile services.  • Deployed highly secured Microsoft Server 2016 servers with Active Directory for new inmate education programs. IT Security Specialist II Southeastern Grocers (Winn-Dixie) - Jacksonville, FL August 2013 to October 2015 • Administered and maintained Active Directory, Linux, and RACF groups and accounts.  • Authored scripts to simplify account modifications during large Office 365 migration.  • Provided specialized support to pharmacy and users to comply with HIPPA regulations.  • Provided assistance to network, platform, and desktop support teams to isolate and resolve issues spanning multiple areas or departments.  • Developed or improved processes and documentation for new or updated applications.  • Used multiple ticketing systems to support users in retail, pharmacy, and corporate areas.  • Led projects from Asset Protection and Pharmacy to improve network availability and user knowledge of incident management and pharmacy systems. Desktop Engineer Lockheed - Oldsmar, FL March 2012 to April 2013 • Migrated over 500 systems and users to Windows 7, including training and transitions.  • Contributed to LAN and wireless updates, changes, and configurations. (Cisco)  • Resolved desktop and hardware related tickets, including setups and replacements.  • Worked with a corporate team to improve Windows 7 interfaces, efficiency, and training.  • Replaced unorganized or outdated LAN wiring, hubs, and switches during Windows 7 migration and production floor changes.  • Maintained hardware and software license inventory for site. Dell Pro-Support Technician Stream - Tampa, FL September 2011 to March 2012 • Provided remote hardware, software, and peripheral support.  • Used all tools and information available to reliably resolve any user issues.  • Received in-depth training on Dell desktop and laptop repairs and servicing.  • Remotely guided users through in-depth repairs, upgrades, and restorations. Education Associates of Science in Networking Services Technology Florida State College at Jacksonville - Jacksonville, FL Certification Cisco Network Academy Skills Active Directory (5 years), Exchange (2 years), Fiber Optics (1 year), HIPPA (2 years), security (4 years), Desktop Support (8 years), Network Management (2 years), Windows 7 (5 years), Servers (3 years), LAN (4 years) Links http://Linkedin.com/chadcandy Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present Security+ Present Additional Information Technical Skills    • Windows XP / 7 / 10  • Server 2008 / 2012 / 2016  • Active Directory Management  • Exchange 2007 / 2010 / 2013  • Office 2007 / 2010 / 2013  • Office 365 (Cloud)  • Hardware (ALL)  • Desktop Support (FULL)  • Network Configuration  • CAT 5/6 and Fiber Optics  • Powershell & BATCH scripting  • Mobile Devices (ALL)  • HIPPA IT Security  • VOIP configuration  • Multiple Ticket Systems