Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (U.S.A) Limited Hoboken, NJ Work Experience Information Security Analyst Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (U.S.A) Limited - Hoboken, NJ August 2018 to Present Hoboken, NJ (August 2018 to Present)  A New Jersey state chartered trust and banking company which is a subsidiary of one of Japan's majors trust  banks  Information Security Analyst -  ? Performed vulnerability, benchmark, missing patch scans, and web application scan for various  machines, servers, and applications on the bank's Intranet.  ? Modified Audit files for compliance scans.  ? Engaged in Nessus Certified Configuration for the integration of SecurityCenter.  ? Configured SecurityCenter for the bank based on their vulnerability, missing patch, and compliance  policy.  ? Managed SIEM alerts utilizing IBM QRadar.  ? Reviewed and helped created internal Information Security Policies and Standards.  ? Created a phishing email campaign for internal awareness using Core Impact.  ? Attended and contributed to weekly patch meetings and Change Advisement Board meetings.  ? Compared multiple vendors for various assessments (IAM, VM, DLP). Desktop Support Robert Wood Johnson Foundation - Princeton, NJ June 2018 to June 2018 Princeton, NJ (June 2018)  A non-profit organization which is the United States' largest philanthropy focused solely on health  Desktop Support -  ? Assisted other technicians with the additions of new cameras, TVs, Voice over IP phone systems, etc. in conference rooms.  ? Installed landline phones in specific "safe rooms" around the building.  ? Utilized PhoneCentral software to assign extension numbers to conference room phones.  ? Installed PhoneCentral hardware on existing fax machines for VoIP conversion. IT, Help Desk Misericordia University - Dallas, PA October 2016 to May 2018 Assisted the students and staff with computer software and hardware complication issues including operating  system, wireless internet connection and virus removal.  ? Repaired and replace computer hardware.  ? Provided the necessary tools and backup programs for easy operation. Intern, IT Security CommVault - Tinton Falls, NJ May 2017 to August 2017 Tinton Falls, NJ (May to August 2017)  An award winning data management platform and industry leader in enterprise backup and recovery.  Intern, IT Security -    ? Responsible for tracking and managing login failures from employee accounts using ADAudit Plus.  ? Organized and created management reporting relating to employee login failures  ? Utilized Remote Desktop Protocol to assist employees and troubleshoot software related issues  ? Created specific email templates for incident response  ? Worked with NMAP to monitor and map the company network.  ? Contributed to corporate technology security using Sophos anti-virus software to troubleshoot employee  system access accounts  ? Entrusted with project relating to SQL Injections. Presented findings to Department Manager and Security Engineer  ? Took place in weekly IT-ISAC meetings, taking notes for self and manager Intern, IT Department CommVault - Tinton Falls, NJ May 2016 to August 2016 Assigned new employees RSA tokens or assigned new tokens that were expired  ? Responded to open tickets related to internal computer related problems  ? Assisted with a project of mapping the CommVault data center. Network engineers would use this map  to easily find ports and servers Education Bachelor of Science in Security Misericordia University - Dallas, PA May 2018 Skills CSS, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JAVA, It Security, Information Security, Cyber Security Links http://linkedin.com/in/kevin-loesch Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Experience with HTML, Javascript, CSS, C++, Java  Software Applications: Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Notepad++