IT Support <span class="hl">IT</span> Support Rocky Mount, NC With 4 years of military experience in defensive cyber security operations, cyber security operational planning, physical security assessments and project management. Specific skillsets include:  ? Vulnerability management/mitigation  ? Cyber Security Incidents Response  ? Physical security assessment  ? Detail orientated  ? Develop plans, policies & procedures  ? Management of Personnel Resources Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Marine Corps Cyberspace Operations Group - Quantico, VA May 2016 to May 2017 Network Engineering/IP Management  ? Manage approximately 11 million IPv4 addresses allocated to the United States Marine Corps.  ? Maintain and manage Enterprise wide IP address space for the USMC.  ? Serve as the point of contact for the IP address and VLAN allocation for the USMC Enterprise Network.  ? Assisting with the new solution for automated Enterprise wide IP address management tools.  ? Supporting the development of the USMC plan for transition from IPv4 to IPv6.  ? Manage and support all requests for assistance with IP address problem resolution and troubleshooting,  ? Supports Engineering efforts for the buildout of all USMC Enterprise Network Solutions Service Desk/ Enterprise Database Manager Marine Corps Cyberspace Operations Group - Quantico, VA March 2015 to May 2016 Source Systems using DISA Security implementation guidelines and benchmarks for host and server systems.  ? Conducted Server 2008 to 2012 Migrations with Active Directory, Exchange, and DNS roles.  ? Provide technical and software support via phone to Garrison Units and Units abroad Ships regarding network, hardware, software issues.  ? Knowledge in use of a ticket system "Remedy" for tracking and creation of incidents related to network, hardware, software outages, documenting customer information, detail problem descriptions and general help desk service request.  ? Monitored the health of systems to ensure 24/7 operability and report outages.  ? Manage the Mailbox Stores ques in Exchange, extract emails from mail stores, and account management.  ? Escalate problems in accordance with Service Lead Agreements and program policy.  ? Evaluate team workflow, processes, and recommend/implement improvements to those processes.  ? Review customer support requests for accuracy and monitor the quality of work performed by the team, and directed by the manager. Cyber Security Watch Analyst/ Shift Lead Marine Corps Cyberspace Operations Group - Quantico, VA June 2014 to March 2015 Worked in a 24/7 SOC environment as a Watch Analyst and Shift Lead.  ? Provided 1st and 2nd level analysis and interpretation of indicators and warning used to detect anomalous activities that warrant further assessment.  ? Performed network security monitoring by evaluating Real-Time and Historical intrusion detection analysis, manual and automated event correlation, and event escalation activities.  ? Monitor raw network traffic through the use of various enterprise tools such as McAfee Intrushield, McAfee Enterprise Security Manager ESM (Nitro), HBSS ePolicy Orchestrator (EPO), Fortianalyzer, Ironport, Interrogator, Bluecoat proxy, and other detection tools. Also correlate data for malicious trends, patterns, or actionable information to gather supporting evidence and author detailed reports, to enter into the MCD (Marine Collection Database) for action.  ? Monitor dedicated inbox for reporting of suspicious emails. Perform analysis to email header, routing, and content to ascertain threat then respond to submitters with findings and recommendations.  ? Analyze data packets, review signatures, analyze and interpret PCAP using Wireshark.  ? Oversee and manage 6-10 contractors and Marines to ensure high priority incidents are being completed, and assign tasks.  ? Responsible for planning and coordination of USMC networks based on unit Commander's requirements.  ? Operate and manage all aspects of Information Systems (IS), data availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation.  ? Develop automated reporting queries and dashboard within ePO for monitoring managed assets.  ? TCP/IP network protocols, application layer protocols (e.g. HTTPS, SMTP, DNS et.) and security-relevant host and network logs.  ? Coordinated with the Incident Responders and Senior Analysts to maintain situational awareness of current investigations and tasks assigned. Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: E4/Corporal June 2013 to June 2017