Social Media Consultant Social Media Consultant Social Media Consultant - Xeip Studios (Simnations) Chicago, IL Work Experience Social Media Consultant Xeip Studios (Simnations) - Chicago, IL May 2012 to Present Planning and administering the overall company social media and marketing strategy.  • Establishing media goals, objectives and strategies within our slim advertising budget.  • Working over demographic data and consumer profiles to identify target audiences of media advertising. World Admin Wonder How To - Beverly Hills, CA February 2012 to May 2012 Wrote, designed and produced high quality IT security and networking related articles and instructional content.  • Responded to written requests and questions on technical and support matters for a wide demographic of readers.  • Maintained strict editorial and content deadlines.  • Leveraged all forms of social media to guide and grow the user base. IT Security/Media Analyst Simnations - Chicago, IL November 2010 to January 2012 Documented computer security and emergency measure policies, procedures, and tests.  • Worked the security strategy into the media strategy to protect Intellectual Property.  • Brought a new media outreach program from conception to implementation in effort to increase marketing footprint with solid results.  • Operated hand in hand with owner to help crate an over-arching development strategy. Cavalry Scout (19D) United States Army - Fort Lewis, WA October 2004 to February 2007 Performed combat patrol and exercises in support of OIF.  • Operated in a reconnaissance squadron (RISTA) in support of 2nd Infantry Division.  • Planned and set up staff meetings for squadron commander in garrison.  • Honorably discharged as a result of combat injuries at E-3 pay grade. Education Computer Science University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee, WI 2009 Additional Information Skills:  o All aspects of Microsoft office  o Heavy CRM experience including Siebel and OnContact  o Image manipulation software including Photoshop and GIMP  o General network installation, maintenance, and support  o System security auditing and penetration testing  o Excellent grasp of modern trends on social media outlets  o Strong working knowledge of social media leveraging and marketing  o Everyday use of media dashboards like Hootsuite and Zoop.  o Great client and customer relation experience  o I make a good cup of coffee and play a decent game of Chess  Also, I wrote several popular articles covering topics from IT security to general Internet tips. I would like to present the following three links for your reading:  Anonymity and Darknets: http://null-byte.wonderhowto.com/inspiration/anonymity-darknets-and-staying-out-federal-custody-part-one-deep-web-0133455/  A History of the Internet: http://null-byte.wonderhowto.com/how-to/hitchhikers-guide-internet-brief-history-net-came-be-0134490/    Wireshark and an Intro to the OSI Model: http://null-byte.wonderhowto.com/how-to/spy-your-buddys-network-traffic-intro-wireshark-and-osi-model-0133807/