Internal Control Analyst Internal Control <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Internal Control Analyst - Santander Bank Columbus, IN Work Experience Internal Control Analyst Santander Bank - Boston, MA January 2018 to Present Project - IT Audit - Internal Control Testing  ? Collaborate with business and functional users and process owners, analyze requirements, performs walkthrough and responsible for the planning, execution, and reporting of internal audit controls for Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), GLBA.  ? Prepare process maps and control matrix, participate in process improvement initiatives to enhance internal control systems. Work with control process owners to track and communicate finding, review finding resolution and submit for closure in SharePoint.  ? Documents, tests and consults on internal controls, company policies, and compliance at the organization level. Reviews internal control documentation and perform Roll forward testing to ensure that it is accurate and up-to-date.  ? Implement internal control testing for SDLC, Risk Assessment (KRI, KPI, Risk Communication and Monitoring), Data Protection, Identity and Access Management, Separation of Duties as a technology first line of defense in order to suggest improvements and avoid risk associated for internal control testing systems.  ? Perform cross quality control for other team members and provides feedback on internal controls issues and process documentation to inspect control design adequacy and operating effectiveness. Information Security Intern The Walt Disney Company - Celebration, FL May 2017 to September 2017 Project - Global Information Security  ? Coordinated and studied control mapping, testing and worked with the team in planning internal audit activities.  ? Performed periodic review of all business internal policies, standards and user stories to determine the requirements of new or modifications to the existing policies.  ? Worked with team Manager to analyze and resolve audit issues in a time and communicate audit progress on regular basis.  ? Managed the process to close and finalize audits, including the identification and assessment of issues, development of audit reports, summarizing and communicating findings and review of supporting documentation/work papers in accordance with company standards.  ? Created audit engagement plans based on the risk and its impact on the organization to present in the monthly risk management meeting. Oracle System Administrator KPIT Technologies Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra March 2015 to July 2015 Project I - Oracle Apps DBA  Client: Cummins Inc.    ? Created and maintained database user accounts. Created custom responsibilities based on a responsibility matrix and business requirements (Production, Purchase, and Development). Assigned roles from user management responsibilities. Created and modified existing SQL queries in TOAD for IT Sox Audit reports  ? Controlled Remedy ticket tracking, ticket queue monitoring and ticket resolution for Oracle apps system admin activities.  ? Migrated database user's responsibilities, menu's, functions from development to higher instances. Setup profile options and access control at responsibility level.  ? Maintained quality user groups, setup employees, setup buyers and assigned to database users. Assigned seeded responsibilities (API's) for e.g. assigning bulk of responsibilities to maximum number of users. Created SQL to determine objects for e.g. concurrent programs, functions attached to responsibilities.  ? Ensured all information and data on computer systems is protected and all networks and computer systems are adequately secure to prevent unauthorized access; investigates potential security breaches and recommends corrective actions to resolve and/or prevent reoccurrences; responsible for promoting IT security awareness. IT SOX Auditor KPIT Technologies Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra June 2012 to July 2015 Project II - Compliance IT SOX Analyst  Client: Cummins Inc.    ? Identified and implemented solutions compliance testing and risk assessments within established control areas under Sarbanes Oxley (SOX Compliance IT Assessments).    ? Presented and confirmed audit findings/issues and the related corrective action to various levels of process/business owners. Completion of required internal audit department tasks needed to ensure the department's compliance with professional industry standards.  ? Experienced in IT auditing complex technical environments such as Windows and Unix server, database (Oracle, SQL), and Applications. Analyze business processes to suggest improvements, propose automation and streamline business intelligence and decision processes.  ? Participated in internal audits of CBS- IT unit within the organization to work with completing pre-audit work in assigned areas, completing task assignments within allotted timelines, drafting findings for areas of responsibility and participating in closing meetings with local management.  ? Documented work performed in work papers and reported observations/findings. Encouraged root cause analysis using the formal problem solving approach for recurring issues. Identified opportunities for service improvements, discussed with the client and raise the request for change for assessment if appropriate. Education Master of Science Pace University, Seidenberg School of Computer Science and Information Systems - New York, NY December 2017 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2011 Skills DATA ANALYSIS, DATABASES, DATABASE, MYSQL, ORACLE Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/virajinidhage Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, SQL, Lotus Notes, Cloude9.  Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux.  Applications: Tableau, Data Analytics Stats Tools, Toad, Cloudera VM, Microsoft Office, SharePoint.  Languages: Core Java, XML, HTML, C, C++, VB.NET, PHP    RELATED COURSES  • Database Management and Programming • Information Systems Design and Development • Data Analysis for Decision Making • Information Security and Compliance • Data Warehousing and Mining with Tableau • Information Technology for Management of Enterprise • Project and Change Management