Desktop Support Technician Desktop Support Technician Deskside Technician Smyrna, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Desktop Support Technician Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - Atlanta, GA December 2016 to February 2017 • Hands-on customer support assistance in a Windows 7 environment.  • Ability to provide troubleshooting a ticket resolution on a variety of technical issues.   • Log tickets in Peregrine Service Center, and resolve them in a timely manner  • Able to meet SLAs in a high volume environment.   • Responsible for some systems administration tasks utilizing Active Directory  • Resetting passwords, and providing Moves, Adds, and Changes to users. Deskside Technician Tek Systems - Norcross, GA April 2016 to October 2016 • Oversee the daily performance of computer systems.  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  • Enter commands and observe system functioning to verify correct operations and detect errors.  • Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.  • Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications.  • Maintain records of daily data communication transactions, problems, and remedial actions taken, or installation activities.  • Read technical manuals, confer with users, or conduct computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems or to provide technical assistance and support.  • Refer major hardware and software problems of defective products to vendors or technicians for service.  • Confer with staff, users, and management to establish requirements for new systems or modifications.  • Prepare evaluations of software or hardware and recommend improvements or upgrades. IT Security Analyst Tek Systems - Alpharetta, GA February 2015 to March 2016 • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Monitor network performance to determine whether adjustments need to be made, and to determine where future changes will be made.  • Analyze equipment performance records to determine the need for repair or replacement. Installation Technician Tek Systems - Roswell, GA March 2014 to February 2015 • Install, adjust, and operate electronic equipment to record, edit, and transmit radio and television programs, motion pictures, video conferencing, or multimedia presentations.  • Diagnose and resolve media system problems.  • Switch sources of video input from one camera or studio to another, from film to live programming, or from network to local programming.  • Obtain, set up, and load videotapes for scheduled productions or broadcast.  • Notify supervisors when major equipment repairs are needed.  • Direct and coordinate activities of assistants and other personnel during production.  • Analyze and maintain data logs for audiovisual activities.  • Conduct training sessions on selection, use, and design of audiovisual materials and on operation of presentation equipment. Computer System Technician Impulse Technology (Co-Works) August 2012 to March 2014 Johns Creek, GA  • Develop plans to safeguard computer files against accidental or unauthorized modification, destruction, or disclosure and to meet emergency data processing needs.  • Review violations of computer security procedures and discuss procedures with violators to ensure violations are not repeated.  • Modify computer security files to incorporate new software, correct errors, or change individual access status.  • Perform risk assessments and execute tests of data processing system to ensure functioning of data processing activities and security measures.  • Confer with users to discuss issues such as computer data access needs, security violations, and programming changes.  • Train users and promote security awareness to ensure system security and to improve server and network efficiency. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology & Cyber Security ITT Technical Institute - Kennesaw, GA 2014 to 2016 Associate of Science in Computer Systems & Networking ITT Technical Institute - Kennesaw, GA 2012 to 2014 Additional Information Skills  • Customer and Personal Service Computers and Electronics  • Administration and Management Monitoring  • Systems Analysis Systems Evaluation  • Troubleshooting Installation