Sr. Cyber Security Analyst and Baseline Team Lead Sr. Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> and Baseline Team Lead Sr. Cyber Security Analyst and Baseline Team Lead - SAIC Sr. Cyber Security Analyst and Baseline Team Lead: With SAIC Mr. Hurley is responsible for  creating security baselines and monitoring compliance. He is a graduate of Boston University,  where he earned his M.S. in Computer Information Systems with a concentration in Security, holds  a Security+ certification and is currently pursuing Splunk certification. Work Experience Sr. Cyber Security Analyst and Baseline Team Lead SAIC - Tysons Corner, VA February 2017 to Present Tysons Corner, VA 02/2017 - present  A technology integrator in the technical, engineering, intelligence, and enterprise information  technology markets.  Sr. Cyber Security Analyst and Baseline Team Lead  Responsibilities: Analyzing organizational security policies and creating security baseline  configuration documents; Configuration compliance assessments and compliance policy  administration; Creating system security hardening configuration checklists to measure compliance  success; Reviewing organizational security baselines; Investigating and resolving configuration  issues and ensuring adherence to security baselines; Managing junior analysts, delegating tasks and ensuring team cohesion; Meeting with the customer to provide baseline support, understanding,  updates and timelines for completion. NP DON'T LOOK BACK May 2014 to Present A non-profit organization tasked with helping victims of human trafficking and coordinating with and assisting local law enforcement.  Web Site Administrator/ IT Director (Volunteer)  Responsibilities: Establishing organization's information systems; Designing and implementing IT  strategy; Assisting in the design of the organization's web site; Developed the organization's  website ensuring compatibility with modern browsers and devices; Updating the site, posting news and information updates, assuring site, hardware and software efficacy, monitoring and filtering  web site traffic. IT Administrator ADDX CORPORATION - Alexandria, VA January 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities: Updating, securing and maintaining ADDX Corp's internal network; Maintaining,  monitoring and updating internal network devices and company assets; System administration for web hosting VPS server and corporate network, including firewall administration; Designing and  writing security policies and procedures; Risk assessment including NIST 800 standards and Enterprise Risk Management (ERM); Engineering air-gapped systems; network architecture and  design; building servers (running Red Hat Enterprise Linux v7.2 OS); IT systems repair and maintenance. Technician DON'T LOOK BACK - Renton, WA February 2015 to August 2015 Renton, Washington 02/2015 - 08/2015  A technology company delivering audio, visual, stage, and network expertise operating throughout the US and working with other technology companies like Microsoft Corporation.  Technician  Responsibilities: Traveling to Microsoft stores throughout the US and installing new hardware and updating Microsoft Point of Sales systems; Installs and updates had to be completed on time to  allow stores to open and operate during normal business hours; After updates and installs  technicians must perform QA tests alongside Microsoft officials. Education M.S. in Computer Information Systems Boston University - Boston, MA September 2014 to January 2016 B.A. in History Seton Hall University - South Orange, NJ January 2010 to January 2012 A.S. in Criminal Justice Ocean County College - Toms River, NJ January 2008 to January 2010 Additional Information Skills  MS SQL Server Network Design    Microsoft Windows Vulnerability Assessments    OSX/macOS Sierra/Apple iOS Network Security    Kali Linux (Pen Testing) Firewall Administration    Ubuntu Linux Active Directory    RedHat Linux Enterprise (RHEL) Information Assurance    VMWare Fusion (Virtualization) Risk & Controls Assessment (NIST/FISMA)    VirtualBox (Virtualization) DISA STIG    CLI (Windows, Linux, Mac) US Gov. Configuration Baseline (USGCB)    Nmap Center for Internet Security (CIS benchmarks)    Nessus Security Policy (Analysis & Creation)    Tripwire Enterprise Security Baseline Compliance Reports    Metasploit Framework Splunk