IT Risk Assurance & Compliance Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Risk Assurance &amp; Compliance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Risk Assurance & Compliance Analyst - INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND Baltimore, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Risk Assurance & Compliance Analyst INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND August 2016 to Present • Performed risk-based audits of information systems, applications, operating systems and procedures.  • Performed quarterly user access review of vendor applications with which the Fund does business.  • Performed annual profile review and risk assessment of high and medium risk applications.  • Reviewed password settings in applications to ensure they are equivalent to the Fund's Security Policy and in the event a system cannot meet the policy, raise/extend waiver/risk.  • Reviewed privilege users (users who have ability to add/change/delete users, make configuration changes, resets passwords) at the application level to ensure this permission is appropriately authorized.  • Assisted with assessing the adequacy of pre-SOX assessment of internal controls and efficiencies in business processes.  • Identified risks and vulnerabilities in Cloud services (AWS) and followed up with remediating findings.  • Identified and managed accepted Risks and Exceptions for internal and external applications.  • Assisted with risk assessment methodology enhancements and preparing management presentations.  • Ensured adherence to Technology Risk governance including IS security policies and standards  • Worked closely with management team, external auditors in assessing and reporting on controls over IT.  • Ensured 'Always Audit Ready' and supported internal business process and external audits and exams.  • Identified and continuously improved internal Tech Risk processes.  • Managed multiple tasks independently to meet deadlines. SAP IT Security Auditor NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION June 2012 to August 2015 Special Project in alliance to PWC  • Conducted quarterly PWC compliance testing for NNPC's SAP, Oracle and other third party applications.  • Prepared audit scopes, reported findings, and presented recommendations for improving data integrity and operations.  • Performed SAP IT audit in the context PWC compliance and ISO compliance effort as well as performed risk assessment to determine areas of concern.  • Effectively communicated results to management through concise audit reports.  • Performed pre and post-implementation assurance reviews of SAP implementation/major upgrades project assurance services (including gate reviews).  • Performed reviews and applied best practices in securing tables, reports, programs, and transaction codes in SAP.  • Ensured that access to view, display and report transmitted data is restricted to authorized personnel.  • Performed and applied concepts of Enterprise Risk Management to help the company identify, assess, mitigate and proactively consider emerging risks.  • Utilized SAP knowledge to focus audit testing on specific risk areas.  • Recommended improvements for risk compliance/applications access control process.  • Met with IT Administrators and Business owners to validate that adequate IT Controls exists.  • Worked both independently and in a team environment to drive improvements of internal controls as well as providing assistance to NNPC's external auditors. IT Audit & Security Consultant AWO BUREAU DYNAMICS January 2012 to June 2012 • Assisted AWO in planning and scoping their quarterly and yearly IT audit engagements.  • Performed testing of IT General Controls (ITGCs), Application and Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) controls for AWO.  • Provided IT controls guidance with respect to client information systems, technology architecture, and security.  • Reviewed organizational charts to detect and rectify gaps that are likely to cause conflicts in user's roles.  • Reviewed company's Business Continuity Plan to determine the business strategy, the risks and impact of unexpected disruptions Education Masters of Science in Information Management Systems & Information Security &Assurance TOWSON UNIVERSITY Bachelor of Science in Information & Communication Technology COVENANT UNIVERSITY Skills AUDIT (4 years), SECURITY (4 years), ISO (3 years), OPERATIONS (3 years), ORACLE (3 years) Additional Information SUMMARY & SKILLS:  • 4+ years of experience in IT/IS Audit, Technology Risk Management and IT Operations/Support.  • 4+ years of experience in SAP Security Audit, SAP GRC Pre and Post Implementation Review.  • 3+ years of experienced with SOX, PCI, COBIT, ITIL, and ISO 27001framework.  • Good understanding of ITGC's (Logical Access, Change Management, & IT Operations).  • Strong knowledge of Business Continuity Planning (BCP) and Disaster Recovery Planning (DRP).  • Good understanding of core business processes and how they are supported by IT.  • Good knowledge of technologies such as: (UNIX, Windows Servers/Active Directory, Network Domains, AS/400, Oracle and SQL Database systems).  • Good knowledge of MS Office suite (Excel, Word, PowerPoint and Visio), excellent communication and interpersonal skills, team player and detail oriented.