Cyber Security Analyst I Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> I Cyber Security Analyst I - Institute for Defenses Analyses Denton, MD Top Secret with SCI Cleared IT Professional Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst I Institute for Defenses Analyses - Alexandria, VA October 2018 to Present Supervisor: David Sanders Phone: 703-845-2000   * Executes Information Security Monitoring ? Monitors and Analyzes information security alerts from network devices and information systems ? Responds and/or directs the response to information security incidents ? Analyzes indicators of compromise for use in detection ? Reports risk posture of information systems ? Collaborates with industry and government sponsors on new threat indicators * Supports Media Forensics and Malware Analysis ? Forensic analysis of information systems and portable devices ? Forensic recovery of data using industry tools ? Behavioral analysis of malware to provide indicators for monitoring * Executes Information System Security Evaluation and Hardening ? Evaluates new information security technologies ? Configures and implements information security technologies ? Validates system hardening and provides guidance for security configuration ? Evaluates network and system security configuration for risk based access control * Supports Information Security Training and Projects ? Develops employee awareness training for relevant information security trends ? Evaluates information security trends, tools and techniques for potential application infrastructure and research areas ? Manages and/or contributes to information technology projects Computer Systems Support Administrator Institute for Defense Analyses - Alexandria, VA September 2017 to September 2018 Supervisor: Joyce Thompson Phone: 703-845-2292   * Assembles, configures, delivers, implements, maintains, and provides technical support and user assistance for a variety of multiplatform endpoint systems, telecommunications, and client based services. Ensures component compatibility with existing baseline and network architectures, compliance with corporate IT policy, and staff member requirements though a consultation process.  * Processes, coordinates, troubleshoots, resolves and provides technical assistance in support of Help Desk tickets and Change requests. Maintains the customer support service areas and provides customer assistance with portable endpoint systems.  * Performs a range of administrative tasks to include warranty and license maintenance, records management, configuration management, office administration, scripting problem resolutions, conference support schedules, and maintaining the tape/disk library and media libraries for offsite storage.  * Assists in the development, design, and architecture of new technological solutions; participates in systems research, testing, and software command scripting.  * Other duties as assigned Network Technician/I.T. Support BDK Inc - Easton, MD January 2016 to August 2017 Owner: Bruce Kimball Phone: 410-820-9926   * Answer Client calls and emails for support with information technology related problems * Configure, fix, maintain, monitor and install new hardware and software on client workstations, laptops, servers, firewalls and other devices * Setting up new workstations, laptops, servers and printers.  * Basic Active Directory & Microsoft Exchange knowledge * Utilize SolarWinds N-Able network management console to monitor client devices, remotely configure, change and fix where possible * Use AutoTask ticketing system to create, edit and submit tickets for service requests and utilize the detailed timesheet function as well * Monitoring of Evault cloud backups for multiple customers - troubleshooting problems, setting up new jobs, Optimization, etc.  * Assist other technicians and sales staff with developing and implementing basic to complex projects Education Bachelor of Science degree University of Maryland University College 2012 to 2015 Four (4) State 2010 Skills Authentication (Less than 1 year), Cisco (Less than 1 year), deployment (Less than 1 year), Ethernet (Less than 1 year), Security (3 years)