Apple Certified Hardware Technician Apple Certified Hardware Technician Tallmadge, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Apple Certified Hardware Technician Service and Repair Center, Information Services, Kent State University - Kent, OH October 2016 to Present As an Apple Certified Hardware technician, I am responsible for repairing and diagnosing Apple devices as well as Windows devices. This position also includes some account management, such as resetting student's passwords and managing their accounts. Basic computer troubleshooting for customers, students, and faculty at Kent State University. Customer service is our number one priority and good communication skills are also required. Position is very similar to a Helpdesk position. Desktop Support Technician Quicken Loans Inc. - Cleveland, OH May 2017 to August 2017 Troubleshoot and repair computers in a network environment. Image and placement of computers. Move equipment for users transferring to new locations within the company. Maintain physical inventory of computer and equipment and supplies. Support remote users. Install and configure software. Troubleshoot complex problems with Microsoft and Non-Microsoft Applications Student IT Security Analyst Security & Access Management, Information Services, Kent State University - Kent, OH May 2016 to September 2016 Left due to unforeseen circumstances. Job entailed account management, which included managing student and faculty accounts, as well as creating new accounts for students and faculty. We used Splunk to manage and track account activity. Splunk training was also performed in this position. Position also included basic Helpdesk troubleshooting. Library Helpdesk Tech. Tech2You, Information Services, Kent State University - Kent, OH May 2015 to May 2016 Started as a student technician, which entailed scanning wireless networks for gaps in coverage in student dorms. Also provided basic HelpDesk support for students. After a couple of months, I was promoted to a senior tech, who performs same tasks and fills in for student leaders when they call off. In December of 2014, I was promoted to Student Leader, which entails all of the previous duties, as well as managing student and senior techs, and sending reports to supervisors. Promoted to Library Helpdesk Technician. Includes all of above duties as well as ability to reset student and faculty passwords. Education BS in Digital Science- Computer Science Kent State University at Kent - Kent, OH August 2012 to May 2018 Skills Customer Relations (3 years), Apple Certified (1 year), Helpdesk Support (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/taylor-carter-2220a0111/ Certifications/Licenses Apple Service Fundamentals October 2016 to Present Certified through Apple's customer service program. Apple Certified Mac Technician November 2016 to Present Certified to work on Mac Computers