IT Security/Risk Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span>/Risk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security/Risk Analyst - Secureapp Technologies Work Experience IT Security/Risk Analyst Secureapp Technologies - Iselin, NJ September 2017 to Present - Kali Linux, IBM Appscan, HPE WebInspect,  - Analyze the vulnerabilities in an application/website and triaging them. Burp Suite, Nmap, Sqlmap, Nikto, Metasploit,  - Eliminating the false positives in vulnerabilities and assisting the development Cryptography, Wireshark, TCP/IP, Ethernet,  team with the viable solutions to remove the vulnerabilities. Wi-fi.    - Running an effective Penetration testing. - C/C++, Python.  - Quartus II, Cadence, Modelsim, Arduino,  - Performing Risk Management Assessments.  - Assist with performing assessments and testing to evaluate compliance with Raspberry Pi, Orange Pi, STM32F.  various regulatory requirements including HIPAA, PCI and/or Data Privacy & - Android Studio.  Protection. - Adobe Photoshop, Camera Raw. VLSI (NYU, JNTU) August 2016 to May 2017 - Embedded Systems (NYU, JNTU)  - Vulnerability detection in web application and try to mitigate or remove them.  - Microcontrollers and Microprocessors (JNTU)  - Understanding of offensive security techniques, including encryption attacks, MITM  attacks, and logic flaws. - Computer Architecture (NYU)  - Ensuring the CIA of the data. - Operating Systems (JNTU)  - Learned security frameworks such as ISO27001, NIST 800-53, OWASP ASVS. - Introduction to Programming VLSI (NYU, JNTU) August 2016 to December 2016 - C/C++  - Learned and performed password cracking on machines using Rescue Live-cd. Certificates  - Encryption and decryption using various mechanisms.  - CEH (Certified Ethical Hacker) Hardware Security July 2016 to July 2016 - Certified in Hardware Security by Coursera.  - Installed kali Linux into Raspberry Pi and connected it with a Wi-fi adapter.  - Certified for Robotic Arm Project by ECIL.  - Using Juice SSH and VNC, I connected my android device and Raspberry Pi. Certified by AMCAT as Creative Developer University of Gesture Controlled Music Player March 2016 to May 2016 Mar'16-May'16  Cambridge.  - Collaborated with a team of three and designed a Music player using STM32F4  - Certified by AMCAT in Software Development  Discovery board which takes input from a USB, plays the song with the help of  - Certified by AMCAT as Creative Developer.  speaker/earphone.  - We integrated a gesture control using another STM32F4 Discovery board. The Interests  means of communication between the 2 boards was through Bluetooth. Cybermotion Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2015 to August 2015 Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access Database.  Cybermotion Technologies - OS: Windows, Kali Linux, Linux, Mac  - Led a team which designed and developed an industry that runs automatically using Strengths  a Schneider PLC and HMI. Quick Learner, Team Player, Hard Working, R&D Assistant Keshav Memorial Institute of Technology - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to January 2015 Active, Punctual, Responsible, Patience,  Keshav Memorial Institute of Technology Creative, Adaptability, Leadership.  - Assisted the Head of the R&D Department for Finishing school classes (college  initiative to develop student skills) offered courses like HTML, C, Arduino, Cisco Courses  packet tracer, Networking. Assisted students on their various major/minor projects. - Network Security (NYU) Proximity - Graduate Orientation Leader Automated Car (JNTU) June 2014 to November 2014 Jun'14-Nov'14  - Collaborated with a team of six and developed a GPS controlled car which was  inspired from the self-driving car using an Arduino Uno. Extra-curricular Activities  - Programmed in C++, the Arduino was integrated with AC motors, Proximity - Graduate Orientation Leader at NYU for the sensors, GPS module, GSM module, Zig-bee module. Fall'16 Semester.  - Part of the KMIT basketball team (JNTU). Education Master's degree in Computer Engineering in Rakshit Merugu NYU - New York, NY May 2017 Skills Information Security, It Security, Cyber Security Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rakshitmerugu