IT Consultant <span class="hl">IT</span> Consultant Sr. IT Security and Privacy Consultant League City, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Consultant Protiviti - Houston, TX November 2018 to Present Security and Privacy Projects:   * PCI: Assisted in IT compliance and risk activities at a County Public Infrastructure client. This engagement included the following activities:     - Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) Report on Compliance (ROC)     - IT Risk Assessment     - Wireless Security Assessment      - DLP Data Privacy Scan  * IT SOX: Assisted Oil & Gas industry client with the performance of SOX 404 control testing to determine control operation effectiveness.   * Cyber Security: Performed vulnerability assessments for Oil & Gas client including internal and external network reviews to identify access control vulnerabilities, weak authentication procedures, information disclosure and other security risks. Validated results and assisted with exploiting the vulnerabilities with a penetration test. Security Intelligence Analyst, Network Security Architecture American National Insurance Company - Galveston, TX November 2017 to November 2018 * Design, support, monitor, and troubleshoot our Splunk Core Environment.  * Monitor network traffic and investigate anomalies and alerts within our enterprise.  * Investigate and remediate using various security products; such as, network traffic analytics platforms, correlation engines, IDS/IPS, endpoint security management tools, incident response tools, automated malware analysis tools, and threat intelligence.   * Interface with internal network security analysts, network engineers, the network security architect, and the Chief Information Security Officer to provide developing security treads and vulnerabilities.  * Produce weekly threat assessments based on enterprise threat analysis, coordinate cyber threat tracking, develop reports, briefings, and assessment and facilitate comprehension of cyber threat entities.  * Research current threat actors and TTPs relating to the insurance, financial, and oil & gas industries. Data Security Analyst, Security Administration American National Insurance Company - Galveston, TX July 2016 to November 2017 * Administer and maintain end user accounts, permissions, and access rights in accordance with best-practices regarding privacy, security, and regulatory compliance using an Identity Management System (CA). This extends to Mainframe applications (RACF, TSO), AS400, Active Directory, Windows Server 2008 & 2012 NTFS/Share Permissions, MS Office, and Outlook.  * Create and maintain enterprise security documents (policies, guidelines and procedures).  * Generate reports of access granted to various systems for audit in compliance of Sarbanes-Oxley Act.  * Support the needs of the organization 24 x 7, 365 days a year, through a rotating monthly on-call schedule.  * Collaborate with ECSG (Desktop Support) and Service Desk to improve our SLA for incidents, changes, and requests. CTS IT Intern, Security Administration American National Insurance Company - League City, TX April 2016 to July 2016 * Triaging security access request tickets using Enterprise Service Desk for the Security Admin team.  * Create and terminate over 50 field Agent/CSR network IDs and granting access to applications and groups each month. Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems University of Houston - Houston, TX May 2016 Skills CSS, DREAMWEAVER, ASP.NET, WEB DESIGN, security, HTML, Cisco, Microsoft Office, Cyber Security, Information Security, Siem, Network Security Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kenishababwah Certifications/Licenses Systems Security Certified Practitioner (SSCP) June 2018 to July 2021 Splunk Certified Admin February 2018 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Design: Familiar with HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, ASP.Net  Database Administration: Familiar with SQL  Programming: Familiar with Visual Basic, Python  Software: Proficient in Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint, Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver  Operating Systems: Familiar with Windows, Linux