IT Security Engineer <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Engineer Security Engineer Riverton, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Engineer Progrexion - Salt Lake City, UT April 2018 to Present Evaluate, develop and deploy information control systems, including firewall, email filter, DLP, anti virus, vulnerability management and more. Monitor control systems for performance, evaluate log days to discover security gaps and new threats. Worth with other business and IT departments to establish new controls and/or processes to mitigate vulnerabilities. Information Security Analyst I Progrexion Holdings Inc - Salt Lake City, UT October 2016 to Present Process alert and incident tickets. Manage Vormetric encryption licenses and policies, audit and resolve AV & DLP client compliance issues, analyse system vulnerabilities and work with other IT departments to identify best practices to reduce or eliminate specific risks. Pull and analyse PCAPs, tune and\or build system policies. Modify firewall rules as needed for business functions. Identify best practices and opportunities for improvements in UAM. Enhance UAM procedures to more accurately restrict access based on least access needed policy. Continuing education in DLP management and threat assessment . Help Desk Technician I Progrexion Holdings Inc - West Valley City, UT December 2015 to October 2016 Manage IT asset inventory logs, User maintenance in an AD structured domain, troubleshoot and resolve hardware and software systems, A+ certified, answer calls and respond to email generated tickets the queue. Assign service tickets to other technicians as needed. Cross train technicians on new systems and policies. Education Bachelor's in Science - Information Systems Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT January 2018 to Present Skills Customer service (10+ years), Cash handling (10+ years), Conflict management (7 years), Inventory management (7 years), Computer Repair (1 year), Information Security (2 years), Technical Support (1 year), Policy Development (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Next-Generation Firewall systems. (2 years), Cisco Ironport email security (2 years), Splunk (3 years), Network Security (1 year), PCI (3 years), Siem (3 years), It Security (3 years), Palo Alto (3 years), Nessus (2 years), Qualys (3 years), Cyber Security (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Dale Carnegie Course A+ Certified November 2016 to November 2019 CompTIA A+ 220-901 & 220-902 certification.