IT SECURITY SPECIALIST <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> SPECIALIST IT SECURITY SPECIALIST - PARTY CITY Union City, NJ I am a cyber security professional looking for a position that offers a greater challenge to me, and the opportunity to help the organization advance efficiently. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience IT SECURITY SPECIALIST PARTY CITY August 2017 to Present • Vulnerability Management - Handled the vulnerability assessments of offices, and stores.  • Penetration Testing - Exploiting the vulnerabilities reported from vulnerability scans.  • Computer security incident management - Monitoring events, and responding to anti-virus alerts, WAF alerts, phishing emails, and user- reported cases.  • SIEM - Creating dashboards, and educating IT personnel on how to use them.  • Phishing - Organizing global phishing campaigns.  • Security Education - Creating presentations to educate the global staff on various security topics, and best practices.  • Active Directory security - Auditing the existing settings and controls to set a default standard.  • Antivirus auditing - Comparing the settings between McAfee, and Symantec, and modifying both as per the use-cases.  • Antivirus maintenance - Handling the deployment, and scheduling of scans.  • Email Security - For threat hunting, incident response, and administration.  • Security Review - Performing architectural reviews, vulnerability scans, penetration tests, and setting the security controls based on them  for new software and hardware.  • Built CentOS servers.  • VLAN tagging on ESXi.  • CentOS, and Windows hardening as per the CIS Benchmark. SECURITY ANALYST DDB Worldwide September 2016 to June 2017 Vulnerability Assessment -internal and external scans, globally, comprising Identified, evaluated, documented, identified the tasks necessary  to remediate, tracked progress on remediation, and monitored for changes and similar vulnerabilities. Ensured that the identified risks are  managed in accordance with the Risk Management program and timeline. Performed monthly of 12500+ devices.  • Patch Management - Identified and deployed the available and necessary patches as per the compliance standard. Scanned and patched  3500+ Windows and Mac workstations in North America, monthly. Assisted in Windows server patching as well.  • Phishing - Organized global phishing campaigns in 11 languages, created dashboards based on reports, and provided training modules to the failed users.  • SIEM and Threat Modeling - Gave presentations and educated personnel from over 40 offices on SIEM and Threat Modeling throughout the globe, virtually, and collected requirements from them.  • Incident Response - Mitigated events and proactively worked to avoid WannaCry and Petya ransomwares.  • Email Filtering - Using Proofpoint, validated False Positives, False Negatives, malware, non-malware threats, quarantine, safe and block lists, and created Custom Rulesets.  • Security Procedures and Policy Review - Drafted and set process flows for Patch Management, Incident Response, and Penetration Testing.  Review the security requirements of clients. Managed the development of cyber security reporting and lead review sessions to solicit feedback and ensure the requirements are being met.  • Created multiboot recovery disks for Windows and Mac.  • NIST framework, and CIS Controls.  • Worked directly with the CISO and the regional IT Directors. Attended multiple ISC2 CISO, RiskSec, Apple, and Microsoft security conferences  along with a few training sessions on AWS, and penetration testing. Also attended multiple global CISO meetups within Omnicom pertaining to vendor sessions and discussions. SYSTEM AND NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR GW CASH AND CARRY August 2015 to July 2016 • Set up a network of multiple computers, printers, Nuvico surveillance, and PA system.  • Worked on SupplyLogic software. Installed on the main server and clients over the local network.  • Populated the database of SupplyLogic with approximately 3800 items and set up a scanning system to be used at POS machines.  • Managed MSA reporting for tobacco products. Education MASTER OF SCIENCE in Cyber Security and Privacy NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY May 2016 BACHELOR OF ENGINEERING in Computer Science and Engineering VISVESVARAYA TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY June 2014 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kevingandhi99 Additional Information I have H1B.