Access Management & Identity Ops Security Analyst - Associate Access Management &amp; Identity Ops <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - Associate Inver Grove Heights, MN Work Experience Access Management & Identity Ops Security Analyst - Associate Minneapolis, MN May 2017 to Present ALLINA Health    Conducted evaluation of security access required for provisioning of 325 applications & systems. Interfaced with customers to better understand access needs and ensure access provisioned was appropriate for the job function being performed. Identified, analyzed and remediated issues associated with access rights. Resolved access incident issues in accordance with departmental SLAs. Followed Incident Management procedures and recommended process changes based on needs of customers. Educated user community so they understood and adhered to procedures to maintain proper access control. Responsible for processes and procedures related to provisioning of Multi-factor authentication tokens.    Provided guidance and recommendations on security requirements, some examples include:  • Access control requirements  • Audit regulations  • Network security incident analysis  • Encryption standards  • Secure data exchange requirements  • Identify areas where risk assessments need to be performed.  • Conduct independent risk assessments  • Identify risks to Allina's confidential and protected information. Security Operations Center Analyst United Health Group - Chaska, MN November 2015 to July 2016 Direct experience and thorough understanding of security event monitoring concepts and escalation processes. Monitored security events from multiple sources, analyzed the results and escalated to the appropriate group for remediation when necessary. Performed security event monitoring using ArcSight and FireEye security tools. Compiled and categorized all PhishLine campaign emails by campaign and sent them to the appropriate group for review.    Attended and passed advanced ArcSight certification training and testing, certified to perform the following:  • Navigate HP ArcSight ESM Console and Command Center to correlate, investigate, analyze, and remediate both exposed and obscure threats  • Construct HP ArcSight Variables to provide advanced analysis of the event stream  • Develop HP ArcSight Lists and Rules to allow advanced correlation activities  • Optimize event-based data monitors to provide real time viewing of event traffic and anomalies  • Design new report templates and create functional reports  • Find events through search tools Internship SuperValu - Eden Prairie, MN June 2015 to August 2015 Assisted in establishing reporting metrics for the following tools: vulnerability scanning, intrusion detection, application firewall, and antivirus. Additionally, assisted with incident handling and response processes. IT Security, Internship Blue Cross Blue Shield of Minnesota - Eagan, MN May 2014 to August 2014 Reviewed SCCM and Nessus reports on applications installed on BCBSMN workstations to identify and remove those which were not authorized and caused security concerns. This reduced vulnerability of endpoints and overall security. Education Bachelor of Criminal Justice Cyber in Defense and Information Security Tiffin University - Tiffin, OH September 2013 to September 2015 Associate Arts degree Iowa Lakes Community College - Emmetsburg, IA March 2013 Skills Active Directory (Less than 1 year), Adobe Photoshop (Less than 1 year), Lawson (Less than 1 year), Networking (Less than 1 year), Photoshop (Less than 1 year), problem solving (Less than 1 year), Security (3 years), Splunk (Less than 1 year), TCP (Less than 1 year), team player (Less than 1 year), UDP (Less than 1 year), UNIX (Less than 1 year), Wireshark (Less than 1 year)