Network Security Analyst Network <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Network Security Analyst - City of Cleveland Cleveland, OH • 6 years organizational or academic experience in Networking and Security. (CompTIA Cyber Security Analyst certified+ CompTIA Security+ Certified and Cisco Certified Network Associate).  • Provide level 3 SIEM support to manage SIEM components, IDS/IPS, parsing/normalization of logs, rule engine, log storage, source device, log collection and event monitoring.  • Incident response and recovery to production impacting concerns regarding load Balancing solutions.  • Implement, maintain, and tune rulesets on Cisco IDS/IPS to increase security posture of the organization and its subsidiaries.  • Performed LAN, DMZ, and internet facing security scanning of mission critical devices on corporate and guest network for potential vulnerabilities, malicious programs and recommended appropriate actions.  • Performed network vulnerability assessments using various tools to evaluate attack vectors, identify system vulnerabilities and develop remediation plans and security procedures.  • Capable of managing the complex network security design, configuration, deployment & administration and troubleshooting complex security configurations.  • Managed and maintain Active directory, group policy, Discretionary Policy and Mandatory Policies  • Implemented and Configured Cisco ASA Networks Firewalls models using ASDM and centralized management system Panorama to manage large scale firewalls deployments.  • Experience in applying server policies including DHCP in Windows (2008/2012/2016) and Linux servers.  • Experienced with routing protocol such as BGP, MPLS, MPLS-VPN, OSPF, RIP (Some IS-IS, EIGRP and Multicast). Work Experience Network Security Analyst City of Cleveland - Cleveland, OH January 2019 to Present • Performing Network monitoring with tools like SolarWinds and PRTG.  • Establishing Designs and enhancement of Vulnerability Management Program.  • Working with Cisco Sourcefire to neutralize the potential threats.  • Conducting penetration testing using operating systems such like kali Linux.  • Working with open source tools Nmap/Zenmap, Burp suit, Beef and Metasploit to perform web application and security testing.  • Performing reconnaissance active and passive for monitoring and resolution of flaws in the security.  • Securing and troubleshooting the network protocol and devices based on OSI models including 6800, 3650 and 2960 switches.  • Leading implementation of three major security projects Cisco AMP, Umbrella and ISE. IT Operations Associate ACCENTURE - Gurgaon, Haryana June 2016 to August 2016 • Performed complete security analysis during design phase.  • Supported remote access solutions (Cisco ASA, Juniper SSL VPN).  • Supported deploying new technologies to branch offices including firewall, NAC, wireless and switching technologies as well as performed system logs reviews.  • Responsible for monitoring system security alerts and notifying the team in a timely manner.  • Analyzed the traffic and threat logs from over 4000 Firewalls and took measures appropriately.  • Troubleshoot network access problems, Strong TCP/IP understanding, Debugging checkpoint firewall.  • Troubleshooting Linux network, security related issues, capturing packets using tools such as IPtables, firewall, Wireshark and NMAP.  • Configuring failover and working on SSL-VPN when in active/standby failover on ASA.  • Created firewalls policies and NAT rules to provide access for websites internal and externally on Palo Alto and Juniper firewalls. IT Administrator Wipro - Gurgaon, Haryana March 2015 to June 2016 • Configured, monitored and trouble-shoot ASA Firewall backbone network, IPS/IDS.  • Changed the management VLAN on Nortel 2550s, 8600s and Cisco 3560s.  • Maintained the user documents like manuals and guides for various projects.  • Designed, implemented and maintained VPN tunnels to remote offices.  • Performed Analysis of the Network Attack, blocks, detects and regular Health Checkups in the real Environment with the help of SIEM tools LogRhythm and SPLUNK.  • Conducted Network security administration, compliance reporting in Vulnerability Management System using Nessus, Nexpose vulnerability scanner.  • Installed and Configured a Cisco secure ACS server for AAA authentication (RADIUS).  • Administration of ASA firewalls in the DMZ and FWSM in the Server Farm to provide security and controlled/restricted access.  • Configures, manages and provides technical support for the firewalls, IPS, and other network security systems.  • Troubleshoot issues related to VLAN, VLAN Trunking, HSRP failovers, related issues. Network Engineer System Informatics - Delhi, Delhi March 2013 to March 2015 • Provided with Network security requirements, design input, risk assessment, testing and vulnerability assessment.  • Coordinated and maintained Cisco Firewall (5505, 5510) and router (ASR 9000).  • Gathered logs using network/packet analyzing tools like Ping, Traceroute and Wireshark.  • Planned, evaluated, and implemented network security measures.  • Worked closely with Security teams to maintain standards, guidelines and procedures.  • Evaluated security threats, products and technologies.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Site to Site as well as Remote Access VPN on Cisco ASA and Checkpoint firewalls.  • Provided proactive threat defense with ASA that stops attacks before they spread through the network.  • Managing firewalls, data encryption and other security measure. IT Intern Indian Railways - Delhi, Delhi January 2013 to June 2014 • Learning about the railway networking system.  • Managing a Telecommunication and Automation System.  • Troubleshooting EPABX telephone system. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Cleveland State University - Cleveland, OH May 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication MDU University May 2013 Skills NAGIOS, OLAP, METASPLOIT, NESSUS, SPLUNK Certifications/Licenses CompTIA CYSA+ July 2019 to July 2022 CCNA Routing and Switching November 2014 to November 2017 CompTIA Security+ May 2018 to May 2021