IT/Access Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span>/Access <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Oak Park, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT/Access Security Analyst Reyes Holdings LLC - Rosemont, IL January 2018 to Present • Receive and accurately record details of problems reported to the ITSC to include status and resolutions to problems  • Successfully troubleshoot, diagnose and resolve Tier 1 & Tier 2 service and support issues.  • Provide accurate Tier 1 - Tier 3 services and support metric reporting (i.e. call tracking) as required.  • Handle the efficient escalation of customer service and support issues to the Tier 2 & 3 support team.  • Manage execution of assigned tasks against detailed project plans that facilitate the timely completion of infrastructure objectives and deliverables.  • Create and maintain production support documentation including technical support documents and end user instructions.  • As a team member, discuss with team to evaluate and maintain assigned policies and procedures to keep them current and efficient, and present to supervisor/manager.  • Provide first-level support in the areas of Citrix, Active Directory, Enterprise 365, JDE EnterpriseOne, PC software applications, desktop/laptop hardware, mobile devices, and networking. Maintain skill level sufficient to provide such support.  • Respond to error messages by resolving issue or escalating to appropriate support personnel.  • Remote support using SCCM, Tight VNC, Bomgar  • Bilingual support (French and English)  • Other tasks and duties as assigned. IT Help Desk Agent HYATT - Chicago, IL November 2016 to November 2017 • Utilized ServiceNow ticketing system in providing IT support to worldwide hotel chain through phone and email.  • Troubleshoot system software and hardware issues including Active Directory, cyber security, Email/outlook support, Access Security, VPN access, on boarding and offloading of users, Multi factor authentication,  • One call resolution and ticket escalation to appropriate team for quick resolution  • Configured and update of Java application to provide security certificates for Hyatt domain URLs within hotel Oracle systems  • Worked with Oracle in providing remote and secure access for troubleshooting within specific domains/grids.  • Network printer setup and support for properties worldwide  • EMV System setup and support following guidelines setup in knowledge base  • Password resets, user profile setup and unlocking, Terminations and group access. Setting up Shared Mailbox and Distribution groups access  • Software and hardware installation and support using admin rights.  • Troubleshoot Microsoft OS issues. Installing updates and updating group policy  • Used Bomgar Remote Access for troubleshooting, backup/restore and updating software  • Created Knowledge Base articles detailing steps and procedures for troubleshooting specific software issues with strict focus on SLAs.  • Trained new employees on corporate culture and troubleshooting procedures to provide the best result driven care to worldwide users  • Citrix software installation and support for thin client users. Using system software to access servers for hung sessions within Citrix. IT Help desk Agent ADP/CDK Global - Hoffman Estates, IL October 2014 to March 2016 • Telephone support to worldwide internal clients providing one call resolution to software and hardware issues  • Applications Support for software and hardware.  • Troubleshoot VPN issues for internal clients. Providing access to company infrastructure remotely and also client server boxes  • Active Directory support, password provision and reset for end user clients  • Software troubleshooting for clients locked out of hardware using SOPHOS/Safeguard Challenge/Response to enable access  • Ticket creation for client issues and provided escalation cases to appropriate team for timely resolution following SLA guidelines.  • Used REMEDY to coordinate workflow. Search records and submit tickets and client request Education Bachelor's in Applied Sciences in Business Administration Robert Morris University Skills VPN (9 years), BILINGUAL (10+ years), SATISFACTION Additional Information Skills    ? Highly experienced working in a fast paced environment that requires multi tasking skills  ? Bilingual. Fluent in both French and English.  ? VPN and password reset professional with experience in lotus and Microsoft software systems.  ? Highly motivated independent and team worker able to meet deadlines  ? Ticket Tracking and escalation skill to ensure issue resolution to clients ultimate satisfaction meeting company's SLA's.  ? Experienced in grasping business operational procedure and thereby is able to relate to business enquiries in a professional and friendly manner to ensure maximum satisfaction  ? Excellent interpersonal skills in a technical and in bound call environment.  ? Proficient in ticketing and one call issue resolution to ensure client satisfaction and therefore retention and improvement of company brand.