IT Support <span class="hl">IT</span> Support IT Support Manassas, VA Secure a position where my information technology, networking, and cybersecurity skills can be used to the fullest Work Experience IT Support Futura Embroidery & Promotional Solutions February 2018 to February 2019 Performing setup, repair, and troubleshooting for all company devices along with testing and installing all network equipment  ? Providing and updating best practice documentation for security procedures and device usage  ? Protecting network from cyber threats by implementing custom firewall rules and watching network traffic for malicious activity Management Analyst - Cyber Security US Nuclear Regulatory Commission November 2017 to January 2018 Analyzing NRC policies and procedures to ensure compliance with all relevant documentation  ? Compiling NRC and Federal documentation for use in internal investigations  ? Consulting with department heads to improve network security infrastructure IT Support Futura Embroidery & Promotional Solutions December 2016 to October 2017 Performing setup, repair, and troubleshooting for all company devices along with testing and installing all network equipment  ? Providing and updating best practice documentation for security procedures and device usage  ? Protecting network from cyber threats by implementing custom firewall rules and watching network traffic for malicious activity IT Specialist Department of Homeland Security June 2016 to October 2016 Performing cybersecurity metrics reporting for the Enhanced Cybersecurity Services (ECS) program to show ongoing success and program value of ECS to Industry partners, senior members, and the leadership of CS&C  ? Analyzing cybersecurity threat indicator reports to locate threats of interest and any other information pertinent to advancing the effectiveness of the ECS program and the EINSTEIN 3 Accelerated (E3A) Program  ? Designing ECS outreach material to promote and raise awareness about the program  ? Collaborating with interagency partners to facilitate the sharing of ECS cyber threat metrics 4G LTE tester Alcatel-Lucent June 2014 to August 2014 Analyzing netflow to ensure that connections meet all cybersecurity and requirements by looking at connections from devices to the network and determining their reason for the connection  ? Testing Sprint 4G LTE systems set for commercial release by maintaining network connection through any possible scenario Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science in Computer Science Indiana University of Pennsylvania (IUP) August 2016 Skills Help Desk, Desktop Support, Active Directory Assessments Technical Support — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/csrucyyhmkyd5mvm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information RELEVANT SKILLS:  • Deployment/management skills in multi-site clustered Splunk configurations  • Experience with Java, SQL, Python, regex, and shell scripting  • Experience with configuring and managing multiple Linux based deployments, AWS instances, and Windows deployments  • Detailed knowledge of securing networks against cyber threats through specialized classwork and work experience