Information Security Program Manager Information <span class="hl">Security</span> Program Manager Information Security Program Manager Houston, TX • TSU student offering a strong academic background in Management Information Systems with over two years of IT experience.  • Consistently recognized for troubleshooting skills and cost-effectively resolving challenging issues.  • Quickly learns and masters new procedures and technologies; equally successful in both team and self-directed settings; and a strong aptitude in Microsoft Office Suite (Outlook, Word, Excel, and PowerPoint) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Program Manager Texas Southern University - Houston, TX September 2011 to December 2012 • Supervised team of four people in due-diligence and created valuation scenarios for target acquisition.  • Prepared weekly status reports to management and coordinated weekly team meetings to prioritize deliverables and define project workflow.  • Developed and implemented team collaboration strategy leading to 40% increase in team deliverables Information Security Analyst Texas Southern University - Houston, TX September 2010 to September 2011 • Successfully identified and evaluated the business case for adopting and implementing COBIT (Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies) as the IT Control Framework for the University.  • Co-authored IT disaster recovery plan to mitigate network security risks related to phishing and data loss.  • Developed IT contingency plan to mitigate risks related to network security breach.  • Developed information management guidelines to classify information and determine storage timeframe.  • Conducted information security awareness training programs to educate university employees on information asset protection policies and procedures.  • Identified Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) adopted by the University's Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) IT Assistant World Wide Environmental Services - New York, NY May 2010 to August 2010 • Cold-called and pitched consultancy services to NYC restaurants with subpar health inspection records.  • Resolved customer queries over telephone.  • Responsible for the installation, operation, and maintenance of computer systems  • Responsible for setting up peripherals such as printers or routers.  • Provided daily support for computer network users.    Leadership Development  • Director of Social Media: We Love Charity Organization  • Member: TSU International Students Association (ISA), American Marketing Association (AMA) Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Information Systems Texas Southern University - Houston, TX June 2014 to Present Skills Microsoft Office Suite (5 years), Customer Service (1 year), Sales (Less than 1 year), IT Project Management (Less than 1 year), IT support (1 year)