IT Consultant <span class="hl">IT</span> Consultant Lehigh Acres, FL A highly self-motivated individual dedicated to providing excellent service with an impeccable attention to detail. A recent college graduate who, although is fairly new to the work world, desires to learn all the skills necessary to complete a job or task with high levels of efficiency. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Consultant Walters IT Solutions - Lehigh Acres, FL May 2018 to Present • Troubleshot and resolved PC, mobile and tablet device issues including; connectivity, email setup and new user training.  • Updated and maintained virus protection software, performed system scans and removed any detected viruses, spyware and malware.  • Installed and updated Windows 10, 7, and Microsoft Office Suite software. IT Security Analyst Millennium Physician Group - North Fort Myers, FL September 2018 to December 2018 • Developed, improved and helped implement best practices for risk reduction across a range of enterprise applications, systems, networks and interfaces.  • Assisted with the development of processes and procedures to improve incident response times and analysis of incidents.  • Utilized Mcafee ePolicy Orchestrator to monitor and mitigate security vulnerabilities on end clients.  • Interpreted and developed mitigation practices based off data collected from Nessus Vulnerability Scanner.  • Audited and created reports based on end user access to outside EMR vendors.  • Conducted onsite visits to offices to ensure that HIPAA and AHIT security policies were being implemented effectively. IT Service Desk Coordinator Millennium Physician Group - North Fort Myers, FL September 2016 to September 2018 • Handled the incoming inventory and the deployment of equipment to end users.  • Utilized KACE Systems Management Appliance to organize and manage company IT assets.  • Performed troubleshooting and repaired systems that required hardware or software changes.  • Tracked calls and documented problems into KACE ticketing software, consulted knowledge database to optimize resolutions and followed through on resolution with callers.  • Provided assistance with office moves, as well as the installation of laptop/desktop workstations and other required peripherals.  • Utilized Maas360 MDM software for setup, deployment, and monitoring of mobile devices. Education B.S. in Information Security/ Cyber Forensics Keiser University - Fort Myers, FL 2017 to 2018 Associate in Information Technology Keiser University - Fort Myers, FL 2015 to 2017 Lehigh Senior High School - Lehigh Acres, FL 2015 Skills Organizational skills, Customer service, Operations, Team player, Security