IT Security Compliance Consultant <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Compliance Consultant IT Security Compliance Consultant Long Beach, CA Multilingual- Cantonese- (Fluent), Mandarin- (Conversational), English (Native), Spanish (Conversational)  March 2018 - July 2018 - Took opportunity to enhance technical skills in Technical Cloud Security.  - Currently Pursuing CISSP- Certified Information Systems Security Professional certification  (Expectancy: December 2019)  - 4+ years of Information Technology in the entertainment, higher education, and government industries  - Self-driven, detail oriented, dedicated team player with a sense of urgency and excellent communication skills  - Ability to adapt, organize, simplify, works well under pressure, and prioritize in a fast-paced and challenging environment  - Strong computer skills in Windows and Mac software, Microsoft Office and Google Suite Applications Work Experience IT Security Compliance Consultant The Hydrafacial Company - Long Beach, CA April 2019 to June 2019 Administered assistance for 250+ professionals at The Hydrafacial Company in a total of 3 locations  ? Managed guidance at 1 of the 3 locations, mainly the Customer Call Center location, including C-Suite Executives  ? Developed and improved documentation for current and new applications, security controls, policies, protocols and procedures; ad hoc reporting  ? Applied knowledge assessments for troubleshooting and testing client facing issues  ? Procured and prepared equipment per new hire on-boarding and off-boarding  ? Maintained third party business relationships with Xerox and Microsoft  ? Provided recommendations via written communication for company compliance requirements and system security  development plans (VPN, firewall, proxy servers, DNS and NTP, multi-factor authentication, anti malware tools, and vulnerability scanning)  ? Participated in Audit assessment team to discuss any possible Cyber- security issues, email security, and protocols, including  incident responses, PCI- DSS, and NIST standards Operations /Documentation Analyst The Walt Disney Studios - Glendale, CA October 2018 to February 2019 Provided Motion Picture Production Operations support for 100+ Production users in Disney entities  ? Created documentation, reports, procedure manuals for new and improved internal applications  ? On-Board / Off-Board users for internally managed applications  ? Tested and troubleshoot applications by Application Dev-Ops team during SDLC process flow to ensure compatibility  ? Supported applications in relation to Purchase Orders, Data Repositories, accounting software, and scheduling to enhance day  to day Production lifestyle Desktop Support Specialist Children's Oncology Group - Monrovia, CA July 2018 to October 2018 Provided internal and remote technical support (computer hardware troubleshooting) for over 250+ Medical Professionals  ? Assisted Network and Development team with social engineering and malware / security threat incident response  ? Managed user request related to Active Directory, by updating profiles, passwords, profiles, and permissions  ? Revised documentations and manuals for all application updates  ? Started development of SCCM in a business setting and utilized PowerShell during testing phases IT Technician/ System Administrator Netflix, Inc - Los Angeles, CA September 2017 to March 2018 Delivered first-class tech support Netflix, Inc. Production Studios for 150+ both domestic and international  ? Configured Google Beta Tested devices such as (CFM) Conference for Meeting Room Cameras and accessories  ? Fostered third party relationships with vendors and managed outsourcing rental agreements for productions  ? Assisted the IT Technician team with updating computer images for MacOS and PC (Windows) devices, which helped  shorten imaging times by 70%  ? Performed ad-hoc reporting from internal data sources such as databases and other systems Computer (PC) Systems Analyst Princess Cruises - Santa Clarita, CA October 2016 to September 2017 Remotely provided multilingual technical support for C-Suite Executive and 300+ users in during Asia hours  ? Understood and abided by international Cyber- security policies and protocols, (Asia) device management and access  restrictions  ? Conducted demonstrations and key application functionality walkthroughs for (technical and non-technical) users in their  native language (Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, and Beijing), Korea, and Japan  ? Imaged and configured configured computer hardware (PC/Windows and MacOS) devices and diagnosed computer network  connectivity issues  ? Assessed customer facing issues and as needed, utilized Active Directory for user and remote access into SCCM devices  ? Worked with Network Operations team to install and configure network client on the Linux servers  ? Performed in-depth analysis in support of network infrastructure monitoring and incident response operations IT Security Compliance Analyst AT&T - El Segundo, CA May 2016 to September 2016 Facilitated Third Party Risk Assurance and Compliance risk assessments/ security analysis for AT&T/DirecTV high-risk  suppliers to collect data and analyze findings for compliance reporting needs  ? Protected AT&T brand image and verified security of AT&T and customer data by analyzing suppliers' security policies, procedures, and protocols  ? Monitored information security risk management and mitigation through strict governance processes and procedures  ? Initiated vendor management and access control for self-service risk assessment completion in e-GRC tool  ? Coordinated team meetings and captured changes during Supplier Information Security Requirement meetings updates and revisions according to current PCI-DSS (Payment Card Industry) standards, industry standards (SOC, SOX and NIST) and  general information security best practices for Governance, Risk, and Compliance department  ? Created documentation, reports, procedure manuals, workflows, and scheduled group discussions/meetings with a focus on process improvement on third party self-examinations via written communication  ? Collaborated with assigned vendors to build effective relationships and collaborative team environments Website Coordinator and E-Commerce Manager EZ Games Distribution Inc - Los Angeles, CA December 2014 to August 2015 Initiated a fraud analysis project to capture cases of fraud which resulted in 80% recovery of loss revenue  ? Utilized Google Analytics to assess website traffic and sales created executive reports for management  ? Ensured that all projects are delivered on-time, within scope and within budget, using project management knowledge Help Desk I City of Los Angeles- Information Technology Agency - Los Angeles, CA October 2013 to April 2014 Provided on-site and remote desktop support for 1200+ employees at the City of Los Angeles- City Hall  ? Imaged and configured computer hardware (PC/Windows and MacOS) devices and diagnosed computer network  connectivity issues  ? Utilized Active Directory for user and remote access into SCCM devices IT Technical Trainer Assistant California State University - Los Angeles, CA November 2012 to June 2013 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems California State University - Los Angeles, CA June 2015 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Firewalls, Pci, Security, Rsa, Linux, Dbms, Data analysis, Sql, Html, Android, Voip, Sap, R2, Mac, Macos, Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows 8 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Hardware: Google Tablet and laptops, Mac Devices, VoIP Telecommunication devices, Windows devices    Software: Adobe Creative Suite, Google Analytics, Microsoft Office Suite, Office 365, RSA Archer, SCCM, SAP    OS/Server: Android, MacOS, Windows (Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10), Windows R2 2012, Meraki    Other: Asset Management, Content Security Vulnerability remediation, Data analysis, Data Capturing & Data Entry,  DBMS, ENISA, Email Management (Exchange /Office 365 ECP), Firewalls, Fraud Data Analysis, HTML, Incident  Management, Lotus Notes IBM Notes, Linux, Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft Lync, Quality Assurance,  PCI-DSS, SQL, PowerShell, LogMeIn