Lead IT Engineer Lead <span class="hl">IT</span> Engineer IT Support Analyst - The Stride Center Oakland, CA IT Professional Researcher approach and goal-oriented cultivator, with 5 years experience in the areas of networks and systems engineering, hardware, risk management, and structuring cross-functional team partnerships. Work Experience Lead IT Engineer Caliber Schools - Richmond, CA July 2019 to Present IT Support Analyst Stride Solutions October 2018 to June 2019 • Key Roles:   Collaborated with the City of San Francisco to provide tech support to their network of senior complexes. Managed and improved quality assurance processes. Maintained ticket queue to ensure all tickets assigned are resolved within SLA. Managed and improved onboarding and offboarding processes. Provided Technical support for Stride Center internal employees. Managed the IT assets inventory. Created technical documentation for internal employees’ references.   Responded and resolved Stride Center executive level IT tickets.    • Strategic Impact:   Reduced ticket resolution time. Created and updated an efficient master system image for network mass deployments which resulted in faster system deployments. Updated and standardized the onboarding, offboarding, and quality assurance processes. Conducted research and development to improve the IT internal and external services. IT Instructor The Stride Center - Oakland, CA September 2018 to June 2019 • Key Roles:   Nonprofit social venture provides career development program focused in IT for people facing employment barriers. Classroom instructor for IT classes a total of 80+ students. Delivered CompTIA A plus curriculum with details, insight, and lab demonstrations. Prepared, improved, and organized suitable IT material for students new to the Information Technology field. Introduced classroom interactive games resulted in a fun learning experience. Delivered the life and career navigation curriculum. Managed the Learning management system platform Moodle and maintained classrooms and labs IT Infrastructure. Supervised students field trips to Chevron, Equinox, Workday, Kaiser Permanente for different events.    • Strategic Impact:   Matched the certification rate of experienced instructors. Students’ professional life improved and they found opportunities. Structured classroom management. Security Operations Center Operator Boston Properties - San Francisco, CA February 2018 to August 2018 • Key Role:   One of the largest owners, managers, and developers of first-class office properties in the US. Operated the salesforce tower’s security operations center. Enforced building security policy through the security officers to maintain the safety and security of the tower and its tenants.    • Strategic Impact:   Monitored access and alarm activity of the tower through a unified monitoring system AMAG Symmetry. Provided consulting to the management regarding IT security issues such as installing CCTV at blind spots, and eliminating the shared accounts to provide AAA. Lead Network Engineer Freelance/Self employed - YE July 2014 to July 2016 • Key Role:   Managed a team of network engineers, cable technicians, and Web designers. Installed 30 wireless network systems projects successfully. Researched and developed system standardized configurations which reduced the maintenance of the systems. Configured MikroTik Routers, Servers, Ubiquiti wireless devices, and Dell OptiPlex servers. Introduced squid web cache server to the clients. Designed HTML Hotspot Web-login pages for wireless captive portal. Managed and installed 300+ various vendors wireless devices 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz. Implemented Wireless Radius server authentication for centralized user management.    • Strategic Impact:  Designed networks which increased efficiency and reduced the project budget by 25%. Introduced squid web cache server to clients which reduced 30% of internet bandwidth consumption. Configured load balancers and combined ADSL lines to increase the system bandwidth. Connected remote sites and reduced project cost by Installing Point-to-Point and Point-to-Multipoint wireless links. Sales Engineer Nama Alarabyia, Sana'a January 2014 to June 2014 Yemen  • Key Role:   A security and safety systems company that serves a wide range of customers. Demonstrated product specifications to customers and explained how the product will help them improve their business efficiency. Advocated and demonstrated how security surveillance reduces and eliminates business threats.    • Strategic Impact:   Developed and conducted over 70 technical presentations to explain the technical aspects of products to staff, customers and other partnering organizations to drive-up product sales. Maintained relationships with more than 35 high priority customers after finalized sales deals through phone, email and on-site checkups for continued engagement and to offer after sales services. Education Bachelor's in Computer Applications 3.9 Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2010 to December 2013 Skills active directory (2 years), Android (2 years), assembly (Less than 1 year), Ccna (3 years), Cisco (2 years), Css (Less than 1 year), documentation (2 years), Dreamweaver (Less than 1 year), Html (2 years), inventory (2 years), ios (2 years), Itil (2 years), Lan (3 years), Linux (3 years), maintenance (4 years), Ms office (4 years), performance management (4 years), R2 (2 years), Risk management (3 years), Windows OS (5 years), Tech Support (5 years), Comptia (5 years), Desktop Support (5 years), Help Desk (5 years), Helpdesk Support (4 years), Customer Service (6 years), MAC (3 years), Service Desk (6 years), Apple (4 years), OSPF (2 years), Root Cause Analysis (5 years), ebgp (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/amralnasafi https://www.youracclaim.com/users/amr-alnasafi/badges Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ December 2017 to May 2021 CompTIA Network+ March 2018 to May 2021 CompTIA Security+ May 2018 to May 2021 Microsoft Technology Associate January 2018 to Present Server 2008 R2 Administration Fundamentals Google IT Support Professional August 2018 to Present G Suite Administrator Fundamentals March 2018 to Present Google Front End Web Developer Challenge February 2018 to Present Security Guard CCENT May 2019 to May 2022 CCNA June 2019 to June 2022 ITIL v4 June 2019 to Present Assessments Technical Support — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ii21gz2-saxaldju Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4apq5nnwxfy61syj Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/i8xpwb9dxvyf-kpr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information KEY SKILLS  • Experience in configuring, installing and • IT documentation and inventory  upgrading operating systems, including • Workstations assembly and troubleshooting  Windows, Apple OS X, Linux, iOS, Android and • Proficient in MS Office, Dreamweaver, HTML,  Windows Mobile. CSS & Mikrotik  • Knowledgeable in WinBox, Virtualization, • Configuring, Managing and maintaining  Wireshark, Packet Tracer, GNS3 and Moodle essential network devices.  • Google Suite Administration • Risk management, data and host security and  • Windows server 2008 R2 installation, security control implementation.  maintenance, performance management • Knowledge of TCP/IP, LAN, and WLAN  • Windows server roles, active directory • Pursuing CISSP, CCNP R&S  • Configuring cisco routers and switches • Fluent in English and Arabic