Network Security Analyst Network <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Network Security Analyst - Ecolab Minneapolis, MN Work Experience Network Security Analyst Ecolab February 2017 to Present Worked with ServiceNow to ensure task completion within two days.  ? Worked in Active Directory to provision new users with appropriate group access as well as email provisioning.  ? Created and calibrated accounts for users in Lotus Notes.  ? Participated in the testing of the Jakarta release of ServiceNow for email provisioning. Desktop Support Children's Hospital - Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN December 2016 to February 2017 Desktop Support  ? Handled a full office move with over forty machines.  ? Ensured quality of service for office personnel.  ? Handled sensitive PHI in a professional way in compliance with HIPAA and other regulations. Desktop Support Specialist Thomson Reuters February 2016 to December 2016 Worked in a low supervision, ticket based environment to fulfill service requests for end users.  ? Worked with customers face to face to solve both hardware and software issues.  ? Utilized Quest One Activeroles to handle administration of computers and accounts.  ? Logged tickets within HP Service Manager.  ? Utilized SCCM to push software images to computers. Assistant IT Specialist University of Minnesota June 2013 to December 2014 Provided technical support for user hardware and software issues that were reported on first contact and escalated complex problems to dedicated support groups to ensure prompt and efficient resolution.  ? Provided customer support in person, over the phone, and through email to provide and ascertain helpful information related to service inquiries.  ? Utilized the ServiceNow application to track and manage user support requests to ensure they were completed in a timely manner.  ? Instructed users on the proper usage of software programs such as Microsoft Access and Dropbox.  ? Installed many different programs used by researchers, students, teachers, and administrative personnel.  ? Provided hardware support on printers and Android mobile phones.  ? Worked on teams replacing dozens of computers in college computer labs. Education BA in Chemistry University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN September 2012 to September 2015 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (Less than 1 year), COMPTIA (Less than 1 year), MAC (Less than 1 year), MAC OS (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Computer Skills  CompTIA A+ Certification: June 6, 2017 - June 6, 2020  OS: Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, Mac OS  Applications: Microsoft Office Suite 2013, ServiceNow, Active Directory, Visio, Symantec AntiVirus SCCM 2012, Spyware & Virus Management, Active Roles, Hp Service manager, Bomgar, Windows Remote Desktop, Office 365, Office 2010