Information Assurance Analyst Information Assurance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Enthusiast Bowie, MD I have a Master of Science in Information Assurance; and Accounting and Finance. I have experience with Computer Hardware and Software, a background in Accounting and a keen interest in Information Assurance. I’m a fast learner and enjoy gaining more knowledge in my field. I love to take up new challenges; I strive when faced with challenges, and always very dedicated to my obligations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Assurance Analyst BOWIE STATE UNIVERSITY - Bowie, MD January 2015 to Present • Develop and review Policies, Standards, and Procedures to ensure compliance with Federal and State Laws  • Perform risk assessments and risk management to devise ways to manage risks in a reasonable fashion   • Working knowledge of NIST SP 800-53 R4  • Develop security awareness by providing orientation and educational training pro-grams for Faculty and Staff  • Establish system controls by developing framework for controls.  • Create, test and implement network disaster recovery plans  • Perform vulnerability assessment and remediation.  • Investigate and respond to security related incidents.  • System administrator on Cloud Security applications  • Assist with information system Security audits and reviews, and report findings.  • Provide consultative services to organizational departments  • Work with top management to build and maintain a robust IT infrastructure  • Respond to and update assigned service requests in the Heat Ticketing System IT Security Engineer UNATEK, INC., - Bethesda, MD September 2014 to February 2015 • Served as a member of the Security team on high-profile client projects. This high-profile project involves daily, face-to-face communication with senior client directors, key stakeholders, security staff, and CIO’s.  • Monitored Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) for security inci-dents and perform incident response.   • Established system-wide information security requirements based on policy and regu-latory requirements.  • Developed project plans for all assigned security projects to ensure high-quality and timely delivery and to meet future requirements.  • Advised IT Security Specialists on different Cyber security projects operations.  • Provided system documentations for communication paths.  • Managed centralized patch and vulnerability software tools.   • Conducted periodic reviews (self-assessments).   • Assisted with information system Security audits and reviews, and report findings. Computer Technician/Help Desk Support BOWIE STATE UNIVERSITY - Bowie, MD April 2014 to January 2015 • Installed hardware and software systems  • Repaired systems  • Troubleshot a variety of computer and printer issues  • Provided helpdesk support on-site, and via phone and e-mail.  • Resolved issues with student and staff accounts  • Created, updated and maintained assigned service requests in the Heat Ticketing System Retail Assistant CLARKS - London, OH June 2010 to December 2011 • Up-sold to customers.  • Assisted customers on the shop floor.  • Resolved customer queries.  • Provided a high level of customer service to all customers.  • Ensured the shop floor was neat and well organized at all times.  • Assisted with the till Customer Service Advisor CCA INTERNATIONAL - London, OH August 2009 to January 2010 • Called existing customers to get them to upgrade their current package   • Captured customer data accurately, effectively and sensitively.   • Provided a high level of customer service   • Dealt with customers complaints and enquiries Education M.S in Information Assurance Bowie State University Maryland - Bowie, MD 2013 to 2015 MSc in Accounting and Finance Kingston University London - London, OH 2008 to 2009 Skills Risk Management Framework, Information Assurance, Security, Compliance (3 years), Policy Development (3 years), Security (3 years), Disaster Recovery (3 years), Incident Management (3 years), Installation (3 years), Consulting (3 years), Customer Service Skills (6 years), Training (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=346892133