Technical Support Technician II Technical Support Technician II Field Services Lead - General Dynamics Baltimore, MD To provide professional IT management and Information Systems Security for an organization to meet or exceed its goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Support Technician II CACI - Washington, DC Present Responsibilities    · Provide support for currently deployed and upcoming IT assets, projects including installing, configuring, diagnosing, repairing, maintaining and upgrading all hardware and software, while ensuring optimal performance, via telephone, email and/or remote desktop connection.     · Provide technical assistance and step-by-step solutions to end-users, when required, to remedy computer related issues.     · Troubleshoot computer components and support replacement of hardware and software in a timely and accurate manner.     · Troubleshoot and provide assistance with Microsoft Office products    · Troubleshoot Blackberry issues.    · Handle multiple open issues and interface with customers at all levels with urgency, attention to detail and great enthusiasm.     · Adhere to Service Level requirements and performance targets while providing high quality customer service.    Accomplishments  Security + CE Security compliance analyst Booz Allen Hamilton Present Field Services Lead General Dynamics - Columbia, MD June 2013 to April 2015 • Supervised employees in 15 different remote locations through U.S. in a 24/7 Service Desk environment  • Analyzed metrics and trends to produce quality assurance reports to management  • Developed and documented policy and support as it relates to Field Services operations  • Resolved Tier 1, 2 & 3 trouble tickets and customer escalations as required for the Food Safety Inspection Service USDA  • Collaborated with development staff to recreate problems in test environments to improve work flow and overall Quality Assurance  • Actively contributed to on-going process improvement   • Performed other duties or special projects as assigned Tier 1 Technician General Dynamics - Columbia, MD April 2012 to June 2013 • Provided technical support and troubleshooting to network, desktop, and systems software  • Supervised and trained new staff in recognizing, identifying, isolating, and resolving problems with information systems products and service  • Screened, referred, and diagnosed internal inquiries and work requests as they related to maintenance of personal computers and related systems.  • Installed, configured, and upgraded computer hardware and software.  • Provided end-user software troubleshooting and support.  • Applied diagnostic techniques to identify problems, investigate causes, and recommend   • Provided phone and help-desk support for local and off-site users  • Maintained current knowledge of relevant technologies as assigned in Standard Operating Procedures IT Support Specialist Sandler Training - Owings Mills, MD April 2011 to April 2012 • Provided first-level contact and problem resolution for all users with hardware, software and applications problems. Resolved as many user-reported problems as expertise permits using available tools, and following procedures and policies for the handling of support cases.   • Provided accurate and timely logging of problems and resolution for problems in the Zoho Support database following case recording and documentation standards.   • Liaison between customers and external support staff to assure accurate problem interpretation.   • Composed monthly FAQ’s to send to the field  • Collected documentation about new features and releases, and sent to the field in a timely manner  • Tested all new features added to customer portals before release  • Prepared how to manuals to be released to the field  • Provide demo training for customer portals as needed, with attendees ranging from 1-50 people at a time  • Perform monthly and weekly backups for all departments Education B.A. in Information Systems Security ITT Technical Institute - Owings Mills, MD December 2012 B.A in Information Systems Cyber Security ITT Technical Institute - Owings Mills, MD Certifications/Licenses Security + CE December 2015 to December 2018 ITIL v3 Foundation September 2013 to Present HDI Team Lead October 2014 to October 2017 Additional Information ITIL v3 Foundations Certification  HDI- Team Lead Certification  IAT Level II (Security+ CE)  Knowledge of established guidelines outlined by NIST, OMB, FISMA  Knowledge of IT security architecture and design (firewalls, Intrusion Detection Systems, Virtual Private Networking, and virus protection technologies- Hands-on experience in lab environment  Knowledge of LAN/WAN design and general internetworking technologies-Hands-on experience in lab environment  Experience with enterprise level support applications (Exchange, BES, etc.)  Experience with Footprints and Remedy Ticketing systems