Application Security Analyst Intern Application <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Intern Application Security Analyst Intern - Web.com Work Experience Application Security Analyst Intern Web.com May 2018 to Present Identify, determine, and review vulnerabilities providing immediate remediation within applications.  ? Expand on existing application security defense solutions reducing the company's attack surface  ? Perform penetration testing and security assessments to improve security posture of the organization Graduate Student Assistant Alvin Sherman Library and Information Technology Center September 2016 to May 2018 • Fulfill requests and tickets from local and external libraries to deliver timely and organized results.  • Maintain, troubleshoot, and resolve system issues to improve organizational quality and productivity.  • Assist patrons in obtaining resources using noteworthy databases, catalogs, and indexes providing prodigious and exclusive materials. Graphic and Web Design Intern My Real Estate Broker Inc March 2016 to May 2016 Presented and delivered creative ideas to peers and executive level stakeholders to develop modernize websites.  ? Created multitudes of beautiful, intuitive, and functional prototype designs to determine ideal schemes.  ? Integrated various web apps and social media platforms to improve online business. IT Systems Administrator Worrell Dentistry LLC May 2015 to December 2015 • Provided Information Technology consulting to CEO to improve security and performance of the network  • Transformed previous network into an upgraded, modern, and secure network infrastructure  • Assembled a functional and dynamic database environment with MySQL Server  • Supervised and directed all major network and user activities    Database Systems & Business Intelligence Project Jan 2018 - May 2018  • Perform multiple data mining techniques, machine learning, data visualizations and statistics for top results  • Manage multi-dimensional databases and perform various reports to identify patterns and trends    CYBER SECURITY PROJECT Oct 2014 - Dec 2014  ? Discover severe, medium, and low risk vulnerabilities  ? Increase system performance and network optimization  ? Implement firewall and monitoring systems for data and network traffic anomalies  ? Resolve and improve on all security principles within the enterprise networks  Byronkg@gmail.com | (305) 322 6038 | www.byronkg.us    CAMPUS INVOLVEMENT Education Master of Science in Information Technology in Database Management Systems and Business Intelligence Nova Southeastern University - Fort Lauderdale, FL May 2018 Bachelor of Science in Cyber Security in Cyber Security New England Institute of Technology - East Greenwich, RI May 2015 Skills SECURITY (10+ years), FIREWALL (10+ years), MACHINE LEARNING (3 years), REMEDIATION (10+ years), FORENSICS (10+ years) Links https://www.byronkg.us Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Vulnerability detection, NMAP, Metasploit, Active Directory, Kali/Linux, Firewall, IDS/IPS, Splunk, Virtualization, Incident  Response, Virus Remediation, Wireshark, OWASP, Burp Suite, SIEM, IDAPro Cloud Computing, Penetration Testing, VPN, Risk  Management, SQL Server, Tableau, Big Data, IoT, A.I, Machine Learning, Java, Python, Application Debugging, Web Analytics,  SAP, Forensics Analysis, Perimeter/Endpoint Security, and Threat Intelligence, Cryptography, Blockchain, Bug Bounty