IT Specialist <span class="hl">IT</span> Specialist IT Specialist Bowie, MD To acquire a full-time position as an IT Specialist/Network analyst for an organization offering challenges and career advancement in a stimulating, innovative and fun working environment. Work Experience IT Specialist Bowiestate University - Bowie, MD June 2013 to January 2014 Providing Tech support to customer at the helpdesk using different tech approach to resolve issues  ? Creating tickets as needed using HEAT in order for techs and IT specialist to resolve customers' issue.  ? Using Password Management Portal to reset customers password  ? Resolving tickets using IT skills and knowledge.  ? Resolving customer issues over the phone in simple and systematic fashion.  ? Performing IT related services (PC installation, configuration, and troubleshooting)  ? Perform Network printer installation.  ? Perform Network troubleshooting.  ? Perform Software installation, and upgrades.  ? Perform Hardware installation, and upgrades. Network Security Analyst J Rock Tech - Bowie, MD August 2012 to June 2013 Server and Network Administrator. Installation, User Support, Upgrades, Maintenance.  ? Troubleshooting. Securing the network from internal and external threats.  ? Maintenance on network and server components, troubleshooting, user support, call and trouble ticket management as well as on-site field engineer tasks.  ? Carrying out function- and performance tests.  ? Responsible for the overall network security including Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS), and Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS).  ? Internal security audits and penetration tests on small to large networks in order to tighten up network security utilization.  ? Network Design, Support, Implementation and Troubleshooting of Cisco based networks in addition to Network Security Audits.  ? Collect and analyze threat intelligence  ? Perform research in focused area of offensive and defensive information security  ? Perform extensive packet analysis  ? Experience in the following network technologies: kernel firewalls and routers, network switches and routers (Cisco, HP), network analysis tools (tcpdump, nmap, Wireshark), network monitoring, WiFi, VPN (IPSec, Cisco). Information Security/Internship Fairfax County Government - Fairfax, VA April 2010 to July 2011 Reviewed and analyzed current processes and systems for internal departments.  ? Experience with Database Management (SQL)  ? Participated in final test sessions of various applications.  ? Document and implement IT policies and procedures  ? Assisted in coordinating projects from developments through implementation, working with internal and external clients, vendors, consultants and computer specialists  ? Perform security assessment and penetration testing  ? Perform Intrusion Detection and prevention using IDPS tools.  ? Perform Network and system auditing. Education MSc in Management Information Systems Bowie State University September 2013 BSc in Business Information Systems Bowie State University April 2009 Additional Information Technical Skills  Snort, SpiceWorks, Wireshark, Windows, Microsoft Office (Access, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint), Visual Basic, and Oracle DBMS (SQL)