Fiber Optic Technician Fiber Optic Technician Fiber Optic Technician - J. Crompton Electric West Palm Beach, FL Work Experience Fiber Optic Technician J. Crompton Electric - West Palm Beach, FL March 2019 to Present Manager PS561 Food Truck - West Palm Beach, FL January 2018 to March 2019 Responsible for all food operations and managing employees. Also responsible for cooking & preparing food, cleaning cooking areas and maintaining a clean and presentable mobile restaurant, driving truck to and from events, maintaining copies of all licenses and inspection documents, and ensuring all nightly lock-up/closing duties have been completed before leaving. Also took inventory and stocked truck as necessary. Security Officer Allied Universal Security Services, Systems and Solutions - West Palm Beach, FL April 2017 to March 2018 Responsible for monitoring and authorizing entrance and departure of employees, visitors, and other persons to guard against theft and maintain security of premises. Was required to write reports of daily activities and irregularities, such as equipment or property damage, theft, presence of unauthorized persons, or unusual occurrences. Called police or fire departments in cases of emergency, such as fire or presence of unauthorized persons. Answered telephone calls to take messages, answer questions, and provide information during non-business hours. Cook/Caterer October 2016 to April 2017 Responsible for cooking and preparing food for catering events. Serving entrées, appetizers, and drinks. Providing excellent customer service, dropping off catering orders, and cleaning and maintaining kitchen facilities and equipment. Publix Deli Clerk Publix - West Palm Beach, FL July 2015 to October 2016 IT Systems Analyst (Part time) Reliable Computer Services - West Palm Beach, FL February 2015 to January 2016 Responsible for operating system repair and maintenance, printer installation and configuration, PC repair and upgrades, Windows software installation, light network troubleshooting, laptop repair, and some mobile phone repair. Education High school or equivalent Skills customer service (1 year), maintenance (1 year), network troubleshooting (1 year), Receptionist (1 year), Retail sales (1 year), Operating Systems (2 years), Network Troubleshooting (1 year), PC/Laptop upgrades and repair (3 years), Printers (2 years), Mobile Phone Repair (2 years)