Business Analyst Business <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Business Analyst New York, NY • Advanced education in Business Analytics and Logistics Engineering.  • Working experience with a Fortune Global 500 company and a leading consulting firm.  • Hands-on skills: MS Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Visio; Advanced: Mathematica, Matlab, VBA, R, SAS, SPSS, AMPL and SQL.  • Capable of critical thinking, good communication skills, self-disciplined, and goal-oriented.  • Proven track record of organizational, technical, teamwork, leadership and interpersonal capabilities. Work Experience Business Analyst Powerlinx - New York, NY July 2013 to Present • Collected clients information, cleansed data and maintained the database which contains more than 10 million client companies’ profiles using MySQL   • Developed recommendation algorithms to automate the existing manual process for ranking candidates using SAS, R  • Analyzed customer behaviors using Google Analytics, Mixpanel, Intercom and Segment   • Searched potential business partners for clients and provided consulting reports to them Research Assistant University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH September 2011 to April 2013 • Found out how to make optimal decisions in a decentralized supply chain with a uncertain supply using Mathematica  • Studied and modelled on how 14 attributes affect wine quality based on 500 physicochemical tests using R   • Optimized the bidding strategy in Auto industry using OpenSolver which increasing the expected profit by 15%  • Completed three projects on business analytics using SAS, R, VBA and OpenSolver Research Assistant Fudan University - ??? September 2009 to June 2011 Introduced finance theory to a widely-used supply chain model and used Matlab to derive a numerical solution.  • Identified a new business opportunity for a Chinese leading International Freight Forwarding company, which  increases the monthly revenue by 20%. Demand Forecasting Trainee Atkins Consultants - Shenzhen, CN August 2010 to October 2010 • Assessed client needs and provided risk analyses and management consultation  • Studied two of the most competitive and complex real estate markets in China using R and SAS  • Analyzed energy usage and developed cost saving solutions for 10 companies in the national Hi-Tech Industrial  • Development District in Tianjin, and the total cost decreased by 20% IT Security Engineer HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited - ??? May 2008 to September 2008 • Managed system access authorization and monitored security status of 400 servers and 6000 computers   • Directed holistic IT security analysis of entire China region using technics of data mining  • Developed IT security risk management strategy based on the risk profile of various business functions   • Composed HSBC control standards in China and adapted global compliance policies to the local market Education M.S. in Business Analytics University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH 2011 to 2013 M.E. in Logistics Engineering Fudan University - ??? 2009 to 2011 B.E. in Information Security Shanghai Jiao Tong University - ??? 2004 to 2008 Skills Business Analysis, Data Analysis, Inventory Management, Supply Chain Management, Logistics,Statistics, Information Security, Additional Information Leadership Capability:    Tai Chi Club, Fudan University, Shanghai, China, 2010 – 2011  President: Recruited members and promoted Chinese traditional Tai Chi via educational events on campus and devoting members’ services to the local communities.    Study Abroad Program, Cambridge University, Cambridge, United Kingdom, July – August 2010  Group Leader: Managed a team of 6 students on a daily basis, allocating resources and prioritizing tasks for the team to achieve program goals. The team won first place in the business planning competition and was personally named the “Best Leader” by the program    Trade and Economic Union, SJTU, Shanghai, China, 2005 – 2007  President: The group’s mission was to educate students with fundamental trade and business knowledge via exhibitions, speeches, and festivals. Led efforts to re-align the group’s mission and developed the organizational structure to best utilize available resources. Was accountable for the Union’s daily operations and fund raising