Senior Analyst, IT System Development Senior <span class="hl">Analyst</span>, <span class="hl">IT</span> System Development Senior Analyst, IT System Development - SecureWorks Pawleys Island, SC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Analyst, IT System Development SecureWorks - Atlanta, GA March 2017 to Present Team leader for the international Squad Support Team. Handled a majority of RHEL OS patching.  Performed all full-site failovers for maintenance purposes and Disaster Recovery (DR) tests. Tier-2 ticket  resolution. Worked with squads to troubleshoot and resolve priority escalations for both pilot and production environments within SLA. Assisted squads in maintaining OTMs, patching, and failover  documentation. Provided support throughout the change management and technical review process.  Patched and supported third-party applications including Boomi, Pyxis, Tableau and Actuate. Application Support Engineer Dell SecureWorks - Atlanta, GA May 2015 to March 2017 Triaged and troubleshot internal support tickets. Provided assistance during Disaster Recovery tests and helped create the automation jobs that support DR activities and OS patching. Updated and kept all of  SecureWorks' documentation and code blocks up-to-date. Worked with other crews to assemble  automated scripts for their applications. Participated in on-call rotation to provide 24/7 support. Security Service Team Operator Dell SecureWorks - Atlanta, GA April 2014 to May 2015 Helped external clients troubleshoot issues with our portal, certificates, security devices, and incident  events. Escalated incidents to the appropriate teams. Assisted clients with portal education programs.  Worked with other operations teams to provide real-time health monitoring and support for customers. Education Bachelor of Arts in English Coastal Carolina University - Conway, SC May 2011 Skills SECURITY (4 years), CITRIX (4 years), IDENTITY MANAGEMENT (4 years), LINUX (4 years), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (4 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jacksondudley Certifications/Licenses GSEC October 2014 to October 2018 Security Professionals that want to demonstrate they are qualified for IT systems hands-on roles with respect to security tasks. Candidates are required to demonstrate an understanding of information security beyond simple terminology and concepts. Linux+ January 2016 to Present LPIC-1 January 2016 to Present SUSE CLA January 2016 to Present Additional Information SKILLS AND TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE    • RHEL OS, MySQL, Debian, Service Now (SNOW), eGRC, Electric Commander, Confluence, Hipchat,  Skype, JIRA, Sharepoint, proprietary SecureWorks security devices and applications, Stash, Nagios, Mozy  Backup, Remedy ticketing system, Citrix, VMware, Cyberark, Identity Management, Kali Linux, Snort,  Wireshark, Qualys, Windows OS, SaaS