BCBS MA DRTV Agent BCBS MA DRTV Agent It technical specialist Wilson, NC Innovation focused leader with over 12 year's industry experience. Provides vision and guidance for platform growth using a wide variety of technologies with a mind for stability and efficiency. Strong management skills with an emphasis on building a cohesive team centered on leading by example and constant interaction with all levels of structure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience BCBS MA DRTV Agent Harte Hanks September 2016 to Present Essential Responsibilities and Deliverable's    • Thorough understanding of plans, their benefits and features.  • Educating callers on what plan(s) best fit their insurance needs in a conversational manner utilizing probing questions.  • Handle inbound calls in a courteous and efficient manner while utilizing listening and comprehension skills and proper grammar.  • Provide optimal caller experience by effectively utilizing all resources to ensure single call resolution.  • Maintain our high standard of professionalism and conduct.  • Acquire caller and enrollment related information and input all information into multiple tools while multitasking with a 99% or greater accuracy rating. Technical Systems Analyst Apex Systems June 2015 to October 2015 June 2015 15-Oct 2015  On Assignment, via IT staffing and services firm specializing in providing IT professionals for contract, contract-to-hire, and direct placements. Technical Systems Analyst    ETS-LINDGREN INC. june20132014  Systems Support Technician  Professional experience - Re-architected a large part of the database infrastructure to ensure proper indexing, data access methods, query plans, and proper hardware. Security Officer (Seasonal Employee) MAS Security Agency March 2012 to May 2012 IT Technician Work Ability Program - Austin, TX 2010 to 2011 Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems and Cyber Security ITT Technical Institute - Austin, TX 2016 Associate of Applied Science in Network Systems Administration ITT Technical Institute - Austin, TX March 2015 Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xy7gbe3vrla-lpxu Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Completed March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nowwgcnjbkxsgif Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Round Rock Masonic Lodge #227 September 1990 to Present 111 Masonic Way Round Rock, TX 78613 Additional Information ? Technology strategy and vision ? Leadership and career advancement  ? Agile team management ? Big data analytics  ? Budgeting and cost analysis ? Devops  ? Real world experience in SQL, .NET, Logstash, Graphite, , Analysis Services, Tableau, Vagrant, Docker, and VMWare.    Personal Technical Experience  • Assist friends and family members with their computers (hardware or operating systems), and laptops regularly; providing technical support when needed, general electronics maintenance  • Writes code - HTTP, Java    Technical Industry Experience  Ted Tielands (Onsite School IT Support Specialist) 2010 - 2011  Computer Repair and Computer Applications Assistant  • Take apart/fix/troubleshoot any software and hardware problems that occurred for more than 25 computers  • Set-up lab printers  • Assisted students with any technical issues they were facing  • Provided friendly and patient customer service