Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Analyst - United States Patent and Trademark Office Annandale, VA Work Experience Security Analyst United States Patent and Trademark Office - Alexandria, VA October 2016 to Present Oversees the password generation, issuance and control processes.  ? Assures the USPTO security strategic plan, mission, vision and values are communicated and integrated into the security strategies.  ? Develops, maintains, and ensures compliance with DISA Security Technical Guidelines.  ? Reviews audit records every 2 days, at minimum and report any to identity access management.  ? Plans, develops, implements and maintains programs, policies and procedures to ensure the computer systems have the highest possible level of reliability, availability and security.  ? Maintains system access management based on approved personnel security investigation/clearances, a need-to-know and authorizations.  ? Implements and manages modules within the Host Based Security System (HBSS)  ? Responsible for reviewing guidance, developing procedures, and establishing the Incident Handling and Reporting Program. Reports security incidents to the director and assists in reporting, investigating, and correctly resolving situations.  ? Ensures all users meet the required favorable security investigations, clearances, authorization, need-to-know, and security responsibilities before granting access. IT Security Specialist American School of IT - Arlington, VA October 2015 to September 2016 Prepared high-level program plans, established long and short security program goals and objectives, monitored progress, approved deliverables, and oversees a wide range of assignments including portfolio and program development and operational planning and oversight in our security policy.  ? Good knowledge of IT infrastructure related topics (Network, Server, OS, IIS, MS SQL, Server, etc.)  ? Developed security policies for each tool used by our security engineers  ? Analyzed client's business requirements and make a recommendation for the business clients to accept risk.  ? Communicated client's business requirements by constructing easy-to-understand data and security policies.  ? Drafted and maintained company requirements and aligned them with functional and technical security requirements.  ? Managed security awareness for employees such as phishing, passwords, social engineering.  ? Performed FISMA using NIST 800-53. Network Admin Intern FACETS - Fairfax, VA June 2015 to September 2015 Provided general user support, troubleshoots, and repairs computer systems, hardware and software systems  ? Supported and executed user account information including rights, security and systems groups  ? Worked closely with project with project managers to deliver an integrated approach to project delivery, including influencing key project decisions  ? Developed and executed an overall change management strategy around complex client business initiatives  ? Managed the licenses software by obtaining required information from vendors; recommending purchases; testing and approving products Education Certification in Cyber Security Risk Management Harvard University 2018 Bachelor of Business Management in Information Technology Marymount University - School of Business Administration - Arlington, VA May 2015 Skills SHAREPOINT, FISMA (1 year), VISIO, NETWORK TROUBLESHOOTING, NIST (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Harvard University: Cyber Security Risk management and information October 2018 to Present Additional Information KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, ABILITIES (KSA):  ? 3+ years with knowledge of NIST 800-53, NIST 800-37, R1 Processes and various NIST 800 series publications.  ? 3 years of FISMA framework; project management, & team building experience.  ? 5 years of stakeholder analysis, (SWOT), marketing, and process improvement skills.  ? Expert level in Microsoft Office, Outlook, PowerPoint, Excel, SharePoint, Visio, Project, Access, and OneNote.  ? Ability to produce high quality requirement specifications to support ERP functional design development.  ? Knowledge of computer network fundamentals and knowledge of network troubleshooting tools such as ping and ipconfig.  ? Fast learner, self-motivated, adaptive, and able to perform other duties as directed  ? Excellent time management skills - ability to work independently and with large team settings.  ? Ability to present ideas and plans in writing to internal and external groups at professional and managerial levels.  ? Solution oriented, able to identify central problems and maintain relationships with new and existing customers.  ? Hardworking, reliable, focused, passionate, & forward thinking.