Senior Consultant Senior Consultant Consultant - NOLIJ CONSULTING Annandale, VA Work Experience Senior Consultant NOLIJ CONSULTING February 2017 to Present Quoted as “critical personnel” by upper leadership, through leading teams in Risk Management, Configuration Management, and Software Testing efforts.  ? Risk/Configuration Management Lead  o   Led Process Improvement Group (PIMG) Strategy Team focused on response, mitigation, continuity of operations and improving internal standards. Highlighting some accomplishments:  •         Supported implementation of SOP for military services to gain access to Nolij’s locally hosted Master Cluster Management Server (MCMS) following a Personal Identifiable Information (PII) breach  •         Managed and audited procurement/expense accounts that totaled to over $100,000   •         Created Rules and guidelines for the usage of various enterprise tools such as JAZZ RQM and JIRA  •         Assured enterprise compliance with most current certifications to improve bid opportunities  •         Standardized processes and client-deliverable documents across the Project Management Office (PMO)  o   Coordinated closely with government Managers and Leadership forming positive and constructive relationships   o   Prepared, reviewed, and delivered over 500 client-deliverables, all while fulfilling primary duties  o   Provided end-to-end workflow review - from verifying application documentation, implementation, mock event coordination, reporting results to government clients, and creating after-action reports  o   Designed and structured workflow graphs later used to optimize other processes within the company    ?   Software Test Lead  o   Verified functional integrity of systems deployed to the Theater of Operations when new patches/critical updates/maintenance updates/major updates were released by developers  o   Designed test scripts to target specific requirements to test for communication between products and database registry  o   Full scope knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) – assured quality results from team that directly supported and impacted medical commanders overseas  o   Uncovered defects across 4 products which were later fixed in applied patches  o   Supported other testing efforts such as system admin duties and defect management     ?  SharePoint Administrator  o   Created and administrated project’s SharePoint site to ensure ease of access to thousands of critical documents across the PMO  o   Utilized HTML code to revamp graphical user interfaces and utilized “OOTB” features for front-end development to supplement HTML code  o   Set specific permissions, views, and policies to restrict and contain access to controlled documents Intern Information Systems Administrator U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS) - Washington, DC May 2016 to August 2016 5/2016 - 8/2016  Defined system/user requirements to design, develop SharePoint solutions supporting emergency preparedness training and other crucial business functions.  ? Worked alongside project managers agency-wide utilizing different programs to rapidly complete and deliver 21 technical projects within a 3-month term  ? Developed and administrated various SharePoint internet and intranet sites  ? Designed Infopath forms for distribution, filling and electronic submission using structured data for large projects, such as the 'USCIS Journeyman' immigration training program, accelerating a 3-month delayed project to its expected delivery date  ? Expedited page creation and workflow for future SharePoint administrators  ? Facilitated national webinar training with l00-plus training coordinators, managing dynamic pods and monitoring communications using Adobe Connect  ? Customized learning modules for staff with different skill sets and levels of computer fluency  ? Assessed skill level of staff and adapted training to their individual needs Intern Security Analyst DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (DOL) - Washington, DC July 2013 to August 2013 Directly supported Director of IT Security & Governance on key organization efforts including overall information security program and set up of ETA Privacy Office  ? Participated in meetings discussing new technologies and potential solutions for modernization from a risk management perspective  ? Revamped and redesigned the Employment Training and Administration (ETA) Information Security Program Newsletter focusing on end user engagement using more effective layouts and content to attract reader attention  ? Participated in Organizational Change Control Board (OCCB) meetings to discuss ongoing changes and potential impacts of operations roadmap  • Identified key elements of the privacy program to minimize operational risks and incidents associated with the collection, use, handling, protection, disclosure, and disposition of Personal Identifiable Information (PII) in accordance with the Privacy Act  • Developed privacy training to include best practices when dealing with PII to minimize breaches  • Developed rules of behavior identifying end user responsibilities with respect to PII handling  • Recommended best practices to support audits and monitor privacy compliance IT Department Supervisor OFFICE DEPOT - Falls Church, VA June 2012 to August 2012 Hired as Customer Support Specialist in June and rapidly promoted to Supervisor due to initiative, organizational skills and technical capability  • Tasked with training junior staff in the IT Department in accordance with company standards for quality and customer service  • Demonstrated adaptability in dealing with a wide variety of customers from different technical backgrounds and cultures, and challenges to build positive Education BA in Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness VIRGINIA COMMONWEALTH UNIVERSITY, L. Douglas Wilder School of Government and Public Affairs - Richmond, VA December 2016 Skills SHAREPOINT (1 year), JIRA, HTML, MS OFFICE, OPERATIONS (1 year), Contractor Certifications/Licenses Secret Clearance November 2017 to November 2027 Sharepoint Knowledge Certification Tier III August 2016 to Present FEMA ICS Certifications Present • .00001a Emergency Manager: Orientation  • .00042 Social Media in Emergency Management  • 100b. Introductions to Incident Command   • 200b. Single Resource and Initial Action   • 242b. Effective Communication  • Introduction to Continuity of Operations Planning for Pandemic Influenzas Institute  • 546a. Continuity of Operations Awareness Course  • 547a Introduction to Continuity of Operations  • 548. Continuity of Operations Program Managers   • Professional Continuity Practitioner – 80%  • 700a. National Incident Management Systems Introductions   • 800b. National Response Framework Introductions   • 821a Critical Infrastructure Support Annex  • Emergency Support Function (ESF) #8 - Public Health and Medical Services Institute  • 860b. National Infrastructure Protection Plan   • 913a. Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience  • 921a Implementing Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Additional Information Skills:    JIRA * Accounting * Info Path 2013+ * Adobe Connect * HP ALM RQM  IBM JAZZ RQM * SharePoint 2013 - 365 * HTML * MS Office Suite * CMDB tools  Statistical Analysis * Strategic Communications * Management * Accounting * Privacy Policy Development * Conflict Resolution * Understanding of FEMA Concepts and Operations