Sales Representative Sales Representative Maringouin, LA Organized, tactful and detail oriented clerical professional with diverse experience in corporate settings. Known for working well under stress; track record of meeting difficult deadlines. Strong communicator with demonstrated ability to interact comfortably at all levels of management. Work Experience Sales Representative Cash Cow - Baton Rouge, LA November 2017 to Present - Explain contracts to customers thoroughly and ensure all necessary documents are completed and signed by both parties to meet federal, state and local requirements  - Ensure loan applications are complete, accurate and verified to maintain proper customer file  - Perform sales and loans transactions through the use of company's software system and cash drawer  - Handle high volume customer without sacrificing personalized service Direct Support Professional (DSP) Independent Living Inc - Baton Rouge, LA December 2016 to June 2018 * Received offer of promotion to team leader within first month  * Assist individuals with physical or mental disabilities with the tasks involved in everyday living and increased community integration and independence  * Maintain a strict standard of confidentiality in relations to all regulations. IT Cyber Security Analyst Delta Personnel-Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Louisiana - Baton Rouge, LA January 2017 to April 2017 * Translated security designs based on business requirements into functional roles and permissions for production, ensuring business users are provided the appropriate system access to perform job duties.  * Responded to all client requests for technical support by phone, email and the inter-office instant messaging service.  * Managed and built relationships to provide quality technical support to clients. Customer Service Representative Title Max - Los Angeles, CA February 2016 to September 2016 * Contributed to the increase of store profitability through customer relationship development, community involvement, and marketing campaigns.  * Gathered and verified correct loan applicant information and answered questions.  * Analyzed applications to ensure that they comply with federal and state regulations. Education High School Diploma McKinley Senior High School - Baton Rouge, LA May 2011 Skills Customer Service Additional Information Skills Highlights  * Microsoft Office proficiency  * Analytical; results-oriented  * Organizing, scheduling  * Documentation; compile reports  * Customer service specialist  * Data visualization  * Multi-line phone system   * Proactive self-starter  * Process improvement strategies