Help Desk Analyst Help Desk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Orland Park, IL Work Experience Help Desk Analyst Royal Management\Lexington Health Care - Lombard, IL December 2012 to Present • Respond to Help Desk calls and emails; diagnose computer problems over the telephone determining the source of the problem during normal business hours and on-call one a week per month  • Properly track and document a trouble ticket to resolution ensuring all tickets are resolved.  • Create new accounts; delete terminated employee accounts and managing current accounts.  • Build new computer systems for replacement and new deployment, manual and\or imaging.  • Install and troubleshoot hardware and software as needed in all facilities.  • Provide remote and onsite support for end-users for all technology related issues in all 13 nursing homes and assisted living facilities as well as the corporate office  • Manage the internship program, and mentor interns throughout the company wide refresh project IT consultant/Help Desk WA Group Inc Farmers Insurance - Kankakee, IL May 2011 to December 2012 • Analyzing IT requirements within the company and give advice on the use of IT  • Software installation, monitoring, and maintaining all company computers  • Anti-virus, malware, and spyware removal  • Support and train staff on new software   • Provided technical support via RDP, email, telephone, and in Security Consultant Conducted in a course at Saint Xavier University January 2012 to May 2012 • Identify and document possible exploits in different computer systems and software  • Use appropriate tools to complete all penetration testing  • Create a final report advising client on patches and other security measures Project Manager Conducted in a course at Saint Xavier University January 2011 to May 2011 • Define project scope, goals and deliverables  • Delegate tasks and responsibilities to appropriate teammates  • Identify and resolve issues within the project team  • Plan, schedule, and track project timelines and milestones using appropriate tools Education Master of Applied Computer Science Saint Xavier University May 2012 Associates of Science Moraine Valley Community College May 2008 B.A. in Computer Studies Saint Xavier University Skills Windows 2000/XP/7/8, Server 20xx, Backtrack Linux, MAC OSX, FreeBSD, Active Directory, Exchange, Dame Ware, Bes Administration,Metasploit, Nessus, Nmap, Wireshark, Software Firewalls,Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, Access, PowerPoint), Microsoft Project Awards Transfer Scholarship 2008-08 Transfer Scholarship into Saint Xavier University for academic achievement. Computational Science, Engineering, and Mathematics Scholarship 2008-08 I held this Scholarship from 2008 - 2010 to complete my undergrad. This was awarded to me for academic achievement. Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Scholarship 2009-08 I was awarded this Scholarship in 2009 and held it through 2012. This Scholarship carried over into my graduate degree.