Automation Engineer Automation Engineer Windows Automation Engineer / Systems Administrator / Security Dallas, GA Zack Mayfield   PERSONAL SUMMARY:    From an early age, I entered the workforce. I began working immediately following the time I turned eighteen. My first job was working for NAPA, an automotive parts outlet as a delivery driver. I thought because I had a keen interest in doing anything with a motor, taking a position at a business that dealt exclusively with auto-parts seemed like a great start. After working there only a few months, I was promoted to counter man, selling parts and excelling at assisting the customer in finding the correct part(s) for their needs. Upon working there almost eight months, I received the great news that I was to be a dad. The problem at the time was that I was not making enough to support a family.    Realizing I needed to increase my income, I needed to find a position with a company that would allow me to better provide for my new family. So, I began searching for an opportunity and soon thereafter found a job at a road construction company - Baldwin Paving. The compensation for my work there allowed me to not only better provide for my family, but allowed for saving towards having a child. Shortly after starting work at Baldwin Paving, working there only a month, I was promoted to Equipment Operator. Things went fine during the six months which followed, but then the economic recession hit the country hard, and layoffs at Baldwin Paving began happening regularly. My position was not immune, and I was laid off in December of 2008.    In order to improve my family’s way of living, and to offset the chances of being laid off as easily in the future – I endeavored to become a trained professional – and made the decision to attend college at Chattahoochee Tech. While in school, to make ends meet, I took any odd jobs, side jobs – pretty much anything I could. And, after graduating from Chattahoochee Technical College, I began my search for my first position in the field of Information Technology. Fortunately, I secured a position at a health services company, Alere Health. Working as a Service Desk Tier 1 position, I cut my teeth on fundamental troubleshooting as well as learned to deal with customer service related issues. Due to these skills, I quickly advanced in my role and began to only handle the more technical, or higher tiered issues that would arise. Economics being what they are, and as history always seems to repeat itself, the yearly layoffs began at that company as well. There was talk of moving the Service Desk, which I had been a member of, to India. As the days rolled on, staff on the tier 1 service desk left or were laid off, and training measures were begun to bring the India-based tier 1 service desk members up-to-speed on procedures for assisting customer calls. I knew it was only a matter of time before my position with the company was no longer required, and I would be laid off.    With that in mind, I started another search for employment. And, after a few days of searching, posting my resume, filling out applications and such - I was contacted by the owner of a small 3 employee client-based IT contracting company, XDCTech, an MSP. I worked for that company as a Junior Systems Engineer tier I. While working for XDCTech, I gained an array of IT knowledge, being then in a position of needing to know how to support all sorts of brands of hardware and just as many varied kinds of software. My employer at the time, the owner of the company, was amazed at how quickly I picked up and acquired new skills to both troubleshoot and understand the principals for all of the varied systems the company managed. I was promoted to Systems Engineer tier II, after only three months’ time. And after six or so months, one of the technicians moved and left the company’s employ due to lack of enough workload, with another leaving eventually for the same reasons. The team of three suddenly shrunk to one, and then the support of 45+ individual clients was the responsibility of myself and my then Owner of the company. Business continued to dwindle to nearly nothing, and I decided to make my move to find something else in order to keep my family at the level of economic stability they needed to be at.    The next job search started in September of 2015 with a tech solution recruitment company, Insight Global. Within two weeks, I had an interview with Cricket Wireless and was hired the day of. I started work as a Security Analyst / Systems Administrator III for the Retail Applications Support section of Cricket Wireless’ IT group, and have been since the end of September of 2015. During my time at Cricket Wireless, I have gained an understanding of both batch file and PowerShell-based scripting as well as the Application Development process. My time at Cricket Wireless was spent learning to grow both professionally and personally, to succeed in an enterprise company.     In the near Future, I feel I could progress into more of a Management Position. I feel that by knowing all possible technical IT issues, and my team understanding that I was once where they are, they would have confidence in me to be able to handle any situation that could arise. A few more reasons that I feel I would excel in a management position, are that I am fair, enjoy teaching others new things, have patience, always have a drive to succeed which others will feed off of, am a great listener and reliable, and I always fight for what I believe in. I will always lend an ear to listen. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Automation Engineer Chick-fil-A - Atlanta, GA February 2017 to September 2018 Chick-fil-A – Atlanta, GA                                                                                                                  Feb 2017 – Sep 2018  Windows Automation Engineer  ServiceNow:  *   Developed and maintained ServiceNow Mid Scripts that ran the back-end PowerShell automation scripts.  *   Automated day to day tasks that the Help Desk, IDM, Messaging, and other teams performed manually.  *   Collaborated with a dedicated ServiceNow Developer, and created many different ServiceNow forms, workflows, and data sources.   *   Tied ServiceNow Orchestration forms, and workflows to PowerShell mid scripts in order to automate manual tasks, forms, workflows, or events from an alert.   *   Completely automated five positions at Chick-fil-A.   *   Two jobs automated was where the employee managed distribution groups, shared mailboxes and managed conference rooms in Office 365.   *   Three jobs automated was an entire monitoring team. (I was originally part of that team). That team monitored alerts generated from logic monitor, Splunk and Air Watch. Those alerts triggered ServiceNow tickets. The monitoring team had roughly fourteen SOPs that were followed for those alerts. The monitoring team worked tickets out of the ServiceNow queue. In the first eight months I automated twelve out of the fourteen SOPs.  PowerShell Scripting:  *  Created PowerShell Functions, built and maintained PowerShell Modules, pioneered PowerShell Remoting for the entire Chick-fil-A 2,000+ store POS network.   *  Automated manual tasks in Office 365/Exchange 2016, Active Directory, for Server 2008-2016, Device Self-Healing Automation “ServiceNow – POS Services”, Oracle, SQL, SFTP, WMI Objects, .NET, HTML, XML, CSV, Excel, Json objects, Regular Expressions, and different API Platforms.   *  Complete Automation of Windows Services/processes without any human interaction.  Python Scripting:  *  Created Python Functions, built Python Modules, automated the rebooting of routers via SSH, sending emails and texts, converted old Perl scripts into Python Scripts, Connected to Infoblox via an API.   *  Automated the rebooting of all 2,000+ Chick-fil-A restaurant routers via SSH in Python.  Point of Sale (POS):  *  Responsible for Configuration and Automation of Chick-fil-A restaurant POS devices.   *  Automated the running of ping checks of all POS devices connected on the entire POS network.   *  Automated the rebooting of all Kiwis/registers and POS Servers for all of the Chick-fil-A restaurants.   *  Automated file monitoring and management, and the running SQL Queries on the POS server.  *  Automated the self-healing of all POS services.   *  Scheduled automated tasks, re-indexed the data bases, ran speed tests, automatic emails based on error logs.  Office 365:  *  Responsible for administration and automation of user management, shared mailboxes, account creation, distribution groups, conference rooms, contacts records, complete automation of Oracle managed distribution groups via a scheduled task without human intervention.  Identity Operations Management:  *  Responsible for Oracle Identity Management administration, Active Directory automation, security group creation, security group management, user creation, user attribute management.   *  Worked with DUO and OKTA multi factor authentication.   *  Managed and monitored the CyberArk Password management system.   *  Used CyberArk in the majority of scripts to preform elevated access automated administration tasks.   Windows Server Administration: (2008 - 2016):  *  Configurated and automated Windows Server 2008 – 2016 system admin tasks. Windows Firewall, Group Policy, Scheduled tasks that ran automation scripts (PowerShell and Python).   Network and Security Operations Administration:  *   Configurated and automated Fortinet firewalls/routers, D-Link and Cisco switches, DMZ devices, and cradle points.   *  Monitored, and managed Splunk alerts, Logic Monitor alerts, McAfee EPO, Bit9, Crash Plan, DUO Access, OKTA, CyberArk, VPN access, Air Watch alerts, Wire Shark, Nmap scanning. Security Analyst / Systems Administrator III AT&T / Cricket-Wireless - Atlanta, GA September 2015 to November 2016 AT&T / Cricket-Wireless – Atlanta, GA                                                                                          Sep 2015 – Nov 2016  Security Analyst / Systems Administrator III  Summary: Managed, configured, and monitored Dell SonicWall’s GMS, Microsoft InTune, and McAfee EPO 10 Antivirus, remotely managed the entire dealer hierarchy of hardware and software stack of approved applications and devices through a cloud interface for the 3 consoles of all 3,900+ Cricket dealer stores with 12,000+ Devices.   Scripting / Application Building: (“Batch” / “PowerShell”)  *   Wrote several Batch scripts, and PowerShell scripts to automate reoccurring System Admin tasks.  *   Application Development with ASP.NET using PsExec and Visual Studio.  *   Built several custom Application MSI’s and EXE’s and deployed them to our Dealer Stores.   *   Built a .NET/PowerShell Application, with a Cricket branded GUI, that was used for renaming transferred PCs and incorrectly named PCs.   *   Developed a uTorrent Removal script that would loop through the entire registry and C:/ drive searching for a list of specific Reg Keys or a search word – I then made that script universal to be able to uninstall/remove anything.  *   Developed a PowerShell hexadecimal user local group change and add script to hide the plain text characters of the passwords included in the script.  *   Developed a way to decompile a non-protected EXE file.  *   I was the project lead for code review.   *   In my spare time, I would assist other departments by speaking with them and gathering a list of reoccurring issues they were currently dealing with. I would then write a PowerShell script to automate the task, thus Eliminating the need to do the task manually and save their department an extreme amount of time.   Daily Tasks:  *   Monitored and responded to alerts on the GMS, InTune, and McAfee console dashboards.  *   Ran reports daily and would constantly analyze our security compliance for all three management consoles.  *  Maintained the dealer hierarchy database and worked with on-boarding and off-boarding to maintain current dealer store records in our dealer group tree in all three management consoles.  *   Handled and managed RFC’s and open Cherwell tickets for changes and request.   *   Managed the logs and reporting functions of all three management consoles.  *  Documented use cases and procedural documentation for our management consoles for our team.   *   Trained our new team members, on all three management consoles.  *   3rd tier support to the field techs, the Truck Roll included: VeriFone updates, installations of the InTune, and McAfee Client and SonicWall firewall installations of the hardware and configuration of the firewall.  *  Began training to manage Crickets’ Microsoft SharePoint and Cherwell system admin functions.  McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator Cloud: (McAfee EPO 10)  *  Confirmed all of the McAfee Antivirus definitions were up to date and in the correct security policy for all 12,000+ dealer devices.   *  Updated the McAfee Security Policies as needed.  *  Maintained a White and Black website list of approved sites.  *  Maintained all of the lockdown policies and policy revisions.   *  Monitored devices for uninstalls of the McAfee client.  *  Migrated our McAfee EPO 6 Management console to the new McAfee EPO 10 management console.   Microsoft InTune: (SCCM “MDM”)  *  After testing and confirming there was no conflicting issues with current applications or device issues, I approved and denied mass updates and applications via InTune.  *  Maintained the group policy for all dealer devices via Microsoft Intune.  *  Granted/removed temp local admin access.  *  I was the companies last check point, for a deployment, into the retail production environment.  Dell SonicWall GMS: (Global Management System; Amazons Cloud (AWS))  *  I made global and individual changes to all 3,900+ Dell SonicWall Firewalls via GMS, a cloud interface hosted on Amazons Cloud (AWS).  Windows Server Administration: (2012 and 2016)  *  Managed Virtual Servers Stacks with Hyper-V and VM Ware vSphere Software to manage virtual Servers  *  Installed Server 2016, AD, DNS, DHCP, SQL Server, and SCCM on the Virtual Server Stack. Systems Engineer II XDCTech - Atlanta, GA May 2014 to September 2015 Summary: Jack of All Trades - Anything from completely configuring a new LAN or Wireless network “Including: cabling, switching, firewall, server, email, desktop,” to replacing a defective mouse.  * Responsible for initial client consultation on requirements and improvements to existing network.  * Responsible for the End to End conversion process to Static IP’s from an ISP on a Firewall  * Responsible for 24x7 Desktop, Network, Server, and help desk support for client issues  * Troubleshot malfunctions of network applications, telephones, and security systems to resolve operational issues and restore services.  * Perform routine preventative maintenance on network hardware and software applications  * Respond and resolve 30+ trouble issues daily with ConnectWise Ticketing Software  * Responsible for client and end user training.  * Installation of CAT5e Wiring  System Admin: (Windows Management: Cloud, Server, PC)  * Utilization of LabTech and GoverLan Automation Device Management Software  * Microsoft InTune  * Microsoft Azure Cloud services  * Mozy Backup Software  * SkyKick Migration Software  * Migration from Windows XP-10   * SharePoint Administration and utilization for 25 different clients  * Utilized Active Directory and GPOs to manage domain users   * Windows, Driver, BIOS, Java, Adobe, and miscellaneous updates   Desktop Support: (Microsoft and Linux OS’s)  * Install/Maintain/Replace Computer Hardware Dell/Lenovo on desktops, laptops, and tablets  * Clearing of all temp files & Disk Clean ups and Defrags  * Support Android and iPhone mobile devices  * Supporting Windows XP-10 end users  * Resolve printer, email and network connectivity issues  Outlook and Exchange Administration: (2007, 2010, and Office 365)  * Migrated 50 users from Exchange 2007 to Office 365 by creating PSTs and changing DNS records to Office 365 with the use of a Cloud tool “SkyKick”.   * Migrated, Installed, Configured, and Managed Office 365 for 150+ users, with in 25 different companies.  * Migrate Outlook 2007 to Office 365/Office 2016  * Manually Migrated several Rack Space accounts to Office 365  Windows Server Administration: (2003, 2008, 2012)   * Dell, HP, and Lenovo Windows Sever 2003-2012 R2, DHCP, DNS, Active Directory, Group Policy  * Managed Virtual Servers Stacks with Hyper-V and VM Ware vSphere Software to manage virtual Servers  * Installed Server 2012, AD, DNS, DHCP, SQL Server, and SCCM on the Virtual Server Stack.  * Migrated Active Directory from a Windows Server 2003 to a Windows Server 2012 R2  * Migrated DNS From a Windows Server 2003 to a Windows Server 2012 R2  * Migrated DHCP from a Windows Server 2003 to a Windows Server 2012 R2  * Configured several GPOs   * Configured several Windows Firewall rules on several different servers.  Network Security: (“WatchGuard Firewalls” and Other)  * WatchGuard VPN “Site to Site and SSL”, Configuration of V-LANs  * WatchGuard access points  * HP and TrendNet switches  * Advanced IP Scanner  * Fing network scanner mobile software  * Wi-Fi analyzer mobile software  * Managed Security Policies and Procedures  * Run scans manually and with AV software  * HIPPA Compliant and PCI Compliant  * Firewall policy changes to ACLs  * Firewall Setup and Configuration  * McAfee Antivirus Software and Vipre Antivirus Management Software  Telephony Management: (VOIP, SIP, and POTS)   * YeahLink Phone Systems Migrations from POTS Phones to VOIP phones using a hosted VOIP provider – NoMorePBX  Proprietary Application Support and Management:   Financial Software: Schwab Data Delivery; QuickBooks; Junxure CRM; Portfolio Center; Lacerte Tax Software  Medical Software: eClinical; Cure MD; All Scripts  Database Software: ACT; MAS; Agency Pro Insurance; Microsoft Access IT Service Desk II Alere Health - Marietta, GA September 2013 to May 2014 Windows Management: (System Admin functions)  * Provided VPN Access and VM Ware access  * Black Berry Enterprise Server management  * System Admin functions: Active Directory or E-Directory, and managing access to a program with patient data  * Patient Data Application Admin – Password Resets, Add, Remove, Change, Terminate, and Data correction  * CA Service Desk Manager & Service Now – (ticketing systems)  * HIPPA Compliant  Desktop Support:   * Remote in via: Go-To-Assist, Remote Desktop, Remote Assistance, Ammyy Admin, TeamViewer; or LYNC.  * Troubleshoot Outlook email related issues; Installing programs; normal break/fix issues.  * Working with and Knowledgeable of Telecom related issues  * Configuration changes and trouble shooting of the Avaya Telephone systems Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Information Systems Technology Chattahoochee Technical College - Marietta, GA March 2009 to December 2012 Skills PowerShell (4 years), Python (1 year), Selenium Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/zachariah-mayfield-93268263 Certifications/Licenses ADVANCED AUTOMATED ADMINISTRATION WITH WINDOWS POWERSHELL January 2017 to Present ADVANCED AUTOMATED ADMINISTRATION WITH WINDOWS POWERSHELL (10962_B)  0769A  https://learn.globalknowledge.com/certificates/51f157ca956843f397e31001a6fcb0e8