IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - Hilltop Securities Arlington, TX I am a knowledgeable and dedicated Health Fitness Specialist, with a strong computer and customer service record.  Sensitive and skilled at developing exercise and rehabilitation regimens tailored to individual clients. Adept at  contributing fresh and creative ways to marking healthy living, with a B.S degree in Health and Human Performance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst Hilltop Securities - Dallas, TX October 2016 to Present Hilltop Securities - Dallas, Tx Established and maintained access to corporate trading application in the financial  service industry.  Performed technical analysis & troubleshot various products providing support.  Setting up and administering 3rd party identity access for investors.  Educated business unit managers, IT development team and the user community about risk and security controls.  Observed and analyzed traffic to learn valuable lessons from known malicious actors and to determine  countermeasures against such threats.  Knowledge of Microsoft Software Products, SQL, Share Point, Excel, Word, Outlook, Pre-Prod, Q/ Talisys.  Adapted and quickly learned a new position and industry to further develop analytical and technical skills.  Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.  Evaluated and conducted technical and functional research and analysis. Insurance Verification Specialist Texas Health Resources - Arlington, TX March 2016 to July 2016 Ensured accurate data entry into healthcare verification applications.  Complied with federal regulations, including HIPPA provisions.  Reviewed and resolved discrepancies in received data and performed data verification routines in accordance with company procedures.  Initiated the pre-authorizations/pre-determinations for insurance to get verified and processed correctly.  Familiarity with EPIC ICD-9, ICD-10 and CPT coding, Medical Terminology and all patient demographics.  Communicated with both patient and primary care physicians (PCP\'s) and/ or specialist in regards to standings. Clinic Coordinator/ Therapist Wellness Centers - Richland Hills, TX March 2014 to December 2015 Created and maintained computerized record management systems to record and process data and generate  reports. Led the facility management staff and consultants in producing a business plan that focused on all aspects of facility operations, including setting priorities and job assignments. Developed a system of staff communication that  ensured proper implementation of treatment plans and comprehensive patient care.  Certified that equipment and supplies were properly maintained for quality patient care and safety.  Monitored and recorded patient progress in response to therapy.    Medical billing and claims management.  Handled accounts receivable.  Insurance verification and authorization.  Administered muscle stimulation, ultrasound, myofascial release, spinal and cervical decompression.  Handled credentialing for multiple doctors.  Worked with 3rd party insurance companies for personal injury cases.  Performed initial client assessment and analysis to begin research process.  Monitored and recorded patient progress in response to therapy.  Administered muscle stimulation, ultrasound, myofascial release, spinal and cervical decompression. Clinic Manager / Therapist Wellness Centers - Austin, TX May 2015 to September 2015 Collected Payments.  Handled credentialing for doctor.  Managed electronic billing and insurance claims.  Availity and EMR experience.  Assisted the doctor with rehabilitation therapies and preventive programs for patients.  Administered muscle stimulation, ultrasound, spinal and cervical decompression, class IV laser therapy, oxygen  therapy, AlterG Anti-Gravity treadmill therapy, Spine Force therapy, and light MD therapy.  Started up a second weight loss business called Vevazz Laser Like Lipo.  Insurance Verification / Authorization.  Referred patients out to other offices for testing or imaging if needed.  Identify clinical product opportunities and made recommendations with defined value to support client population  needs.Developed and executed marketing programs and general business solutions resulting in increased company  exposure, customer traffic, and sales.  Designed the financial model for a new business unit. Chiropractic Assistant/ Therapist Koala Health & Wellness - Dallas, TX February 2013 to March 2014 Coordinate vendor and partner health management and worksite wellness services. Assisted patients with rehabilitation and stretching exercises. Administered muscle stimulation, ultrasound, myofascial release, spinal and  cervical decompression. Design and develop health promotion components for employees to effectively meet health  promotion needs  Monitored and recorded patient progress in response to therapy.  Implementation and delivery of Health Screenings, Health Fairs, Web-based Health Management Tools, and On-site  Health Promotion Programs and Activities. Coordinated employee wellness committees and meetings. Assisted with the front desk work, answering phones and assisting with paper work.  Handled marketing and event coordinating. Education Bachelor of Science in Health and Human Performance Texas A&M University - Commerce, TX May 2013 High School Diploma Macarthur High School - Irving, TX May 2007 Additional Information SKILLS  Microsoft Office knowledge Strong knowledge of body composition & endurance  Revenue and profit maximization testing  Exercise prescription & Fitness experience Sound skills recognizing signs of psychological stress  High written & oral communication abilities & fatigue  Analytical & time management skills Superior muscle strength &exercise physiology  knowledge