IT Security Analyst - Associate <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - Associate IT Security Analyst - Associate - University of Texas Health Science Center San Antonio, TX I would like to continue my development as an Information Security Analyst in a growing company where my skills and experience will be utilized in achieving the goals and objectives of the organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst - Associate University of Texas Health Science Center - San Antonio, TX November 2015 to Present • Ensure agency processes and technologies are aligned with common regulatory state/federal controls and standards such as: FERPA, HIPAA, Texas Administrative Code 202, etc.  • Coordinates the implementation of computer system security plans with agency personnel and outside vendors.  • Confer with various IS staff to discuss issues such as computer data access needs and security violations.  • Incident response, virus/malware scans and analysis.  • Advise management and users regarding security procedures.  • Analyze and tests new or existing procedures, information systems, or utility programs for security vulnerabilities and recommends remediation procedures.  • Design, modify, and implement new or revised security controls to improve system security; including policy creation for intrusion detection/prevention systems and data loss prevention systems.  • Perform technical security reviews and vulnerability scans, meeting both internal and external requirements.  • Research, evaluate, and recommend systems and procedures for the prevention, detection, containment, and correction of data security breaches. Coordinates the design and deployment of security infrastructure and managing related program activities.  • Assist in advising management and users regarding security procedures, which includes administering security awareness training and identifying appropriate metrics for use.  • Responsible for patching university computers monthly.  • Responsible for implementing university encryption solution. PC Maintenance Tech University of Texas Health Science Center - San Antonio, TX December 2013 to November 2015 End User Support / IT Support Specialist - Senior (Lead)  • Responsible for day-to-day operations of the university service desk, AV techs and desktop support techs.  • Work with departments, providing IT support and services as needed.  • Mentor and assist all techs as needed.  • Work to build an efficient and successful environment for the university and technicians under my supervision.  • Troubleshoot issues and answer questions in a Mac and Microsoft Windows environment:  OSX, Windows 7, Windows 8, Active Directory, MS Office Suite, Lync, Exchange and other non-Microsoft systems.  • Monitors open incident queues and follow up with customers and other support personnel as required.  • Meets established standard operating metrics to satisfy departmental service level goals.  • Documents knowledge acquired and technical information into SharePoint site for use by other client support services personnel.  • Builds strong relationships with physicians, faculty, staff and students as well as all infrastructure and other support groups including help desk support, server operations, information security and application support to provide world class customer service.  • Provides on-site technical support of computing equipment and software to departments.  • Build teleconferences using Cisco TelePresence Management Suite (TMS).  • Build recordings using Sonic Foundry's Mediasite and Crestron controls.  • Provides mentoring to technical staff and end users.  • Support and repair Lenovo, Dell and Apple computers campus wide.  • Maintain proficiency with Windows 7, Windows 8 and OSX operating systems.  • Re-image computers with OS applicable to system and encrypt using Bitlocker, Filevault, or WinMagic-SecureDoc.  • Install software, map network drives and setup printers.  • Scan and clean computers infected with malware or viruses.  • Work off site locations supporting UTHSCSA physician practices and hospitals. Student Assistant IT&S Texas A&M University - San Antonio, TX September 2013 to November 2013 • Help instructors, staff and students with computer or network related issues.  • Answers help desk phone lines to assist with over flow.  • Clear and resolve Track- It tickets for the Brooks campus lab operator group.  • Keep student lab in order and make sure equipment is in working.  • Interact with computer technicians and assist with re-imaging or deployment of computers.  • Notify upper level technicians of issues affecting network through calls and Track- it.  • Greeting vendors and directing them to needed locations. EBook Support / Student Assistant Texas A&M University - San Antonio, TX October 2012 to September 2013 • Work with eBook coordinator developing and finding solutions for iPad configurations and maintenance.  • Monitor and install Meraki MDM profiles on iPads issued to faculty, staff and students.  • Administration of Mountain Lion OSX server for eBook and Military Affairs iPad program.  • Work as needed to support any eBook program projects.  • Create tutorials for adding and removing iPad information from devices.  • Assist faculty, staff and students with any eBook questions or issues.  • Maintain SharePoint site and website through cascade.  • Maintain eBook social media accounts on Twitter and Facebook.  • Familiarity with all major operating systems. Education Master of Business Administration in Computer Information Systems and Information Assurance & Security Texas A&M University - San Antonio, TX December 2013 Bachelor of Business Administration in Computer Information Systems in Information Assurance & Security Texas A&M University - San Antonio, TX December 2011 Associate of Applied Science in Network Administration in Network Administration San Antonio College - San Antonio, TX December 2001 Diploma United States Army Military Police School March 1993