Desktop Support Specialist Desktop Support Specialist Akron, OH Seeking to further my professional career in IT support in a challenging work environment that will allow me to hone my skills. Work Experience Desktop Support Specialist NEOnet - Cuyahoga Falls, OH January 2017 to Present • Provide IT support to approximately 6,000 faculty, staff, and students of the Stow-Munroe Falls City School District.  • Repair/maintenance Chromebooks, Laptops, Desktops, Projectors, Document Cameras, and other educational technology.  • Create and modify User accounts through Active Directory and ADManager Plus.  • Setup/modify VoIP phones through Cisco Unity Call Manager and Promanage.  • Troubleshoot/maintain network throughout the districts 11 buildings.  • Utilize SCCM for PC imaging, security, and some remote assistance.  • Installation of switches, servers, and UPS devices. Student IT User Support Analyst Kent State University - Kent, OH August 2016 to December 2016 • Provide support for the Colleges of Visual Communication Design and Communication Studies.  • Support PC and Mac desktops and laptops  • Install/repair office computers  • Install/update/troubleshoot software Security Officer Hard Rock Rocksino - Northfield, OH June 2016 to December 2016 • Secure company assets in a professional manner.  • Provide monetary escorts.  • Respond to incidents in a timely manner as they are reported.  • Assist customers by answering questions, providing directions, or escorts. Outdoor Adventure Specialist KSU Recreational Services - Kent, OH April 2014 to August 2016 • Administer safety and skills tests to ensure a safe environment for staff and patrons.  • Accurately use Fusion POS system.  • Properly and safely belay and instruct guests and members.  • Provide exemplary customer service to guests and members. Supervisor KSU Recreational Services - Kent, OH April 2014 to August 2016 • Accurately manage a cash drawer and confirm reservations.  • Assist customers with a friendly demeanor and professionalism.  • Active risk management.  • Demonstrate service knowledge to customers with questions.  • Revise and administer current staff training manual and structure.  • Effectively manage specialists and staff with professionalism and approachability. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Technology Kent State University - Kent, OH May 2018 Skills Microsoft Office, Active Directory, SCCM, Google Admin, ADManager Plus Certifications/Licenses TestOut Security Pro May 2017 to Present Additional Information College coursework included:  • CCENT/CCNA Networking  • Wireless Telecommunications  • Server Administration  • Computer Hardware  • Network Management and Design  • LAN Security