Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> ? 8 years of Experience in Information Technology as IT Specialist, Desktop/End-User Support, and System Administrator.  ? Remedy Queue Manager  ? CompTIA A+ Certified  ? CompTIA Security+ Certified  ? CompTIA Network + Certified  ? ITIL Foundation  ? Microsoft Certified Professional  ? Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist  ? Microsoft Technology Associate  ? DoD Top Secret Clearance  ? DoD Secret Clearance  ? Expert in Microsoft Office Suite  ? Expert in Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 10  ? Excellent customer service and troubleshooting software/hardware  ? Exchange Active Directory and Remedy software  ? Strong communication and problem-solving skills Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst New Orleans, LA May 2018 to Present Contractor, Spawar    Maintain virus protection suite McAfee HBSS on Enterprise wide network, and comply with USCYBERCOM standards. On client site identifying vulnerabilities, risks, and protection needs to resolve issues and problems in the overall IT Security areas. Incident response in conducting investigation quarantine malware and further escalate for resolution. Analyzing Install and configure HBSS Suite of tools in multiple New and existing networks to include physical and Virtual machine based systems. Conduct STIG compliance and preparation CCRI. Review logs for intrusion and create exceptions rules to McAfee suite. Customer support in answering and resolving technical issues. Provide 24X7 support, acknowledge receipt of alert with the Data Operations Center. System Administrator New Orleans, LA December 2015 to May 2018 Contractor, Spawar    Interface extensively with Technology Services Teams, Application Teams and Client  Organizations. Install and configure Server Operating Systems Software and management  utilities. Provide installation, maintenance, and tuning of server hardware and software systems.  Perform extensive troubleshooting, performance tuning, capacity planning, and trending  analysis. Evaluate, test, and deploy infrastructure hardware and software. Provide technical  support to clients, team members, and additional external business units. Patching and resolving  server related vulnerabilities using VMware. Ensure that all applications, networks, servers, or associated devices procured and/or connected to a Navy network for the purposes of integration have completed DADMS registration and received FAM approval. Provide 24X7 support, acknowledge receipt of alert with the Data Operations Center. Compliance DISA Stig operations of severs and troubleshooting critical outages. Installing/Removal of application and configuring McAfee, Window Updates, Splunk, and Group policies. Managing Active Directory and Security Center to apply directives to support of projects and Navy enterprise. Help Desk IT Specialist Support GCSS_MC & NEDC - New Orleans, LA October 2015 to December 2015 • Supported U.S. Marine Corps personnel globally in troubleshooting GCSS_MC application and configuration computer settings.  • Assists NEDC in "critical tasks" including various priorities for Navy sites servers  • Process and investigate daily tickets reports to further escalate tickets for resolution  • Lead tasks with actively pursuing follow up tickets and resolving on a daily basis.  • Review tickets in Remedy queues or create reports and allocate to correct departments or field service representatives to assign for action of resolution.  • Support NAVY server register tickets in remedy via email and incoming calls.  • Track and research business solutions running Remedy application  • Monitor operations of Remedy ITSM application product suite  • A vital asset to the team, contributions and strong work ethics  • Track and research business solutions running Remedy application Contractor, Hewlett Packard ABBTECH - New Orleans, LA September 2014 to September 2015 NGEN Contract as IT Senior Specialist for MARFORRES.  • Manage and support over 50 field services representatives and over 18,000 end users within the USMC MCEN-N network both local and remote sites.  • Assists MARFORRES Field Services Team Leadership in "critical tasks" including CAT 1 Mitigations and Software vulnerabilities Removal Projects  • Process and investigate weekly stale ticket report to further escalate tickets for resolution  • Lead tasks with actively pursuing follow up tickets and resolving on a daily basis.  • Review tickets in Remedy queues or create reports and allocate to correct departments or field service representatives to assign for action of resolution.  • Analyze, logs, tracks and resolves software/hardware, network connectivity issues, printer, servers, and applications to support NGEN project.  • Attend weekly meetings plan day to day operations including, hosting conference calls to update and support the project.  • Track and research business solutions running Remedy application  • Troubleshooting/Diagnosing/Removing of viruses and malicious software  • Assist new field services reps with onboarding process and following proper procedures.  • Participated/Assisted with reimaging of laptops and domain adds in a Command Cyber Readiness Inspection (CCRI) which resulted in a passing score.  • Train field service representative in Remedy applications in documentation  • Monitor operations of Remedy ITSM application product suite  • A vital asset to the team, contributions and work ethic help the team stay far above the SLA requirements.    • Track and research business solutions running Remedy application    Re-imaging of deployed/stocked laptops and desktops using Windows 7, Windows Office, HBSS, Symantec and utilizing SCVI. Troubleshooting/Diagnosing/Removing of viruses and malicious software. Proficient at operating and troubleshooting a wide variety of software programs, computer hardware, network related issues and electronic equipment to include Windows XP, Windows 7, Guardian Edge and Remote Desktop. Used external storage device for accountability of personnel data for reuse on reimaged workstations. Education New Horizon Learning Center-Burbank - Burbank, CA 2012 Bachelor of History in U. S California State University of Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA 2011 Associate in Liberal Studies Los Angeles Community College 2007 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/albertcardenas