Customer Service Representative Customer Service Representative Davie, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Service Representative CHEWY - Dania Beach, FL January 2017 to June 2017 • Answer inbound customer telephone calls regarding new and existing accounts.  • Educate and assist customers in locating merchandise and making purchasing decisions.  • Consistently improve customer satisfaction through expert resolution of conflicts, issues, and concerns. IT Security Analyst I TRADESTATION GROUP - Plantation, FL October 2015 to January 2017 • Communicate risk and audit findings and recommendations to management, including the root cause of issues discovered; implement management action plans and track findings through remediation.  • Conduct security audits with respect to McAfee DLP and Laptop Encryption, Active Directory and Vulnerability Scans.  • Update policies and procedures to ensure compliance with internal and external requirements.  • Conduct a Business Impact Analysis to determine and evaluate the potential financial effects of a disruption to critical business operations. Event Coordinator THE JIM MORAN INSTITUTE - Tallahassee, FL January 2014 to January 2015 • Coordinate services for events, such as accommodation and transportation for participants, facilities, catering, signage, displays, special needs requirements, printing and event security.  • Manage project execution to ensure adherence to budget, schedule, and scope.  • Assign duties, responsibilities, and spans of authority to project personnel.  • Prepare project status reports by collecting, analyzing, and summarizing information and trends. Marketing Intern TRADESTATION GROUP - Plantation, FL June 2013 to August 2013 • Update Daily Social Media Networking (Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, etc.) via Hootsuite based on company goals and objectives.  • Communicate between personnel to ensure projects are developing smoothly and efficiently.  • Use Sitecore the CMS to edit website content. Education Bachelor's Degree in Marketing and Hospitality FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY - Tallahassee, FL June 2010 to May 2014 Skills Bilingual - English and Spanish, MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Visio), Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, Detail and deadline - oriented, Project management, Excellent communication skills Certifications/Licenses Florida Real Estate License January 2015 to Present