IT Security Analyst, Intern <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span>, Intern IT Security Analyst, Intern Sioux Falls, SD I am a Cyber Operations major with three online, after hours, courses left for next fall to finalize my degree. I spent the  Summer and Fall of 2016 as a IT Security Intern at EROS Data Center working for SGT, learning security practices, tools,  and PowerShell/Excel scripting. I also spent three years studying Mechanical Engineering, and through courses as well  as twelve months as a product development engineering intern at Adam's Thermal Systems have picked up valuable  knowledge and experience in mathematics, engineering, and the product development process.    I have always found that I am the most comfortable and capable working with computer applications and finding ways  to maximize the potential of tools. I put a large amount of value into learning and adapting to the latest technologies  and practices. I am a deep and forward thinking individual, capable of both predicting potential problems as well as  discovering and fixing existing problems.    I am seeking a dynamic career that combines my interests in Information Technology, Engineering, Math, and Business  in a challenging and rewarding manner. I value organizations that share family values including the ability to be honest,  forward, and friendly. Work Experience IT Security Analyst, Intern EROS Data Center June 2016 to September 2016 • Security Risk Mitigation using PowerShell, Remote Access, SCCM, and Helpdesk tools to work with customers to remove issues and reduce risk  • Prepared and applied Windows and Windows application patches using SCCM and BigFix  • Removed outdated applications on customer machines  • Managed security risks using Tenable tools such as Nessus and Security Center  • Discovered and helped implement potential tools such as ForeScout, The Sleuth Kit, Technology Consultant Jarman's Midwest Cleaning System June 2015 to March 2016 • Improved computer application processes for more efficient use of formulas, orders, and documentation  • Organized Files digitally for easier access  • Programmed Excel formula and sales sheets  • Mixed, tested and documented new formulas for potential new products.  614 E 13th St, Apt. 106    Sioux Falls, SD 57104 Hayden R. Olinger  (605)-929-7814 | holinger91@gmail.com Product Development Engineer, Intern Adams Thermal Systems June 2012 to September 2013 • Project Leader for designing and implementing new assembly line equipment  • Quality Management team member. Improved first time through units from 65% pass rating to 85%  • Product Development ProE operator. In charge of creating and updating any ProE renderings and drawings for the department.  • Quality Management professional document creator for analysis results. Given raw data and 3D analysis files for creation of professional documents that displayed findings and improvements clearly through the use of screen  captures, tables, and writing. Injection Molding Operator Amesbury Fastek June 2010 to June 2011 • Operated up to 11 injection molding machines making plastic parts  • Worked in an 8 member team Education Cyber Operations in Computer Science Dakota State University - Madison, SD March 2015 to Present Mechanical Engineering South Dakota State University - Brookings, SD September 2010 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Powershell (1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), Visual Basic (Less than 1 year), Windows (10+ years), Linux (1 year) Additional Information Professional Skills    • Great team member  • Technology-driven  • Extremely adaptable and fast learning in computer environments  • Critical and creative thinking ability, especially with predicting results  • Basic Programming abilities in PowerShell, Excel, HTML, C, C++, Python, and Assembly  • Strong writing and math skills  • Engineering mind and background  • Willingness to learn and adapt