Cyber Security Maintenance Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Maintenance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Maintenance Analyst - Assured Space Access Technologies San Diego, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Maintenance Analyst Assured Space Access Technologies - San Diego, CA January 2018 to Present Maintain, analyze, troubleshoot and repair computer systems and hardware for the Global Command and Control System - Maritime (GCCS-M) program    ? Maintain and support user account information including security, systems and permissions; ensure appropriate security controls are in place to safeguard electronic infrastructure    ? Ensure assets are up to date and maintained in accordance with various information assurance controls and mandates; may respond to security breaches and viruses    ? Documents, maintains, upgrades and replaces hardware and software systems  ? Plan, implement, upgrade, or monitor security measures for the protection of computer networks and information  ? Support required Department of Defense (DoD) mission applications for test efforts  ? Utilize performance and/or automated information assurance tools to support monthly scans  ? Ensure the integrity and maintain configuration control of test environments and documentation in software repositories, both physical and electronic Junior Network Engineer Apex Systems and DXC Technologies / Naval Air Station North Island July 2017 to January 2018 Install and maintain network devices at multiple naval sites including SDNI, NAB, IPBC and NALF including server farm devices. I worked with NOC technicians and managers to troubleshoot outages and resolve network related issues.  ? Also responsible for create tickets for maintenance using HPE Service Manager. I understand, implement, and follow processes in accordance with current policies and procedures to perform escalation and additional tasks as directed.  ? Take direction from the Regional Leader and Site Leaders in installing network equipment from vendors such as CISCO and BROCADE. And support other devices such as Juniper VPN and MCAFEE security devices.  ? The experience in the environment included a wide variety of network devices with vendors such as Cisco, Aruba, Brocade, Juniper, Riverbed and McAfee network devices to include Routers, Switches, Access Points, Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS), Virtual Private Networks (VPN) and WAN Accelerators.  ? Other tasks include patching network cables and basic network troubleshooting over the phone, in person or email to resolve user end issues. IT Specialist 2 Apex Systems and DXC Technologies / Naval Air Station North Island May 2016 to July 2017 Field Service Technician for the Navy over at North Island Naval Air Station / Halsey Field  ? Under general direction, applied specialized knowledge in a single discipline such as assembly/integration, cross-discipline functions, data engineering, industry expertise, knowledge engineering or legacy evolution.  ? Applied specialization to conceptualize, design, construct, test and implement portions of business and technical information technology solutions through application of appropriate software development life cycle methodology.  ? Interacts with the customer to gain an understanding of the business environment, technical context and organizational strategic direction. Defines scope, plans and deliverables for assigned projects.  ? Participates in business and technical information technology solution implementations, upgrades, enhancement and conversions.  ? Establishes and maintains security, integrity and business continuity controls and documents.  ? Assists information engineers on application of specialized knowledge to coding, testing, implementation and documentation projects. Tier 1 Support Specialist H&R Block Technical Support Center - San Diego, CA September 2015 to April 2016 Provided a variety of IT customer support services essential to the effective performance of H&R block systems.  ? Involved in planning and delivering of technical support service, including troubleshooting, installation, removals, Moves, systems knowledge assistance and/or training in response to customer requirements.  ? Served as a problem solver and advisor, and provided operational support for tax professional users of IT Equipment, software, networks, and systems within the Windows operating systems.  ? Tracked and updated work orders via Remedy Help Desk Ticketing System using Remedy II Service Management for the Enterprise software.  ? Installed, configured, repaired and performed routine maintenance on HP & Lexmark printers.  ? Imaged PCs with XP and Windows 7 operating systems on a program H&R block uses called toast.  ? Resolved problems in response to customer reported incidents; researched, evaluated, and provided feedback on problematic trends and patterns in customer support requirements; and ensured the application of information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices in the delivery of customer support services.  ? Ensured complete resolution of help center calls which included installing, configuring, troubleshooting, and Maintaining customer hardware and software via remote desktop.  ? Installed and configured H&R block approved software applications, troubleshot and maintained all of H&R block approved customer hardware and software apparatus and applications. Education Bachelor's Degree Coleman University - San Diego, CA May 2017 Associate's Degree Coleman University - San Diego, CA March 2016 Skills Nist, Cyber Security, Information Security, Information Assurance, It Security, Cybersecurity Certifications/Licenses Security+ CE March 2016 to March 2021 ComTIA CySA+ March 2018 to March 2021 CCENT February 2017 to November 2020 CCNA Routing and Switching November 2017 to November 2020