Associate Security Consultant Associate <span class="hl">Security</span> Consultant Associate Security Consultant Chicago, IL To provide my experience as a practitioner of Information Security and improve the security posture of an organization. Work Experience Associate Security Consultant Trustwave Cyber Security - Chicago, IL 2017 to 2018 Perform CVS2 SAQ A-D, Policy and Procedures, L2, CVS1 on-sites, and Gap Assessment  Engagements as the lead consultant.  • Translate NIST/ISO standards to custom policy and procedure documentation suites for clients.  • Act as a subject matter expert for clients regarding NIST/ISO technical and management controls.  • Apply risk management frameworks to client organizational structures developing risk registers and documenting risk responsibilities.  • Present security findings and remediations paths to client leadership including CIO/CISO.  • Validate PCI Requirements by auditing client systems to ensure they conform to established policies and procedures.  • Developed a new product for Trustwave by writing a supply chain/procurement consulting offering.  • Perform incident response post-mortems and present reports to information security leadership with controls to be implemented to prevent future compromise.  • Develop data retention policies with clients based on compliance requirements of the organization, including retention periods and destruction procedures. IT Specialist-Internal Audit Trustwave Cyber Security - Chicago, IL 2016 to 2017 • Audit permissions and data classifications and present findings to the internal auditor.  • Compile penetration test results and present to upper management.  • Exchange server standup and lead administrator for on-premise to O365 mailbox migration.  • Respond to security threats and follow incident response procedures to properly maintain chain of custody.  • Analyze IPS, SIEM, and IDS logs and organize log reviews with information security teams.  • Secure compromised systems and prepare them for forensic analysis. SharePoint Analyst-PCI Remediation Bank of Montreal - Chicago, IL 2015 to 2016 Project planning and management for national deployment of 4000+ POI devices at 600 locations.  • Created flowcharts to document business systems and processes for IT audit reports.  • Built the project management site with SharePoint.  • Responsible for hiring interviews and technician sourcing.  • Managed technicians to ensure deadlines are met.  • Developed and presented project checkpoints and closeout presentation to stakeholders.  • Device and driver management with Touchpoint Administration. Education associate degree in Computer Science Harold Washington College Chicago 2019 to Present Bachelor of Arts in Arts and Sciences Loyola University Chicago Chicago 2012 to 2015 Skills It Security, PCI, Information Security, Saml Certifications/Licenses Security+ February 2019 to February 2021