Enterprise Storage, Server and Virtualization Administrator Enterprise Storage, Server and Virtualization Administrator Atlanta, GA Dedicated and driven young professional with hands on business experience working in fast-paced environments. Operates with a strong sense of urgency and is dedicated to solving problems. Continually looking to solve business problems utilizing various technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Enterprise Storage, Server and Virtualization Administrator Greenberg Traurig, LLP - Atlanta, GA November 2015 to Present • Responsible for monitoring, maintaining, and keeping a global law firms’ infrastructure with over 40 offices, 600 Servers and 1300+ virtual servers up and running on a 24/7 basis.   • Proactively create, deploy and provision servers and virtual machines using VMware, Hyper-V, and EMC technologies. Troubleshot various servers, firewalls, switches, and routers. Responds to customer support tickets and resolves any issues in a timely manner.   • Responsible for maintaining and monitoring the firms’ hardware using Dell OpenManage Essentials SaaS product. In charge of monitoring and keeping track of offices universal power supplies throughout the globe. Security Analyst Intern Compliance Engineers, Inc - Atlanta, GA January 2015 to May 2015 • Develop and manage large-scale security integration projects for customers. Utilize security tools to provide continual monitoring of secure data while ensuring regulatory compliance.   • Monitor and record security events for global organizations. Would have daily call with large payment processing client to go over any events that occurred the previous day.   • Working experience using software such as RSA enVision, Netwitness, Splunk, Cisco IPS, Tripwire, Trend Micro, Vormetric, and Dell Secure Works. IT Associate Netstream Communications - Atlanta, GA February 2014 to May 2015 • Primary responsibilities include maintaining vendor relationships, preventative maintenance scheduling of critical equipment, configuring custom builds for customers, and supervising on-site data center.   • Assisted customers with various enterprise equipment installations (Cisco, HP, Dell, EMC, etc.)  • Analyzed current services and researched new technologies for potential implementation. Analyzed customer needs for custom builds. Developed use cases and presented findings to upper management. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Information Systems Kennesaw State University - Kennesaw, GA 2015 Skills Windows Office Suite (Access, Visio, Project, Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Virtualization technologies (VMware and Hyper-V), EMC VNX, Isilon, Visual Basic, Microsoft SQL, Oracle Database, CSS, HTML, ASP.NET, Python, Tableau (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/michaellabrecque