Splunk Content Developer/Admin Splunk Content Developer/Admin Splunk Content Developer/Admin - Equifax • Over 6+ years of experience, in field of SIEM Information Security with expertise in Implementation and Operation phases of the project.  • Extensive experience in deploying, configuring and administering Splunk clusters.  • Expertise in Actuate reporting, development, deployment, management and performance tuning of Actuate reports  • Created Splunk app for Enterprise Security to identify and address emerging security threats through the use of continuous monitoring, alerting and analytics.  • Helping application teams in on-boarding Splunk and creating dashboards, alerts, reports etc.  • Perform Field Extractions and Field Transformations using the Regular Expressions in Splunk. Write complex IFX, REX and MULTIKV command to extracts the fields from the log files  • Setup Splunk Forwarders for new application levels brought into environment.  • Develop custom app configurations (deployment-apps) within SPLUNK in order to parse, index multiple types of log format across all application environments.  • System Administration familiar with Windows Servers, Red Hat Linux Enterprise Servers.  • Experience in Shell scripting and extensively used Regular expressions in search string and data anonymization.  • Created dashboards, report, scheduled searches and alerts, SIEM searches and alerts Metrics related to AWS  • Created correlation searches through Splunk enterprise security.  • Good Understanding of configuration files, precedence and daily work exposure to Props.conf, transforms.conf, inputs.conf, outputs.conf and Setting up a forwarder information based on requirement.  • Experience in Optimized search queries using summary indexing.  • Experience in Designing and implementing Trend Micro  • Excellent analytical and interpersonal skills and ability to learn new concepts and supported 24/7 on call in production and development environment.  • Developed dashboard for manager/director level use to monitor real time security incidents and notable review in Splunk ES Work Experience Splunk Content Developer/Admin Equifax - Atlanta, GA June 2017 to Present • Configuring various Dashboards/Reports and schedule PDF delivery to respective teams using Splunk.  • Word around updating Splunk 6.x to 7.x version.  • Created around 10-15 Dashboards mostly based on security related. - Developed endpoint Dashboard to track all the threats coming in and to track what servers and computers are infected.  • Developed Director/Manager level dashboards to track how many incidents analysts are working and how many malware related alerts triggering on daily basis.  • Created correlation searches for security incidents through Splunk enterprise security  • Work around different log sources like Firewall, VPN, DNS, AV, Proxy Logs.  • Created custom dashboards for Splunk Enterprise Security where analyst can monitor threats more effectively.  • Created some advanced visualization Dashboards using JavaScript and XML.  • Designing and implementing Splunk-based best practice solutions.  • Developed Splunk infrastructure and related solutions as per automation toolsets.  • Installation and configuration of Splunk product in different environments.  • Configured Splunk Searching and Reporting modules, Knowledge Objects, Administration, Add-On's, Dashboards, Clustering and Forwarder Management.  • Designing and maintaining production-quality Splunk dashboards. Splunk Enterprise Deployments and enabled continuous integration on as part of configuration management.  • Involved in Installation, Administration and Configuration of Splunk Enterprise and integration with local legacy systems.  • Used Splunk DB Connect Addon to integrate Splunk with Database like SQL  • Expertise in creating and customizing Splunk applications, searches and dashboards as desired by IT teams and business.  • Drive complex deployments of Splunk dashboards and reports while working side by side with technical teams to solve their integration issues.  • Experience in working with Splunk authentication and permissions and having significant experience in supporting large scale Splunk deployments.  • Splunk configuration that involves different web application and batch, create Saved search and summary search, summary indexes.  • Designed and Built Tomcat environment in Stage, Dev and Production environment  • Created and Managed Splunk DB connect Identities, Database Connections, Database Inputs, Outputs, lookups, access controls.  • Experience on Splunk search construction with ability to create well-structured search queries that minimize performance impact.  • Parsing, Indexing, Searching concepts Hot, Warm, Cold, Frozen bucketing.  • Configured and setup Secure Sockets Layers (SSL) for data encryption and client authentication.  • Installed and configured Splunk DB Connect in Single and distributed server environments.  • Experience with Splunk Searching and Reporting modules, Knowledge Objects, Administration, Add-On's, Dashboards, Clustering and Forwarder Management.  • Well versed in both remote and on-site user Splunk Support.  • Building Searches and visualize them using dashboarding capabilities of Splunk as per business requirements.  • Created security-based alerts in Splunk and notable events in Splunk incident review page  • Experienced in creating and running Cron Jobs for scheduled tasks.  • Involved in handling various Incident and request related to the application.  • Extensive experience in Python web frame works like Django, Pyramid and Flask in implementing MVC, singleton, factory architecture.  • Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and flexible  • Developed shell scripts to handle everyday System Administration tasks such as backup procedure, system cleanup, everyday system tasks, log rotation etc.  • Created notable security related events and custom dashboards in Splunk es.  • Configured Splunk Searching and Reporting modules, Knowledge Objects, Administration, Add-On's, Dashboards, Clustering, and Forwarder Management.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the main applications that were sources of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • On a scheduled basis, configure backups, verify custom reports, manage log source groups, and validate log sources with client. Splunk Admin/Developer Orange Wings Aviation, Lauderdale, FL September 2016 to May 2017 • Created Dashboards, Visualizations, Statistical reports, scheduled searches, Alerts and worked on creating different other knowledge objects.  • Worked on installing Universal and Heavy forwarder to bring any kind of data fields in to Splunk.  • Provide Regular support to Splunk project teams on complex solution and issue resolution.  • Helping application teams in on-boarding Splunk and creating dashboards/alerts/reports etc.  • Maintained and managed assigned systems, Splunk related issues and administrators.  • Involved in admin activities and worked on inputs.conf, index.conf, props.conf and transform.conf to set up time zone and time stamp extractions, complex event transformations and whether any event breaking.  • Involved in standardizing Splunk forwarder deployment, configuration and maintenance across UNIX and Windows platforms.  • Designing and maintaining production-quality Splunk dashboards.  • Create Dashboard, Reports and Alerts for events and configure alert mail.  • Worked on DB Connect configuration for Oracle and MySQL  • Developing Scheduling Alerts, Experience with Deployment Server & Advanced XML.  • Created Dashboards for various types of business users in organization and worked on creating different Splunk Knowledge objects like Macros, IFX, Calculated fields, Tags, Event Types and Look ups.  • Field Extraction, Using IFX, Rex Command and Reg Ex in configuration files.  • Use techniques to optimize searches for better performance, Search time field extractions. And understanding of configuration files, precedence and working.  • Developed dashboards to monitor Splunk issues like skipped searches and performance issues.  • Various types of charts Alert Settings Knowledge of app creation, user and role access permissions. Creating and managing app, Create user, role, Permissions to knowledge objects. Splunk Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA March 2016 to August 2016 • Expert in Extracting, Transforming, Analyzing, Visualizing, and presenting data from diverse business areas in insightful ways to enable IS Managers and Directors to take actions.  • Built various types of charts, reports, dashboards, alerts, managed user, role access permissions and permissions to knowledge objects.  • Various types of charts Alert Settings Knowledge of app creation, user and role access permissions. Creating and managing app, Create user, role, Permissions to knowledge objects.  • Developed robust, efficient queries that will feed custom Alert, Dashboards and Reports.  • Worked on Splunk search processing language, Splunk dashboards and Splunk dbconnect app.  • Publishing data into Splunk through configurations such as inputs.conf, severclass.conf, server.conf, apps.conf and Outputs.conf configurations  • Design and customize complex search queries, and promote advanced searching, forensics and analytics  • Developed dashboards, data models, reports and optimized their performance.  • Developed Splunk dashboards, data models, reports and applications, indexing, tagging and field extraction in Splunk  • Created Splunk knowledge objects (e.g. fields, lookups, macros, etc.)  • Experience in dashboards and reports performance optimization.  • Developed Dashboards for Business Activity Monitoring, Enterprise Architecture  • Built KPIs dashboards on Patient Enrollment transactions and other business activities  • Built Key Performance Indicators to the Enterprise Architecture team through Splunk  • Created Alerts on different SLAs and thresholds through Splunk.  • Manipulating raw data and Field extraction  • Built KPIs, alerts on SLAs of filesystem services project.  • Business Activity Monitoring and troubleshooting  • Maintain current functional and technical knowledge of the SPLUNK platform IT Security Analyst Smart Technologies - IN May 2014 to December 2015 • Implemented SNMP-based networking monitoring tool CACTI, Creating Graphs, Templates, adding CAMM for TRAP Configuration, Setting Threshold.  • Implemented BACULA as a backup server and Scheduling backup jobs.  • Working on Puppet (Master & agent) for Monitoring, Reporting & Troubleshooting.  • UNIX/Linux Administration & Security.  • Installing and managing virtual machines in Esxi5 (VMWARE), VMotion, SVMotion, DRS, HA, VMware Cloning, Snapshot, creating templates, and Citrix Xen Server.  • Comprehensive operational knowledge of all major technology areas comprising of virtual & cloud infrastructure.  • Windows Administration (2003, 2008), Active Directory, DNS, DHCP. Education Master's in cyber security in cyber security Sacred Heart University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Database (2 years), Javascript (1 year), Python (1 year), Unix (2 years), Xml. (2 years)