Process Control Specialist Process Control Specialist Mountain House, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Process Control Specialist Finelite, Inc - Union City, CA April 2016 to Present Aid in the creation and implementation of processes and systems that optimize the production process at Finelite. Managing timely solutions to a wide variety of problems while providing support to operations as needed.  ? Walkthrough the facility and observe production, identify potential problems and provide support as needed.  ? Connect with supervisors and leads for any production or processes related issues.  ? New product introduction (NPI) – work with Manufacturing Engineering/Industrial Engineering to introduce new product to the manufacturing floor. After initial NPI, work with Sally to accomplish full scale factory training and provide necessary  documentation/material for all departments  ? Creates step-by-step work instructions or OMS documents based on IE/ME production templates  ? Trains line supervisors and operators with OMS’s and follows up necessary changes in the workflow  ? Maintains up-to-date OMS database including: OMS documents, Work instructions, Bills of Materials, Critical characteristics, and other supporting drawings  ? Maintain OMS sequence of events for the assembly processes with input from Engineering, Manufacturing, Operations, and Quality personnel  ? Obtain and analyze information to verify completeness and accuracy of engineering data for transfer to operations personnel  ? Observes and time documents workflow for labor studies Production Team Leader Finelite, Inc - Union City, CA Present Responsibilities  • Work with supervisor and other team leads to manage and prioritize staffing assignments to ensure customer demand and the production schedule are met.  • Execute and coordinate employee training to ensure that procedures are followed and meet all quality requirements.  • Use basic problem solving skills to ensure stable operation of the work cell.  • Report problems or concerns with quality, processes, equipment, materials and labor to Production Supervisor.  • Work closely with support staff such as Technicians, Manufacturing Engineering, Production Supervisor, and Materials/Warehouse to resolve issues.  • Observe, maintain, coordinate and complete standard work.  • Complete lot acceptance activities for assigned assembly cell.  • Update production metrics and facilitate regular team communication.  • Identify and support continuous improvement efforts with Production Supervisor.  • Sustain and drive lean manufacturing and 5S activities.  • Participate as an active member of the production assembly team and assembles products.  • Follow documented policies and procedures as designated by the company’s Quality System.  • Follow detailed assembly instructions, processes and procedures.  • Complete required documentation relating to business or regulatory requirements.  • Maintains a clean and organized work area to facilitate manufacturing functions.    Accomplishments  Certification of Team Lead Program    Skills Used  Software: Solid works 2014, Microsoft Office 2013 (Word, Excel, Access, & Power point), Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Ready, Visio, Know to read Autocad Drawing, Macromedia Flash, Freehand, Fireworks, Adobe Illustrator, PC images builds with Norton Ghost cast, Release 5, SAP Production review    Motivated, Confident, a good team player, energetic person and ever-ready to commit to the cause of the company IT Security Monitoring SHINSEI BANK – SHINSEI TECHNOLOGY SERVICES SINGAPORE - Singapore April 2009 to February 2012 Responsibilities  • Monitor, Investigate, Analyze and perform escalation on security events and network hardware incidents using Arc Sight ESM as platform but has already migrated to NetIQ and Hyperic.  • Follow escalation protocol for security violations with Severity 7, 8 & 9.  • Handle McAfee policy Orchestrator (ePO) as a platform in handling malware incidents.  • Data entry of Monthly roster Creation and report to the manager   • Perform McAfee Host Intrusion Prevention System (HIPS) to isolate compromised systems from the network and provide escalation and resolution 24x7.  • Performing BMC Remedy Ticket System to create a trouble ticket system.  • Intrusion Defense System (IDS) and deep packet analysis to analyze incoming intrusions previously using SNORT but has migrated to IBM Site Protector and lessen false positive.  • Monitors all virus cases detected and make track of them to prevent further infections.  • Monitors Shinsei Bank’s Network Secured by constantly monitoring all activities running on the server’s and end user’s computers. We keep track if all protocols (etc: HTP, SSL, TCP, SMTP)  • Makes sure no malicious activities are running which can harm the server and end user’s unit on a 24 x 7 basis.  • Reports all users prohibited activities based on the company’s policies (going to harmful websites, downloading harmful files, connecting computers on the network without anti-virus installed)  • Records all server logins throughout all branches making sure all server access are well accounted for.  • Sends reports about the Banks Security Activities in Information technology every day (etc: Sensor Health Check, Domain Admin Changes, Virus Cases, Phishing Attacks, Intrusion Detection (IDS) Activities, Spam Emails Detected, Vulnerability Cases)  • Time-sheets creation, verification and submission Monthly roster Creation of new monthly Event Reports Spreadsheets, hardening and archiving of older event reports.    Accomplishments  Software: McAfee policy Orchestrator (ePO), BMC Remedy Ticket System, IBM Intrusion Defense System (IDS)    Skills Used  Able to follow escalation protocol for security violations, handle malware incidents, able to create a trouble ticket Technical Hardware Analyst - Data Center Site Operator Citi Singapore - Singapore September 2008 to April 2009 Responsibilities  • Perform timely and cost-effective operations and maintenance services to supported Hardware Centers within APPC.  • Participate in Service related incident management and restoration related activities, in relation to conference calls, notification, escalation and Data Centre supported activities, under the direction of their line manager / supervisor.  • Provide professional first-line support out of core Business Hours when customers report problems directly to the Hardware Centre.  • Hardware Centre Operatives will ascertain the scale and impact of a reported problem and escalate to the relevant Support Organization where appropriate, notifying their line manager / supervisor accordingly.  • Perform all mandated processes, administration, compliance & attestation related activities within the defined timeline, to ensure the department remain audit compliant, taking ownership and accountability of your own deliverable actions.  • Perform all manual activities to the defined standard, following documented procedures explicitly, to ensure continuity and compliance of process.  • Any change related activities that require a change to the standard BAU documented process, both in terms of complexity or timing of event, must be performed exactly as stated within the fully approved change record.  • Escalate any inaccuracies, ambiguity or seek clarification where required, prior to performing non-BAU activities.  • Monitor all systems via physical monitoring, to resolve or escalate problems in accordance with documented process and procedures, within pre-defined timelines, to prevent any financial impact to the business.  • Engage in new server roll-in, and decommissioning of sunset hardware / application.  • Includes proper disposal if the hardware is deemed unusable.    Accomplishments  Computer Hardware Facilities Management/HWC Data Center Site Operations    Skills Used  Incident management, maintenance services of data center hardware, customer service Education BS in Computer Science AMA Computer University Philippines - Philippines 2000 to 2004 Skills Solid Works (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (8 years), Visio (1 year), Adobe Photoshop (8 years), Autocad (1 year), Data Entry (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Team Lead Program November 2015