EUC/Cyber Security Manager EUC/Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Manager EUC/Cyber Security Manager - Innosource, Moon Township, PA Charleroi, PA Seeking a position in the field of Information Technology. Work Experience EUC/Cyber Security Manager Innosource, Moon Township, PA April 2018 to Present Leading the End User Computing and Cyber Security team in daily tasks  ? Collaboration with vendors and internal management to achieve long term goals  ? Creation of detailed IT documentation to improve company procedures and processes  ? Delegate projects to teams and oversee projects until completion  ? Act as liaison for upper management and outside IT vendors  ? Responsible for the rollout of Windows upgrades companywide to adhere to compliance standards IT Security Specialist August 2017 to April 2018 Leading the Security and Compliance team in daily tasks and projects  ? Security patching and software upgrading via WSUS, CA, PDQ, and RDP  ? Troubleshooting and diagnosing Windows application issues  ? Imaging of new production devices to replace older vulnerable devices Level 2 Analyst May 2016 to August 2017 Troubleshooting, diagnosing and resolving issues for users in both the field and corporate environment  ? Troubleshooting and maintaining company hosted applications  ? Repairing hardware and software Systems Development and Implementation California University of Pennsylvania - California, PA August 2015 to May 2016 Created a mobile application on Android Studio to act as a plug and play with a user interface that accessed a newly created database  ? Worked with a sponsor to achieve desired satisfaction  ? Leading various projects Lab Assistant Work Study California University of Pennsylvania - California, PA August 2014 to May 2016 Maintained efficiency of computers, printers, routers, and scanners Education Master's in Homeland / Cyber Security and Forensics Pennsylvania State University April 2018 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems California University of Pennsylvania August 2016 Skills SECURITY (3 years), ANDROID (1 year), DATABASE (2 years), APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT (Less than 1 year), AUDITS (1 year) Additional Information Skills:  • Microsoft office, Java, HTML, Cisco, SQL, Android, Visual Basic, COBOL, Python (limited), troubleshooting, website maintenance, network configuration, project and database management, fiber optics, application development, GUI experience, 3 years of Airwatch experience in an enterprise setting, citrix, windows patching, WSUS, verifying security compliance, McAfee troubleshooting, and windows patches, updates troubleshooting, network security, risk management, IT audits, IT documentation, and forensics.