Instructional Assistant Instructional Assistant Instructional Assistant - University of Houston - Information Technology & Services Katy, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Instructional Assistant University of Houston - Information Technology & Services June 2015 to Present Provide IT support for Windows, Mac systems including operating system upgrades, software installation, backups, user account setup and system administration.  • Troubleshooting user accounts for invalid access or missing icons in the university portal.  • Requirement analysis providing role based access for several categories of users.  • Participation in meetings to determine actions required to address security threats & assist in developing project plans.  • Accurately prioritize and document all customer engagements (Via Phone, Email and Chat); issues, resolution steps, and gather feedback. IT Analyst SVV Educational Academy May 2014 to December 2014 Install, maintain and coordinate the use of network systems. Evaluate hardware, software and peripheral equipment.  • Report on overall network performance including frequent problems, underlying issues and plan to improve network availability, performance and problem resolution.  • Implement and coordinate network policies, procedures and standards. Enforce network security procedures.  • Train users, maintain, create and delete user accounts. Maintain and update system security plans on all platforms. Network and Security Engineer Intern, BSNL Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited May 2013 to August 2013 Perform data collection, issue identification, troubleshoot and database entry validations.  • Document test reports and process issues, work with network engineers for maintaining quality standards. Network Security Engineer Intern, BHEL Bharat Heavy Electricals May 2012 to August 2012 Test, Configure and maintain network devices: routers, hubs, switches, wireless controllers, access points, printers and ICT equipment.  • Monitor performance to ensure system availability, reliability and system resource utilization. Network Engineer Intern, BSNL Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited January 2011 to December 2011 • Hands-on experience and training on GSM, Radio Frequencies, Optic Fiber Network, 3G network and infrastructure for telecommunications.  • Perform network maintenance and system upgrades including service packs, patches and security configurations. Education Master of Science in Information System Security University of Houston - Houston, TX December 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Information and Telecommunication Engineering SRM University 2010 to 2014 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/srisailikhita Certifications/Licenses Ethical Hacking and Countermeasures Expert (EHCE) July 2016 to Present US-Council Additional Information Currently, I’m pursing my Masters in Information System Security at University of Houston graduating December 2016. I am actively looking for full time position in Information Security, IT Risks and Controls, Risk Management, System Administration & Technology Project Management.    Strong knowledge of laws impacting data protection, confidentiality, integrity, and availability of systems and data including Frameworks, NIST standards ,FIPS, NSA - IAM and IEM, SDLC, CoBit, ITIL, 17799 SOX, GLB, PCI DSS, HIPAA, SCADA Security, Penetration Testing, Encryption,Threat and Vulnerability Assessments.    Skill set includes experience in Project Management, Risk Management and Quality Assurance.    Worked on Linux, Python, Bash Scripting,Active Directory, Sharepoint, Kali Linux, VMware, Nessus, Nmap, Wireshark, MS Project, Risky Project Professional, SAS JMP and other project management tools.  Excellent management, troubleshooting, administration, and communication skills (both verbal and written).    Certified Ethical Hacking and Countermeasures Expert (EHCE) by U.S. Council.    Python  Security Framework  Security Policies   Kali Linux  TCP IP / OSI Model  Wireshark  Nmap  Penetration Testing  BMC Remedy  Right Now  Requirement Analysis  VMware  Salesforce CRM  SAP B1  Six Sigma  MS Project  MS Outlook  MS Office   (Word, Access, Excel, PowerPoint)