Bigfix/ Security Network Consultant Bigfix/ <span class="hl">Security</span> Network Consultant Bigfix/ Security Network Consultant Piscataway, NJ Work Experience Bigfix/ Security Network Consultant Vision Netsoft April 2015 to October 2016 Promoted to leadership role accountable for maintaining key business applications and systems. Partner with senior leadership to guide short- and long-range technology planning. Plan, coordinate, and execute hardware and software upgrades. Serve as vital resource for Help Desk staff, overseeing daily support operations and providing assistance on complex trouble tickets. Cultivate and maintain relationships with IT vendors.  Selected projects  • Endpoint management experience with IBM Endpoint Management (BIG FIX)  • Experience with software distribution andor packaging  • Depth Knowledge of the DNS, DHCP and NETBBIOS and Intrusion Detection Monitoring tool  • Troubleshoots network access problems and implements network security policies and procedures  • Strong knowledge of supporting MS tools (SCCM, SCOM, DNS, networking, storage, clustering)  • Install Windows 2008 Server creating and administering user and group accounts, working with Active Director and ; configuring TCP/IP protocol suite; administer file  • Implemented WSUS/SCCM integration and created a monthly phased patching process and successfully created refresh (hard-link migration) and replace Operating System Deployment (OSD) task sequences and also migration from Windows 7 to Windows 10 upgrade using Zero/Lite Touch Installations, WAIK, USMT 4.0, and MDT 2010 integration.  • Configured Branch Distribution point, Asset Intelligence, and Windows Deployment Services/PXE.  • Packaged applications using Admin Studio. Created, tested, documented, and installed applications and custom shims for Windows 7 using Application Compatibility Toolkit on multiple test workstations. Deployed applications, scripts, shims, and service packs (XP SP2 to SP3, etc.) using SCCM, monitor installation status, troubleshoot, worked with vendors, and resolved installation and OSD failures.  • Constantly monitors software patch levels of all hardware and software systems.  • Troubleshoot and evaluate the health of BES deployments including agents, relay infrastructure and server/console performance.  • Creating custom software signatures for IBM BigFix Inventory (SUA) and detail understanding of Big fix/TEM relevance language  • Architects highly complex, global solutions across the appropriate engineering environments to meet business requirements or enhance performance.  • Install, configure, troubleshoot, patch, endpoint security and manage BigFix on Windows and RedHat  • Support tickets relating to BigFix technical issues and also working with the business partner  • Deploy and implement of the Endpoint Security tool via IEM such as, Norton, Symantec, Trend micro and other anti-virus software.  • Develop and maintain Standard Operating Procedures for BigFix application and agents  • Diagnoses and troubleshoots problems with Servers, software, and communications devices  • Develops and implements testing strategies and document results.  • Troubleshoots and resolves complex deployment problems.  • Maintains current knowledge of relevant hardware and software applications as assigned.  • Tivoli Endpoint Manager (TEM) management experience with SCM content and workflow  • Bourne shell scripting ability (required to create Unix content)  • ITM AdministrationInstall and configure ITM , TEMS, RTEMS, TDWConfiguring OS agents, deploying Universal AgentsKnowledge of TCR, end point troubleshooting. Network Security Specialist Gujarat Informatics Limited September 2013 to April 2015 Provided technical support to end-users, leveraging broad-based expertise to handle problem identification, diagnosis, resolution, and escalation via helpdesk system, telephone, and remote support tools. Performed security administration functions for user, data, and remote access.  Selected projects  • Responsible to provide the IT support to all Govt of Gujarat offices throughout in Gujarat  • Experienced with CA-Service Desk Analyst (Track and document all issues via ticketing system) tool as well as CA- NMS spectrum tool for Network Monitoring of GSWAN (Gujarat StateWide Area Network) Network, and also discovered network devices to CA-NMS system and monitoring of RF ( Point to Point and Point to Multipoint ) link and export the report in any form of data to the system  • Experience with LAN (Local Area Network) Wired and wireless network and knowledge of the configuration of Cisco 28XX/29XX/36XX/38XX/65XX  • Experience with cabling from Patch panel to the access switch in the data closet for PCs connectivity to the network.  • Responsible for insuring secure implementation of all new server/technology purchases or projects.  • Understanding of copper and Fiber cables.  • Configuration of NIC on the PCs for IP and speed.  • Basic LAN testing ping, trace route and understanding of IP segmentation (IP, Mask and Gateway)  • Labeling and cable management of patch cables and understanding of VLAN  • Delivered value added solution that focused on IT Service Management, Business Transformation and Organizational Change Management based on ITIL best practices that focused on the people, process, technology and information perspectives of providing integrated organization wide business solutions within the IT infrastructure and maintained the process by pre defined Service Level Agreement (SLA)  • Liaising with internal staff and stakeholders to ensure issue resolution and escalation.  • Actively participated in IT Infrastructure programs that were organized by the Govt of Gujarat and also provided the training of monitoring tools to all FM team who provided the support to all Govt. Departments.  • Maintained Asset Inventory list of all Network Equipment's such as router, switch, modem, and UPS. IT Consultant Royal Women's Hospital - Melbourne VIC April 2013 to July 2013 Performed troubleshooting, repair, and maintenance of computer systems, hardware, peripherals, and telephony. Analyzed system requirements to efficiently isolate and resolve a wide array of technical issues. Participated in large-scale upgrades and installations.  Selected Accomplishments  • Identified, analyzed and resolved technical issues from external clients and internal associates  • Documented issues and worked with functional groups to develop updated processes and workarounds and troubleshooting issues in a Windows/ Citrix environment; familiarity with Windows and Citrix administration and Active Directory managed services.  • Experience with VDI and VMWARE  • rovided an excellent application support to the internal staff members, worked with the different department in hospital based application such as IPM, EDIS, INST account, scanner apps and ORMIS.  • Worked collaboratively with others in pursuit of team goals along with shared information and ideas with others; Willing to sacrifice own needs to achieve wider team or organizational objectives when necessary.  • Documented issues and worked with functional groups to develop updated processes and workarounds  • Install, configurations and troubleshooting of LAN/WAN/Wireless Networks  Firewall configuration of Checkpoint and Cisco ASA Firewalls  • Software upgrades on Network Infrastructure (Cisco IOS Devices), Full project implementation support working with business and Service Delivery teams to implement new internal and/or client facing applications across multiple hosting facilities and Monitors network capacity using deployed tools to ensure proper configurations are implemented suggesting ways to improve and streamline efficiencies.  • Stays informed of current technologies in order to support the users and the business.    Dell Infrastructure Managed Services- Melbourne, Australia  Desktop Support Level 2 technical support to end-users February 2013 to April 2013 taking the leadership of the project and completed within deadline and initiate and execute the project and also leveraging broad-based expertise to handle problem identification, diagnosis, resolution, and escalation via helpdesk system, telephone, and remote support tools  Project - RMIT Windows 7 Migration Project - 02/2013 - 04/2013  • Assisted staff with the installation, configuration, and ongoing usability of desktop computers, peripheral equipment and software within established standards and guidelines  • Performed cross platform audits of Active Directory (AD) objects and user permissions and Managed User Accounts on Windows Platform (Creation, Deletion, Permissions, and VPN Access).  • Developed organizational units in Active Directory (AD) and managed user security with group policies.  • Provided support and maintenance of Microsoft Office Outlook Web Access and Microsoft Office Outlook E-mail, Calendaring & Scheduling  • Created and maintained email addresses and distribution lists in MS Exchange.  • Supported the Windows 7 roll out to over 20000 workstations through SCCM  • Backup and Restored the user data via USMT tools  • Creating the Ghost Images by using the imaging software such as, Symantec, Norton and Magic ISO  • Backing and restore the data from the Ghost image and also Archiving data and do troubleshooting whenever it required Help desk Analyst Kordia Solutions - Melbourne VIC April 2011 to April 2012 • Assisted staff with the installation, configuration, and ongoing use of desktop computers, peripheral equipment and software within established standards and guidelines.  • Auditing Servers whenever it was appropriate in data center  • Stored audited data in to spread sheets.  • Audited Hardware Peripherals (ex: monitors, printers, routers, Switches etc).  • Audited Workstations.  • Ability to handle all types of meetings/collaboration/ video conferencing/hosting meeting with the knowledge of Adobe Connect and Global Meet  • Worked with vendor support contacts to resolve technical problems with desktop computing equipment and software.  • Rolled out Windows 7 Operating system from windows XP by using SOE technology  • Maintained excellent time management, prioritization and organizational skills  • Experience with McAfee Antivirus, Symantec Backup Exec, and VPN technologies  • Installed Pin Pad Devices at every Westpac branch and provided support to them  • Trained and oriented staff on the use of hardware and software.  • Assisted in maintaining LAN/WAN records and, as appropriate, telephone systems cable. Education Master of Science in Network systems Melbourne Institute of Technology Bachelor of Engineering in Instrumentation & Controls Gujarat University Skills SECURITY (3 years), TESTING (3 years), LAN (2 years), CISCO (1 year), WIRELESS (1 year) Additional Information Promote optimal performance, reliability, and security across core business systems  • Diversified Windows Engineer with experience in three different countries.  • Hands on experience in installation, migration, configuration and upgradation and patching of Windows Server and Desktop machines.  • Hands on experience working on Windows Server 200/2003/2008/2012 R2 Editions.  • Good experience working with Data Centers.  • Experienced working on cross platform OS including Windows, Mac, iOS, Red Hat,  • Experienced working with different software's and hardware devices.  • Experienced in managing technical support operations, diligently troubleshooting issues to identify root causes and prevent recurrence.  • Knowledge on Linux machines.  • Experience working with VDI and VMWARE  • Expert knowledge of networking devices like routers switches and networking protocols including TCP/IP, BGP., OSPF  • Results-driven professional offering a progressive, five-year career in information technology.  • Certification and good understanding of cloud computing and cloud server AWS  • Repeated success directing IT projects from inception to execution, strategically allocating resources and delegating tasks to achieve on-time, on-budget delivery.  • Process improvement champion with a history of implementing new procedures and technologies to strengthen security posture, enhance operational efficiency, and control costs.    - Areas of Expertise -  Testing & Troubleshooting Project Management System Administration  Vendor Relations Strategic Planning Resource Allocation Effective Communication  Team Leadership Business Continuity Data Backup & Recovery Cisco routers and switches  TCP/IP Protocols LAN and WAN Wireless Networking    Technical Proficiencies  Platforms Windows Vista/7/10; Mac OS X;Windwos Server 200/2003/2008/2012 R2 Edition, Red Hat, Fedora, SuSE,  Software Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, Project), SQL,MS Project, MS-Visio, MS Outlook 2003/2007/2010/2013  Tools  IBM Tivoli Endpoint Manager ( Bigfix Enterprise), IBM Tivoli Monitoring (ITM), CA- Spectum, CA-Servie Desk, CA- Ehealth, CA-NetQOS, IBM Software User Analysis (SUA), Security and Compliance Analyst (SCA), System Control Configuration Manager (SCCM), System Control Operational Manager (SCCO),Autodesk, Spicework