Data Security Analyst Data <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Intern United Shore Southfield, MI Seeking an Co-op/Internship or Employment Work Experience Data Security Analyst CareTech Solutions - Troy, MI August 2015 to Present ? Manager user accounts in Active Directory ? Windows server 2003, 2008 and 2012  ? Create and enforce security policies ? Ensure that requires services are running properly in server  ? Provide access management and access control ? Provision and terminate user accounts  ? Research and investigate security violations ? Produce report of audit findings and escalate when needed  ? Report security violation of security policy ? Document actions taken for security violations  ? Ensure compliance with SSAE-16 SOC 2 ? Complete daily, weekly and monthly audits (SSAE-16 SOC 2)  ? Audit domain Admin and User accounts ? Recommend and update audit process for improvements IT Security Intern United Shore Troy, MI June 2015 to August 2015 Performing Networking duties ? Collaborate with team members on team projects  ?Email Spam review and security analysis ? Gaining experience in mortgage industry Network Administrator/Help Desk Technician Shiawassee C.M.C.F - Corunna, MI March 2014 to August 2014 Performed troubleshooting duties ? Assisted in upgrading the medical and ticketing system  ? Resolved network and Internet issues ? Assign employee permissions and access to network  ? Resolved helpdesk tickets ? Performed server maintenance  ? Provided phone service and lines ? Deployed cabling / networking tools when required  ? Troubleshoot network printers, hardware's, and work with third party vendors  ? Upgraded desktop/laptop software and hardware; modify new computers to organization's requirements Customer Service Representative Snyder's IGA - Perry, MI November 2012 to June 2014 Gained customer service skills ? Assisted customers with purchases and sales transactions  ? Maintain inventory ? Gained experience with P.O.S. systems. Education Bachelor in Computer Information System University of Detroit Mercy - Detroit, MI June 2015 to June 2016 Associate of Applied Science Baker College of Owosso June 2014 Skills Auditing (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS    ? Microsoft Office, access, ? Repair & maintenance  ? Programing includes: SQL, Java & C++ ? Troubleshooting & problem solving ? Knowledge of Hardware/Software ? Experience with Mac  ? Windows XP, Vista, 7 & 8 ? Windows server 2008/Active directory  ? Help desk experience ? Microsoft Visio, Project