Inova IT Helpdesk Technician Inova <span class="hl">IT</span> Helpdesk Technician Inova IT Helpdesk Technician Stafford, VA Highly accomplished and experienced Communications Specialist with over 5 years of experience installation, configuration, and management of data network systems in both a stand-alone and client-server environment. Consistently complete projects with little to no supervision with superior results. Daily, planned and executed the integration of multiple information systems in a network environment, evaluated and resolved customer information system problems, and utilized the required hardware upgrades and repaired to maintain mission capability.    A driven and versatile leader with a record of success in projects requiring an in-depth knowledge and solid experience working with complex communications systems. A quick study in emerging technology, able to quickly assess and utilize the appropriate response to meet the specific needs of the business requirement at hand. A welcome addition to any team, ready, willing and able to function in any role necessary to ensure project success and on-time project delivery. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Inova IT Helpdesk Technician Inova Healthcare Systems 2014 to 2015 • Provide technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware.  • Train computer users.  • Respond to email messages for customers seeking help.  • Ask questions to determine nature of problem.  • Walk customer through problem-solving process.  • Install, modify, and repair computer hardware and software.  • Clean up computers.  • Run diagnostic programs to resolve problems.  • Resolve technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN), Wide Area Networks (WAN), and other systems.  • Install computer peripherals for users.  • Follow up with customers to ensure issue has been resolved.  • Gain feedback from customers about computer usage.  • Run reports to determine malfunctions that continue to occur. Field Radio Technician Ericsson Communications and Clearwire 2013 to 2014 • Installed, repaired and maintained microwave radio and multiplex equipment, both analog and digital, and point to point communications systems.  • Modified existing equipment to meet present needs.  • Checked frequencies and solves interference problems.  • Trained employees in the methods, practices, policies and procedures applicable to the work.  • Emergency response to all Priority 1 and 2 outages that caused severe customer outages  • Maintained Clearwire systems to get best coverage for day to day customers in the Clearwire network.  • Install LTE equipment into all Clearwire stations to continue upgrading systems for better customer service.  • Document, photograph and upload system information into a new database after a completed conversion. Training, Security and Administrative Clerk U.S. Marine Corps 2009 to 2011 • Monitored, verified and safeguarded personally identifiable information for a Battalion of over 3,000 personnel  • Assisted in compiling the annual training calendar for fiscal year 2011  • Assisted high ranking military officials in keeping a typed, chronological account of personnel and guests during the Marine Corps Half Marathon.  • Consulted with military personnel to direct them to the appropriate policies and training personnel Information Security Specialist U.S. Marine Corps 2009 to 2009 • Collected, verified and configured user accounts for the Automated Message Handling System (AMHS, which replaced DMS)  • Taught over 100 individuals how to complete the requirements for access to AMHS  • Administered AMHS for non-classified, classified and secret personnel and messages  • Liaison between the Information Security Section and Helpdesk Administrators to facilitate and improve application request response times  • Provided day-to-day operation of the Electronic Key Management System (EKMS), as well as other duty areas related to Information Security (INFOSEC), such as Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and FORTEZZA Card management  • Implemented and monitored security measures for USMC communication information systems networks, and advise the commander that systems and personnel adhere to established security standards and governmental requirements for security on these systems  • Assisted in the development and execution of security policies, plans, and procedures; design and implementation of data network security measures; network intrusion detections and forensics; information system security incident handling; and certification of Marine Corps systems and networks Data Network Analyst U.S. Marine Corps 2008 to 2009 • Assisted personnel in initial troubleshooting steps for Windows software and hardware  • Configured printer/fax equipment aboard Marine Corps Base (MCB) Quantico to meet Department of Defense and Department of the Navy guidelines  • Communicated with and assisted personnel of different ranks and computer literacy levels  • Monitored several servers, switches and routers aboard MCB Quantico.  • Organized System Authorization Request Forms for the Defense Message System (DMS) to prepare for the new system  • Utilized, installed, configured and instructed on the use of DOD (Department of Defense) SIPRNET (SECRET Internet Protocol Router Network), PKI (Public Key Infrastructure), CLO (Cryptographic Logon) and public key enablement of SIPRNET applications and web server Skills Networking (6 years), Telecommunications (8 years), Computer Skills, Computer Skills (8 years), Network Security (8 years), Information Technology (8 years), Information Security, Information Security (8 years), Microsoft Office (8 years), Switches (8 years), Routers (8 years), Printers (8 years), Problem Solving (8 years), VOIP (3 years), Engineering (3 years) Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Pvt January 2008 to June 2011 Awards Letter of Accommodation 2010-01 Letter of Accommodation for installing and upgrading the Headquarters' and Service Battalion mainframe, including desktop, printers and facsimile machines. Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Tactical Data Network • Personal Identifiable Information Security•  Workplace Safety • Quality Control Management • Defense Message Systems Training / Instruction • Requisition / Procurement •Microsoft Word  Microsoft Excel / PowerPoint / Access / Outlook / SharePoint