Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst Hyattsville, MD Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Syndicus, Inc February 2017 to Present • Conducted Security Control Assessments on information systems and resources as part of Assessment and Authorization  • Created and updated related documentation in accordance with NIST 800 series guidelines and standards.  • Maintained computer and information security incident, damage and threat assessment programs.  • Investigated computer and information security incidents to determine the extent of compromise to information and automated information systems  • Recommended integrated system solutions ensuring proprietary/confidential data and systems are  protected  • Work on multiple assessments simultaneously.  • Implemented processes to protect data confidentiality, integrity, and availability, as well as maintaining  the technical mechanisms that enable these controls.  • Identified process risks, weaknesses, and controls, making recommendations and plans to address  vulnerabilities. IT Security Analyst CyberPoint International, LLC July 2015 to February 2017 Established system controls by developing framework for controls and levels of access; recommending  improvements.  • Maintained access by providing information, resources, and technical support.  • Ensures authorized access by investigating improper access; revoking access; reporting violations;  monitoring information requests by new programming; recommending improvements.  • Established computer and terminal physical security by developing standards, policies, and procedures;  coordinating with facilities security; recommending improvements.  • Safeguarded computer files by performing regular backups; developing procedures for source code  management and disaster preparedness; recommending improvements.  • Used technical skills to help respond to threats and emergency security incidents in a timely manner  • Monitored and investigated security breaches  • Installing and using software to protect data IT Security Analyst Bridges Inc June 2013 to July 2015 • Analyzed and conducted vulnerability assessments  • Developed and revised security documentation  • Troubleshooted issues and respond to security incidents  • Maintained the security of IT systems to prevent data breaches, keeping information safe from hackers, viruses, and other potential problems  • Evaluated the security controls within network systems to identify vulnerabilities and recommend actions  to correct problems  • Conducted an in-depth assessment of the management, operations, and technical security  • Actively participated and worked in a group on projects assigned to the information security team  • Monitor use of data files and regulate access to safeguard information in computer files. Education B.S in Investigative Forensics & Cybersecurity University of MD University College August 2020 Skills Nessus, Nist, Risk assessment, Sar, Cyber Security Additional Information SKILLS  • NIST SP 800-53 • NIST SP 800-30 • POA&M  • FIPS 199 • FIPS 200 • Nessus  • FIPS 199 • NIST SP 800-39 • Risk Assessment  • NIST SP 800-37 • SAR • NIST SP 53A