Data analyst / Value Education Data <span class="hl">analyst</span> / Value Education Business Analyst Cleveland, OH • Experience in doing user requirements and design documents. Reporting on project progress to client and to management  • Coordinating all project related activities and scheduling meeting with client and stake holders to ensure smooth project related activities.  • Experience in working with every phase of application with good interpersonal and communication skills which lead to interact with client effectively.  • Initiated Team meetings on a regular basis and involved in active discussion to improve the production quality with various departments.  • Knowledge of quality assurance testing to ensure the quality and safe operations of various phases of testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data analyst / Value Education Vidhya Schools June 2015 to October 2015 Key Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for maintaining the record and create reports, charts and graphs.  ? Responsible for training and support school administration and staff.  ? Responsible for maintaining school student's registry.  ? Handled data storage strategies, program evaluations and data analysis methods.  ? Responsible for writing news columns.  ? Responsible for preparing the students Report Sheets.  ? Awarded as Program Organizer. (Science Exhibition & School Cultural Programs)  ? Awarded as best newspaper school column writer. Business Development Executive TELE DATA Technology and Solutions June 2014 to September 2015 Project Name: Cengage e-learning app    We have developed Retail level e-learning app that is supported in windows and android Operating System which is designed for education system for higher education in India. Developed E-learning content packaging. Worked closely with the application developers ensuring the product design is done with respect to the client requirement.    Key Responsibilities:  ? Supporting in planning, designing, and development of business processes.  ? Providing recommendations in enhancing and expediting business activities.  ? Collecting, compiling, and interpreting business data and drafting reports.  ? Conducting clients' meetings, understanding and integrating their business needs. Developing test procedures, test plans, and test cases for clients.  ? Working closely with development team and testing software releases.  ? Performed research and provided valuable inputs in data management process.  ? Assisted in the development of market research analysis.  ? Handled responsibilities of master data integration effectively.  ? Supported data gathering and analysis of data.  ? Participated in data quality control and validation.  ? Examined user operations inquiries and outlined business specifications. High School English Teacher Krishnaveni Talent Schools June 2012 to October 2013 Responsible for handling the English classes from 6th to 10th Grades.  ? Responsible for correction of Regular and weekend exams.  ? Timely submission of Results.  ? Responsible for Preparing the Report Sheets  ? Awarded as 'Best Programs/Function Organizer' (Science Exhibition & School Cultural Programs etc.) Banking Teller TrustCo Bank - Albany, NY August 2009 to August 2009 Key Responsibilities:  ? Process customer financial transactions within assigned limits and guidelines.  ? Provide excellent customer service in completing transactions efficiently and in a friendly, professional manner.  ? Meet sales and referral goals by identifying and selling Association products and services beneficial to the customers needs.  ? Maintain a current knowledge of new and existing products and services.  ? Participate in promotions and sales activities to ensure the Bank's growth.  ? Address customer questions and concerns and refer to appropriate internal resources for resolution to achieve customer satisfaction.  ? Support daily tasks that maintain optimal integrity of the Bank.  ? Identify fraudulent activity to prevent potential losses to the Bank.  ? Take appropriate corrective action and notify supervisor.  ? Balance cash drawer and teller transactions within established guidelines.  ? Perform cash handling functions in an accurate and secure manner for receiving, receipting and processing of payments.  ? Responsible for the safekeeping of money received for cash drawer and the prompt accounting or transfer of funds to safeguard against loss, and to establish and maintain cash drawer limits according to policy. Store Cashier Sears Retail Store - Albany, NY May 2008 to May 2009 Key Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for handling large amount of cash in the cash wraps.  ? Worked as strong lead in convincing the customers for opening Sears Credit Cards and other Reward Cards.  ? Responsible for consistently keeping the customer at the center of everything he/she does.  ? Observing customer traffic and calls for additional service as needed.  ? Good in fast and efficient cash register operations.  ? Knowledgeable of store, services and locations of merchandise.  ? Having strong skill set in suggestive selling techniques for add on sales. IT security Analyst IBM - IN December 2006 to April 2007 Handled a critical e-business account where, I am responsible for scheduling and monitoring various networking devices, servers and workstations for security violations.  Also analyzing the reports, raising alerts against security threats.  We used many Network monitoring tools like ESM, SCR and SCM.  Key Responsibilities:  ? Analyst  ? Used Lotus Notes raising Cirats.  ? Used Lotus Notes for raising requests.  ? Maintained commercial servers of IBM.  ? Worked in auditing team.  ? Coordinated with clients to resolve the issues.  ? Coordinated with users to complete the tasks.  Environment: Windows XP, Lotus notes. (Cirat DB, Compliance DB), Servers.    We basically do the health checking process of the servers manually and by automated tools of IBM. We support to different accounts and different number of servers. The IBM process for quality change or drift of security settings on the Customer's systems is to check them all very regularly. This is termed Health Checking. From the reports obtained the scoring is done with the customer agreed settings and the cirates are raised for the non-compliances.    Manual Health Checks: This is carried out by logging on to the system and physically looking at the settings, checking that processes are running and ensuring that required software is configured and running.    Automated Tools: These are IBM approved software products that carry out all the checks. They run on a scheduled basis, collect data and produce reports of non-compliant settings. We use a tool called SCM ( Security Compliance Manager) with a customized policy we generate a report of the servers list and retrieve the setting from it and score them. The servers are internet facing servers the severity of these servers is very high and so we are performing health checks every weekly. The reports generated are valid for 7 days.    Supported for the following servers:  Intel: windows 2000, windows 2003, Windows NT.  UNIX: AIX, Solaris, Linux, HP-UX  Databases: Oracle, Sybase, Sequel Server, DB2  Web servers: Microsoft IIS  Lotus Domino    Accounts handled: AMEX, Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA), Infra RSA, GKN, TUI, Virgin mobile, Pfizer, O2. Education Bachelor of Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Anna University 2006 Supply Chain Management MN Training program Skills .NET. (Less than 1 year), ASP (Less than 1 year), ASP .NET. (Less than 1 year), database (Less than 1 year), drafting (1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), fast learner. (Less than 1 year), filing (Less than 1 year), Front Page (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), JAVA (Less than 1 year), maintenance (Less than 1 year), MS ASP (Less than 1 year), MS Office. (Less than 1 year), MS SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), organizational skills. (Less than 1 year), presentation skills (Less than 1 year), problem solving (Less than 1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), SQL Server (Less than 1 year), Business Intelligence, Visio, testing Assessments Problem Solving — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vsziiwidzykfpd2i Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Key Skills:  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, and organizational skills.  • Strong verbal and written communication skills.  • Excellent skills in working with Excel, database software and statistics.  • Ability to implement business needs into technology.  • Outstanding abilities to work in a team environment and handle responsibilities.  • Superior presentation skills and report-drafting abilities.  • Familiarity with collecting, and compiling business data, and drafting reports.  • Knowledge of APO (Advance Planner and Optimizer) of Supply Chain Management.  • Strong believer in team work, building cordial relation with people inside and outside the organization.  • Innovative solutions for difficult programming problems, self and fast learner.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  • Ability to learn new languages and tools quickly.    Skills  ? Fast typing  ? Knowledge of Word and Excel. Able to adapt to new software practices.  ? Possess knowledge of excellent record maintenance and filing techniques.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  ? Ability to learn new language and tools quickly.    Technical Skills:    Languages JAVA, SQL  Database SQL Server, MS-Access.  WEB Technologies HTML, ASP .NET.    Operating Systems Windows NT/2000.  Tools & Packages Front Page, MS Office.    Project  Worked on the following Project in NIIT Chennai (India)  ASP.Net Project:  Title: "Online Web Shoppe"  Tools: ASP.Net, XML, SQL Server 2000  Team Size: 2  Period: Sep 2006 - Nov 2006  Description: This is an online web Shoppe site which allow a customer to select between Different product categories and purchase a product from the selected category. After the customer has purchased a product, all the orders placed by the customer are displayed in a separate Web form. The customer is also able to delete an order from the displayed order details.    I hereby declare that the above-mentioned information is correct and true.