IT Application Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Application <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Application Security Analyst - AllCovered Cleveland, OH Information Technology Analyst seeking a role within an organization that will allow me to grow my knowledge of the field and accelerate my career. Work Experience IT Application Security Analyst AllCovered January 2016 to Present 1.) Responsible for development and delivery of application security solutions that align to business requirements including designing and implementing security role matrices, segregation of duties analysis, security role provisioning and related solutions (including security approval workflows). Supports the execution of provisioning and application security controls to maintain compliance with both internal policies/practices and Sarbanes-Oxley requirements.  2.) Build and deliver security roles/authorizations and overall application security settings for all applications, including SAP (ECC, PI, BW/BCS, BPC, OneSite, and MRI). Review documented business requirements, develop technical specifications, configure/develop appropriate security matrix/solution to meet business needs (working across IT teams as necessary), conduct unit testing, participate in/coordinates System Integration Testing. Adhere to enterprise policies and procedures related to software delivery.  3.) Support application provisioning, security roles, authorization objects, and overall security settings for specified applications. Act as next level resource for Service Desk / Tier 1; thoroughly document all work progress and interactions in IT Service Management Tool; appropriately prioritize incidents and problems to meet established SLAs; and effectively diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve application security problems while adhering to incident, problem, and change management processes. Ensure appropriate escalations are done as needed.  4.) Execute, manage, monitor and remediate IT GCC and IT application controls for Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance; configure and manage SAP Security tools used to monitor and manage SAP IT controls. Support periodic application security assessments and user access reviews across applications, considering segregation of duties where possible. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Walden University October 2018