IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - Kaiser Permanente Bethesda, MD Work Experience IT Security Analyst Kaiser Permanente - Rockville, MD June 2017 to Present • Perform Security Assessments on assigned systems using the Risk Management Framework (RMF) guidelines.  • Review technical security controls and provide implementation responses to meet requirements.  • Conduct cloud assessments including AWS using NIST 800-53a and FedRAMP.  • Collaborate with stakeholders including team members and technical manager's system owners to schedule and conduct Kick-off meetings, perform interviews and discuss findings.  • Meet with client to discuss findings and process of remediation.  • Review requested and provided Artifacts and Plan of Action & Milestones (POAMs) to determine if controls are implemented correctly.  • Utilizes NIST 800-53A and NIST 800- 53 rev-4 to review implemented controls and enter information into the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) and findings into the Security Assessment Report (SAR).  • Provide weekly status reports.  • Utilize High-Watermark from scans as a reference to categorize the risk level of the system. IT Security Analyst Kaiser Permanente - Rockville, MD November 2012 to June 2017 • Performed Security Assessments on assigned systems using the Risk Management Framework (RMF) guidelines.  • Reviewed technical security controls and provide implementation responses to meet requirements  • Met with client to discuss findings and process of remediation  • Reviewed artifacts provided and Plan of Action & Milestones (POAMs) to determine if controls are implemented correctly.  • Reviewed the SSP and in some cases helped the ISSO in compiling the SSP.  • Used Nessus to run vulnerability scans on operating systems.  • Utilized NIST 800-53A and NIST 800- 53 rev-4 to review implemented controls and enter information into the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) and findings into the Security Assessment Report (SAR).  • Collaborated with other team members and system owners/ technical managers to schedule and conduct kick-off meetings and interviews to discuss findings. Jr. IT Security Analyst Kaiser Permanente - Rockville, MD June 2011 to October 2012 • Audited major applications within health systems and assessing control gaps.  • Assessed security control test plans.  • Conducted in-depth security assessments of information systems that evaluate compliance of administrative, physical, technical, organizational policies.  • Maintained HIPAA compliance based on Office of Civil Right (OCR) protocol, NIST SP 800-66 Rev1 and security controls (NIST SP 800-53).  • Conducted IT controls risk assessments that included reviewing organizational policies, standards, procedures and guidelines.  • Worked with auditors and third party assessors on risk assessments, penetration tests and vulnerability assessments.  • Conducted risk assessment on new systems for business units within the company. Education Ph.D. Development Howard University DC May 2016 Bachelors Economics Imo State Nigeria May 2002 Skills Security, Nist, Fisma, Database, Oracle, Cyber security, Risk management, Sar, Excel, Powerpoint, Word, Publisher, Security plan, System security, Database management Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS:  • Cyber Security Assessment and Management Tools (CSAM)  • FISMA  • NIST 800 special Publication series  • Risk Management Framework(RMF)  • Security Assessment Report (SAR)  • System Security Plan (SSP)  • Micro Office (Excel, PowerPoint. Project, Publisher, Word)  • Oracle 11g Database Management