I.T. Service Analyst I.T. Service <span class="hl">Analyst</span> I.T. Service Analyst - Wellstar Health Systems Austell, GA Work Experience I.T. Service Analyst Wellstar Health Systems December 2014 to Present • I have participated in over 4 Go-lives which includes sun setting Cerner and Mckesson to cutover to Epic as a new EMR/EHR system for Wellstar, satellite offices and Tenet hospitals.  • Completed builds using EMP, SER, ECL, DEP, LPR, EPR and LWS INIs to upgrade fix and maintain  departments and users security in chronicles.  • Built profiles and attached templates as needed to accounts in Epic as well as created and attached provider records to user accounts.  • Run daily reports and edit groups in Epic for management and user.  • Capable of navigating through Clinical Admin, Management options, Utilities and profiles.  • Change passwords, reset expired passwords, set end dates, link tables, templates and import records.  • Perform day to day troubleshooting, analysis and resolution of various software including Epic, Microsoft applications, MAC OS, VMware, Citrix, etc.  • Completed daily and weekly reports in ServiceNow as well as export reports to Excel Spreadsheets to send to management at the end of every shift. Submit requests and orders needed for employees as well.  • Train new employees and contractors in the use of all applications and troubleshooting techniques.  • Assisted with sun setting Remedy in preparation for system wide ServiceNow launch and implementation.  • Create, log and close tickets using ServiceNow ticketing system.  • Manage user accounts and provide necessary access via Active Directory.  • Tier 1 and Tier 2 troubleshooting.  • Escalate high priority incidents to leadership and/or proper teams for swift resolution.  • Opened tech bridge calls for critical system outages.  • Identified potential enhancements that would best help work flow or improve client support. Security Officer Children's Healthcare of Atlanta - Atlanta, GA March 2010 to December 2015 • Responsible for controlling access through careful monitoring of customers, patrols, and monitoring the CCTV systems.  • Respond to any and all emergencies when called upon to do so as well make reports regarding said situations.  • Control access to sensitive areas as needed. Maintain a daily log of activities using computer software such as Microsoft Office.  • Playback cameras when needed for investigative purposes. Act as a mediator during domestic crisis situations. Education None in Liberal Arts Clayton State University - Morrow, GA 2013 to Present None in Criminal Justice Georgia Perimeter College - Atlanta, GA 2009 to 2013 Skills Microsoft Office, Management, Data Entry, database, access, Customer Service, Microsoft Office, Powerpoint Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ August 2019 to August 2022