IT Security Assessor <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Assessor IT Security Assessor - Smartthink, LLC Woodbridge, VA ? An Confidential Citizen with clean criminal and background record    authorized to work for any employee in/outside the USA  ? I have over 6 years of IT experience, a track record of successful projects    and proven expertise in the field of information security and assurance.  ? Knowledge of FISMA, NIST, FIPS guidelines and instructions.    ? Risk Management Framework (RMF) and NIST 800 - 37 guidelines    ? Working knowledge of System Assessment & Authorization A&A    ? Ability performing information System security risk assessments, security    control analysis, and risk mitigation to minimize security impact on system.  ? In- depth knowledge of Plan of Action and Milestone (POAM) Management    ? Experienced in the development of security plans (SP), Contingency Plans,    Incident Response Plans and Disaster Recovery Plans.  ? Continuous Monitoring of Authorized System, NIST 800-137 guidelines    ? Excellent Interpersonal Skills interacting with team members, clients and    Management.  ? Professional Communication and Technical Writing Skills    ? Able to multi task, and work independently and within a team environment. Work Experience IT Security Assessor Smartthink, LLC June 2015 to Present Aligns business goals to risk and compliance team goals to meet industry    and government standards.  ? Serves as the subject matter expert in giving client advice on the necessary    steps to take to mitigate risk.  ? Conducts kick off meetings to collect systems information (information  type, boundary, inventory, etc.) and categorize systems based on NIST SP  800-60.  ? Conducts security control assessments to assess the adequacy of management, operational, privacy, and technical security controls  implemented.  ? Develops Security Assessment Reports (SAR), Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) detailing the results of the assessment  ? Develops system security plans to provide an overview of federal  information system security requirements, and describe controls set in place to meet those requirements.  ? Creates and update the following artifacts; Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A); FIPS 199, Security Test and Evaluations (ST&Es), Risk  assessments (RAs), Privacy Threshold Assessment (PTA), Privacy Impact  Analysis (PIA), E-Authentication, Contingency Plan, Plan of Action and Milestones (POAMs).  ? Prepares Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A) packages to ensure that management, operational and technical security controls,  conform and adhere to NIST SP 800-53 standards.  ? Performs vulnerability assessment, penetration testing, making sure risks  are assessed and proper actions are taken to mitigate them.  ? Conducts IT controls risk assessments including reviewing organizational  policies, standards and procedures and providing advice on their adequacy, accuracy and compliance with industry standards.  ? Develops risk assessment reports which identifies threats and vulnerabilities. IT Security Analyst The Pediatric Group October 2013 to June 2015 Managed the information security function in accordance with the established  policies and guidelines.  Established and maintained information security policies, procedures, and guidelines pursuant to the TPG way as, State and Federal laws and regulations such as the Federal Information Security Act (FISMA).  Assessed security and privacy controls using the NIST SP 800-53A  publication guideline.  Assisted System Owners and ISSO in preparing certification and accreditation package for  companies? IT systems, making sure that management, operational and technical  Security controls adhere to a formal and well-established security requirement  Authorized by NIST SP 800-53  Conducted and performed continuous monitoring pursuant to NIST  Guidelines requirements.  Responsible for tasks related to the system Assessment and Authorization  (A&A) and follow the Government IT security policies and standards.  Develops risk assessment reports which identified threats and vulnerabilities  Provided mitigation strategies and recommendations to key stake holders to enhance their security posture.  Provided PIA?s for updates and version changes required by the NIST  Security Publications and FISMA notices.  Assisted in communicating and facilitating the requirements for security risk  assessments for TPG  Provided mitigation strategies and recommendations to key stake holders to enhance their security posture.    ? Available upon request Education Bachelor's Skills Information Security, Cyber Security, Nist