IT Risk and Compliance Analyst II <span class="hl">IT</span> Risk and Compliance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II IT Governance Risk and Compliance, IT Audit, IT Vendor Management San Antonio, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Risk and Compliance Analyst II SWBC - San Antonio, TX September 2018 to Present • Management of IT vendor requests for new vendor services, renewals, and information security risk assessments including 100+ vendors ranging from SaaS providers to critical infrastructure maintenance and implementations.     • Assistance with and facilitation of IT vendor request process for IT personnel as needed.     • Responsible for analysis of vendor IT due diligence documentation for applicable services including requests to vendors for current documentation as required for SOC2 audit compliance; documentation expiration date tracking and reporting.     • Responsible for completion of company IT due diligence responses and documentation for 100+ clients as applicable to the services and supporting systems provided by specified deadlines; management of client response documentation, client request tracking, reporting for historical reference, and participation in onsite client audit meetings.     • Coordination of SOC1, SOC2, and PCI audit preparation; review of control evidence requests and control information with control owners and collection of evidence for audit evaluation; management of evidence collection tracking and status reporting.     Key Achievement  Process design and coordination of implementation for vendor IT renewal queue in Service Now to facilitate automated reminders and tickets to IT vendor relationship owners for IT vendor renewals based upon future service renewal dates in advance of renewal deadlines. Information Security Analyst Kohl's Department Stores - San Antonio, TX August 2015 to April 2018 • Information security audits for 200+ third-party credit, IT, and human resources vendors with an emphasis on PCI compliance, and compliance with Kohl's vendor security exhibits.  • Analysis of current vendor compliance state, risk analysis and composition of remediation requirements when necessary.  • Monitoring of documented compliance issues and follow-up through completion of remediation.  • Application of Tenable Security Center tool for internal server vulnerability scanning, reporting, and remediation.  • Application of Qualys tool for external web-server vulnerability scanning, reporting, and remediation.  • Monitoring and analysis of vendor management requests regarding information security scenarios and comparison to information security standards relevant to Kohl's.  • Management of vendor audit documentation for third party AICPA reports regarding service organization controls, information security audit questionnaires, and supporting remediation documentation for 200+ vendors.  • Continuous development of third-party vendor management process for information security on an annual re-occurring basis.    Key Achievement  Successful completion of 100+ third-party information security audits and required remediation for compliance by target due dates. Analyst Security Service Federal Credit Union - San Antonio, TX March 2013 to April 2015 • Internal audit preparation for critical IT infrastructure systems.  • Analysis and design of IT processes and workflow diagrams.  • Composition of IT project definition documents.  • Composition of IT business, functional, and system requirements.  • Analysis and evaluation of IT vendor solutions.  • Coordination of IT implementation processes for enterprise-level servers, systems platforms, applications, application upgrades, and archival storage.  • Composition of test plans and coordination of user-acceptance testing.  • Composition of training documentation and facilitation of end-user training.  • SharePoint v.2010, v.2013 site collection administrator and site management.    Key Achievements  Successful implementation of Microsoft Systems Center 2012 Management Suite and Windows 7 operating system deployed to 2,000 servers and workstations across three U.S. regional areas of operation; continued development of Microsoft Systems Center 2012 to include installation and configuration of network single sign-on (SSO) and implementation of IT asset, incident, and problem management systems. IT Contractor Éclat ISS - Austin, TX September 2011 to February 2013 • Planning and coordination of SSAE-16 SOC1 audit preparation.  • Planning and coordination of network penetration testing efforts and network security remediation planning.  • Implementation coordination of TCP Packet Capture system and monitoring process.  • Project requirements collection and composition for redundant data center servers, systems platforms, and enterprise-applications implementation.  • Creation of diagrams for network server architecture, disaster recovery process, and network cable installation process.  • Planning and coordination of IT implementation processes for enterprise servers, systems platforms, and applications.    Key Achievement  Successful Redundant Data Center Implementation: Coordination of IT data center installation based on ITIL standards co-located in three U.S. states with CIO, IT infrastructure team, vendors, and consultants, budgeted at $1 million dollars. IT Contractor Advantage Technical Resourcing - San Antonio, TX March 2011 to August 2011 • Composition of use-case scenarios for default loan processing application modules.  • Creation of process-flow models, documentation of SIT and UAT testing scenarios.  • Daily transcription of project meeting minutes and distribution within a 24-hour time frame.  • Meeting facilitator for weekly report review meetings and verification of release status changes with the PM team.  • Maintenance of issue, decision, and action items logs.    Key Achievement  Successful Coordination of Loss Mitigation Program: Consisting of 30 active IT projects in support of FFIEC compliance efforts and default lien recoveries with an estimated return exceeding $2.5 million dollars. IT Contractor Consultis - San Antonio, TX June 2010 to February 2011 • Coordination of SOX audit for IT incident management system.  • Facilitation of planning and requirements gathering for IT system integration project budgeted at $8 million dollars.  • Composition of detailed project plan, business case, requirements, model diagram.  • Documentation of systems specifications, identification of milestone dates and project timeline, risk identification, and costs for credit risk analysis system implementation.  • Project labor hour, expense tracking, and management of accounts payable.  • Preparation of weekly budget-to-actual report in SAP.  • Preparation of weekly status reports, software issue tracking, and release plan.  • Participation in UAT including documentation of results and follow-up with development team.    Key Achievement  Successful Implementation of CLX 6.0 Credit Risk Analysis System Integration for 20 Business Entities: Project planning, coordination, and monitoring with geographically dispersed project teams in 20 different locations. Education Certificate of Audio Transcription Everett Community College June 2008 B.S. Studies in Cybersecurity Mangement and Policy University of Maryland Global Campus December 2019 B.S. Studies in Computer Information Systems Post University - Waterbury, CT Skills QUALYS, It Audit, Auditing, Compliance Certifications/Licenses ITIL, v.3 Present Loyalist Certification Training, 2013 ISACA Member 2019 July 2019 ISACA Membership    Currently preparing for CISA certification exam. Business Analyst Bootcamp ASPE Training, 2015 Additional Information Eight years' experience working with IT systems and technology analysis, processes, requirements, and implementations budgeted from $1 million dollars including efforts for enterprise archival upgrades and IT audit preparation. Three years' experience conducting third-party information security audits with an emphasis on PCI compliance for a nationwide commercial retailer; application of Tenable Security Center and Qualys tools for internal and external server vulnerability scanning and remediation.    Project Technology     IBMi Power 7, Power 9  Operating Systems Windows 7, 8.1, XP, Vista, Windows 2008R2, Windows 2012R2  Management Suite MS Systems Center SCCM, SCSM, SCOM, SCORCH  DB Management MySQL, SQLPlus, ERwin  DB Server SQL2008R2SP1, SQL2012SP1  Mail Systems MS Exchange 2010  Web Servers IIS, XAMPP Apache, PHP, SSL, HTTPS, SHTTP, FTP, sFTP  Hardware 3750X Distribution Switches, APM Fluke Routers  Security Tenable Security Center, Qualys, Cisco ASA 5500 Series Firewalls, MS Forefront, Symantec, Group Policy  Remote access VPN  Virtualization Utilities VMWare ESX 5.1 Enterprise-Plus, Wireshark, TracePlus, ORION  Storage Area Networks (SAN) Dell Equalogic iSCSI and Vault iSCSI SAN Storage Technology