Lead IT Security Compliance Analyst Lead <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Compliance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Lead IT Security Compliance Analyst - Nisum Technologies Union City, CA Experienced professional IT Services & Infrastructure Management focus on security and  compliance. Work Experience Lead IT Security Compliance Analyst Nisum Technologies - Fremont, CA January 2017 to Present • Managing ISO27001 implementation across organization.  • Leading ISO27001 Gap analysis across business units and teams.  • Lead & contributed as a SME ISO27001 controls implementation across organization  • Lead Policies and procedures across organization and work to get approved by Directors.  • Defined a framework for ISO controls evidence for the readiness / implementation.  • Managing Azure Console for Security policies on AD-Domain Controller.  • Managing G-suite Super Administrator for all mobile devices access & VPN access across the organization.  • Managing OKTA Administration for SSO, 2FA, Google Auth and its configuration for various  applications.  • Work with Chief of Information Security, as an ISMS regional lead and implementation of ISMS (ISO 27001).  • Doing Gap analysis on FedRAMP (NIST800-53 Rev4) requirements for alignment with ISO27001.  • Propagation of IP addresses on well-known global DNS server, creating A records, MX, SPF  and TXT records etc.  • Maintaining and publishing Organization's websites on various hosting Servers.  • Implement and install SSL Certificates on Websites and Portals.  • Plan & Manage IT helpdesk, delegating and assigning tasks to team members for resolution  of standard queries and system related issues according to SLA.  • Develop and implement IT Business continuity and disaster recovery plan  • Assure that backups of critical information and systems are regularly taken as per pre- defined guidelines.  • Design and implement SOP for restoration of backups.  • Provide direct assistance during department audits.  • Ensures that daily, weekly, and monthly statistics, status reports, and graphical reporting  aids are completed and continually modified to meet the needs of the department.  • Manages the Help Desk staff including consultation on performance evaluations, promotions, hiring and disciplinary responsibilities. Database Security Administrator Creative Associates International / USAID June 2015 to October 2015 • Control access permissions and privileges of users.  • Monitor performance and manage parameters in order to provide fast responses to front- end users.  • Develop, manage and test back-up and recovery plans.  • Ensure the storage and archiving procedures are functioning as per defined SOPs.  • Manage the security and disaster recovery aspects of a database. IT Security Administrator Al Jazeera Group of Companies - Dubai, AE February 2012 to February 2014 • Managing and planning projects related to the systems.  • Monitoring the storage capabilities of the system.  • Continuously maintain R&D and Knowledge base and share necessary relevant information  with all team members.  • Developed and implement IT policies, procedures, and standards  • Responsible to negotiate and manage SLA and vendor contracts.  • Training of other IT staff. Technical Support Analyst United Bank Limited October 2007 to December 2011 • Managed IT helpdesk operations, delegating and assigning tasks to other team members for resolution of standard queries and system related issues according to SLA.  • Day to day support of Core Banking software issues to users across the organization.  • Systems Administration of Windows Servers, Linux & Oracle based Servers.  • Implementation of security policies on Database and Application level.  • Implementation of corn jobs for database backups (periodical and incremental).    • Configuration of Windows Terminal Servers with Thin clients.  • Manage rollouts, software patches and upgrades.  • Install and configure user workstations, phones, network devices, and IT equipment's.  • UATs for changes in Core banking application modules. Education BS in Computer Science University of Karachi 2006