Security Control Assessor <span class="hl">Security</span> Control Assessor Security Control Assessor - Living Sans Frontieres Owings Mills, MD Work Experience Security Control Assessor Living Sans Frontieres - Baltimore, MD June 2015 to Present • Responsible for developing a Security Control Assessor (SCA) strategy for the organization and assessing the management, operational, assurance, and technical security controls implemented on an information system via security testing and evaluation (ST&E) methods.  • Develop and review Rules of Engagement, Security Assessment Plans (SAPs) and Security Assessment Reports (SARs).  • Develop SAPs, test the documented systems in accordance with applicable policies and guidelines, and document results of the testing; either recommend authorization approval or not approved for authorization with rationale supporting recommendation.  • Review and analyze the findings that identify security issues on the system and compile results and finding into a final Security Assessment Report, along with assessments and recommendations for remediation.  • Initiate a POA&M with identified weaknesses and suspense dates for each IS based on findings and recommendations from the SAR.  • Develop all supporting test reports and supporting artifacts and POA&Ms documenting open findings, preparation of formal authorization packages and oversight of the resolution of POA&Ms and development and maintenance of assessment and authorization enterprise schedules and metrics.  • Use POA&M tracking tools like CSAM (Cyber Security Assessment and Management), Excel spread sheet to track and monitor POA&M.  • Ensure that controls are implemented correctly, functioning as intended and producing the right results.  • Create (RTM) and Risk Traceable Matrix in which to document assessment result (pass/fail).  • Prepare Security Assessment Reports (SAR) in which all the weaknesses are reported.  • Advise the ISSO concerning the impact levels for Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability of information on a system. IT Security Analyst Intern United Tax Services - Baltimore, MD December 2014 to May 2015 • Worked on Certification and Accreditation (C & A) process to ensure that security of IT infrastructure followed federal guidelines (NIST 800-53).  • Assisted with ensuring that Risk Management Framework (RMF) steps were taken to implement information security requirements for IT systems throughout their life cycle, from the requirements definition phase through disposal.  • Assisted with performing Security Test and Evaluations (ST&E).  • Helped create Contingency Plans and determine viability of Contingency Plan Testing for agency systems.  • Developed reports to share with administrators about the efficiency of security policies and recommend any changes. Quantum Leap Inc, IT Tech - Baltimore, MD November 2013 to November 2014 • Knowledge of Network fundamentals, general network setup and device configuration.  • Prepare Policy & Procedures for the IT Department and for the user department, also make sure the policies and procedures are regulations are constantly updated.  • Managed Disaster Recovery Process and ensuring regular daily backup is taken.  • Ensured that policies and procedure relating to PCI compliance are updated.  • Maintained a system error / progress logbook and deals with reported problems.  • Responsible to ensure that IT Audit points are implemented as per relevant Standard operating Procedures.  • Monitored and maintains proper inventory of hardware and software license.  • Is aware of IT Security Policies and ensures implementation through regular staff training.  • Kept updated with latest industry technology and security risks on a regular basis.  • Able to perform other IT or Systems related task assigned by the management. Education M.Sc in Applied Information Technology in Applied Information Technology Towson University August 2017 B.A in Political Science University of Ghana - Accra, GH May 2012 Skills DATA PROTECTION, HIPAA, NESSUS, NIST, PCI, Cyber Security, Information Security Additional Information EXPERTISE/SKILLS  • Knowledge of the Risk Management Framework (RMF) and experience conducting security controls assessment based on NIST 800-53 r3/4 and NIST 53A r3/r4.  • Knowledge of NIST Special Publications such as, NIST SP 800-53 rev 3/4, NIST SP 800-53A rev 3/4 NIST SP 800-60 vol 1 & 2, and NIST SP 800-37 rev.2.  • Knowledge of FIPS 199 & FIPS 200.  • Assessing System Compliance with NIST 800-53 controls for new and existing systems undergoing initial risk management A&A, for Authority to Operate (ATO) certification.  • Continuous monitoring of existing systems with approved ATO.  • Adjudicate Plan of Action & Milestones (POA&M).  • Familiar with Xacta 360, eMASS, Nessus Vulnerability scanning and SCAP Compliance checker  • Experience with the System Development Life Cycle.  • Knowledge of Compliance Frameworks (FISMA, SOX, PCI-DSS, HIPAA).  • Knowledge of Access Control and Authentication techniques.  • Knowledge of Data Protection and Encryption technologies.