GRC Analyst GRC <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Auditor | Data Security | Governance, Risk & Compliance Garden Grove, CA Jimmy is a self-directed and result driven professional who excel at designing compliance programs to protect information technology assets from internal and external threats. Experienced in high-growth organization in tech-driven companies, which include program managing cross-functional teams and complex enterprise-wide projects. A highly organized, proactive problem solver who drives participation and buy-in from audit stakeholders and dependencies across enterprise for audit participation and remediation plans. He thrives when he can mentor others and create collaborative work environments where all of his stakeholders contribute and are valued, resulting in understanding his stakeholders needs and objectives that allows him to craft creative solutions to information security and compliance problems.    KNOWLEDGE  • Audit Management  • IT Policy Development  • Compliance Management  • Change Request Management   • Project Management (Agile)  • Confluence  • ServiceNow  • JIRA    EXPERIENCED  • CCPA  • HIPAA  • ISO27K  • NYDFS 500  • PCI DSS 3.2  • SOX 404  • SOC 1 Type II; SOC 2 Type II Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience GRC Analyst HireRight, LLC - Irvine, CA August 2019 to Present • Lead in the development and execution of the internal IT compliance testing program. This includes risk assessments, internal IT controls and compliance reviews; and remediation testing of issues identified during third-party assurance reviews or internal assessments.   • Serves as company representative with clients and partners, responding to security questionnaires and managing audits (ISO 27000, SSAE16, PCI DSS, EI3PA, HIPAA)  • Administrator for ongoing IT compliance monitoring and governance activities.  • Adviser for internal business clients on the effectiveness of corrective action plans in the event of non-compliance or detected vulnerabilities in their environment.  • Coordinator for various project requests from functional teams to increase operational efficiency, strengthen IT environment, and help meet the company's internal and external regulatory or compliance requirements. IT Security Analyst Confie, Inc - Huntington Beach, CA March 2019 to August 2019 • Developed long-term road-maps and functional project plans for technological and procedural requirements, resulting in implementing and maintaining internal procedures to ensure compliance for data security and incident response handling.  • Program Coordinator for PCI DSS Audits, resulting in remediating PCI gaps such as vendor risk management, change management, visitor management, card reader tamper proof training and firewall review to receive passing ROC as a Level 2 Merchant.  • Partnered with Legal Team to identify and assess areas of significant business risk with new Laws and regulations.  • Composed IT policies and procedures in accordance with local and international best practice using frameworks from various regulations (PCI-DSS, SOX, NYDFS-500, CCPA). IT Compliance Analyst Nordstrom Rack - Los Angeles, CA 2017 to 2019 • Translated audit and compliance requirements to Controller, VP of Engineering, Director of Technology Operations and subject matter experts who are all stakeholders for various business and technology controls, resulted in guidance and development of technology solutions.  • Developed and implemented Quarterly User Access control to meet SOX IT302 controls. resulted in removal of 2,425+ accounts and aided in updating processes for Provisioning, Off-boarding and Change Management.   • Managed SOX audit engagements with external auditors (Deloitte, EY); manage team to test/validate requested data and implement solutions for audit findings.  • Updated 14 IT policies and procedures for PCI readiness, resulted in receiving a passing score of 98% ROC from external QSA (PSC) for PCI audit. Internal Auditor Providence Health and Services - Burbank, CA 2016 to 2017 • Performed corporate risk assessments, creation of audit programs, controls testing, data analysis, documentation, and writing of audit report.  • Assigned projects included clinical areas and a wide array of businesses such as finance, construction, information services, and materials management.  • Collaborated with clients to formulate recommendations that address root causes and achieve desirable outcomes. IT Compliance Administrator DELL - Palm Springs, CA 2014 to 2016 • Coordinated and reviewed all IT audits and assessment activities to mitigate information security risks and to correct compliance exposures and gaps resulted in facility monthly compliance rate of 94%.  • Provided mentoring, guidance and general oversight to less experienced staff in a variety of administration and/or modeling activities with HIPAA and SOX audits across hospital departments.  • System Administrator for Cerner Patient Portal, EASY ID, SCI Schedule Maximizer, SCI Order Facilitator, SharePoint applications access. Audit & Compliance Associate Los Angles Christian Health Center - Los Angeles, CA 2012 to 2014 • Ensured high quality standards of documentation, confidentiality, information security, information retention and performed compliance assessment for clinical staff HIPAA competency, resulted in 91% passing grade HIPAA audits.  • Administrative Liaison for LA County Referral Processing System, resulted to managing and adjusting all clinical staff IT security credentials. Education BS in Information Technology Management Saint Louis University 2011 Skills change management (1 year), Internal audit (4 years), Jira (2 years), Payment card industry (3 years), PCI (3 years), Policy development (6 years), Sarbanes-oxley (sox) (5 years), Software development life cycle (Less than 1 year), Security, access, Confluence (2 years), ServiceNow (2 years), Active Directory, SQL, testing Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/lamjimmy