Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - Concord Crossroads LLC Dumfries, VA A highly driven, detail-oriented and experienced IT professional with thorough knowledge and  understanding of FISMA's and Risk Management Framework with strong hands-on experience.  Experience includes System Vulnerability scan, monitoring, Auditing; Risk Assessment, Audit  Engagements, and Testing Information Technology Controls. Work Experience Information Security Analyst Concord Crossroads LLC - Montclair, VA October 2016 to Present • Evaluate security assessment documentation and provide written recommendations for security authorization to the AO.  • Ensure security assessments are completed for each IS.  • Analyzes and update Systems Security Plans (SSPs) based on the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publications and conduct annual self-assessments.  • Initiates a POA&M with identified weaknesses and suspense dates for each IS, based on findings and recommendations from the SAR  • Provide support for documentation initiatives as related to System Security Plans, Risk Assessment Plans, Continuity of Operations Plans, Incident Response Plans, and Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E) standards.  • Create, oversee, and update policies, information, standards, and guidelines on regular basis.  • Conducts comprehensive reviews of security authorization documents to ensure the appropriate NIST security guidelines were used during the assessments and the selections of security controls are relevant to the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system. Information Security Analyst SPN Solutions Inc - Arlington, VA September 2014 to October 2016 • Performed Assessment and Authorization efforts under the NIST Risk Management Framework  (RMF).  • Developed System Security Plans (SSP) for each system to verify that it addresses the minimum SSP framework.  • Created assessment reports and tracked remediation activities using Clearwater Analytics.  • Developed security standards and best practices for the organization.  • Recommended security enhancements to management or senior IT staff.  • Developed and reviewed, Security Assessment Plan (SAP) to assess the security controls.  • Generated security documentation, including: security assessment reports; system security plans;  contingency plans; and disaster recovery plans.  • Prepared POA&M; follow up pre-brief meetings with the System Owner, ISSO and other key  stakeholders for each system with open POA&M prior to the official follow-up briefs.  • Assessed security controls in accordance with the assessment procedures defined in the security  assessment plan through examination, interviews, and testing.  • Supported the remediation actions to correct assessment findings and develop supporting plan of action and milestone (POA&M) reports and updated System Security Plan.  • Analyzed and updated System Security Plan (SSP), Risk Assessment Reports (RAR), Privacy Impact  • Assessment (PIA), System Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E) and the Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M).  • Made recommendations to improve security procedures and systems.  • Ensured Configuration Management processes are followed to ensure that any changes do not  introduce new security risks. IT Help Desk Support Inova Health System - Falls Church, VA July 2012 to September 2014 • Provided telephone support to over 6000 end users, troubleshooting, diagnosing, resolving, and documenting hardware, software, and network related technical issues.  • Assess security control test plans and conducts in-depth security assessment of information  systems that evaluate compliance of administrative, physical, technical, and organizational  polices and safeguards in order to maintain HIPAA compliance based on office of Civil Right  (OCR) protocols, NIST SP 800-66 and 800-53A.  • Documented all issues and generated reports detailing common problems and error trends.  • Filled in for in-house IT services as needed, installing new desktop systems for developers, project  managers, and quality assurance team members.  • Created, updated and managed tickets utilizing remedy-ticketing systems.  • Escalated issues to the proper help desk associate when necessary and followed up on any  escalated issues, all within a timely manner.  • Created new user accounts, updated and troubleshooted user accounts and workstations in active directory. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology University Of Ghana - Accra August 2004 to June 2007 Skills documentation (4 years), NIST (5 years), Risk Assessment (4 years), Security (4 years), system security (4 years), Active Directory (3 years), Access Control (2 years), Sharepoint (1 year), Microsoft Office (8 years), testing Certifications/Licenses Security+ August 2017 to August 2020 EC-Council Ethical Hacker (CEH) September 2018 to September 2021 AWS- Associate Developer July 2018 to July 2020 A valid IT Specialist certification