Job Seeker Hyattsville, MD My objective is to utilize and grow in the exceptional skills that I have acquired in IT security field. I have over three years 'of experience using managerial leadership and administrative interpersonal skills using Risk Management Framework, Vulnerability Scanning, Security Documentation, and FISMA. Work Experience Northrop Grumman Corporation - Annapolis, MD August 2018 to Present Tier 2    ? Provided technical Support for computers and associated networks.  ? Worked closely with IT management colleagues, technicians, server administrators, network engineers and IT security staff to remediate classified data spillage incidents.  ? Installed, serviced and repaired personal computers related PC software, telephones cables and connectors.  ? Connected personal computers and terminals to existing data networks.  ? Performed basic PC setups and maintained trouble logs.  ? Instructed and assisted users in the use of personal computers and networks locally and remotely.  ? Investigated information, network and communications needs of users and made recommendations regarding software and hardware purchases.  ? Completed paperwork and other tasks needed to satisfy security requirements.  ? Followed all security regulations, guidelines and processes regarding the installation, maintenance and retirement of PCs and PC related hardware and software.  ? Reviewed, maintained and organized the trouble ticket queue to identify issues that needed to be mitigated.  ? Worked through and resolved the ticket queue without intervening management with established SLAs.  ? Established and maintained high levels of communication and customer satisfaction according to defined objectives while adhering to established policies.  ? Provided User support remotely and in person. (Via phone and email.)  ? Resolved help desk issues including troubleshooting and upgrading hardware and software.  ? Performed user administration duties, creating and removing user accounts, configuring user accounts.  ? Maintained applications day to day health, ran weekly backups and reports.  ? Provided Tier 1 and Tier2 O&M Support.  ? Created standard operating procedures for user training.  ? Managed cases with ticketing system and ticket queue.  ? Installed Microsoft and third party Applications.  ? Configured multiple mobile devices: IOS, Android Smart Phones and tablets.  ? Provided VPN support training including configuring, and troubleshooting. IT Security Analyst Prospecta IT, LLC - Bowie, MD April 2015 to July 2018 Performed system security categorization.  ? Conducted Risk management meetings on Category 1 and 2 systems.  ? Developed Security Test and Evaluation using NIST SP 800-53A.  ? Applied current computer science technologies and Information Assurance (IA) requirements to the analysis, design, development, evaluation, and integration of computer/communication systems to maintain confidentiality, integrity, and availability of systems worked on.  ? Performed system security scans using ACAS scanning tool.  ? Performed systems vulnerabilities identification and remediation.  ? Manually reviewed logs and provided documentation guidelines to business process owners and management.  ? Documented and reviewed security plans (SP), contingency plans (CP), contingency plan tests (CPT), privacy impact assessments (PIA), and risk assessment (RA) documents per NIST 800 guidelines.  ? Participated in the administration of Active Directory,  ? Worked day-to-day with senior management in corporate HQ, and provided routine travel to nearby data centers/offices in need of service.  ? Collaborated with team members on data center, network administration, backup and disaster recovery efforts and strategies.  ? Monitored servers - rapidly and effectively diagnosing and solving all outages or performance problems creating home profile information for users, troubleshooting; manage customer account information; effectively communicate, interpret, and resolve customer issues.  ? Provided network connectivity for IOS, mobile devices, Windows 10 and provide data support, and resolve support tickets. Security Analyst Ace Solutions - Fairfax, VA February 2012 to March 2015 Monitored application logs.  ? Assisted in planning, executing, and monitoring the six-step risk management framework (RMF) process for information systems (IS) worked on.  ? Analyzed the IS and recommended what categorization level it was in accordance with NIST requirements.  ? Prepared, maintained, and updated the system security plan.  ? Assisted in the creation of the initial security control baseline.  ? Prepared, maintained, and updated the continuous monitoring strategy.  ? Configured scanning to validate system configuration.  ? Responded to operating systems, applications and network access issues, hardware failures and upgrades.  ? Serviced IOS and all mobile devices in a Windows environment.  ? Provided production support; accurate problem identification, resolutions and documentation.  ? Worked closely with other Tier II Administrators to ensure any problems are resolved in timely manner.  ? Implemented security solutions to complete certification and accreditation process on all systems.  ? Implemented and documented procedures for back-up, restart, and recovery of software components. Education Bachelor's in Communications, Computer Science Bowie State University - Bowie, MD Skills SECURITY, IOS, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CITRIX, VMWARE, REMEDY, SYMANTEC, SYSTEM SECURITY, RISK MANAGEMENT, TEST EVALUATION, NOVELL, WINDOWS XP, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, WORD Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ ce Certification October 2018 to December 2021 CompTIA Security+ ce Certification    Credential Identifier  Credential ID COMP001021438671