Information Security Analyst/Compliance Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span>/Compliance Information Security Analyst/Compliance - Freddie Mac Hagerstown, MD An Information Security Analyst with vast experience in Managing and Protecting Enterprise Information Systems, Network Systems and Operational processes through Information Assurance Controls, Compliance Verifications, Risk Assessment, Vulnerability Assessment in accordance with NIST, FISMA, OMB and industry best Security practices. Work Experience Information Security Analyst/Compliance Freddie Mac - McLean, VA September 2017 to Present • Implement Risk Management Framework (RMF) in accordance with NIST SP 800-37.  • Perform System security categorization using FIPS 199 & NIST 800-60  • Advise Information System Owner (ISO) of security impact levels for Confidentiality, In  • tegrity and Availability (CIA) using NIST SP 800-60 V2.  • Utilize NIST SP 800-18 and update System Security Plans from SP 800-53.  • Develop a variety of Assessment & Authorization deliverables including; System Security Plan (SSP), Security Assessment Report (SAR), Contingency Plan (CP) and POAM for review and approval for Authorization Official  • Review Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), System Record Notice (SORN), initiate corrective measures when security vulnerabilities occur.  • Develop Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) for identified vulnerabilities and ensure compliance through monthly updates.  • Perform vulnerability scanning on web applications and databases to identify security threats and vulnerabilities using Nessus Scanner.  • Collaborate with ISSO's in remediating audit findings, security planning and reporting, and mitigation of security vulnerabilities are completed in a timely manner.  • Monitors, evaluates and report on the status of information security system and directs corrective actions to eliminate or reduce risk.  • Initiate compliance and vulnerability scan request to identify and report weaknesses and potential security breaches.  • Maintain inventory of all information Security System assigned.  • Ensure security policies, procedures; recommendations comply with FISMA, NIST, Organizational guidelines and technical best practices. Information Assurance Analyst Megas Solutions - Columbia, MD January 2013 to September 2017 • Conducted meetings with IT team to gather documentation and evidence about their control environment.  • Develop and maintain artifacts for A&A process included but not limited to (SSP, SAR, RTM, CP, CM, CPT SAP and POA&M).  • Performed Risk Assessment in accordance to NIST SP 800-30 Rev 1.  • Reviewed and ensured Privacy Impact Assessment document after positive is created  • Completed C&A/A&A packages that have obtained and maintained full authorization to operate (ATO).  • Participated in continuous monitoring that includes but not limited to POA&M management, Waiver & Exception support and periodic recertification in accordance to NIST SP 800-137.  • Planned, System Security Checklists, Privacy Impact Assessments, POA&M, and Authority to Operate (ATO) letters.  • Assisted in the development and maintenance of system security plans and contingency plans for all systems under their responsibility.  • Provided ongoing gap analysis of current policies, practices, and procedures as they relate to established guidelines outlined by NIST, OMB, FISMA.  • Communicated clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing with team members and top management. IT Technical Support Kone - Helsinki, FI July 2011 to January 2013 Finland  • Perform Software/Hardware installation, Maintenance, repair, Update and testing.  • Installed and configured Microsoft Office Suites on multiple machines.  • Configured and implemented network interfaces for a Windows Network.  • Troubleshoot and resolved TCP/IP connectivity problems.  • Created new procedures to improve company's productivity in the management of information systems  • Utilized tools to track, record, and transfer request orders and incident tickets  • Performed network administration functions, set up network user accounts/permissions, reset passwords, and administer group policies.  • Installed, configure, re-image and maintain desktop systems, copy and scan documents. Education MA in Media Information Technology Helsinki Metropolia University of Applied Sciences June 2011 to August 2012 MSc. in Medical Physics and Engineering University of Eastern Finland August 2008 to July 2010 BSc. in Physics University of Cape Coast October 2002 to May 2006