Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Analyst - Champion Home Builders Warren, MI To obtain a rewarding position in the field of IT and coordinate with a team of highly experienced professionals for my personal as well as corporate growth. Work Experience Security Analyst Champion Home Builders April 2019 to Present Assisted in the creation and implementation of security policies, procedures and projects. Provided support to help desk, infrastructure, and security. Researched, recommended, and implemented appropriate security tools. Reviewed data from systems to ascertain risk or issues. Prepared status reports on incidents security matters. Tracked, monitored and implemented system and network security incidents. Cyber security incident response and monitoring. Redesigned, and implemented multi-factor authentication. IT Support Specialist Champion Home Builders July 2018 to April 2019 Managed inventory levels, forecast demand, and procured IT hardware. Managed standard builds and approved specifications. Managed vendors in troubleshooting situations. Administered Microsoft Active Directory (AD) Organizational Units (OU), objects, policies, users and groups. Managed projects and monitored networks and network incident responses. Installer Fairway carpet and tile August 2013 to July 2018 Demolition of existing flooring materials. Repairs to flooring substrate. Layout of flooring projects. Installation of a wide range of flooring materials including carpeting, tile, wood plank, and other specialty products. Advising customers on proper flooring care and maintenance. Carpentry trim work at walls and doors. IT Support Nagy Insurance Agency June 2012 to July 2018 Installing and configuring computer systems. Diagnosing and solving hardware and software faults, as well as network systems. Provided support in person, phone and online. Education Associates of Applied Science in Applied Science Macomb Community College August 2017 to Present High School Diploma Stevenson High School December 2019 Skills TEAM PLAYER, Security, Active Directory, HTML Certifications/Licenses Valid Drivers License