Systems Administrator Systems Administrator Systems Administrator - Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY Rush, NY Work Experience Systems Administrator Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY - Rochester, NY May 2017 to Present • Assist Faculty with their needs for software in the labs  • Assist Students with issues in labs and passwords  • Provide VMs for students working on Senior Projects  • Assist staff with daily needs and troubleshooting their systems  • Install servers, deploy operating systems  • Worked on projects for future use: SCCM and OpenLDAP replacement: Active Directory  • Assisted staff with transitioning from FileMaker, paper and excel to a home grown Student Management System (SQL back-end)  • Order new hardware and misc equipment  • Manage student employees, distribute work, and mentor  • Work with other System Administrators within the college SR IT Security Analyst Frontier Communications Rochester NY - Rochester, NY September 2015 to May 2017 • Dell One Identity Management (D1IM) and discovery  ? Requirements gathering for application automation for Active Directory, M6, Office 365, SIMPL, and other homegrown applications  ? Manage and create user roles within D1IM (SQL query)  ? Create IT Shop requestable items connected to Active Directory such as group access  • Business Analyst role - learning applications, gathering requirements for development  • Application development high level tester/implementer  ? Applications: Office 365, Active Directory, Oracle M6, AS400, Confluence, Jira  ? Work closely with .NET developers in testing code for applications before deployment  * Working with .NET developers on IF, THEN scenarios based on company requirements  • Dell Password Manager maintenance and support (upgrade of application and hotfix patching)  ? Install newer version of Password Manager and applying hotfixes on the server  • Dell Password Manager Windows 2008 internal and DMZ server patching and support  ? Install of Microsoft Patches  • Database data management via SQL for Dell One Identity Management IT Security Administrator Cisco ACLs - Palo Alto, CA October 2013 to September 2015 • Firewall communication troubleshooting, acquired networks  • Tracing and logging user activities    IT Security Administrator October 2013 - September 2015  • Exchange Administration in Office 365 and onpremise  ? Maintaining mailboxes, fixing user permissions, fixing orphan accounts from mailboxes  • MS PowerShell scripting  • Management of AD/Domain Controllers and their Windows 2012 servers  ? Rebooting, patching  • Management of DNS/DHCP and their Windows 2012 servers  ? Maintaining DNS records, maintaining DHCP records  • Management of ProofPoint  ? Email monitoring from mail relay  • Management of MaaS30 (Mobile Management)  ? Creating policies, deploying policies, managing application roll out for mobile devices  • Management of Dell One Identity Manager  • Management of Lotus Notes  ? Maintaining windows servers (4) and the Lotus Notes application on them  ? Creating user accounts, managing permissions, restoring mailbox connections  • Management of cloud SharePoint  ? Permission management for site access  • Management of accounts in Active Directory and group permissions  ? Creating accounts, permission management, group permissions, shared directory permission management Security (Firewall) Administrator Unofficial Title October 2014 to January 2015 Education Technology SUNY College of Technology at Alfred August 2005 to May 2009 Skills SQL (3 years), EXCHANGE (1 year), FIREWALLS (1 year), JUNIPER (1 year), MAINTENANCE (1 year), System Administrator Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY and SKILLS:    Extensive experience as Level 2 Exchange Administration  • Managing mailboxes; onpremise and cloud  • Troubleshooting transport and message routing  • Spam detection  • Application maintenance, application upgrades    Extensive experience as a Customer Service Representative  • Professional communication and telephone skills  • Maintaining and documenting all PC troubles experienced through knowledge base that is available team wide  • Provide attention detail for top priority tasks and work with other resolver teams to determine root cause of issue  • Analyze troubles and troubleshoot to find root cause    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Platforms: Windows 10, Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows XP, Windows Vista, Linux, Ubuntu,  Network: Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012, VmWare  Firewalls: Palo Alto, Juniper, CheckPoint. Cisco ACLs  Languages: SQL, HTML, Powershell  Ticketing Systems: Front Range- HEAT, Remedy, CMIS (home grown application), BMC Remedy