IT System Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> System <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT System Analyst - MWIDM/SRP Tuba City, AZ • eight years of experience in Customer care and phone service.  • Over four years of experience in health care IT technical support.  • 3 years in the gaming industry of IT technology.  • HIPPA certified.  Expertise in one or more specialized areas of IT such as Microsoft Administration  Understanding of networking concepts such as DNS, DHCP, Email, HTTP, SSL, OSI Model,  Experience in; networking, wireless, router, switches, running cables, extension and terminating cables, exchange servers, VPN, VMware, Windows XP, Windows 7, 8, 10, Microsoft Office, JCP, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP,  • Troubleshoot software and hardware on PC's finding the problem and fixing issue in a timely matter.  • Installing printers and computers on the corporate network.  • Troubleshooting Xerox printers, zebra printers and Kodak scanners, finding the problem and getting back on the production line.  • Helping end users with issues they are having with the program or software and get them back to work quickly and effectively for patient care purpose.  • Resourceful and self-confident: can get the job and do it well. Effective problem solver and thorough researcher.  • Equally effective working independently and in cooperation with others.  • Working in all different working schedules, Mornings, swing shifts and graveyards, weekends and holidays.  • Strength in analyzing, researching organizing and problem solving.  • Technical Support Representative skilled at resolving complex customer service issues in a timely manner.  • Effectively identifies problems using advance troubleshooting skills.  • Complete back ground check in United States, obtained my Gaming License.  • Creating accounts for new and returning employees for certain programs and software's  • Deactivating and disabling accounts for non-employees.  • Performing both internal and external security audits  • Monitoring security access  • Weekly audits on terminated employees and inputting them into server  • Changing employees name changes to new name and updating into server  • Updating providers and employees address into servers Work Experience IT System Analyst MWIDM/SRP March 2019 to Present • Performs IT work in software development, database administration, data warehouse analysis, systems programming, network engineering, data storage or unified communications & messaging.  • Performs as a project leader and is responsible for planning, scheduling and monitoring projects  • Works collaboratively with departments to effectively communicate progress and performance  • Identify trends and root causes of challenges, determines solutions and makes recommendations for management consideration  • Applies SRP and IT processes/ methods, practices and techniques to deliver solutions It Security Analyst Banner Health March 2018 to February 2019 • Creating accounts for new and returning employees for certain programs and software's  • Deactivating and disabling accounts for non-employees.  • Performing both internal and external security audits  • Monitoring security access  • Weekly audits on terminated employees and inputting them into server  • Changing employee name changes to new name and updating into server  • Updating providers and employee address into servers IT Technician Twin Arrows Navajo Casino March 2015 to March 2018 Process an average of 20 to 50 inbound and outbound technical support calls.  Display courtesy and strong interpersonal skills with all customer interactions  Provide base level IT supports to company personal.  • Troubleshoot hardware and software issues. Setup new pc's to the domain. Add printers to network. Create and disable accounts. Create user account in Active Directory, resolve issue in a timely manner. Support customers having data connectivity issues. Research issue on various computer systems and databases to resolve complaints and answer inquires.  • Give permissions to end users to shared folders.  • Troubleshoot, printers, scanners, card readers, faxes.  • Install new OS, XP, windows 7, 8. On re imaged and new laptops, pc's and tablets  • Configure Iphone, Ipad, andriods  • Terminate cables, run cables and trace cables to and from servers.  • Send equipment's out on RMA to get fixed under warranty.  • Vpn, remote desktop  • AV setups, wireless mics, PA systems, lightings and POS systems, for events, projectors, and screens.  • Create wireless access points.  • Take care of hotel guest with TV issues, wifi connections and walk them thru steps to connect on their personal equipment's,    Create wireless account for each incoming events or banquets. Help hotel guest with casino guests with any issues with network. Did walk through casino and hotel for any issues that arise and resolve in an appropriate timely manner. Change out back up tapes and log into shift reports. Daily reports after each shift  Report all issue to a ticketing system (trackit and footnotes)  Train new employees and explained protocols clearly and efficiently. Send out notifications to all employees if there is an outage or upgrades.  Keep storage area cleaned and maintained for new incoming equipment's. Inventory logs on equipment's and software's. IT Technician Tuba City Regional Health Care Corp March 2011 to October 2014 Resolved customer complaints and concerns. Troubleshot 16+ software used in the hospital. Dentrix, synapse, propharm, winpharm, active directory, software setting, computer setting, JavaScript and user profile settings  Report all issue to a ticketing system trackit  Troubleshoot peripherals, printers, scanners, fax machines  Vpn, remote desktop  Install new OS, XP, windows 7, 8. On re imaged and new laptops, pc's and tablets  Configure Iphone, Ipad, andriods  Terminate cables, run cables and trace cables to and from servers.  Trained new employees and explained protocols clearly and efficiently.  Researched issue on various computer systems and databases to resolve complaints and answer inquires.  Did RMA'S on defective new equipment  Kept storage area cleaned and maintained for new incoming equipment's.  Did inventory logs on equipment's and software's. Education Certification in Computer Tuba City HS., Anthem College