Data Security Analyst Data <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Data Security Analyst - EVERTEC LLC San Juan, PR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Security Analyst EVERTEC LLC July 2016 to Present • Monitor, analyze and respond to network incidents and events.  • Configure SIEM appliance for false positives, log sources and errors.  • Manages validation and testing of security architecture and design solutions and produces detailed engineering  specifications with recommended vendor technologies.  • Maintain other security appliances in optimal conditions E.g. (SIEM, IPS, WAF) appliances in running state and patches  up-to-date. Monitoring security files and reports.  • Using security tools for analyzing risk, malware and troubleshooting.  • Contributes regarding security technology prioritization, as well as future utilization of security technology and process  improvements to the Security team.  • Conduct risk assessments in the evaluation and implementation for network security products, vendors, and services.  • Identified and analyzed business violations of security policy and standards. IT Security Consultant BTI (Business Technology Integration) June 2015 to July 2016 • Participating in Projects as a consultant for Information Security  • Installing and configuring Security Appliances for clients.  • Maintaining Records and creating Work Completed Reports and end of month.  • Advanced experience with administering SIEM solutions.  • Basic understanding of Project Management methodologies.  • Implemented, as directed, appropriate response measures to security threats.  • Provided documentation and data collection support. Tech Support Engineer BTI (Business Technology Integration) February 2012 to June 2015 • Install and configure computers, internet security software, troubleshoot help-desk and internet connectivity issues.  • Manage OU's of computers and user in active directory.  • Install end-user computers and manage inventory. Work with warranty cases.  • Verify backup tapes, validate status of servers in DC. Visit remote sites around Puerto Rico. Connect via remote access  to user computers to help with tech problems.  • Manage a group of tech support around LATAM and the Caribbean. System Administrator / IT Specialist O.S.A.J December 2011 to February 2012 Manage, install and maintain LAN's, computers, switches, hubs, printers and scanners. Evaluate and recommend  applications and equipment for the better operation of the Agency, troubleshoot hardware, software and network- related issues. Prepare and train users on hardware, applications and allied devices.  • Managed and implemented an upgrade project for new computers at different office locations across Puerto Rico.  • Maintenance of Windows Servers, active directory, policy implementation, Windows update, DHCP, domain, intranet,  remote connections and firewall. Loads software programs/packages and utility applications, install operating systems,  establish email accounts and IP addresses, carries out upgrade of hardware and software. Manage performance-related    issues and network support problems, responds to complaint and inquiries, provide technical advice, and solves  employees' technical problems remote or in person.  • Install and configure computer and internet security software and troubleshoot help-desk and internet connectivity  issues. Create and maintain a production and testing environment. Evaluate new versions and applications. Education BBA in System Information Administration in networking and administration UNIVERSIDAD DEL - Turabo, PR 2015 Skills SECURITY (3 years), IPS (2 years), SIEM (3 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (3 years), DHCP (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jose-aponte89 Certifications/Licenses MCP Present IBM QRadar Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • OS Platforms: Windows OS (7,8,10, Server 2008, Server 2012, Server 2016, MacOS and RHEL  • Virtualization: VMware Workstation and Fusion  • Security: SIEM, McAfee IPS, Imperva, Forti Web, FortiSandBox, NAC  • Server Administration: DHCP, DNS, Active Directory, Domains  • Software: Microsoft Office and 365  • Cloud: Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure