IT Auditor <span class="hl">IT</span> Auditor IT Auditor - Danone Mount Vernon, NY Information Security Analyst/ IT Auditor with over 5years experience, including FISMA, System Security Monitoring, Risk Assessments, Vendor Risk Assessments, Audit Engagements, Testing Information Technology Controls, Developing Security Policy Procedures and Guidelines. Seeking to obtain an Information Security/ IT Audit position with a challenging company.    Legible to work in the US for any employer. Work Experience IT Auditor Danone June 2016 to Present • Perform risk-based audits of information systems, operating systems, and operating procedures.  • Assist with audit evaluations to provide reasonable assurance that risk management, control, and governance systems are functioning as intended and enable the organization to meet its goals and objectives.  • Complete reporting control documentation and test work.  • Evaluate automated systems controls including authentication and authorization, and other controls to support privacy and security of sensitive data.  • Identify emerging issues and recommend solutions to IT Audit & Compliance Management.  • Responsible for the internal controls and risks assessment.  • Identify the weakness in system and help create an action plan.  • Help plan the execution of internal audit and reporting.  • Work within a team and independently to create a solid information technology infrastructure and put in place policies and procedures. IT Auditor Freddie Mac, Virginia May 2015 to May 2016 • Performed risk-based audits of information systems, operating systems, and operating procedures.  • Assisted with audit evaluations to provide reasonable assurance that risk management, control, and governance systems are functioning as intended and enable the organization to meet its goals and objectives.  • Completed reporting control documentation and test work.  • Evaluated automated systems controls including authentication and authorization, and other controls to support privacy and security of sensitive data.  • Identified emerging issues and recommend solutions to IT Audit & Compliance Management.  • Responsible for the internal controls and risks assessment.  • Identified the weakness in system and help create an action plan.  • Helped plan the execution of internal audit and reporting.  • Worked within a team and independently to create a solid information technology infrastructure and put in place policies and procedures. Information Security Analyst Foreground Security, Virginia September 2014 to March 2015 • Performed vendor documentation review and analysis  • Assessed current business practices and identified opportunities to promote effective third-party risk management  • Documented and reported risk to Vendor Assessment management team, business partners, and vendors  • Performed onsite assessments of vendor facilities  • Documented risks and recommendations based on a vendor lack of controls  • Identified and measured risk associated with vendor security control  • Helped in formulating a framework for GDPR  • Examined and updated System Security Plan (SSP), Risk Assessment (RA), Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), System Security test and Evaluation (ST&E) and the Plan Of Actions and Milestones (POA&M)  • Led the effort with the help of System Owners and ISSO in preparing certification and Accreditation package for companies Designate systems and categorize its C.I.A using FIPS 199 and NIST SP 800-60  • Performed Vulnerability Assessment. Made sure that risks are assessed, evaluated and a proper action have been taken to limit their impact on the Information and Information Systems  • Conducted I.T controls risk assessments that included reviewing organizational policies, standards and procedures and provided advice on their adequacy, accuracy and compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard    <strong> IT Security Analyst - PCI Compliance</strong>  Toys “R” Us   02/13- 02/14  • Performed PCI-DSS assessments, scoping, gap analysis, readiness reviews and consulting services for clients. Produce deliverables such as PCI and gap analyses, as well as helping companies self-assess with an SAQ. Remote office and traveled 50% of the time.  • Managed and drove PCI-DSS remediation in preparation for a Level 2 merchant PCI self-assessment. Work with cross-functional groups on vulnerability management, network segmentation, system hardening, SDLC processes, user provisioning, logging and FIM solutions. Serve as PCI SME to the organization  • Perform security assessments of IT systems and evaluate against technical controls and operating procedures.  • Ensured findings are collected, reviewed, remediated, and presented in a clear and concise manner. IT Front-desk Support National Health Insurance Authority - Accra, GH November 2008 to November 2012 • Provided technical user application support required per request ticket originated by company employees  • Established a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for configuring and deploying new computers for end users  • Assisted in routine maintenance of company servers  • Assisted in maintaining and coordinating internet access services for our company's offsite locations. This included communications with and oversight of ISPs  • Created, removed, and maintained user accounts at domain level and within email system  • Assisted in maintaining and posting of content to my company's internal and external web sites  • Communicated with and coordinated activities with affiliate companies at various office locations in a limited capacity  • Assisted in maintaining comprehensive company wide hardware and software inventory Education Bachelor's in English and History University of Ghana - Accra, GH 2012 Skills Spss, Ms access, Sql server, Sql, Excel, Ms excel, Auditing, Hipaa, Fisma, SOX, Cobit, It Audit, CIA, Compliance, CPA, Nist Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS/:  • MS Excel, Ms Access, Power Point, SPSS, SQL Server Operation