Sr. Information Security Analyst Sr. Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Sr. Information Security Analyst - City of Hope Medical Center Covina, CA To obtain a challenging position and exposure to new skills. Work Experience Sr. Information Security Analyst City of Hope Medical Center - Duarte, CA April 2016 to Present • Reporting to the Information Security Risk and Compliance Manager, the Senior Information Security Analyst is responsible for security risk activities management, security policy management and security incident response & security awareness.  • Leadership and support role in security administration activities, including monitoring and reporting security activity, user access reviews, internal and external audit requests, vulnerability management and physical/logical security system administration.  • Develop, publish, risk analysis and assessment protocols for information security risk management purposes  • Perform information security evaluations for information technology projects to ensure compliance with policies and regulatory requirements.  • Contribute to the forensic analysis of security violations.  • Conduct periodic self-assessments and gap analysis related to information security controls and manage the remediation to correct the gaps.  • Participate in verifying network, wireless and firewall security systems by conducting reviews and policy assessments.  • Responsible for identifying risks relating to information security, IT risk management, IT governance, Compliance, Payment Card Industry (PCI), Incident response and Vendor Risk management.  • Lead in Vendor Risk Management procedures.  • Identify and approve Point of Sale devices for the enterprise.  • Direct the adoption and implementation of policies and procedures across the enterprise.  • Draft and Implement risk and compliance policies for the company.  • Evaluate current information technology systems for information security gaps, identify, and implement remediation solutions  • Work with the Security Engineering and Architecture team, responsible for ensuring overall enterprise security architectural design complies with identified policies and procedures.  • Responsible for defining Enterprise Architecture processes such as the Enterprise Architecture process and for leading the integration of these processes with other related business and IT processes.  • Assist in the planning, implementation and introduction of projects for new systems and technologies.  • Monitor information security risk management and mitigation through strict governance processes and procedures.  • Lead investigations of security violations and breaches and recommends solutions; prepares reports on intrusions as necessary and provides analysis summary to management.  • Provide security expertise, technical leadership, and assistance to Business Analysts, Network Technicians, Systems Architects, and software development teams.  • Provide incident response support as toolset-specific Subject Matter Expert for security events including but not limited to intrusion detection, malware infections, denial of service attacks, privileged account misuse and network breaches.  • Moderate experience with skilled collaboration with business partners and executive leadership to ensure alignment of expectations for installation and maintenance of network components.  • Ensure adherence to project schedules; aggressively monitor project budgets; and reallocate resources to avoid budget or schedule variances.  • Exposure to providing strategic reports for executive leadership, business stakeholders, and IT teams.  • Collaborate with assigned vendors to build effective relationships and collaborative team environments.    Technical Skills & Experience  • Knowledge of the regulatory environment including HIPAA, PCI DSS, Red Flags, CaSB1386; and information security frameworks i.e. HITRUST, NIST, FIPS, FISMA, ISO, and Cobit, ISO 27001/27002.  • Knowledge of design, implementation, and maintenance of: security incident and event management (SIEM), local area networks and firewalls, Active Directory, group policy objects, scripting, vulnerability scanning, encryption, IDS/IPS, DLP, web filtering, LDAP, multi-factor authentication systems, identity and access management systems, exploits and hacker techniques, and, network and operating system security principles.  • Ensure compliance to regulations, business requirements and City of Hope policies, standards, and procedures.  • Mastery in documentation and execution of integration processes and standards.  Mastery in documentation and reporting performance measurements for information security  • related products in service.  Conduct system security and vulnerability analyses and risk assessments. Information Security Analyst Brandman University - Irvine, CA August 2013 to April 2016 • Conducted incident prevention, detection/analysis, containment, eradication and aid recovery across IT systems.  • Identified vulnerabilities, recommend corrective measures and ensure the adequacy of existing information security controls.  • Educated business unit managers, IT development team, and the user community about risks and security controls.  • Prepared detailed practices and procedures on technical processes.  • Analyzed security incidents and presented a quarterly report to the CIO.  • Performed current state risk assessments, continual risk assessments, gap analysis, risk metrics and reporting, risk convergence IT risk and control framework design, and integrated operational risk management.  • Identified and prioritized risk based on impact and likelihood, inherent vs residual.  • Maintained and monitored Information Security Risk Exception process to ensure identification of areas of high risk.  • Monitored and advised on information security issues related to the systems and workflow to ensure the internal security controls for the campus are appropriate and operating as intended.  • Provided coordination and supported execution of IT security projects.  • Monitored regulatory compliance with enterprise security policies and educated department leaders on compliance efforts.  • Created and managed an information security awareness program to customize communication tools and campaigns for each department and the roles.  • Coordinated business continuity planning efforts across departments.  • Understand the different levels of risk tolerance and risk exposure across the organization and balance this with risk investments.  • Set standards and policies for information sharing on internal and external platforms.  • Collaborated with IT management, the legal department, safety and security, others to manage security vulnerabilities.  • Consulted with program/project teams to fit solutions to architecture across all viewpoints.  • Understood, advocated, and supported the enterprise's business and IT strategies.  • Ensured that the optimal governance structure and compliance activities (such as exception requests) are associated with identified risks.  • Analyzed industry, technology, and market trends to determine their potential impacts on the enterprise.  • Analyzed the current business and IT environment to detect critical deficiencies and recommended solutions for improvement.  • Proactively shared knowledge of technology risks and opportunities to improve efficiency and effectiveness of the Cyber Security and Enterprise Architecture. Partnered with business leadership and other key stakeholders to define opportunities and prioritize IT Business Requests and projects based on predefined criteria (e.g. return on investment, productivity, compliance, legal, operational risk reduction, and contractual requirements). Executive Assistant IT Western University of Health Sciences - Pomona, CA February 2011 to September 2013 • Assistant to the IT Director.  • Primary person of contact in the IT department.  • Managed and lead most IT projects.  • Prepared meeting presentations.  • Security administrator of Banner (Oracle).  • Performed administrative duties, such as: letters, agendas and minutes for departmental meetings, schedule appointments and meetings, arrange departmental travel, maintain office inventories, help set up itineraries.  • Worked with computer equipment vendors to secure the best price possible for products.  • Secured payment for vendors.  • Managed IT department annual budget.  • Budget reporting.  • Transaction verification.  • Purchased software licensing schemes as pertains to campus licensing agreements and the licensing of individual user software.  • Effectively interact with vendors, administration, students, faculty and staff.  • Created purchase requisitions of office supplies, software, computer and office equipment.  • Assisted in maintaining all information pertaining to department budget, including creating expenditure reports.  • Assisted IT staff with typing, filing, photocopying and distributing office correspondence, meeting minutes and reports.  • Assisted IT Trainers with creating and reviewing instructional documentation.  • Assisted in managing Technology Training Lab reservations, including approving requests for lab usage.  • Designed and generate various departmental reports per Information Systems Director using Cognos, Excel, MS Access or other reporting tools.  • Designed and Prepare pamphlets.  • Scheduled appointments and meetings.  • Maintained office inventories.  • Assisted staff with any IT troubleshooting. Executive Assistant IT General Electric - Anaheim, CA December 2009 to February 2011 • Prepared and processed business forms and documents such as check requests, memorandums, travel requests, requisitions, wire transfers, contracts, purchase orders, work orders, asset acquisition forms, etc.  • Designed, developed, and maintained spreadsheets requiring data interpretation and manipulation.  • Acts as liaison for any visitors to the IT offices, contacted the party they need and escort them to their location.  • Follow-up with management on pending information or requests.  • Screened incoming calls and correspondence for the IT and Directors offices; took messages, redirected calls and/or provided information as appropriate.  • Served as "Approver" in financial requisition software, based on and on behalf of IT Executive Director.  • Performed other duties as assigned to support the efficient operation of the department.  • Drafted from dictation, notes, verbal instructions or independently, correspondence including memoranda, reports, letters, forms and presentations.  • Assisted in the preparation of CEO/Business Committee (BC) action items by copying and collating action item support materials, coordinating in-person presentation requirements with the office of the CEO. Education Bachelor's of Science degree Everest College - Ontario, CA Skills Security, Dlp, Encase, Nessus, Siem, Splunk, Incident response, Firewall, Ms office, Symantec, Risk management, Forensics, Mac, Bilingual Additional Information Skills    Bilingual (Spanish) • Security Risk & Compliance • Incident Response • Forensics • MS Office  Nessus • Zen Mobile • EnCase • Mac/Windows • Splunk • Qradar  Symantec • AWS • Remedyforce • Accessnet • MS 365 • Salesforce  Vendor Risk Management • Web Filtering • Security Controls • SIEM  Phishing Campaigns • DLP • Palo Alto Firewall  Project Management • Office/Department Support