Information System Security Officer (ISSO) Information System <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer (ISSO) Security Analyst Inwood, NY Hofstra University – Bachelors of Business Administration degree in Information Technology – Hands-on experience in conducting vulnerability assessments on Web Applications/Networks by classifying anomalies pertaining to financial applications and assets as a Security Analyst – Avid to continue to learn in identifying the distinct risks that revolve around the industry of Cybersecurity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information System Security Officer (ISSO) Library Of Congress - Washington, DC November 2018 to April 2019 ? Ensure that the Information Technology Security Directive 5-410.1, FIPS, and NIST policies are followed to categorize and protect the CIA triad (Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability) of the congressional system.  ? Responsible for leading the congressional system through Authorize to Operate (ATO) using the System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and the Risk Management Framework (RMF) requirements with the guidance of NIST SP 800-37 Rev 1.  ? Produce and propose a Work Breakdown Structure using MS Project encompassing all security related tasks to the Authorizing Official.   ? Provide bi-weekly briefings to the LOC Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and weekly meetings with the System Owners.   ? Categorize the congressional system based on PII contents according to FIPS 199 and record it on Archer.   ? Conduct a Privacy Threshold Assessment (PTA) and a Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) interview with the Information System Business Owner (ISBO) to classify the sensitivity of PII data.  ? Identify Common Controls to generate a Security Requirements Traceability Matrix (SRTM) and proceed with the selection of Security Controls for the congressional system utilizing NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 4.  ? Develop the Data Flow; Network; and Boundary diagrams using MS Visio, as part of the System Security Plan (SSP) on Archer and uploading supporting documentation on Confluence for a collaboration environment across team members.  ? Complete the Security Assessment & Authorization (SA&A) by producing a Contingency Plan, Configuration Management Plan, Continuous Monitoring Plan, Incident Response Plan, Security Assessment Plan, Security Assessment Report and other related documentation utilized by the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA). Junior IT Security Analyst Zermount Inc - Arlington, VA August 2018 to April 2019 ? Perform asset discovery scans consisting of 50 hosts utilizing Nessus Professional and developing a monthly analysis report containing patching recommendations such as registry keys for the client based on findings.  ? Deploy Group Policy Object (GPO) using Microsoft Security Baseline Configuration across Windows 10 Pro Operating System workstations and implementing full disk encryption through enabling BitLocker.  ? Design a small business Security Network Diagram for new corporate office.  ? Collaborate in establishing a Data Retention Policy document regarding data archival requirements for client.  ? Participant of a Pink and Red team group effort to submit a client proposal to the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA). IT Support Analyst Northwell Health - Staten Island, NY February 2016 to March 2016 ? Supported the launch of the Go-Live E-Prescribe system as part of the AllScripts team.  ? Troubleshooted the Emergency Department Integration Software (EDIS) application to make sure physicians could manage their Electronic Prescriptions for Controlled Substances (EPCS) medications.  ? Maintained the ticketing system in order to adequately process and respond to service requests.  ? Provisioned accounts and granted system access to medical professionals.  ? Supervised the team and was the point of contact to resolve any issues alongside with the command center. Information Security Analyst First Data Corporation - Jersey City, NJ May 2015 to December 2015 ? Conducted security reviews against corporate web-based applications, thick clients, & web services  ? Manually tested over 40 vulnerability assessments since date of hire, with a typical workload consisting of 10+ vulnerability assessments at any given time.  ? Maintained integrity and confidentiality of client information by ensuring appropriate safeguards were in place.  ? Identified app vulnerabilities including SQL Injections, Cross-Site Scripting, Denial of Service, Privilege Escalation, Cross-Site Request Forgery, SSL Protocols & Encryption, Cross-Frame Scripting, and Unmasked Sensitive data.  ? Utilized intercepting proxies, automated and manual security assessment tools such as IBM AppScan, Burp Suite, Fiddler, SoapUI, and SSLyze.  ? Understanding of the Two-Factor Authentication implementation.  ? Captured payloads in order to inspect parameters to evaluate both false positives and false negatives.  ? Security Operations Center experience in analyzing real time network and monitoring application traffic.  ? Analyzed distinct impact risks to provide documented guidance to developers that define solutions into mitigating high-priority vulnerabilities in order to ensure PCI compliance. Technology Instructor Progressive School of Long Island (PSOLI) - Merrick, NY February 2014 to December 2014 ? Taught enthusiastic 7th and 8th graders who strived to learn MySQL Workbench and OpenOffice Calc utilizing a Raspberry Pi programming environment.  ? Structured lessons and exams to be implemented in the Technology course curriculum.  ? Provided solutions such as re-imaging the SD cards when corrupted and/or producing alternatives when other equipment issues arose. Education B.B.A. in Information Technology Hofstra University, Frank G. Zarb School of Business - Hempstead, NY December 2014 Skills IBM Appscan (Less than 1 year), Burp Suite (Less than 1 year), Fiddler (Less than 1 year), SoupUI (Less than 1 year), SSLyze (Less than 1 year), Nessus Professional (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Visio (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Project (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kieffercarranza Additional Information ? Managed various consulting projects relevant to data analytics, content management, website development, teaching and computer networking as President of the Hofstra Information Technology Association (HITA).  ? Took a workshop in the Networking Cisco Academy Program for Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA).  ? Participated in the Cisco CCNA Netriders Competition and utilized Cisco’s Web 2.0 technologies such as online exams which included the use of Cisco Packet Tracer simulation program.  ? Built a VPN Connection by configuring and troubleshooting two Routers & one Firewall.