3rd PARTY RISK ASSESSOR / IT ANALYST 3rd PARTY RISK ASSESSOR / <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">ANALYST</span> 3rd PARTY RISK ASSESSOR / IT ANALYST - SOLU TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS Hyattsville, MD Work Experience 3rd PARTY RISK ASSESSOR / IT ANALYST SOLU TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS - Harrisburg, PA October 2016 to Present • Managed due diligence required for onboarding and recertification of risks and on-going monitoring of assigned third-party relationship.  • Ensure third party relationship adhere to company's policies and compliant with regulatory guidelines and industry best practices.  • Monitored and assisted with exit strategies and contingency plans for third parties.  • Facilitated remediation of any third-party related operational issues as needed.  • Assesses operational fitness of assigned third parties through due diligence reviews.  • Conducted on-site risk assessments based on agreed-upon procedures guidelines.  • Act as remediation analyst to work with vendors in remediating findings discovered during the onsite/virtual assessment.  • Performed continuous monitoring by assessing tools during onsite visits to validate the security questionnaires filled out by the vendors to ensure the protection of data at the vendor sites.  • Carried out various types of vendor assessments such as onsite, virtual, risk assessment.  • Working with the vendors to ensure risk discovered are remediated within a reasonable time. IT Security Auditor ERNST & YOUNG, VA January 2016 to September 2016 • Prepare IT audit program to include access control, change management controls and application controls; and identify deficiencies in the design and operating effectiveness of control and provide recommendation.  • Reviewed Federal Privacy Guidance, Policy, and Legislation, determine applicability to client, and recommend client course of action.  • Provide general privacy support to the client and create new privacy related policies as needed.  • Review of IT General Controls (ITGC) and various applications, databases, operating systems and network devices  • Performed assessment of IT internal controls as part of financial statement audit, Internal and operational audits, Attestation engagement, and Audit readiness.  • Performed IT general controls testing for Sarbanes-Oxley 404 compliance in public companies, OMB A-123/FISCAM in government agencies, and Service Organization Control (SOC) reports in compliance/SSAE16 (formerly SAS70).  • Performed audit of Windows and UNIX logical access controls, including administrative access review, and provided recommendations for remediation of the identified risks and vulnerabilities.  • Tested compliance with company policies and procedures to ensure it conforms to industry standards; such as HIPAA and PCI DSS frameworks. Senior IT Audit Analyst CBIZ TECHNOLOGY, OH December 2013 to December 2015 • Expertise in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication (NIST SP) documentation: Performed assessments, POAM Remediation, and document creation using NIST SP 800-53 Rev.2 and NIST SP 800-53 Rev.4  • Experience in performing Application control in Retail Banking, Insurance industry by checking Authorization control, interface control, computation control and data validity check.  • Performed audits using COBIT, COSO, PCI DSS, OMB Circular A-123, and FISCAM Frameworks.  • Completed Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Section 404 testing of critical systems and applications that financially impact the company and communicate with the Company's external auditors on general computer control related matters and SOX test procedures.  • Performed Audits over application security involving the Company's ERP systems. (SAP, People Soft, Oracle Financial, Deltek Cost Point, People soft) and execute audit strategy.  • Performed SAS 70 (SSAE16) reviews for large clients in the Manufacturing, Energy, Healthcare and Financial industry. Information Security Analyst MORGAN STANLEY - Baltimore, MD February 2011 to December 2013 • Provided databases support for use in analyzing future plans and forecasts; assist analyst in making recommendations to management regarding cost saving, profit generating opportunities and profitability improvement strategies.  • Experience working with the Email Review Team (ERT) for monitoring incoming and outgoing email under the cybersecurity in built application  • Documented control weaknesses related to testing exceptions and assisted in preparing draft audit reports to communicate findings and recommendations to senior management.  • Actively participate in conducting information technology ( IT) controls audit and review related compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and test the adequacy of internal controls in the following areas: Information Access, Change Management, Information Technology Operations, and Segregation of Duties.  • Assisted in the implementation of control, self-assessment (CSA) tools, automated audit techniques and an integrated audit approach designed to encompass financial, operational and information technology controls. IT Technical Support U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE - Washington, DC December 2009 to January 2011 • Provided technical support, which usually followed the sale, may include solving faults and problems, or maximizing the use of software features, as well as advising on appropriate user training.  • Configured routers, switches, built servers for Cabling in Data centers and for installation at customer site.  • Provides first-level problem resolution via telephone with users; walks the user through a series of steps to determine problem; and classifies the level, priority, and nature of problem.  • Used the Apropos Agent to receive incoming calls and create tickets in Remedy.  • Active Directory Users and Computers (account creation/deletion/password resets).  • Coordinate and conduct laptop clinics for various departments within Ernst & Young.  • Possesses a wide range of skills and knowledge in computer hardware and software as well as networking systems in use at customer sites Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Management University of Maryland - College Park, MD Bachelor of Arts in Business Management Institute of Internal Control Skills Nist, Pci, Sox, Fisma, Sap, Security, Share point, Change management, Oracle, Audit, Soc, System security, Excel Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY:  Experienced and Highly Motivated Information Technology Professional with years of experience as a Vendor Risk Analyst, Application Security Analyst, Risk Compliance & Assessment and Information System Security Auditor with in-depth knowledge of SSAE 18 (SOC Reports) SOX Compliance, PCI-DSS, FISCAM, FISMA, Change Management Control and NIST 800-53 Controls.    COMPUTER SKILLS: Microsoft words, Excel, Share Point Based System, SAP, Oracle Financial and use of automated scripts and Team Mate  MEMBERSHIP:  Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA)  Institute of Internal Control (IIC)