IT Security, Third Party Risk Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span>, Third Party Risk <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security, Third Party Risk Analyst - AMEGO INC Rockville, MD I am a detail-oriented and highly organized IT professional, whose goal is to utilize my proven skill-set in a position that will increase the productivity, efficiency, and morale of a growth oriented and reputable organization. I am enthusiastic about furthering my career, expanding my skills, learning new things, and looking forward to making a long term contribution in a professional role in Information Security. I am a hard worker with strong vendor relations and communication skills. Work Experience IT Security, Third Party Risk Analyst AMEGO INC June 2017 to Present DUTIES/RESPONSIBILITIES  -Review services and data in scope of the assessment and analyze engagement risk ratings.  -Conduct formal end to end Information Security Risk Assessments (review of questionnaires, third party security audit reports and evidence, onsite assessments, etc.)  -Document risk assessment in a formal report, including any identified deficiencies in third party's Information Security program.  -Review and analyze evidence supporting deficiency remediation efforts prior to closure.  -Assess remediation plans and non-compliance acceptances where Information Security standards compliance cannot be achieved.  -Keep assigned review inventory in the systems of record up-to-date.  -Partner with other Information Security teams, operating units and IT to ensure that risks are clearly articulated in a manner that is understood by business and technology audiences.  -Participate in and influence Third Party Risk assessment process improvement, including procedures, processes, project deliverables and reporting initiatives  -Serve as a subject matter expert and process ambassador as it relates to TPRM related processes, procedures, and workflows.  -Build and maintain positive relationships with management, team members, and stakeholders across the company using effective written and oral communication practices. Vendor Risk Management Analyst IGT CORPORATION March 2014 to June 2017 DUTIES/RESPONSIBILITIES  -Performed third party vendor risk assessments.  -Worked together with the TPRM team and stakeholders to review the assessment and escalate any issues; work with operating units and partners to get additional information and to properly vet any issues prior to finalizing the report.  -Performed onsite assessments of vendor facilities.  -Assisted management in the evaluation of technology service and third party service providers.  -Provided logistical and administrative support to the TPRM office management team.  -Provided recommendations to remediate control gaps and assisted with project management on remediation efforts.  -Ensured all vendors are classified and assessments are completed in accordance with the VRM policy.  -Assisted in reporting vendor risks management activities.  -Performed other duties and special projects as assigned. Education Bachelor of Arts in Psychology in Psychology Rhode Island College 2014 Skills RISK ASSESSMENT, NIST, SOX, MS OFFICE, MICROSOFT ACCESS, EXCEL, MICROSOFT EXCEL, MICROSOFT OUTLOOK, OUTLOOK, MICROSOFT WINDOWS, QUICKBOOKS, FAST LEARNER, PROBLEM SOLVER, TEAM PLAYER, COACHING, Security