Network and System admin/ Security Analyst Network and System admin/<span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Network and System admin/ Security Analyst - Mindoula HealthCare Landover, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network and System admin/ Security Analyst Mindoula HealthCare - Silver Spring, MD August 2018 to Present Duties:-    System/Network Security  • Develop information security plans and policies  • Develop strategies to respond to and recover from a security breach  • Application Information Security  • SIEM management  • Implement third-party tools to assist in the detection and prevention of Intrusions.  • Installing Endpoint security and creating task bundles for mobile devices with Sophos Central  • Utilize Sophos Endpoint Security for, MDM, IDS,IPS, Root cause analysis, and FireWall.  • Use Nessus for Vulnerability scanning  • Analyze and Monitor security logs  • Perform device Encryption  • Set up Zix Email Gateway  • Install HID Access controls  • Investigate security breaches  • Perform Incident Response  • Performing New Hire Security Awareness training on information security standards, policies and best practices  • Conduct periodic network scans to find any vulnerability  • Firewall install and configure Dell Sonicwall /CISCO ASA 5505/ CISCO Miraki security Appliance.  • Serve as the subject matter specialist regarding privacy and security requirements, with an emphasis on HIPAA and HITRUST  • Provide Security awareness training  • Working within TCP/IP network environment, including DHCP, DNS,  • Administering & designing LANs, WANs internet/intranet.  • Management of Cisco Meraki Devices  • Designing and implementing new network solutions and/or improving the efficiency of current networks.  • Installing, configuring and supporting network equipment including routers, proxy servers, switches, WAN accelerators, DNS and DHCP.  • Procuring network equipment and managing subcontractors involved with network installation.  • Purchasing of IT Equipment and software in line within agreed budgets.  • Configuring firewalls, routing and switching to maximize network efficiency and security.  • Maximizing network performance through ongoing monitoring and troubleshooting.  • Arranging scheduled upgrades.  • Investigating faults in the network.  • Updating network equipment to the latest firmware releases.  • Reporting network status to key stakeholders.    Systems Administration  • Using Sophos MDM servers and Apple DEP to administer Apple Devices  • Using Jamf MDM server and Apple DEP to administer Apple Devices.  • Handle Service request, Asset Management and applications.  • Microsoft Azure AD  • Microsoft Intune   • System monitoring.  • Windows Hypervisor   • VMWare Workstation  • New accounts set-up and active directory administration.  • Design new computer systems system and server performance  • Google Gsuit  • Power DMS  • Run reports on system performance for team and wider organization.  • Optimize processes and lead process improvement.  • Manage staff and user credentials and frameworks.  • Troubleshoot technical issues.  • Create and implement training for staff.  • Coordinate and provide support for Firewall and network system.  • Ensure systems are secure and protected from breach or viruses.  • Risk mitigation planning.  • Office365, Azure, Active Directory, Exchange, VMware, PowerShell, SAN/NAS, Backups, MS Office Suite, Network troubleshooting Part Time PC Technician Johns Hopkins Hospital Baltimore Downtown - Bayview, CA February 2018 to August 2018 • Install hardware, software and device drivers on standalone computers  • Baltimore, MD -Install MDT and configure PXE boot Server  • Manage network configurations to ensure that all computers on a network can communicate effectively in a windows based environment  • Test computers peripherals, hardware and software to ensure that they are working appropriately  • Troubleshoot and install printers  • Perform Network System Installation on larger scale of PCs  • Working within a TCP/IP network environment, including DHCP, DNS and Ethernet.  • Performing large scale windows system imaging.  • Troubleshoot dell Equipment. IT Network and Security analyst Elixir Solutions - Hyattsville, MD March 2016 to February 2018 -Creating, testing and implementing network disaster recovery plans  -Performing risk assessments and testing of data processing systems  -Installing firewalls, data encryption and other security measures  -Recommending security enhancements and purchases  -Training staff on network and information security procedures  -Design, Secure, Establish and monitor the IT network  - Cisco ASA, switches, routers, and wireless controllers  - Updating and monitoring IT user accounts.  - Maintenance & management of the Critical Windows based Server Environment.  - Working on Active Directory accounts, configuration.  - Managing and monitoring of backups in multiple locations.  - Providing maintenance support and break-fix solutions.  - Working within a TCP/IP network environment, including DHCP, DNS and Ethernet  - Using remote control software tools to provide fault resolution and diagnosis.  - Administering & designing LANs, WANs internet/intranet.  - Follow documented processes i.e. implementing change control procedures.  - Involved in the rollout of software updates and patches.  - Producing reports for senior managers.  - Maintaining a wide range of computer hardware and software programmer.  - Troubleshooting technical problems and implementing solutions.  - Purchasing of IT Equipment and software in line within agreed budgets.  - Supporting a multi-site IT infrastructure of at least 100 employees.  - Responsible for the fast and accurate troubleshooting of reported faults.  - Providing technical support via helpdesk systems for a wide range of internal & external applications. Information Security Analyst Kosmos Energy March 2012 to November 2015 -Monitor computer networks for security issues.  -investigate security breaches and other cyber security incidents.  -Install security measures and operate software to protect systems and information infrastructure, including firewalls and data encryption programs.  -Document security breaches and assess the damage they cause.  -Work with security team to perform tests and uncover network vulnerabilities.  -Fix detected vulnerabilities to maintain a high- security standard.  -Stay current on IT security trends and news.  -Develop company-wide best practices for IT security.  -Perform penetration testing.  -Provide security awareness trainings.  -Research security enhancements and make recommendations to management.  -Stay up-to-date on information technology trends and security standards. Mac Support Apple inc - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2009 to November 2011 - Providing advice, information and assistance to callers.  - Providing Technical support on Apple products  - Attempting to resolve all inquiries on first contact with the caller (Tier 1).  - Making sure that all telephone calls are answered promptly.  - Dealing with a customer's queries, requests, orders or complaints.  - Following up customers by calling them back.  - Research required information for callers using available resources.  - Essentially receiving up to 60 inbound calls from customers daily.  - Involved in processing orders, forms and applications.  - Accurately recording details of calls and issues on logging software.  - Having a professional and courteous manner at all times.  - Identifying and escalating priority issues or customer complaints.  - Sending emails to clients answering their inquiries.  - Taking ownership on all calls and queries answered.  - Arranging appointments for engineers to attend premises & make repairs.  - Listening to calls, correcting agent and putting them on training coaching if need be Education BSc in Information Technology University of Yaounde 1 2015 Skills Network Security, Router, Firewalls, System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, SCCM Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified ITIL v3 Certified MCTS Certified DCSE 1000 Client Foundations 2017 Certified Dell EMC Service Basics 2017 Certified Security + Certified Oracle Certified Associate