IT Security Analyst IV <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IV IT Security Analyst IV - Wells Fargo Greensboro, NC Versatile IT Security Analyst looking to provide technical, analytical, and organizational support for monitoring the computer information and network of an organization. Work Experience IT Security Analyst IV Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC April 2019 to Present ? Monthly analysis on privileged access on all platforms (WINDOWS, UNIX, Databases, etc).  ? Member of a highly technical team responsible for providing daily monitoring and support of privileged access activities across the Wells Fargo environment including problem resolution, enforcement of security policies/standards/risk controls, implementation of new solutions while providing tier 3 support for incident escalations.  ? Responsible for supporting solutions and processes used to mitigate risk and ensure the security of data.  ? Maintains a broad awareness of the state of information security across the enterprise and industry and influences change to information security policy, standards and procedures for systems/applications/tools.  ? Working collaboratively with other technology teams to define the Enterprise Information Security monitoring process including the identification, remediation and escalation of privileged access activities not meeting Wells Fargo control requirements.  ? Working collaboratively with other member within the Enterprise to continually increase the efficiency of processes and quality of service for our line of business partners.  ? Participate in compliance and oversight activities related to privileged access monitoring.  ? Create and maintain documentation including procedures, workflows and processes. IT Security Analyst II Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC December 2016 to April 2019 ? Provisions access for Wholesale applications within 2 day SLA.  ? Meets or exceeds Access Management's annual provisioning service level agreements (SLAs) of 98% for all access types (excluding projects) under normal conditions.  ? SME on the GE Application and EAM Centralization projects for 2017/2018. Work on other small projects as needed.  ? Trains/mentors new ISA's joining the EAM Provisioning and Certification Services - Wholesale Access Operations.  ? Monitors 3 team mailboxes for urgent concerns/issues.  ? Works with ART team to test/validate ART request forms in UAT and PROD environments for Wholesale applications.  ? Updates 1CAC/ART/IAM documentation as needed to ensure the provisioning analysts have all pertinent information to provision requests correctly and effectively.  ? Works with application owners/tech support to fix issues within ART request forms, documentation and applications to ensure that requests are accurately being processed.  ? Researches ART request issues for BOTS ISA's when requests are cancelled, instructs on how to resolve issues/resubmit correctly.  ? After hours on-call rotation. Business Systems Consultant Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC August 2016 to December 2016 ? Responsible for managing a team of 9 IT Security Analysts.  ? Analyses of Privileged Access Remediation business and technical processes and makes course corrections.  ? Leads the efforts of the analysts, holds the analysts accountable to processes and standards, and trains the analysts.  ? Gets responses from reticent, unwilling, or otherwise unavailable group owners and coordinates escalations.  ? Fields questions and solves problems.  ? Grooms analysts to take on additional projects as needed. IT Security Analyst II - Active Directory Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC January 2015 to August 2016 ? Responsible for providing internal employees access and provisioning of systems.  ? Performs basic identity/group/resource/email access administration (adds, changes, deletes) within Active Directory.  ? Provides technical support for routine security-related issues.  ? Participates in the review of existing systems security issues and procedures.  ? Provides support for testing, emergencies, installations, and conversions.  ? Provides project support to new applications development and implementation.  ? Maintains familiarity with bank procedures and policies. Help Desk Analyst Teksystems - Thomasville, NC June 2014 to October 2014 ? Supporting corporate users, drivers and users of ODFL freight service for 24/7 support for the Windows XP/7 and Citrix environments.  ? Managing network printers, configuring printer policies, load testing of printer drivers in Citrix.  ? Add/delete users in Active Directory, Exchange Account setup/maintenance.  ? Troubleshooting network and Citrix login and connectivity issues reported by users via HP Service Manager FootPrints Ticketing System and Avaya softphone.  ? Technical support experience with Citrix XenDesktop, Desktop Director, XenApp, Citrix Receiver, remote desktop tools (VNC, FastPusher), Thin Clients (Citrix Management Console), ESRI, telecom, network issues, SAP user environments, PeopleNet, Maximo, Transflo Image Power Viewer, Wifi, iPads, iPhones, MAC machines, MS Office Products, Internet Explorer, Chrome.  ? AS/400 Command Line experience managing user jobs/profiles, devices, qsysopr messages, etc. Product Support Specialist II SunGard Public Sector - High Point, NC September 2012 to March 2013 ? Technical support for customize Windows-based RMS/JMS software for over 400 law enforcement, fire, courts and jail agencies.  ? Tracked issues, activities and tasks using CRM ticketing system.  ? Utilized SQL, FoxPro applications to test in-house software defects and resolve errors with the clients' customize software.  ? Demonstrates ability to prioritize work load and multitasking skills.  ? Work with Developers, Network and other teams for fast resolution when necessary. Retail Production Support Analyst Insight Global/Delhaize America - Salisbury, NC April 2012 to September 2012 ? 3rd level retail technical (hardware/software) support for Delhaize America (Food Lion, Harveys, Reid's, Bottom Dollar, Sweetbay & Hannaford stores).  ? Troubleshoot connectivity and access issues with network and Citrix for POS systems.  ? Work with vendors to resolve issues with customized applications.  ? AS/400 Command Line experience managing POS batch files.  ? WFM, Lotus Notes, Microsoft Office, Citrix Xen App, Tiny Term, Remote Desktop, LANDESK, DOS, HP Service Manager 9 ticketing system.  ? Technical documentation for team SharePoint site. IT Service Desk Specialist - Lead Ralph Lauren - Greensboro, NC March 2010 to April 2012 ? 1st level technical support for the US, Europe and Asia Polo Ralph Lauren stores/corporate users.  ? Create new groups/user accounts and restrict permissions to groups in Active Directory.  ? Troubleshoot issues with Remote Access/Network connectivity, hardware and software.  ? Windows XP/7, Microsoft Office, Active Directory, Citrix Global VPN, Citrix Access Gateway, Dameware, AS400, WebPDM, Microstrategy, Remedy, PBX ACD and IVR call processing.  ? Assist with software/hardware/wireless requests (Blackberry, Safeword Token, iPad, iPhone).  ? Assist with training new employees, update training documentation.  ? SLA's - AVG Contacts 74/day, AHT 5:47/monthly, Schedule Comp. 95%, FCR 92%. Help Desk Analyst Family Dollar - Matthews, NC October 2008 to December 2009 ? Provide 1st call resolution on POS hardware/software issues via telephone, email or voicemail using SharePoint knowledge tool and remote connectivity.  ? Communicate and assist across IT footprint as it directly relates with internal and external clients.  ? Record all incidents and generate appropriate trouble tickets using BMC Magic ticketing system.  ? Provide users with most current ticket status when requested, review open tickets regularly to follow up and ensure that all user requests are addressed in a timely manner. Education B.S. in Business Administration University of NC at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC August 2003 to May 2006 A.A.S in Microcomputer Systems Technology Guilford Tech Comm. College - Jamestown, NC August 1991 to June 1994 Skills Sharepoint, Active directory, Citrix, Vpn, Xenapp, Exchange, Remedy, Magic, Solaris, Sunos, Unix, As400, Iseries, Microstrategy, Crm, Sap, Ms office, Esri, Ipad, Iphone, Security, access, training, Microsoft Office