IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - Hackensack Meridian Health Neptune City, NJ • Administer and monitor security solutions, Symantec Endpoint, Blue Coat Proxy, Symantec Data Loss Prevention, Poof Point Email Security, Cylance, Fire Eye  • Monitor IDS/IPS for potential, successful and unsuccessful intrusion attempts.  • Upgrade and/or apply patches to security tools as required.  • Support security policies, procedures and execute incident response strategies.   • Respond to requests timely and efficiently, adhering to established SLA’s.  • Familiar with security regulations and standards, HIPAA/HITECH and PCI-DSS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst Hackensack Meridian Health November 2017 to Present • Administer and monitor security solutions, Symantec Endpoint, Blue Coat Proxy, Symantec Data Loss Prevention, Poof Point Email Security, Cylance, Fire Eye  • Monitor IDS/IPS for potential, successful and unsuccessful intrusion attempts.  • Upgrade and/or apply patches to security tools as required.  • Support security policies, procedures and execute incident response strategies.  • Respond to requests timely and efficiently, adhering to established SLA's.  • Familiar with security regulations and standards, HIPAA/HITECH and PCI-DSS IT Network Specialist Coastal Ear Nose and Throat March 2017 to March 2017 - November  • Handel all IT inquiries, and issue across three sites. Desktop Support.  • Install, inspect, secure and troubleshoot all hardware and software.  • Troubleshooting of Toshiba VoIP Phones.  • Monitor network for internal and external threats, security threats or problems with connectivity.  • Configure and maintain security devices to ensure the safety of company software, systems and data.  • Use of Symantec Endpoint protection.  • Insure procedures regarding IT are PCI and HIPPA compliant.  • Research new products that can potentially benefit Office. IT Systems Operator Meridian Health Systems December 2015 to 2017 • Use of BMC Footprints for ticket management.  • Use of Dameware and LanDesk to remote into computers for troubleshooting.  • Use of VMware Administrator, vSphere, Monarch and Rumba  • Use of Active Directory to control user's access.  • Troubleshoot medical software.  • Walked end-users through problem-solving process.  • Automated computer processes by creating VB scripts and batch files. Manager Rocky Mountain Chocolate Factory August 2014 to December 2015 • Complete store operational requirements by scheduling and assigning to employees.  • Maintain store and better staffs job results by coaching, counseling, and disciplining  • employees; planning, monitoring, and appraising job results.  • Ensure availability of merchandise and services by maintaining inventories.  • Contribute to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed.  • Manage stores Point of Sale system and internal network. IT Specialist Advance America March 2013 to August 2014 • Resolved technical problems with Local Area Networks, Wide Area Networks.  • Installed, modify, and repaired computer hardware, printers and software.  • Windows 7, Windows Sever 2008, Lenovo Laptops, Dell Desktops and thin clients,  • Lexmark Printers, Cisco VPN Software, Microsoft Office 2013  • Walked end-users through problem-solving process.  • Trained new employees for IT position.  • Experience with POS system for ticket management.  • Cherwell ITMS, Q-Funds Loan Management System  • Provided technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues.  • Use of TOAD for MySQL to query information. Education Associate of Applied Science in Network Information Technology Brookdale College Associate of Applied Science in Computer Programming Brookdale College Skills PROBLEM-SOLVING (2 years), CLIENTS (1 year), CUSTOMER SERVICE (Less than 1 year), POISED (Less than 1 year), RECEPTIONIST (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills & Abilities  • Network, Security and Desktop support background.  • Outstanding analytical, problem-solving, and troubleshooting ability.  • Organized and disciplined.  • Superior communication (oral and written), customer service and interpersonal skills.  • Ability to multi-task and prioritize effectively.  • Poised and patient when dealing with clients.  • Both independent and team worker, as required.  • Fluent in Spanish, both reading and writing.