IT SYSTEMS ANALYST <span class="hl">IT</span> SYSTEMS <span class="hl">ANALYST</span> IT SYSTEMS ANALYST - Belterra Casino Resort Jonesville, KY Obtain permanent, full-time employment with an organization offering the opportunity for advancement. Work Experience IT SYSTEMS ANALYST Belterra Casino Resort June 2019 to Present • Assess infrastructure on a regular basis to ensure it continues to meet necessary demands  • Manage daily operations of the IT department  • Develop new strategies and IT procedures to increase efficiency, enhance workflow and improve customer satisfaction  • Coordinate the needs of in-house IT experts and remote employees, vendors and contractors  • Protect customer data from outside infiltration through encryption, secure data storage and other necessary means  • Detect vulnerabilities on workstations and servers, remediate as necessary  • Assist with the installation of new hardware and software and help train employees on its use  • Manage and oversee departmental quotas  • Offer suggestions for possible upgrades and changes within the IT department SURVEILLANCE SHIFT SUPERVISOR Belterra Casino Resort June 2017 to June 2019 • Directs the work of the surveillance agents on assigned shift to ensure employees receive adequate guidance and resources to accomplish established objectives. Understands department objectives, standards, guidelines, and budget to achieve effective supervision of department. Assists in training and development of surveillance agents to ensure superior customer service standards are achieved. Ensures that all company and departmental procedures are followed; assists various local, state, and federal authorities in various activities and investigations to ensure that procedures and laws are observed. Responds to surveillance supervision and gaming regulators requests and other departments requests when necessary. Assist the Indiana Gaming Commission in ensuring the Safety and Security of the Casino grounds. Arrive sufficiently early for briefing. Check the equipment for functioning hourly. Maintain a daily shift report. Notify the Manager and Director of suspicious activity or any procedure violations. Observe all areas of casino for procedural infractions and criminal activity. Know all gaming procedures, slots, etc. Maintain cleanliness of room and equipment. Receive periodic on-the-job training regarding Title 31 regulations and common workplace ethics. Maintain familiarity with Gaming laws and regulations, company policies and procedures. Perform Close Watch as assigned or as desired. Handles other duties as required. Always be on the lookout for suspicious activity (i.e. Card Counters, Past Posting/Capping Bets, Thieves, Fights, etc.). Assist Surveillance Technician installing cameras of various manufactures (i.e. Bosch, Hikvision, Pelco, etc.). Set cameras at the correct angles to ensure proper surveillance coverage.    • Handle physical Access Control for employees on property along with User Access Control for Surveillance Agents access to the Surveillance systems and database. Install, update and maintain closed Surveillance network consisting of 10 workstations with different users. Perform updates to the Surveillance network along with routine maintenance. AGENT SURVIELLANCE March 2013 to June 2017 Belterra Casino Resort  • Assist the Indiana Gaming Commission in ensuring the Safety and Security of the Casino grounds. Arrive sufficiently early for briefing. Check the equipment for functioning hourly. Maintain a daily shift report. Notify the Supervisor of suspicious activity or any procedure violations. Observe all areas of casino for procedural infractions and criminal activity. Know all gaming procedures, slots, etc. Maintain cleanliness of room and equipment. Receive periodic on-the-job training. Maintain familiarity with Gaming laws and regulations, company policies and procedures. Perform Close Watch as assigned or as desired. Handles other duties as required. Always be on the lookout for suspicious activity (i.e. Card Counters, Past Posting/Capping Bets, Thieves, Fights, etc.). Assist Surveillance Technician installing cameras of various manufactures (i.e. Bosch, HikVision, Pelco, .etc.). Set cameras at the correct angles to ensure proper surveillance coverage. Daily use with IBM based AS400 system named ACSC. SECURITY OFFICER Cincinnati, OH July 2012 to March 2013 Northern Kentucky International Airport (Brantley Security)  • Allow Access to the terminal or the airfield only to badged employees or contractors and turn away anyone who defies the orders given. Work alongside the airport law enforcement to ensure a safe and secure airport for passengers and visitors. Education Master's in Cyber Security Southern New Hampshire University August 2019 to Present Bachelor's in Information Technology and Cyber Security Southern New Hampshire University February 2016 to June 2019 Diploma Owen County High School - Owenton, KY 2010 Skills Security, Access control, Cyber security, Networking, Coding, Html, Python, Linux, Java, Microsoft office, Mac, Active Directory, testing, Cisco