Intelligence Analyst Intelligence <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Intelligence Analyst Augusta, GA Work Experience Intelligence Analyst ZEL TECHNOLOGIES February 2016 to June 2019 * Responsible for analyzing and reviewing tasked products developing and integrating enhanced intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. Assets, identifying foreign computer network operations, or even helping deploy advanced countermeasure technologies.  * Provided collation technical support to create structured reports and finished intelligence products for posting and dissemination use WebTAS to review daily individual production.  * Assisted in the collection of raw subject data from various intelligence databases and information sources to provide accurate and timely reporting for use in higher level analytic.  * Conducted technical analysis of target intelligence/metdata to develop and profile targets while ensuring target continuity.  * Conducted development and discovery of intelligence targets using digital network development methodologies.  * Analyzed communication infrastructures to determine target behavior, communications, operations, and movement. Geospatial Analyst MacAulay Brown, Inc May 2015 to December 2015 * Derived intelligence from advanced exploitation techniques across various geospatial and ISR (Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance) platforms  * Performed quality control of GEOINT products and analysis for analysts on the team as well as mentoring two junior imagery analysts assigned to NGIC.  * Collected, exploited, and analyzed remote-sensed imagery comparing current and historical differences in key targeting structures.  * Submitted collection requests for tactical, theater and national assets.  * Accurately entered information into personalized ArcGIS databases, creating shape files properly within approved guidelines and standards IT Service Desk Support Analyst OSI Vision February 2015 to April 2015 * Knowledge and understanding of Service Desk software and hardware technologies  * Knowledge with troubleshooting all Windows Operating systems  * Ability to troubleshoot and resolve email issues, specifically MS Outlook  * Adhered to legal, professional, and ethical codes in respect to patient confidentiality and privacy Special Security Representative United States Army February 2013 to September 2014 * Assists Security Manager in administering the Personnel, Physical, Information, and Industrial Security Programs for the CCoE.  * Create or implement security standards, policies, and procedures.  * Performed actions related to personnel security (PERSEC) to include administrating all in and out-processing personnel, processing security clearances via e-QIP system  * Conduct physical examinations of property to ensure compliance with security policies, regulation, and a safe and secure environment  * Oversaw the proper storage, handling, and destruction of classified information Education Bachelor of Science in General Studies American Military University May 2020 High School Diploma Rock High School June 2010 Additional Information • Experience conducting all-source, or a specific discipline, intelligence analysis and research at a level II (6-12 years) position  • Microsoft Office tools to include Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook.  • Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS/JCAVS)  • Knowledgeable of databases, tools and systems to include but not limited to WebTas, CIDNE, Analyst Notebook, ArcGIS/ArcMap, Socet GXP, Google Earth, Intelink, M3, and more.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills    SECURITY AND CLEARANCES  • Secret Security Clearance  • Temporary Sensitive Compartmented Information (T-SCIF) Training Course  • Sensitive Compartmented Information Course  • Introduction to Personnel Security  • JPAS/JCAVS Virtual Training for Security Professionals  • Introduction to DOD Security Specialist Course  • Introduction to Information Security