Business Systems Analyst Business Systems <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Business Systems Analyst - NTT DATA Services Dallas, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Systems Analyst NTT DATA Services - Plano, TX January 2016 to Present • Lead business analyst on CyberArk privilege account management integration. The purpose of the project is to integrate added privileged account security to our currently used applications.  • Identity and Access Management subject matter expert supporting the application security team to analyze, enhance, document and develop and business applications and processes for increased application security for stakeholders.  • Business requirements elicitation and documentation of functional and non-functional requirements that provide detailed design and business rules that facilitate technical solutions to business problems.  • Conduct User acceptance testing with business stakeholders.  • Create, review and deliver end-user documentation (user guide, process flow charts and operations manuals).  • Led requirements analysis with business customers across multiple lines of business in Health Care to develop IT solutions that integrate well with business processes.  • Defined requirements and key performance indicators for customer applications to handle business processes enhancements in our Identity and Access Management Initiative.  • Interviewed senior management and experts to identify gaps and inefficiencies in business process, and also to create themes for interviewing other executives and stakeholder.  • Developed training materials facilitating greater adaptability and buy-in from key stakeholders  • Analyze and understand project scope & objectives.  • Prioritize on the basis of business needs.  • Test the solution to validate project objectives.  • Ensure delivery of the desired solution to the customer.  • Develop written and verbal updates on projects, enhancement, defect change and request status to product owners, business sponsors & managers both periodically and on an adhoc basis.  • Effectively manage workload to develop balance and ensure goal attainment within all areas of accountability including IT, Primary Business & corporate strategies/goals.  • Identify/report risks and participate in mitigation planning endeavors including selection and execution.  • Effectively engage and collaborate with Development and Quality Assurance leads and managers for project estimation. IT Security Analyst & Project Administrator Intern NCH Corporation - Irving, TX January 2015 to December 2015 • Managed the company's End of life server project which is a risk management effort aimed at Identifying, Analyzing and re-mediating vulnerable Windows NT, XP, 2000-2003 servers. This project has reduced security risk by 40 percent and has saved the company about half a million dollars in data loss, spy-ware and ransom-ware cost.  • Conducted the company's global internal audit of employee Oracle User Access in preparation for Price Water house Coopers PMO compliance test.  • Supported IT PMO through projects by verifying end to end project life-cycle documentation, compiling project management lists, labor and status reports and project meeting summaries.  • Analyzed, Organized and documented audit results in Share-point portal.  • Conducted weekly audit meetings and Presented final audit report to the CIO and IT PMO director. Education Master of Business Administration in Information Technology Management University of Dallas December 2015 Bachelor of Business Administration in Marketing University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX December 2012 Skills DOCUMENTATION (2 years), ACCEPTANCE TESTING (1 year), ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT (1 year), BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS (1 year), INTEGRATION (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS & EXPERIENCE  Business Requirements Documentation  Business Requirements Elicitation  Use Case Documentation  Data Matrix    Identity and access Management  Project management office (PMO)  Privileged Account Management  User Acceptance Testing (UAT)  CyberArk (Privilege Account Management)    MS Project and MS Visio  MS Excel and MS Word  Share-Point  Software Implementation & Integration