3rd Party Risk Assessor / IT Analyst 3rd Party Risk Assessor / <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> 3rd Party Risk Assessor / IT Analyst - Computer Sciences Corporation Dumfries, VA Information Security Professional with 7+ years of experience as a Vendor Risk Analyst, Application Security Analyst, Risk Compliance & Assessment and Information System Security Auditor with in-depth knowledge of SSAE 18 (SOC Reports), SOX Compliance, FISCAM, FISMA, Specialties in Risk Management, Certification & Accreditation (C&A), Information Assurance, Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS), and SP-800 Series Guidance, Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA). NIST 800-53 Controls, HIPPA Compliance Assessments, System Security. I have experience in auditing IT internal controls and also assisting in the development and review of security policies, procedure and guidelines.  Key Competence:  • FISMA/NIST 800-53/FISCAM/FIPS/HIPAA  • Computer Security  • SIG questionnaire  • Vulnerability test    • Information Security  • Vulnerability Assessment  • Penetration Test  • Risk Management Framework  • SOC (Service Organization Control) 1 and 2, Type 2 Work Experience 3rd Party Risk Assessor / IT Analyst Computer Sciences Corporation - Falls Church, VA October 2014 to Present Manage due diligence required for onboarding and recertification of risks and on-going monitoring of assigned third- party relationship.  ? Ensure third party relationship adhere to company's policies and compliant with regulatory guidelines and industry best practices.  ? Monitor and assist with exit strategies and contingency plans for third parties.  ? Facilitate remediation of any third- party related operational issues as needed.  ? Assesses operational fitness of assigned third parties through due diligence reviews.  ? Assess remediation plans and non-compliance acceptances where Information Security standards compliance cannot be achieved.  ? Keep assigned review inventory in the systems of record up-to-date.  ? Partner with other Information Security teams, operating units and IT to ensure that risks are clearly articulated in a manner that is understood by business and technology audiences.  ? Participate in and influence Third Party Risk assessment process improvement, including procedures, processes, project deliverables and reporting initiatives  ? Serve as a subject matter expert and process ambassador as it relates to TERM related processes, procedures, and workflows.  ? Build and maintain positive relationships with management, team members, and stakeholders across the company using effective written and oral communication practices. Vendor Risk Management Analyst Epsilon - Arlington, VA June 2012 to September 2014 Performed third party vendor risk assessments.  ? Worked together with the TERM team and stakeholders to review the assessment and escalate any issues; work with operating units and partners to get additional information and to properly vet any issues prior to finalizing the report.  ? Performed onsite assessments of vendor facilities.  ? Assisted management in the evaluation of technology service and third party service providers.  ? Provided logistical and administrative support to the TERM office management team.  ? Provided recommendations to remediate control gaps and assisted with project management on remediation efforts.  ? Ensured all vendors are classified and assessments are completed in accordance with the VRM policy.  ? Assisted in reporting vendor risks management activities.  ? Performed other duties and special projects as assigned.  ? Conducted on-site risk assessments based on agreed-upon procedures guidelines.  ? Act as remediation analyst to work with vendors in remediating findings discovered during the onsite/virtual assessment.  ? Performed continuous monitoring by assessing tools during onsite visits to validate the security questionnaires filled out by the vendors to ensure the protection of data at the vendor sites.  ? Carried out various types of vendor assessments such as onsite, virtual, risk assessment.  ? Working with the vendors to ensure risk discovered are remediated within a reasonable time. Information Security Analyst RIS Group LLC August 2011 to June 2012 Analyzed a large volume of security event data from a variety of sources with the goal of identifying suspicious and malicious activity.  ? Communicated alerts to ISSO regarding intrusions and compromises to network infrastructure, applications and operating systems.  ? Performed periodic system audits and vulnerability assessments, including user accounts, application access, file system and external Web integrity scans to determine compliance.  ? Identified, track and report network intrusions using multiple cyber technologies.  ? Built and maintain custom security detection logic to analyze and correlate information to produce meaningful and actionable results.  ? Ensured all security solutions and designs meet local and federal compliance requirements such as SOX, ISO 27001, and PCI DSS and coordinates with the Internal and External Auditors  ? Performed follow-up analysis throughout the incident lifecycle, and completed projects and tasks associated with security monitoring, detection, and incident response.  ? Updated the following Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A) artifacts; FIPS 199, Risk Assessments Report (RAR) Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA), Privacy Impact Analysis (PIA), Contingency Plan, Security Test and Evaluations (ST&Es), E-Authentication, Plan of Action and Milestones (POAMs). Education Bachelor of Arts in International Relations State University of New York - New Paltz, NY Skills Security, Sharepoint, Disaster recovery, Iso, Iso 27001, Nist, Sox, Fisma, Visio, Ms office, Microsoft access, Risk assessment, Soc, Audit, Coaching, Excel, Microsoft excel, Microsoft outlook, Outlook, Microsoft windows, Compliance, Assessment Additional Information SPECIAL SKILLS    ? Experience with the following standards:  -ISO 27001 and 27002.  -NIST relevant to information technology/ security.  -Cloud Security Alliance control matrix.  -Shared Assessments SCA (will provide acronym terms) control assessment guidelines.  ? Experience in assessing the following risks:  -Privacy of information  -Information technology disaster recovery  -4th party (a.k.a. subcontractor)  -Concentration  -Critical services    TECHNICAL SKILLS SUMMARY    RISK ASSESSMENT, NIST, SOX, MS OFFICE, MICROSOFT ACCESS, EXCEL, MICROSOFT EXCEL, MICROSOFT OUTLOOK, OUTLOOK, MICROSOFT WINDOWS, QUICKBOOKS, FAST LEARNER, PROBLEM SOLVER, TEAM PLAYER, COACHING, VISIO, SHAREPOINT, FISMA, SECURITY, AUDIT, SOC.