IT Security Analyst/A&A Specialist <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span>/A&amp;A Specialist IT Security Analyst/A&A Specialist - Innovative Technology Consulting Laurel, MD Information System Security Analyst seeking a Risk Management Framework/NIST SP 800 37- related position in a growth-oriented organization with focus on attaining Authorization to Operate for Federal systems, System Security Evaluation, Categorization using FIPS 199/200, Assessments, Monitoring and NIST/FISMA standards.    Total Years of Experience  5+ years    Core Strengths    • In depth understanding and professional knowledge in providing support and guidance to System Owners and business stakeholders through the NIST Risk Management Framework & System Assessment and Authorization processes, vulnerability scans, annual contingency plan testing, and POA&M management;  • Ability to provide support and guidance through the phases of the Risk Management Framework/ FISMA A&A, including monitoring of the C&A artifacts compliance, annual self-assessment (and quarterly self-assessment completion using NIST SP 800-26 guidelines.  • Working Knowledge of FIPS 199/200, NIST SP 800-37, SP 800-39, SP 800-60, SP 800-53 rev4, SP 800-18, SP 800-34, SP 800-53A and other NIST publications.  • FedRAMP/Cloud Computing Experience Work Experience IT Security Analyst/A&A Specialist Innovative Technology Consulting - Stafford, VA June 2016 to Present • Duties include preparing and submitting Accreditation and Authorization documentation for systems for different organizations.  • Guided various organizations through system categorizations, minimum controls baseline selections, Implementations of selected controls specified in the SSP, Assessing the effectiveness of the implemented controls, documenting the SAR as well as recommendation guide to identify deficiency in accordance to NIST SP 800 53 rev ¾ &53A, FIPS 199/200 and POA&Ms documentation.  • Develops and implements information security standards and procedures.  • Creates or update the System Security Plan, Security Assessment Report, Contingency Plans (CPs), Risk Assessments Reports (RAR), Security Impact Assessments (SIAs) and POA&M to ensure the system continuous monitoring in a dynamic system environment.  • Assists in vulnerability assessment, patch management, and continuous monitoring strategies for organizations.  • Additional responsibilities include assurance of vulnerability mitigation, training on A&A tools, supporting System Test and Evaluation (ST&E) efforts and other support to the IT Security Office. IT Security Analyst Innovative Technology Consulting - Washington, DC April 2013 to May 2016 Stafford, VA    • Guided organization through the Certification and Accreditation (C&A) process, ensuring that controls for securing Information and Information Systems are fully implemented and function effectively.  • Assisted in system categorization using FIPS 199/200, Selection of minimum baseline security controls, Implementation of the selected controls, Assessing the implemented controls to ensure its effectiveness, ensure it successfully gets authorize and help in continuous monitoring of the system.  • Updated System Security Plan, Security Assessment Report, POA&Ms, Contingency Plans (CPs), Risk Assessments Reports (RAR), Security Impact Assessments (SIAs) and other system security artifacts to ensure the system stays current in a dynamic IT environment to help with reauthorization of the system.  • Perform evaluation of policies, procedures, security scan results, and system settings to address controls that are insufficient during conducting the A&A and Risk management Framework efforts Nanny Poppinz Baltimore, MD February 2010 to March 2012 Recruiter/ HR Assistant    • Substantiated applicants' skills by administering and scoring tests.  • Scheduled examinations by coordinating appointments.  • Welcomed new employees to the organization by conducting orientation.  • Provided payroll information by collecting time and attendance records.  • Submitted employee data reports by assembling, preparing, and analyzing data.  • Maintained employee information by entering and updating employment and status-change data.  • Provided secretarial support by entering, formatting, and printing information; organizing work; answering the telephone; relaying messages; maintaining equipment and supplies Education Bachelor's in communication studies in communication studies Ghana Institute of Journalism - Accra, GH 2004 to 2008 Skills SECURITY, INFORMATION SECURITY, NESSUS, NIST, FISMA, INFORMATION ASSURANCE, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, WORD, CONTINGENCY PLANNING