Job Seeker Newark, NJ • IT Project/Service Desk professional with 9+ years of experience in financial institutions.  • Project Development of core banking products.  • ITSM experience (Incident, Problem, Change, CMDB management)  • Experience in managing IT operation and Service Desk.  • Good troubleshooting, leadership, management, and motivational skills  • Remarkable ability to multi-task and react to a variety of situations at one time.  • Strong collaboration, team building, interpersonal, communication skills with proficiency at grasping new technical concepts quickly & utilizing the same in a productive manner.  • Successfully executed various infrastructure migration projects. Work Experience Kazakh British Technical University and JSC "NIT" - London January 2019 to May 2019 Participated and organized conference and master class for students.  Agenda of Conference: "banking regulations & security compliance requirements" (London, UK)  The main Topics:  • Designing and technical Solution for Country Service Desk (financial and banking environment)  • Online/mobile products and technology services  • Organizational characteristics, and External threats based on COBIT and ITIL regulators.  • Professional Orientation - Technologies and connection types.  • End-user device strategy: security framework and controls Service Desk Technologist / IT Business Support Specialist Standard Chartered Bank February 2016 to November 2018 • Gather business and functional requirements for various strategic business needs/requests; liaise with IB COO and IT team to determine best solutions and implementation plans (Windows 10 and Office 365)  • Survey and test new technologies relevant to the IB space - as needed - in partnership with IB COO (Windows 10 deployment, application packaging/OS imaging/Scripting on SCCM)  • Monitor IB-related computer systems / software; assess systems in use as well as user needs to develop recommendations to improve processes.  • Provide technical assistance and support for queries and issues related to computer systems, Software, and hardware as well as mobile devices at all IB locations.  • Create and/or improve technical documentation for use by IB population.  • Develop and implement training for existing and new systems/rollouts, including rollout of Office 365. Sr. IT Security Analyst Citigroup Inc - London November 2014 to August 2015 •Managed and coordinated the day-to-day IT Security activities of the Bank and the protection of IT facilities, equipment, personnel and data-processing facilities in cooperation with BISO.  •Provided technical Support Utilizing via phone using "Service now" ticketing system & remote desktop connection (Citrix and WebEx) to resolve user's technical issues.  •Active Directory and Group Policy administrated, security permission management. Monitored IT assets using logs from firewalls, servers, workstations, and other input points to assess overall security risks and possible exposure.  •Supported l web applications such as Flex Cube (financial transaction operation for cash desk).  •Installed service pack updates via Change Management system, including business sigh off/on UAT environment with complete testing plan and back out plan IT Service Desk Manager HSBC Commercial Banking - London December 2012 to October 2014 •Impact on the Business  -Maintain local infrastructure to HSBC Group standards  -Monitor IT requests from users  -Developing of IT Team procedures  -Supervise IT Service Desk team    •Monitor the solving of user requests and incidents  -Provide assistance progress delivery of IT solutions in all branches  -Developing of IT Services    •Customers / Stakeholders  -Timely delivery and repair of IT services and infrastructure  -Run customer driven IT Helpdesk  -Support internal customers with implementation - 1000 users +  -95% service delivery - achieved  -95% of implementations to SLA - achieved    • Leadership & Teamwork  Participated in team-work and performance with high standards  •Leading adequate training for IT Helpdesk team  Getting part in implement department succession plan  Participated in control of team-work  •Developed and implemented key practices and policies.    •Operational Effectiveness & Control  Follow request priority  Take a part in implementation projects based on plans of these projects  Control planned maintenance of equipment. 1st Line IT Support Specialist UNICEF - Geneva, CH December 2009 to September 2012 • Administrated Domain Controller and Active Directory.  • Supported Mail server Lotus Domino Notes and Lotus Notes clients.  • Selected and purchased computer equipment in accordance with requirements.  • Provided Service Desk, Help Desk services (Action Request Remedy).  • Modernized, upgraded, installed and adjusted various software.  • Installed adjusted local networks and assembled computers. Education BA University of Central Asia IR 2008 Skills SERVICE DESK, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, EXCHANGE, FIREWALLS