Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Seeking Information System Analyst Position In VA Alexandria, VA A Security Assessment and Authorization professional knowledgeable in risk management, systems development life cycle (SDLC), implementing technical solutions to mitigate risks to enhance the protection systems from cyber-attacks using applicable regulatory and industry-based frameworks such as the NIST standards. A proficient Project Team Lead with aptitude for excellent customer service, leadership and communication (both oral and written) skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Analyst Douala IT Services - Baltimore, MD May 2018 to Present • Develop and maintain ATO Packages for information systems such as the System Security Plans (SSP), Security Assessment Reports (SAR) and Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) in accordance with NIST, FISMA, NIST SP 800-18 and industry’s best security practices.  • Create and update different security artifacts required for systems to be granted an ATO such as Configuration Management Plans (CMP), Contingency Plans (CP), Incident Response Plans (IRP), and other related system security documentation.  • Provide guidance on how to apply appropriate security controls on Federal Information Systems to protect their CIA based on FIPS 200 and NIST SP 800-53 rev4.   • Review and update IT security policies, procedures, standards, guidelines, and SOPs according to department and regulatory requirements.  • Help to develop Rules of Behavior (RoB), Interconnection Security Agreement (ISA) and Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) required for the operation of systems  • Review and work with IT Operations and Network Engineers to mitigate system vulnerabilities identified in scan reports and other network devices.  • Work with the Security Control Assessment Team – to assess security controls implemented on information systems to determines their effectiveness.  • Monitor controls post authorization to ensure continuous compliance with the security requirements and for the systems to maintain their authorization. Helpdesk IT Support SONAWILLS Ltd. Nigeria - ABUJA FCT January 2012 to January 2018 • Evaluated test results, analyzed risk, and developed security documentation to support security related decisions  • Regularly provided efficient technical support over the phone, maintaining presentable phone demeanor, courteousness, and creativity.  • Maintained knowledge with accurate up-to-date information relating to current policies, procedures, and troubleshooting techniques.  • Received, prioritized, documented, and actively resolved end users help requests.  • Researched and provided follow-up actions utilizing Tracking Software to expedite satisfactory customer resolutions, trouble shoot hardware and or software problems on desktop PCs.  • Coordinated PC deployments and migrations to include, re-installed software, reset user profiles and network settings, restored end-user data from backups, tracked all moved PCs, investigated and resolved customer complaints.  • Maintained and protected the confidentiality of personal information of customers during migration process.   • Documented the remediation process and reviewed policies to ascertain the effectiveness of the resolution processes.  • Communicated thoroughly with client representatives and customers, enabling effective information exchange and efficient process management. Education Bachelor's in Bachelors in Fine Art (BA) The Art Institute of Houston, TX, USA - Houston, TX January 2007 to July 2011 Skills • System Security Documentation Vulnerability Assessment • Privacy Policies & Information Security Project Management & Support • Security Risk Assessment System Development Life Cycle ? Authorization-To-Operate (ATO) process PO&AM Management • Business Systems Analysis Cloud Computing Security • Knowledge of Federal and Industry regulatory standards such NIST, FISMA, PCI-DSS, security, testing Additional Information PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATIONS  • Certified Authorization Professional - (CAP) – exam in view  • COMPTIA Security+ (S+) - in progress