IT Support & Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Support &amp; <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Support & Security Analyst - IntegraMed America Fort Lauderdale, FL Work Experience IT Support & Security Analyst IntegraMed America November 2014 to Present Define and implement security controls as well as install and configure AV solutions to protect data and systems from unauthorized access, disruption, viruses, worms, rootkits, botnets, and other kinds of malware. Promote identity and access assurance by managing RSA tokens. Enforce end-to-end controls for compliance with quality standards. Highlight abnormalities, resolve technical issues, and record instances for future reference. Liaise with vendors and external providers to procure technical support. Formulate and communicate performance and system status reports with users for data-driven decision making.  Key Contributions:  * Planned and led the transition from Kaspersky to Sophos antivirus solution.  * Steered antivirus software project; completed all tasks on time and within budget.  * Trained new staff members on application usage and level 2 support; improved performance at individual and group levels.    Dynamic Network Support - Fort Lauderdale, FL Jr. Technician April 2014 to October 2014 Managed user profiles on Windows domain using Active Directory for controlled access to network resources. Resolved employee IT issues through phone and email communication as well as on-site consultation. Ensured swift resolution of IT support tickets by escalating requests to appropriate party. Oversaw onboarding of new users for seamless office operations. Prepared and updated documentation for troubleshooting, deployment, and general IT procedures for future reference. Provided active functional support by administering servers and repairing defective parts/equipment.  Key Contributions:  * Trained and coached staff and children on technology usage.  * Improved network data communication and file accessibility system through Windows and MS Outlook 365 as well as network share folder management.  * Maintained IT infrastructure at the facility by delivering robust, technical support for laptops, PCs, phones, printers, and software.  * Supported local businesses and private schools by configuring and administering both wireless networks and VoIPs. Escalations Technician Boca Raton, FL January 2013 to April 2014 Maintained an up-to-date record of identified issues and solutions for future reference and to save time. Led data selection, preparation, extraction, transformation, and transfer with a focus on maintaining data integrity and volume. Provided robust support by manually removing FBI/DOJ viruses, optimizing computers, and repairing Windows.  Key Contributions:  * Identified and troubleshot IT issues for customers using Windows based systems.    Additional experience as Audio Engineer/Producer at Shelter Island Sound, Sony Music, and Vice President & Compliance Officer at Lecaj Realty Corp & Sinishtay Realty. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2014 Associate of Arts in Communications in Communications University of Phoenix - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2011 Skills Microstrategy, Linux, Symantec, Mac, Security, Active Directory, testing, training Certifications/Licenses CISSP Boot Camp; test set for November 16, 2019 Additional Information Technical PROFICIENCIES  Platforms:  Windows, Servers 2008/2012 R2, MAC OS X, and Linux  Others:  Nextgen Healthcare Systems, Salesforce, Microstrategy  Endpoint Protection:  Kaspersky, ESET, Symantec, AVG, Trend Micro, and Sophos  Proprietary Software:     Artworks, and Felix