Senior QA Engineer Senior QA Engineer Senior QA Engineer Frisco, TX • Experience in implementing testing across all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding, Module Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing and Regression Testing.  • Experience of testing Mobile, Web based, and Desktop applications.  • working experience as a Business Analyst helping documentation of Business and Software Requirement Specifications  • Experience in different Testing Methodology like Waterfall and Agile (Scrum), Kanban.  • Familiar with all agile ceremonies and responsibilities  • Analysis and maintaining of 5000+ automated test scripts using Finesse, Selenium Web driver. Using Core jave and GIT hub as repository.  • Proficient in analyzing system requirements, business requirements, use cases and other documents to gain overall understanding of the application.  • Well versed in preparation of Test Plan, Test Scenarios, Test Cases, Test Scripts and Defect  Reports/life cycle  • Experience in testing web applications using PL, SOAP UI, REST, XML, HTML protocols.  • Experienced in Defect Management, including analyzing and reporting Defects/bugs using HP  Quality Center (QC)/HP ALM, escalating high priority defects, and interacting with developers and team members in fixing bugs, and validating the fixes.  • Performed testing of Enterprise desktop applications utilizing the Agile framework for sprints and daily SCRUM stand-up meetings.  • Have extensive browser testing experience (desktop, mobile browsers).  • Developed and maintained test plans and automated test scripts for desktop/web applications.  • Experienced in preparing automation script using VB Script for UFT/QTP.  • Experience in developing frameworks using Selenium in conjunction with Java, JUnit and TestNG,  Grid, Selenium web-driver.  • Preparing Functional/regression Test Cases/Scripts in HP Quality Center/ALM under Test Plan, And Review Test Requirements, Creating Test Plans and Test Strategy documents. And update test results after every Regression excursion in ALM and JAMA.  • Creating and maintaining VB Scripts for QTP automation testing, parameterization, checkpoints, data validation, data-driven and keyword driven testing, object repository.  • Excellent experience in mobile app testing using Perfecto mobile, device anywhere.  • Involved in designing and maintaining Requirements Traceability Matrix.  • Experience in test design, defect tracking and management, and test reporting.    • Diverse work experience on functional testing, integration testing, GUI testing, system testing, Regression testing, database testing, End to End testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and compatibility testing.  • Experience in Bug/Defect tracking tools like Quality Center and JIRA.  • Proficient in writing complex SQL queries to extract data from various source tables to perform database testing.  • Experience in analyzing the bugs and interacting with developers and team members in fixing the defects.  • Experience in different database like SQL Server, Oracle and MS-Access Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior QA Engineer Service King, Dallas,TX Richardson Project - PMO - Dallas, TX February 2019 to February 2019 Till Data  Service King is a collision repair company with focus on customer service and quality repair. The company has grown to be the collision repair provider of choice for leading insurance carriers across the U.S and the team backs every repair with a written lifetime warranty and company's core values of integrity, family, service, and quality. The Project is to develop ODS/EDW to integrate transactional data from new front end application (CCCOne) rolling out across stores with the old system's(Accucenter) data to facilitate Operational and Analytical reporting across HR, Accounting and Marketing data.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked with Postman tool to send API Calls to see the CCC1 response and compare the data from Source to Target.  • Writing Complex SQL queries using SQL Server management studio to extract data from various source tables to perform database testing.  • Monitor releases and builds going out to production and Track production bugs over time.  • Created, reviewed and executed test scripts using Azure DevOps for various projects  • Followed Agile methodology to automate and manually test CCC1 and AccuCentre SK applications.    • Performed API web services testing using Postman to see the CCC1 response.  • Developed and maintained test scenario's and automated test scripts for Over Drive features of AccuCenter using Katalon Studio with Java, and GIT as source repository.  • Used Azure DevOps to log all the defects by attaching Maintain test matrices on various dimensions like performance and test status of the app to reflect the test progress to upper management.  • Monitoring and validating Integration testing and regression testing efforts  • Handled the tasks of performing software quality assurance testing for desktop applications  • Managed a team of 2 testers to plan the testing sprint and coordinate with development team and management for raising issues, tracking and plan for the fix tests  • Maintained test matrices on various dimensions like performance and test status of the app to reflect the test progress to upper management  • Designed, developed, and executed test cases and reusable data sets for integration, functional, regression, performance testing activities as defined by the project Manager and QA Manager.  • Performed regression testing and smoke testing using SQL    Environment: Postman, Azure Devops, Katalon Studio, Core JAVA, GIT, SQL Server Management Studio, Senior QA Engineer SiriusXM - Irving, TX February 2018 to February 2019 SiriusXM is one of the world's largest audio entertainment companies and is among the largest subscription  media companies in the United States, offering an array of exclusive content to satisfy many interests.  SiriusXM is the home of Howard Stern's two exclusive channels. Its commercial-free, curated music channels  represent many decades and genres, from rock, to pop, country, hip hop, classical, Latin, electronic dance, jazz, heavy metal and more. These include exclusive artist-branded music channels from The Beatles, Bruce  Springsteen, Elvis, Eminem, Frank Sinatra, Garth Brooks, Grateful Dead, Jimmy Buffett, Kenny Chesney, Ozzy  Osbourne, Pitbull, Tom Petty and many more, and concept-based channels such as Road Trip Radio, Yacht  Rock Radio and others.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked with GM-2020 FM Android head unit to test end to end SXM App in it.  • Loading new .apk builds often and do the smoke, regression, functional testing of SXM App.  • Created, reviewed and executed test scripts using a JIRA and JAMA for various projects  • Followed Agile methodology to automate and manually test SiriusXM app  • Studied Project Requirement Documents, Technical Requirement Documents to perform Manual and Automation testing  • Performed API web services testing using Charles API on GM-2020 FM Android head.  • Used JIRA to log all the defects by attaching adb logs, tom stone logs found during manual testing of the app on all devices.  • Maintain test matrices on various dimensions like performance and test status of the app to reflect the test progress to upper management.  • Monitoring and validating Integration testing and regression testing efforts  • Handled the tasks of performing software quality assurance testing for desktop applications  • Managed a team of 2 testers to plan the testing sprint and coordinate with development team and management for raising issues, tracking and plan for the fix tests    • Maintained test matrices on various dimensions like performance and test status of the app to reflect the test progress to upper management  • Designed, developed, and executed test cases and reusable data sets for integration, functional, regression, performance, configuration, and installation testing activities as defined by the project and test plan objectives in accordance with documented processes.  • Performed regression testing and smoke testing using GM-2020 FM Android head manually.  Environment: Charle's, JIRA, JAMA, GIT, Appium, Android, TestNG, Perfecto mobile, JAVA.    Senior QA Analyst, Sabre, South Lake  March  ' 16 -Nov '17    PROJECT: Crew Manager NextGen CMX10  Description: CMX is the single crew management solution for scheduling the desired crew based on JRules requirements to Unassigned pairings which is composed of flight legs and complements. Sabre is redesigning its Crew manager classic product with enhanced and single solution with crew manager 10 targeting 150 airline companies all over the world. It integrates flying and non-flying assignments of the crew with Notifications and Alerts monitored and flexibility for crew scheduling with various customizable options. It is enclosed with Leave management, Operational simulator and integrated with other sabre applications for crew scheduling airline solution.  Responsibilities:  • Work with business analysts and requirements team for finalizing scope of story.  • Participate in planning and directing quality assurance schedules and assignments, and monitoring project status.  • Develop and executed various scripts using Fitnesse, Junit, Selenium web-driver for automated testing of various functionalities.  • Close coordination with BA and all the Business Team to gather the requirements and Design, Develop and execute the each and every key functionality of crew manager Software.  • Analysis and maintaining of 5000+ automated test scripts using Fitnesse.  • Defect tracking and metrics using JIRA  • Create branches for each story and make scripts ready for the final execution before Dev code is ready in to the branch.  • Coordinated multiple teams across Bangalore and Krakow for the testing activities.  • Agile methodology and work in a fast paced environment in 2week iteration cycle and stories tracked through VersionOne.  • Designed and successfully implemented end to end testing process for desktop application packaging team.  • Identify software defects and interact with developers to resolve them.  • Created a FFT Suite before end of each release and participated in regression testing and opened the defects in JIRA, Rally and retested the same defect once the developer fix the issue.  • Involved and responsible for creating weekly status reports regarding the progress of testing process.  • Worked closely with functional testing team in Krakow Poland during development phase of each release.  • Participating in the Retro meetings and discussed feedback of that release with scrum team.  • Coordinated with rules team and delivery team in Bangalore and finish the rework after the check points with clients  Environment: Fitnesse frameworks, Version one, GIT, IntelliJ IDE, JAVA, TeamCity, BubBuckt, Eclipse, Tad, Rally, JIRA, ALM, Test Complete, Crucible. Sr.QA Analyst Charles Schwab 2016 to 2016 This Project involves testing various features of Charles Schwab Co, & Inc. Mobile Application which is being developed for trading and Banking on various platforms like iPhone 3G, iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4G, iPad, Android and Tablets. The application provides the features for managing the brokerage, Schwab Bank, 401(k) accounts, Bill Pay, Branch Locator, Transfer Funds and Remote Deposit Capture. The team worked together in Bullpen following Agile Methodology.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze the Business Requirements and specification.  • Attend daily standup meetings using Agile Methodology and report the status to SCRUM master.  • Involved in performing Smoke Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing and Regression Testing, Post Prod Testing of the application.  • Prepared and executed manual test scenarios and test cases based on business and functional requirements and Automated identified test cases using Quick Test Professional.  • Creating Automation Scripts (VBScript) in the sprints and stored them in the Test-Plan module of Quality Center.  • Worked with three mobile applications simultaneously: iOS, Android and WP7  • Involved in querying using SQL and updating records and validate database records as expected  • Created manual test cases from Use cases, Functional specs and other requirement documents.  • Involved in the automation of the application using QTP/UFT.  • Involved in testing online trading and mobile banking applications.  • Entered business and functional requirements into the Quality Center Requirements Repository.  • Responsible for writing Test Plans, Test Scripts, Test Cases, and executing test cases.  • Performed browser compatibility and configuration testing on various operating systems such as Blackberry OS, Android OS, and IOS etc.  • Executed test cases and test scripts for manual and automation testing. Defects are raised in the HP Quality Center/HP ALM for logging, tracking and reporting bugs in the application.  • Writing SQL queries to test database for retrieving and inserting data.  • Prepared and executed various test scripts in QTP/UFT  • Interfaced with Business Analysts, developers to resolve technical issues and investigated software faults.  • Tested the UI of the end product on mobile, PC, Android and Apple (iPhone, iPad) platforms to ensure that language translation and Currency conversions were displaying as required  • Enhancing the QTP scripts by doing unit testing on the scripts before creating scenario based tests in Test-Lab Module of Quality Center  • Participated in meetings with developers to discuss enhancements and modifications.  • Involved deploying code to Production environment  • Analyzed, reported and tracked defects through Quality Center.  • Involved to create function Libraries using VB Script and load them as Resource Files.  • Responsible to follow up the production issues with offshore team.  • Developed Positive and Negative test cases and executed manual test cases using Quality Center.  • Responsible to develop and run the QTP Regression Testing scripts on every prod releases.    • Worked closely with development and testing teams to accomplish timely release objectives.  Environment: Java, Quality Center, QTP, DB2, XML, UNIX, SQL, C++, J2EE, IOS, Blackberry OS, Android OS, iPhone, iPad, Win8 tablet, WP 7, Device Anywhere, perfecto mobile, Android SDK, Windows Mobile SDK, etc. Charles Schwab - Austin, TX January 2015 to January 2015 Feb QA Analyst ABSG - Frisco, TX January 2013 to December 2014 ABSG is a healthcare company. Worked on oncologysupply.com. Oncology Supply is a B2B ecommerce site which is used by physicians to purchase drugs and view reports.  Responsibilities  • Work in the Agile development environment and participated on standup and retrospective meetings.  • Designed use cases and prototypes for an internal software web based application.  • Interacted with Customers, Business Analyst, Project manager and gathered and Reviewed the Business Requirements, Software Requirement Specification, Design (HLD's, LLD's), System Testing and Maintenance documents  • Prepared Test Requirements, Test Planning, Test Designing, Test Analysis, Test Execution, Defect Tracking and Test Results  • Delivered traceability of requirements and defects along with implementing these requirements using SQL and create defects Involved in Backend testing.  • Set up definitions and process for scoping, document test cases, and test phases including product test, integration test, system test and User Acceptance Test (UAT).  • Prepared and tested the system functional and non-functional requirements and created test cases to ensure overall quality  • Involved in performing different types of Testing Unit, Integration, Functional, Non-functional, Regression, Data Driven and Validation Testing  • Tested the billing systems operations  • Used HP Quality Center to create Business Components, write test cases, execute tests, log, assign and track defects  • Developed Test scripts, established the base line and verified with actual results  • Involved in Backend Database Testing. (Stored Procedures, Triggers, Constraints, Joins and Select queries)  • Tested the content retrieved on various windows against the database tables to make sure that the process retrieved all the data it is supposed to  • Identified, analyzed and documented all defects and operational characteristics that are inconsistent with stated requirements and design specifications by providing meaningful defect reports within the defect tracking system  • Performed System testing in different browsers like IE, Mozilla Fire fox and Safari  • Prepared the Final Test Summary Report and Requirements traceability matrix to ensure appropriate level of test coverage  • Interacted with developers to resolve application defects.    Environment: UNIX, SQL, Oracle, J2EE, Java, JSP, .NET, Web Services, Oracle Quality Center, Agile methodology, vb script QA Analyst Amdocs - Chicago, IL September 2010 to October 2012 SNAP (Sprint Nextel Activation Portal) is a web application that is aimed at providing unified platform for Sprint and Nextel that came together bringing together their CDMA and IDEN networks. The application is used by the dealers all over the US and caters to the billing and activation needs for the unified customer base of Sprint and Nextel    Responsibilities  • Participated in developing test plan and setting up test environment Participated in JAD session.  • Developed manual test process using HPALM to create reusable scripts for Regression testing  • Used Quality Center to develop Test cases, Test scripts and logging the Defects.  • Prepared traceability matrix  • Functioned as Subject Matter Expert (SME) for the Policy Decisions component  • Developed Test Plans and Test Cases from the functional requirement document and scheduled the test case execution.  • Involved in Unit testing, System testing, User Acceptance Testing, UI testing and Regression Testing  • Involved in Backend Testing On Oracle8i.  • Carried out GUI testing: tested the screen navigation, graphics and hyperlinks to make sure that these are established as the requirements obligated.  • Reported tracked defects with reference to severity and types using Quality Center. Involved in weekly walkthrough and inspection meetings to verify the status of Testing  • Conducted formal team review meetings & produced daily progress report to Project Managers.  • Interacted with Developers, Project Manager and Team Lead for Fixes the Defect.  • Documented the Bug Report and Categorized them based on severity.  • Validated various operations in web services and tested the request/response.  • Wrote test cases and test suite for testing core and additional insurance services such as Policy Service, Premium Service, Verification Services etc.  Environment: Quality Center, HPALM, SQL Server 2005, Altova XML Spy, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Outlook. Education Master of Science in Biological Science in Biological Science University of Madras - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2007 Bachelor of Biotechnology in Biotechnology S.V University 2005 Skills Uft, Junit, Quick test, Quick test pro, Selenium, Testng, Sql, Eclipse, Java, Git, Html, Xml, Maven, Qa, Software testing, Integration, Windows xp Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Project Methodologies Agile Scrum , Waterfall , V - Model  Languages VB Script , HTML , XML Java OOPs concept  Databases MS SQL ,SQL  QA and Other Tools Fitnesse, Selenium SOAPUI Versionone, Quick Test Pro/UFT,  MicrosoftTFS, IntelliJ IDE, Eclipse IDE,TOAD, TestNG,JUnit  Code Management Git,Bitbucket,Maven  Operating Systems Windows XP/2000.  Software Testing Unit, Functional, Integration, Regression, User Acceptance  Testing, Block box testing.