IT Security Administrator <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Administrator IT Security Administrator - JP Morgan Chase Wesley Chapel, FL SYSTEMS & SECURITY ADMINISTRATION | INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY | INTELLIGENCE  IT Security Administrator and Military Veteran with a Top – Secret | SCI Security Clearance with expertise in information assurance, intelligence, risk management, and root-cause analysis. Managed risk and data integrity upon multiple line items to protect assets, property, and equipment valued over $2M while meeting the expectations of senior leadership. Possess extensive knowledge in customer service, process improvement, business operations, networking concepts, installation, and configuration of computer systems. Career supported by a Bachelor of Arts in Business Management, a Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification, and Scrum Fundamentals Certification. Currently pursuing a CompTIA Security+ Certification. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Administrator JP Morgan Chase - Tampa, FL October 2017 to Present 40 hour per week  Served as the IT Security Administrator for the Identity and Access Management Division and on a cross - functional team that collaborated with team members in India. Promoted continuous improvement with compiling audit trail data for reporting to management as well as sustained Service Level Agreements (SLA). Identified and reported all risk and compliance issues, breaches, and suspicious activities.  • Analyze, diagnose and resolve tickets in response to reported incidents and security investigations  • Store privileged account access controls via Enterprise Password Vault for managed systems and applications  • Controlled user logical access to organizational IT resources, systems, and infrastructure security, in accordance with Master Service Agreements and Service  • Identify and remediate administrative problems related to access controls to ensure compliance with the information technology control policies, standard operating procedures and reference documentation  • Provide group and one on one systems/software applications training to internal customers as required; and provided on the job training to team members  • Manage work to milestones and deadlines; executed and drove process efficiency with onboarding third - party vendor applications for Corporate Sector lines of business  • Communicate with Application Owners, Information Owners and various Lines of Business to troubleshoot, update system issues and make recommendations for improved provisioning processes  • Demonstrate Helpdesk functions such as password resets, answered technical questions, installed and configured IT equipment for employee computer workstations  • Construct detailed quantitative reports that entail number of requests provisioned, number of days aged for incomplete requests, SLA breaches, and applications with technical issues  • Own customer issues by responding to ticket escalations in a timely manner All Source Intelligence Analyst Army Reserve Intelligence Battalion - Orlando, FL January 2016 to Present • Gather and validate specified foreign country information  • Conduct oral briefings and produced written report of findings to senior leadership  • Manage collection process in accordance with data requirements Logistics Management Analyst Lockheed Martin - Tampa, FL November 2013 to October 2017 40 hours per week  Prepared memorandums, reports, policies, and standard operation procedures to support distribution operations for United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM). Authorized movement of excess equipment and major component assets by instituting accurate disposition instructions. Troubleshot processes to ensure compliance with business rules of Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). Ensured the scope of work remained in accordance to the task order.  • Strategically consulted and developed recommendations for services to improve logistics processes  • Conducted strategic planning in support of special missions and daily program activities  • Led mission for the catalog process and data migration of special equipment into SAP system  • Analyzed and evaluated complex data for quantitative and qualitative elements that ensured sufficient preparation of reporting  • Advised and briefed senior leadership on business requirements and new system capabilities that streamlined operations Government Property Analyst The Buffalo Group - AF December 2011 to November 2013 84 hours per week  Trained and assisted personnel on Property Management Systems to ensure audit readiness. Managed systems to update government asset records. Assigned work tasks and supervised personnel in Afghanistan.  • Analyzed contractual commitments, customer specifications, and related information to identify and document logistics related support requirements  • Coordinated with Site Project Managers to understand current process, requirements and developed business models Logistics Supervisor KBR - IQ 2010 to December 2011 84 hours per week  Managed collection of data and documentation to coordinate transfer of equipment to Iraqi Government.  • Directed, planned, and coordinated the activities of property management; arranged for the sale or lease of excess equipment  • Tracked information and property assigned to contractors; conducted audits using property management system and provided oversight and fixed discrepancies Education Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration in Management Keiser University Skills MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, SQL, CSS, SHAREPOINT, MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT, HTML, VISUAL BASIC, JIRA, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, POWERPOINT, WORD, MICROSOFT WINDOWS, MAC Links http://linkedin.com/in/chris-scott-lssgb-sfc-718a8340 Certifications/Licenses Lean Six Sigma Green Belt January 2018 to Present Led a 7-person team; applied the Lean Six Sigma structured approach, DMAIC to reduce cost of the Plan Amendment Review Process. This allowed for reallocation of resources and elimination of waste in the process, which resulted in more than a 5% reduction in cost. Additional Information Special Projects    JP Morgan Chase (Global Hackathon Event)                                                                                                               2018  Participated in an annual technology event, in which global teams collaborated to solve real business problems within the organization. Served on a 6-person cross-functional team with Software Engineers; utilizing Lean Six Sigma Green Belt skills, I ascertained quantitative data which included mapping current and future state of the process. Resulted in an automated solution to a manual procedure for a tool that updated banking systems and products.    United States Special Operation Command (USSOCOM)                                                                                       2016  Assisted in leading a global team in integrating a military Accountable Property System of Record (APSR). Coordinated data migration of more than 20K line items of special equipment and implementation of an enterprise.