Sales Engineer Sales Engineer Houston, TX • 2 yrs experience monitoring, correlating, interpreting security event data and analyzing security threats    • Bachelor of Science degree in Computing Science (emphasis in Security and Digital Forensics)    • Strong verbal and written communication skills with both colleagues and customers    • Experienced at learning, documenting and streamlining technical processes and procedures, including developing Playbooks and Standard Operating Procedures.    • Experienced with Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS), Log Management, Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) technologies    • Familiar with Metasploit, Nessus, Kali Linux, Python, Snort, tcpdump, Wireshark. Able to quickly learn other technologies as needed. Work Experience Sales Engineer Perch Security - Houston, TX September 2018 to June 2019 • Contributed to 130% growth in sales since 2018  • Provided in-depth technical knowledge of the Perch product to prospective customers.  • Provided on-site representation of the company to help facilitate the sales process at trade shows.  • Published two publicly accessible blogs at the request of the marketing team. Senior Threat Analyst Perch Security - Houston, TX December 2017 to January 2019 • Monitored security sensors and reviewed logs to identify intrusions.  • Deployed and maintained security sensors and tools.  • Assisted with the development of analyst response plans, workflows, and Standard Operating Procedures.  • Participated in on-call rotation for after-hours security and/or engineering issues.  • Promoted into Sales Engineer role by company leadership. Security Analyst I, Log Review Alert Logic - Houston, TX May 2017 to October 2017 • Reviewed and analyzed event logs from customers and escalated any suspicious activity.  • Performed service orientation calls with customers, answering technical questions and orienting customers to the service.  • Developed utility program in python to streamline analysis of large volume customer cases.    Professional Experience - continued IT Systems Administrator & Technical Support Analyst Analytic Discovery LLC - The Woodlands, TX December 2009 to May 2017 • Provided part time technical support for Windows desktops, servers, and small business routers.  • Intern for boutique consulting firm applying methods of data science, electronic discovery, and computer forensics in defense of large complex litigation    Professional Memberships and Conferences Education Bachelor of Science in Computing Science in Security and Digital Forensics Sam Houston State University - Huntsville, TX 2011 to 2016 Skills Forensics, Security, Information security, Javascript, Json, Php, Python, Xml, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql, Linux, Bash, Deployment, Java, Windows xp, Ada, Pre-Sales Additional Information Other Technical Skills  Collegiate coursework and work experience included exposure to the following:  Languages: Ada, Bash, C, Java, Javascript, JSON, Python, PHP, SQL, XML  Platforms: AWS Cloud, Linux, MS SQL Server, Windows XP, 7, 8, 10, Windows Server (2003, 2012)    Volunteer Experience and Other Activities  • DEF CON Goon, Deployment team. (2018-Present)  • Co-founder and officer (Sergeant at Arms); HASH - Hackers at Sam Houston; academic & technical club focusing on information security and digital forensics. (2014 - 2016)  • Southwest Regional Finalist, National Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition (2015)  • Vice President, Sam Houston Auto Club (2013-2015)  • 2003 Outstanding Youth Leadership Award, Chisholm Trail Chapter, American Red Cross, Fort Worth, Texas (2001 - 2003)  • 2003 National Student Leadership Conference - Intelligence and National Security, Washington, DC