IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - Centennial Bank Conway, AR Passionate and results-driven Cybersecurity professional adept in cyber-network defense, data security, threat intelligence, SOC events and understanding in the administration and support of Information Systems including LAN/WAN networks and systems support with 8 years of professional work experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst Centennial Bank - Conway, AR November 2017 to Present Undertaking cyber threat intelligence activities for the business IT environment,  determining the extent of cyber threats and recommending courses of action or countermeasures to mitigate risks.  • Utilizing data discovery tool to identify, classify, and manage structured and unstructured  data. Compliance with PCI, PII, GDPR regulations  • Evaluating hardware, operating systems and software applications to adequately address  cybersecurity requirements.  • Identifying, assessing, and recommending Information Security products for use at the bank  • Monitoring and researching SOC events  • Identifying trends and potential problem sources by reviewing incidents in ServiceNow  helpdesk.  • Investigating, analyzing and responding to cyber incidents within the network.  • Conducting analysis of log files, evidence and other information in order to identify  network intrusions.  • Correlating incident data to identify specific vulnerabilities and making recommendations  that enable expeditious remediation.  • Creating and tracking IT security tickets  • Providing expertise in information security strategic planning  • Coordinates meetings of IT staff to resolve problems by identifying root causes and appropriate fixes.  • Identifying trends and potential problem sources by reviewing incidents in tracking  system Computer Technician Texarkana Independent School District - Texarkana, TX May 2017 to November 2017 Support and maintain district computer systems, desktops and peripherals. Include installing,  diagnosing, repairing, maintaining and upgrading all hardware and equipment while ensuring  appropriate network integration. Troubleshooting problem areas in a timely and accurate fashion as well as providing end user training and assistance where required. Network Support Engineer Accra Brewery Limited November 2011 to November 2016 Accomplishments:  • Team lead in the implementation of WAN architectural design and migration of Accra  Brewery Limited infrastructure (13 Sites) from K-Net ISP to Vodafone Ghana MPLS.  • Team lead for the design and relocation of Accra Brewery Limited Data Center from 1st  Floor to 2nd Floor within six (6) hours  • Managed a $90,000 data-integration project that consolidated information from ERP,  third-party market data and Customer Management System.  • Led a team of 5 core and application DBAs, responsible for the day-to-day operations of the single global instance.  • Reduced budget cost from $70,000 to $30,000 in implementing centralized printing  solution  • Load balancing on WAN Links to the various Branch Offices (with Riverbed & Peplink)  • Designed and implemented VLAN/VTP thereby ensuring ease of managing the increasing number of switches on the enterprise network (stood at 174 switches).  • Implementation of EIGRP between WAN routers.  • Designed and implemented Aruba wireless technology in all 17 boardrooms in ABL which spans across the WAN.  • Deployment of Cisco Network Admission Control (NAC)  • Implemented and configured Ms. Exchange server 2010 with ActiveSync feature which hosts 380 smartphone devices Education MSc. in Management Information Systems Coventry University 2014 to 2015 BSc. in Information Technology Ghana Technology University College 2007 to 2011 Skills CISCO (5 years), EIGRP (5 years), EXCHANGE (5 years), MPLS (5 years), DATABASE (8 years), Active Directory, Security, SQL, Microsoft Office Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/christianottopah Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) January 2019 to January 2022 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) - Cyber Ops August 2018 to August 2021 Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) Present CCNA Routing and Switching Oracle Certified Associate - Oracle 11g Database Administrator Present Additional Information Key Strengths  Excellent problem solver, Analytical ability and attention to detail, Customer focused and  solutions driven, Teamwork and adaptable to change, Bold and decisive in taking on challenging  tasks    Technical Skills  Active Directory services; Microsoft Frontend Protection; ActiveSync; Microsoft Exchange  Server 2010, 2013, 2016; Exchange Management Console; SCCM; Cisco NAC & Microsoft  NAC; Solarwinds; OSPF; EIGRP; BGP; OSI Layer 2 & 3 switching - Cisco Catalyst 2960,  3750, 6800 series; Routers - Cisco 1900, 2900, 7300 series; IPv4 Addressing Scheme  Implementation; Syslog; HSRP; Aruba (Mobility Controller, Clearpass Policy Manager);  Windows server 2008R2, 2012; Microsoft SQL server (2008, 2012); Oracle Database 11g;  MPLS; POP3; IMAP; HTTP; SSL; DHCP; DNS; PROXY; ASA firewall; Apple Mobile Device  Management; Apple JAMF cloud; Google Management Console; PowerShell, Python