Information Security Analyst Information <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Security Analyst - NES Associates Inc Lake Ridge, VA Work Experience Information Security Analyst NES Associates Inc - Falls Church, VA April 2018 to Present • Uses NIST publication 800-53a Rev 4 to ensure implementation of appropriate security controls for the information system.  • Reviews scan reports to accurately identify failed controls and provide mitigations.  • Develops security assessment plans (SAP) for security systems.  • Create templates to be utilized in the security assessment process.    • Provide weekly status reports for ongoing tasks and deliverables.  • Continuing research of all security controls in order to effectively interview ISSO and System owners and collect appropriate and necessary artifacts to document passing security controls on the system. Junior Assessor Evolvent, Inc - Falls Church, VA May 2015 to April 2018 • Policy writing and understanding of NIST 800-53a Rev 4 publication.  • Works on a team of assessors to perform risk assessments of systems. Review Plan of Actions and Milestones (POAM) created by ISSO.  • Reviewed vulnerability scans with the support of Nessus scanning tool to detect potential risks on a single or multiple asset across the network.  • Conduct security assessment interviews to determine the scope and rules of engagement in which the system is to be tested and assessed.  • Prepares Security Assessment Plan (SAP) for review by ISSO and system owner. to Lead Assessor EA - Springfield, VA May 2013 to 2015 • Learning and researching NIST documents 800-53 and 800-53a in order to provide support to a team of assessors.  • Learning and researching the Risk Management Framework (RMF) in order to provide support to a team of assessors.  • Technical writing and editing of security assessment plan (SAP), security assessment report (SAR) produced by the Team Lead.  • Reviewing and understanding of scans provided via Nessus scanning tool.  • Participate in assessments and assisted team members with gathering necessary documentation to address scan result findings. IT Help Desk/ Jr. Finance Analyst Imperial Highline, LLC - Manassas, VA March 2010 to May 2013 • Assisted users with computer hardware related issues.  • Assessed technical issues with equipment and applications and assisted in providing resolutions for users.  • Responsible for establishing and revoking user credentials to FEX DMS for new and terminated employees and accessing user audit logs.    • Instructor for new hires training on FEX DMS and Dealer Track systems. Implementing and continuously updating training manual, schedule, and certifications.  • Maintained $12 million dollars in credit lines across Next Gear Capital and Automotive Finance Company accounts and performed weekly analysis of the accounts.  • Maintained accurate accounting details based on monthly, quarterly, and yearly sales, payroll, commissions, and county and state taxes. Education Bachelor's Degree in Political Science Norfolk State University May 2019 Master's Degree in Cybersecurity Norfolk State University Skills Security, testing, access Certifications/Licenses Security+