Cyber Security Analyst Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Cyber Security Analyst - DRIVEN TECHNOLOGIES Equipped with high self-confidence, imaginative, strategic and open mind. Enthusiastic hardworking and determined IT professional with excellent analytical, decisive, writing and communicating abilities. Team player and leader with solid understanding of the importance of teamwork, work to tight deadlines, have plenty of initiative above all - highly self-driven individual with great student mentality and attitude; which is essentially the most valuable element in empowering individuals and organizations to move barriers to excellence. Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst DRIVEN TECHNOLOGIES May 2018 to Present • Monitoring client networks using LogRhythm and Alien Vault  • Hunting for unusual behavior network behavior, Registry events, malware alerts, access failure and vulnerabilities detected.  • Email analysis  • Responding to all Endpoint threat alerts  • Analyze and report threats to senior management  • Proof point management  • Review analysis procedures and recommend changes for calculated response.  • Monitor all system's heart beat for live data  • Configure application files via N-Central to bring back dropped systems from SIEM.  • Review updates to determine when to update anti malware application.  • Carry-on direct security support to end user sand systems for company's clients.  INSIGHT GLOBAL Analyst Helpdesk Cyber Security Pro August 2018 to May 2019 • Providing first line defense to security incidents  • Investigating threats and incidents  • Vulnerability research, review, and escalation  • Respond to email compromises and phishing/spoofing attempts  • Supervise security standards, practices, operations and enforcing policies in Helpdesk.  • Responding to Cisco AMP (for endpoint), and or Cisco Firepower IPS and SecureWorks IPS (for network)  • Assisted with Information Security awareness training.  • Analyzing data logs from Cisco AMP (Endpoint Protection).  • Monitoring hosts and network for attacks, intrusions, unusual behavior, and unauthorized or illegal activity.  • Monitoring identity and access management, including monitoring for abuse of permissions  • Revising IT Security policies to recommend changes in response to incremental changes  • Keeping up to date with the latest security and technology developments by reading at least 3 white papers weekly.  • Report all incidents to Helpdesk Manager and Information Security Senior Manager, monthly.    INSIGHT GLOBAL IT Specialist April 2018 to August 2018 • First responded to all IT incidents  • Report and escalate incidents to relevant IT Department  • Answer questions about product features and resolve user problems.  • ISE administration  • Cisco Jabber, Any Connect Mobility Center, Cisco Unified CM Administration  • Created service orders to replace defective parts or request technician assistance.  • Document all issues, and generate reports detailing common problems and error trends.  • Professionally bridging the technology divide between technical and non-technical users with a high degree of customer service.  • Providing enterprise support for 3000+ employees.  • Providing support in house and remotely for any Windows 10, MS Office, or Company ERM issues.  • Supporting virtual machines using VMware vSphere suite of tools.  • Troubleshoot and repair PC's, Laptops, Macs, Printers, and other peripheral devices.  • Remotely accessing clients' system to troubleshoot and fix problems Tester/Intern KODARIS February 2017 to March 2018 • Investigated and tested product quality  • Collaborated with the Product Development team to ensure consistent project execution.  • Identified quality assurance process bottleneck and suggest actions for improvement.  • Tested API's to connect various products using JavaScript.  • Prepared and presented reports and metrics to Senior Management    MART4REAL IT Consultant Internet Café January 2010 to December 2015 • Secured all Internet Café devices using Bitdefender  • Responded to alerts if customer downloaded malicious files  • Respond and report all incidents  • Fill in for in-house IT Helpdesk services as needed.  • Hardware/Software support for company technology assets and walk-in customers.  • Imaged machines for end users.  • Managing IT operations of two company locations.  • Setup and configured networks, desktops, laptops and printers. Education Bachelor's Degree in Cyber Security Colorado State University Bachelor's Degree Ashworth College Associate Degree in Computer Information Systems Ashworth College