IT Security Specialist IV <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Specialist IV IT Security Specialist IV - Bank of America, TX • Over 5+ years of IT industry experience as a Security Analyst and Linux/Unix System Administrator under an environment of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 3.x/4.x/5.x/6.x, Cent OS 4.x/5.x, Suse 11, Aix on physical, VMware and AWS infrastructure.  • 5+ years' experience with Centrify infrastructure service (Centrally manage Identity, authentication and authorization of Linux/Unix environment in AD)  • Experienced in installing and administering Red hat, centos, Suse and Windows Operating system on Bare metal, VMware Virtual Infrastructure, and AWS cloud.  • Administration of Active Directory services  • Experience with VAS (Vintela) by one identity  • Setup Centrify reporting Site on top of SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and SQL Database  • Implement Privilege identity and access management solution using cyberark.  • Experience with identity governance tool such as Aveksa.  • Experience with SIEM integration tool such as Splunk.  • Good knowledge on remote administration tool for physical devices such as HP ILO, IBM IMM, and IBM AMM.  • Solid scripting and programming knowledge on Python, Bash shell, Korn shell, PowerShell, JAVA and JavaScript  • Seeking CISSP certification and targeting for 2019 JAN. Work Experience IT Security Specialist IV Bank of America, TX April 2019 to Present Environment: Microsoft Active Directory, VAS/QAS AD bridging. Red-Hat, Aix and Solaris  Responsibilities:  • Engineering AD bridgingwith vintela to manage 85k Unix host  • Tier 4 Operational support for Unix/AD bridging  • Engage various team member to fully test and implement newer version of VAS/QAS  • Engaged in shutting down SMB V1 in domain controllers. Senior Associate (IAM and Security Operations) Horizon BCBSNJ, NJ May 2017 to April 2019 Environment: Microsoft Active Directory, Centrify Server suit to integrate UNIX nodes with the AD. Red-Hat, Aix, Suse, Windows on Bare metal, VMware and AWS. Microsoft SQL, DB2, Hadoop, SAS, Informatica, CyberArk  Responsibilities:  • Managed Centrify and Active Directory environment for central authentication of Linux/Unix environment.  • Supervised two offshore resources to manage Centrify/AD platform  • Architect Centrify environment including zone setup and creation of OU structure in an Active directory  • SIEM integration with Splunk for Centrify.  • Migrating 1200+ Privilege user's accessing UNIX servers and db2 database on the administrative account and lock down access to CyberArk PSM server.  • Create vault and safe for storing UNIX root password, service account password and SSH keys on CyberArk EPV.  • The managed incident, service request, problem management and change request in Service now. Designed new catalog item and workflow in Service now for identity and access management team.  • Automation of access provisioning to UNIX servers with RSA Identity Governance & Lifecycle (Aveksa)  • Migration local authentication of old legacy Unix environment into Active Directory  • DB2 user/group provisioning through AD/Centrify  • Managing SAS application access with Active Directory users/groups using Centrify and pam stack  • Installed, configure, and managed Centrify reporting Site on top of SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and SQL Database  • Created new Centrify zone, role definition, roles assignment, user/group provisioning, computer roles, and custom Centrify reports  • DZDO role creation and setup for Unix Environment  • Bulk deletion of local user/group from UNIX environment.  • Developed solution with a script to parse passwd and group file of an old legacy system to expedite migration. Created scripts in power shell and bash to manage deployment of agents.  • Prepared architectural diagram for enterprise-wide deployment of various tools and prepared standard operating procedure and related documentation  • Migration of shares to Isilon with multiprotocol nfs and cifs and managed access on both windows and UNIX with AD/Centrify. Principle Information Security Analyst Liberty Mutual, NH October 2015 to April 2017 Environment: Microsoft Active Directory, Centrify Server suit to integrate UNIX nodes with AD. Red-Hat, Aix, Solaris, windows  Responsibilities:  • Managed Centrify environment across 16000 UNIX nodes.  • SME for centrify and perform daily task with in house ticketing system and BMC remedy within SLA.  • Troubleshoot centrify issues by getting privileged access thought CyberArk PSM.  • Developed scripts in KSH and BASH to automate the task and generating report  • Installed and configured site minder web agent on web server  • Created policy on site minder policy server for SSO integration with internal web application  • Managed SSH keys across between all UNIX environment and VAX, mainframe, cloud application, windows, and AS400 environment.  • Provided support on migration Centrify-OpenSSH to version 7.1 and deprecated DSA key to RSA key. Modified SSH configuration for older legacy application where older key exchange mechanism was required.  • Extensively used Quest Activeroles in PowerShell to manage AD for Centrify OU. Developed a PowerShell script using Quest Active role for repetitive tasks like creating bulk user and groups, modify member and groups, provisioning ZPA and ZPA migration.  • Monitored Centrify agent health using tools like BMC Patrol, Splunk and Application lifecycle management (ALM).  • Created jobs in Bladelogic Server Automation to modify group ownership.  • Created scripts to collect local users and groups population and other pre-requisite such as sudo version, centrify version, OS level etc from multiple UNIX nodes to do the analysis.  • Manual and automated add/removal of human or non-human AD user to AD groups with PowerShell scripts, access manager and Active Directory users and computers.  • Zone provisioning and AD Group/User mapping using centrify to allow access to Unix Nodes  • Role creation and mapping via Centrify to grant privileged authorization on UNIX nodes for AD user.  • Setup role for AD user to allow access for SAS application.  • Setup security for DB2 database, Hadoop, and SAS environment.  • Local IDs disablement and migration of IDs and groups to AD to manage them centrally.  • Enterprise group directly mapped to UNIX nodes by assigning GID to match local groups to critical nodes where local GID cannot be changed.  • Provide status update and report on project to project manager and senior management  • Work with over 20 teams across the board to integrate UNIX nodes with AD using centrify  • Analyze and troubleshoot problem and make recommendation  • Prepare audit report and present it to senior management.  • Worked on cleaning up stale and orphaned computer object, users, groups and service connection points in active directory  • Provided support after hours during cut-over and critical transition.  • Made Bulk modification on Unix platform (all ~16000 servers) at once using Korn shell with proper change management control system  • Tweaked Kerberos configuration for batch users in SAS and Hadoop environment to extend Kerberos  • Managed Centrify roles and delegation to properly assign right to users and groups. Senior IT Specialist Celgene Corporation September 2013 to March 2015 Environment: RHEL 5.5/5.6/5.7/6.1/6.2/6.4/6.5, AIX V6.1, Suse 11, Centos, Windows, Oracle DB, NFS, Samba, DNS, Apache and Web sphere on IBM servers, Amazon AWS, vBlock and VMWARE virtual Infrastructure.  Responsibilities:  • Managing Linux Infrastructure involves day-to-day maintenance of servers and troubleshooting.  • Installation and Configuration of VMWARE vSphere 4.1/5.0 servers and Created RHEL Guest VM's for Dev/ Test and production environment  • Installation and Configuration of ESX hosts.  • Performed Red Hat Linux Kickstart installations on Red Hat 4.x/5.x/6.x, using Cobbler server.  • Performed Red Hat Linux Kernel Tuning, memory upgrades, server hardening  • Implemented patch management using Red Hat Satellite server.  • Joined Linux server to Centrify zone, Mapped AD user to Linux server using Centrify.  • Working with Logical Volume Manager and creating of volume groups/logical and performed Red Hat Linux Kernel Tuning.  • Installation & Configuration of software packages in Red Hat Linux. (Using both yum and rpm installations)  • Participated in migrating environment from 4.x and 5.x versions to 6.4  • Coordinate with vendors for an upgrade, maintenance of hardware and OS related calls.  • Worked on chroot Jail (jailed sftp), Creating and supporting SFTP users.  • Used various networking tools such as ssh, WinSCP, telnet, rlogin, FTP and ping to troubleshoot daily issues. Also, responsible for designing, implementing, and maintaining DNS, NFS and FTP services.  • Creating and maintaining user accounts on NIS environment.  • Worked on Web servers which include Tomcat 5.x/4.x/3.x & Apache Server 2.x/1.x  • Scheduling the Jobs using CRON tab.  • Preparing the servers for Oracle RAC installation by adding related rpm package, setting up firewall rules, setup asm-disk etc  • Implemented and Enhanced the Existing Scripts which are developed in BASH and Perl.  • Planning and scheduling with hardware vendors for faulty hardware replacement  • Installing and configuring the software packages based on project requirement  • Expertise in Linux backup/restores with tar including disk partitioning and formatting.  • Creating and Administrating File systems on Red Hat Linux.  • Installed/ upgraded patches, firmware and security (Kernel) patches for all HW & OS's in installed infrastructure  • Created RAID 1, 5 configurations on hardware RAID devices.  • Maintained Volumes and File systems for Oracle and MySQL databases  • Worked on shell scripts and Perl scripts for automation of daily tasks and created cron jobs & AT jobs  • Performed systems monitoring with IBM System Director, upgrades, performance tuning and backup and recovery.  • Resolved daily tickets using IQ track and Service-Now.  • Experienced communicating with on site and off shore teams on daily basis.  • Troubleshoot firewall connectivity issue and work closely with network team to apply appropriate changes to establish communication with AD domain controllers. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Trident International University - Cypress, CA Skills Aix, Korn, Korn shell, Red hat, Solaris Additional Information TECHNICAL Knowledge  Operating Systems: Red Hat AS/ES 4/5/6/7, SUSE 9/10,11/12 , CentOS 4/5/6/7, AIX 6.1, Solaris 9/10, and Windows R12.  Hardware: HP ProLiant, Dell Power Edge, IBM Blades/xseries, vBlock,  Database: Oracle 9i, 10g, DB2, Microsoft SQL  Web Applications: Java based, HTML  Languages: Python, Bash shell, Korn shell, PowerShell, JAVA and JavaScript  Network Protocols: SSL, TLS, Kerberos, HTTP, HTTPS, TCP/IP, UDP, FTP, SSH, ICMP, ARP, DNS, IPsec  Tools: VMWARE, HP-ILO, IBM-RSA/IMM/AMM, Centrify Access Manager, ADUC, cobbler, Bladelogic, Cyberark-PSM, Aveksa, Splunk