Security Administrator <span class="hl">Security</span> Administrator Security Administrator - Univar Solutions Columbus, OH Fast learning, patient, hardworking professional, experienced Help Desk Analyst seeking to advance in my career to a role as a Security Help Desk Analyst. Willing to participate in a government clearance investigation. Work Experience Security Administrator Univar Solutions August 2019 to Present • Provisioning Salesforce accounts  • Service-now ticketing system  • Provisioning Office 365 admin  • Provisioning SAP, Active Directory, Qlickview, and LMS  • Nationwide: IT Help Desk Analyst Tek Systems April 2019 to Present • Followed Security procedures maintaining compliance for data safety.  • Support for all Nationwide applications and mainframes under the NW umbrella  • Support desktop software including Outlook, Microsoft office 365, Lotus Notes, and remote VPN software  • Administrated active directory and LDAP accounts and maintained user's proper access and software availability along with required patches and updates.  • Provided remote assistance and support to Nationwide employees for all enterprise software UNIX mainframes and hardware, remotely diagnosed and installed applications and patches setup and imaged hardware according to firm security specifications.  • Utilized the Service-Now ticketing systems to track and monitor trouble tickets and ensure issue resolution.  • PCM: Help Desk Analyst Septrmber 2018 to April 2019 • Followed Security procedures maintaining compliance for data safety.  • Provided production IT support for all applications, systems and hardware for the companies contracted under PCM Proving remote assistance and support to all clients including all enterprise software.  • Remotely diagnosed and installed applications. Maintained client application libraries and patches via SCCM.  • Tasked to support the IT infrastructure of 12 companies contracted under PCM, utilizing Service-Now for ticketing.  • Managed active directory account and group policies privileges and provided network and system support. Account Manager/CSR Discover November 2017 to September 2018 • Followed Security procedures maintaining compliance for data safety.  • Walk customers through account updates/procedures  • Efficiently handled customer inquiries, maintaining a professional decorum. Help Desk Analyst State of Ohio July 2018 to August 2018 • Followed Security procedures maintaining compliance for data safety.  • Resolved problem records through Salesforce as well as sent out updates and correspondences.  • Provisioned Safesforce merging accounts from legacy system PC repair technician Self Employed November 2011 to January 2016 • Provided services repairing and configuring pc's client in the Springfield, Ohio area  • Performed system imaging and hardware upgrades for windows  • Diagnosed and repaired Windows systems. Education Microsoft Network Technology Fortis College November 2011 Skills Css, Active directory, Exchange, Linux, Html, Javascript, Computer troubleshooting, Windows server 2008, Remote troubleshooting Additional Information Skill Summary:  • Extensive computer troubleshooting knowledge spanning all Windows versions  • Experience with the most popular Linux distros including Ubuntu  • 5 years of remote troubleshooting experience  • Worked extensively in windows server 2008 & 2012 Including active directory, and exchange servers  • Self-Study of programming principles in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript