IT Risk and Compliance Analyst II <span class="hl">IT</span> Risk and Compliance <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II IT Risk and Compliance Analyst II - TJX Companies Medway, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Risk and Compliance Analyst II TJX Companies September 2017 to Present As a member of the IT Risk Management Team I was responsible for Risk Management Information System Management and Risk Reporting. The IT Risk team was a new function and as such I was responsible for the development and maintenance of all templates and data-tables for the Risk Function including but not limited to; Risk register, issues log, exceptions log and remediation logs. This included creating relational databases between our taxonomy. In developing the program I increased my project management skills, ran many offsites and workshops from Manager Of level up to SVP. I have created reporting based on functional data to report on risk landscape to senior leadership.    Skills: Data analysis, ISO27002, Data Management, stakeholder analysis, reporting, trend analysis, Excel, Macros, VBA, PowerBI. IT Security Analyst I TJX Companies April 2017 to September 2017 As a contract associate in the access control team I dealt with user access from initial setup to termination, and all access related to their role, working primarily out of a ticketing system. The position gave me experience in both enterprise Unix and Windows environments. I am comfortable interfacing with customers across multiple platforms to resolve incidents and handle escalations. The role familiarized me with working in quality control, auditing and security compliant environments.    Working Knowledge of; Unix, AIX, AD, ITIM, Enterprise Windows, Desktop Windows, Citrix, and more. Technical Analyst FoodTec January 2017 to April 2017 My time as a Technical Security Analyst at FoodTec allowed for an exploration of business-grade networking fundamentals; management of devices such as SonicWall firewalls, remote POS systems, VoIP troubleshooting, and more. The business-critical urgency taught me a better understanding of how to better prioritize tasks and incidents, and fostered multitasking capabilities. I honed the ability to discern what tasks fell within my scope and which needed to be escalated to more senior teams.  Familiar with; configuring, troubleshooting, and securing small business networks via security policies, port forwarding, and layer three networking. Lead Teacher Kindercare Ashland June 2013 to January 2016 I taught classrooms of a variety of ages, working full time during school breaks. During which I learned how to prioritize tasks and handle unplanned incidents. Dealt with conflict resolution with both children and parents. Management tasked me with running a specialty class as a premier service for customers.  Skills Learned: Incident management, multitasking, de-escalation techniques, project management. Education Bachelors of Science in Math Westfield State University 2012 to 2016 business, law, engineering and computer science Holliston High School 2008 to 2012 Skills Excel (6 years), Data Analysis (2 years), Reporting (3 years)