Access Management Analyst Access Management <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Access Management Analyst - Kiewit Corporation Fremont, NE Work Experience Access Management Analyst Kiewit Corporation - Omaha, NE February 2019 to Present • Current acting Scrum Master for the team.  • Implement agile framework in Azure DevOps for the access management team.  • Coach team members on Scrum and Kanban methodologies.  • Help overcome any obstacles team members may have during daily stand ups.  • Ensure all ceremonies are held and plan any meetings Product Owner or team members need.  • Work and coach Product Owner on backlog review.  • Keep backlog, current work, and obstacles transparent for management to easily review. Security GRC IT Analyst Kiewit Corporation - Omaha, NE June 2017 to February 2019 • Create policies and procedures around SAP Access according to best practices.  • Audit and remediate segregation of duties and sensitive access in SAP systems.  • Product owner for SAP GRC 10.1 responsible for patching and upgrading.  • Work on proof of concept around SAP HANA S4 with various teams around SSO, authentication and authorization.  • Redesign SAP Roles for Procure to Pay and Payroll teams to reduce the assignment of sensitive access and segregation of duties violations.  • Communicate audit remediation status for KMPG, Protiviti and internal audits to senior management.  • Allocate team members to support weekends, upgrades and project deployments.  • Travel and train all new employee's on security for employee's who have been with the company for less than 2 years.  • Earned facilitator of the year (2017) for exceeding training expectations. SAP GRC Administrator Kiewit Corporation - Omaha, NE August 2015 to June 2017 • Upgraded SAP GRC from 10.0 to 10.1.  • Implemented a new and customized segregation of duties ruleset for various SAP systems.  • Reduced segregation of duties access violations from 3.1 million to 350,000 violations.  • Worked with audit (both external and internal) to ensure all policies and procedures around SAP role design, firefighter ID  process, and change management were being followed.  • Implemented, configure and run LAW 2.0.  • Reduced firefighter ID logins from over 1,000+ logins per month to 100 per month.  • Implemented Greenlight AVM and automate 2 controls. SAP Access Management Product Lead Kiewit Corporation - Omaha, NE August 2013 to August 2014 • Ensured that all SAP projects followed the overall SAP Security design.  • Completed all assigned work for SAP projects in need of security changes.  • Redesigned requirement documents for projects to ensure basic SAP security questions were answered before projects went  into build.  • Lead various team to configure and implement License Administration Workbench (LAW), saving over eight million  dollars in licensing and professional services fees.  • Redesigned and documented GRC 10.0 workflows, e-mail notifications, FireFighter Process, and role access request  process.  • Worked on Tier 3 support for all advanced security incidents involving SAP Access, HCM Structural Authorizations, and role design/changes, for the following systems: GRC, ECC, SRM, CLM, CRM, BusinessObjects, and Duet. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science in Scrum Alliance Certified MidAmerica Nazarene University