Transportation Support Manager | Platoon Leader Transportation Support Manager | Platoon Leader Transportation Support Manager | Platoon Leader - United States Army National Guard Maryland Military Officer with Active Secret Security Clearance and 3 years of proven experience in the United States Army National Guard. Managed risk upon multiple lines to protect assets, property, and equipment valued over $67M while meeting the expectations of senior leadership. Dependable professional interested in Cyber Security job positions with any company that can apply analytical, technical, and innovation skills to support and guard organizations against security breaches while keeping them FISMA/NIST compliant. With my military experiences, I know how to collaborate with people to bring a better result. I am eager to work with a team of analysts, Security Control Assessors, ISSO, stake holders to defend digital files and electronic infrastructure. Work Experience Transportation Support Manager | Platoon Leader United States Army National Guard 2015 to Present Managed, coordinated, and allocated transportation logistics operations totaling over 53K tons between to over 200 departments.  • Managed weekly maintenance of 24 heavy vehicles and 26 trailers valued at $67M+ that supported 5 companies with at 98% operational readiness rating  • Led, mentored, trained, and communicated daily with 10 supervisors and 35 employees in a transportation organization  • Hand selected by executive leaders to serve as the transportation manager in the only Heavy Equipment Transportations section for the US Army Reserve; completed over 100 missions  • Developed, coordinated, and executed transportation, fuel, food, and water support for a 21-day training exercise consisting of 5K+ personnel with zero shortfalls due to logistics  • Consistently rated in the top 10% of transportation managers in the organization  • Prepared 5 personnel with applying for their CDL using military experience which resulted in 5 state CDL endorsements IT Security Analyst Washington Tech October 2013 to June 2017 • Performing daily ongoing (A&A) Assessment and Authorization projects in support of client security system.  • Conducting kick off meeting to categorize agency's systems per NIST requirements of Low, Moderate or High system.  • Conducting IT controls risk assessments that include reviewing organizational polices, standards, procedures and guidelines.  • Reviewing and update of the System Security Plan (SSP) using NIST SP 800-18 guidelines.  • Knowledge of the entire RMF process and its compliance using NIST 800 series publications and standards.  • Supporting client with creating SOP as evidence in ongoing POA&M remediation process.  • Experience in system classification and categorization using RMF process to ensure system CIA. This ensures complaint security control selections and implementation for continuous system protection.  • Supporting client in creating findings for POA&Ms as part of ongoing remediation process.  • Supporting client in creating memos for POAMs that past Scheduled Completion Dates.  • Communicates effectively through written and verbal means to co-workers, subordinates and senior leadership.  • Possess a strong work ethic, positive attitude, great analytical skills, and team player.  • Performed Vulnerability Assessment using Nessus Scan.  • Assist with risk assessment and incident response procedures Education Army Logistic University - Fort Lee, VA July 2018 to November 2018 Bachelor of Science in Business University of Toledo - Toledo, OH 2017 Skills SHAREPOINT, MAC, MICROSOFT OFFICE, MICROSOFT WINDOWS, MARKETING Links http://linkedin.com/in/cyril-agbor-8233b3142 Military Service Branch: United States National Guard Rank: 2LT Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Software: Microsoft Office, SharePoint  Operating Systems: Mac / Microsoft Windows    VOLUNTEER    Story Corps, Toledo    • Encouraged and improved relationships with Law enforcement and community.    Kabacker Health Center - University of Toledo Medical Center    • Interact and assisted Alzheimer with their daily activities.    Marketing Intern at Otterbein Portage Living Assistance.