IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst Prince George's County, MD Details  A highly motivated and passionate IT Security Analyst with 5+ years of experience in Information Security with focus on Risk ManagementFramework(RMF), System categorization, security control selection,implementation, assessment, authorization and Monitoring security controls respectively; in an effort to alleviate the risk and vulnerability of the system. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst CyOne, Inc. December 2016 to Present Developed, reviewed and updated Information Security System Policies, Risk Management  established security baselines in accordance with NIST, FISMA, FIPS, and industry best security practices. Plans of Action and Milestones  Performed vulnerability scanning with the support of Nessus scanning tool (POA&M) to detect potential risks on a single or multiple asset across the enterprise  network.  Updated IT security policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines per the respective department and federal requirements.  Performed risk assessments, help review and update, Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M), Security Control Assessments, (SA&A) Security  Assessment and Authorization using NIST SP 800-53 rev4/FIPS 200 ( Security  Controls), NIST SP 800-53A rev4 (Assessing Security Controls).  Monitored controls post authorization to ensure constant compliance with the security requirements Entry Level/ Jr IT Security Analyst Syndicus NACON June 2014 to November 2016 Conduct assessments utilizing NIST 800-53a Conduct findings meeting with stakeholders  Write up SAR and provide detailed explanation about findings Helped in developing, reviewing and updating Information Security System Policies.  Assisted team in performing vulnerability scanning with the support of Nessus scanning tool to detect potential risks on a single or multiple asset across the enterprise network.  Updated IT security policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines per the  respective department and federal requirements. Performed risk  assessments, help review and update, Plans of Action and Milestones  (POA&M), Security Control Assessments, and specific security  documentation. (SA&A) Security Assessment and Authorization using NIST  SP 800-53 rev4/FIPS 200 ( Security Controls), NIST SP 800-53A rev4 (Assessing  Security Controls).  Assisted in monitoring controls post authorization to ensure constant  compliance with the security requirements Entry level IT security analyst /Junior SOC analyst Triple Canopy April 2013 to June 2014 Worked in a SOC environment and implemented NIST/RMF in assessing  vulnerabilities identified in a system  Monitor networks by utilizing a multitude of tools including SNORT.  Assist with the development of processes and procedures to improve incident  response times, analysis of incidents, and overall SOC functions    Provide network intrusion detection expertise to support timely and effective  decision making of when to declare an incident  Document all activities during an incident and providing leadership with status  updates during the life cycle of the incident    Document all activities during an incident and provide support with status  updates during the life cycle of the incident  Analyze a variety of network and host-based security appliance logs (Firewalls,  NIDS, HIDS, Sys Logs, etc.) to determine the correct remediation actions and escalation paths for each incident    Provide information regarding intrusion events, security incidents, and other  threat indications and warning information Education Suitland High School August 2007 to May 2011 Skills FIPS 199, FIPS 200, NIST 800-53, NIST 800-53A, NIST 800-30, NIST 800-37, NIST 800-39,SSP, SAR,Nessus,Microsoft Office 2003-2016,Risk ManagementPlans of Action and Milestones (POA&M),, Security Certifications/Licenses Security+ June 2019 to June 2022