ISSO ISSO Bowie, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ISSO SE Solutions now known as SteamPunk, INC - Washington, DC November 2017 to Present ISSO role on a project with Department of Homeland Security (DHS).  ? For the Office of the Chief Information Officer, Completed ATO for system containing 6 sub-systems and currently managing another system under Office of Professional Responsibility   ? Provides Information Assurance subject matter expertise and participates in working groups, technical discussions, issue resolution, and briefings relating to the system development life cycle (SDLC) and assessments  ? Provides security guidance and recommendations pertinent to IT Operations of the system and overall mission support of the client  ? Performs technical security review of all proposed changes/updates to information systems for Security impact and authorizes information system updates through the Configuration Control Board  ? Oversees the execution of Database, Operating System, and Web Application scans in accordance with policy  ? Reviews audit logs monthly for the system via Splunk and provides reporting to management and system administrators  ? Review scan results and create remediation plans and POA&Ms for findings as applicable Information System Security Officer (ISSO) Deloitte & Touche, LLP - Rosslyn, VA September 2014 to Present Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO)  Deloitte & Touche, LLP- Rosslyn, VA  ISSO role on a project with Department of Defense- Defense Health Agency (DHA).  • Successfully completed multiple Risk Management Framework (RMF) ATOs for  DOD Client Systems- First effort completed in program office  • Currently manages the security posture of three systems  • Provides Information Assurance subject matter expertise and participates in working  groups, technical discussions, issue resolution, and briefings relating to the system  development life cycle (SDLC) and assessments  • Provides security guidance and recommendations throughout the software  development life cycle to maintain the security posture and accreditation status of  information systems  • Researches new security challenges and advises government stakeholders on  security risk and provides potential solutions to mitigate risks  • Performs technical security review of all proposed changes/updates to information  systems for Security impact and authorizes information system updates through the  Configuration Control Board  • Develops, maintains, and manages completion of all Plan of Action & Milestone's  (POA&Ms) to ensure all risks are identified and remediated IT Auditor CliftonLarsonAllen, LLP - Calverton, MD January 2014 to September 2014 • Performed Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements 16 (SSAE 16)  Assessments, Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) Audits based  on NIST 800-53 REV 4, and Federal Information System Controls Audit Manual  (FISCAM) audits in support of financial statements.  • Experience with assessing and testing technology controls throughout the SDLC  business cycle.  • Interviewed clients and developed the ability to effectively derive necessary  information to complete control testing and understand the various client systems  within the organization. This is key for providing objective recommendations to  further improve systems as well as improve communication skills.  • Gained experience with writing findings and recommendations clearly and effectively  for management and clients.  • Analyzed POA&Ms and supporting documentation and built attention-to-detail skills.  • Developed multi-tasking and time management skills to meet various and often  simultaneous deadlines. IT Business Analyst Intern Federal Reserve - Washington, DC June 2012 to August 2013 ? Gained working knowledge of SDLC by assisting with upgrade project of Phire application from version 5.0 to 7.1 and in 2013, 8.1 through analysis meetings and testing  ? Worked with Sharepoint extensively by creating pages, helping to maintain and troubleshoot front-end site, and coordinated work on the Phire upgrade through use of spreadsheets and Access tables via Sharepoint  ? Gained experience with SQL by creating and analyzing queries using PS Query and generating custom reports to present to management and clients  ? Supplemented this with learning Oracle 11g skills through the FedLearn training application  ? Assisted with the implementation, admin setup, and troubleshooting of time tracking software Journyx Education Bachelor's in Information Systems University of Maryland-Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD September 2009 to December 2013 Skills AUDIT (6 years), DATABASE (2 years), DOCUMENTATION (3 years), Risk Management (6 years), HBSS (3 years), Tech Writing (5 years), Vulnerability Analysis (6 years), Risk Management Framework (5 years), Assessment and Authorization (6 years), Configuration Management (4 years), Continuous Monitoring (5 years), Customer Service, Security, Organizational Skills, Word Links http://linkedin.com/in/steven-holness- Certifications/Licenses Security+ November 2014 to Present CISSP December 2017 to December 2022 Up to date on ISC2 dues