IT Consultant <span class="hl">IT</span> Consultant IT Security Specialist Pittsburgh, PA Eight years of experience as Information Technology Specialist with a Masters in Information Assurance and Security, Bachelors in Computer Technology. Experienced with gathering and organizing technical information about an organization's mission goals and needs, existing security products, and ongoing programs within the security arena. Able to communicate complex technical concepts and project information clearly and concisely to both technical and non-technical audiences    Currently pursuing certifications in: CISSP, SANS/GIAC, and Security+ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Consultant D. Johnson Technical Solutions - Pittsburgh, PA October 2016 to Present Provides technical guidance and assistance to resolve complex network and hardware issues.     Resolve various service issues, including troubleshooting and repairing network connectivity issues, hardware and display failures, and printer problems.    Provides recommendations to clients regarding hardware and software solutions   (i.e. modems, peripherals, storage devices, etc.)    Implements hardware and software upgrades to improves efficiency within clients’ networks to meet company and government standards. IT Security Analyst PPG Industries - Pittsburgh, PA March 2019 to July 2019 ·        Measured and improved security and compliance metrics including DR, PCI, SOX, HIPAA, Export Control and Compliance, Technical Controls and others.  ·        Delivered security and compliance services including security awareness, training, documentation, policy development and security product deployment.  ·        Provided high-level assistance to users and business units with IT security and audit concerns.  ·        Reviewed and updated Disaster Recovery (DR), Incident Response and Crisis Management plans. Software Support Representative Philips Respironics-Contractor - Pittsburgh, PA January 2018 to February 2019 ·        Coordination of pre-install activities (scheduling installs, reviewing Pre-installation checklists, completing Pre-installation readiness checks with customers, etc.)   ·        Remotes configuration of software according to customer specifications.   Posting install support within the product support call center.   ·        Assisting customers with maximizing the utility of Encore software by appropriately configuring the software and training end-users to meet individual customer needs.   ·        Working closely with the software engineering team to resolve escalated customer issues and to determine requirements for future releases, as well as assist with testing future releases prior to launch.  ·         Researching, recording, and providing appropriate feedback and solutions to customers with regard to product complaints and events associated with the software application.   Informing Product Managers on customer issues related to software utilization and software design.  Information Technology Specialist PRIMARY CARE HEALTH SERVICE (Alma Illery Medical Center) - Pittsburgh, PA August 2014 to January 2018 Directly coordinates with the Information Technology Director and corporate executive bodies regarding the state of technical issues. Contributes to the creation and implementation of corporate disaster recovery planning. Responsible for monitoring, evaluating, and recommendations of information systems and equipment. Evaluates emerging and available technologies to enable customer systems and users to securely share information with customers.    Evaluates emerging requirements and technologies to assist the Technology Director identify long-term investment strategy.    Coordinates with healthcare software vendors, through the software life-cycle process, to tailor applications and devices to company needs.    Responds to user requests for service by troubleshoot problems, and develop solutions. Assists users in determining appropriate software solutions that meet their requirements Lab Technician Assistant Office of Information Technology - Norfolk, VA January 2009 to May 2010 Supported several networked laboratory environments as a member of the university support staff.  Responsible for planning, evaluating and implementing approved system changes and upgrades and providing tier 2 and 3 support for hardware and software problem resolution. Education Master's in Information Assurance And Security Walden University - Minneapolis, MN September 2014 to January 2017 Bachelor's in Computer Technology Norfolk State University - Norfolk, VA August 2006 to December 2011 Associate in Liberal Arts Butler County Community College - El Dorado, KS January 2004 to January 2006 Skills • Expert knowledge Windows and MS Office applications (10, 8, 7, Vista, and XP) in a technical support environment. • Intermediate knowledge of Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016, Symantec Endpoint Protection Client and Manager, Symantec backup exec, Norton Anti-virus software, Track-it software, Circuit Analysis, Visual Basic, Adobe Photoshop, ADP software, and Software IOS 7.1, WordPress • Excellent analytical problem solving, coupled with strong listening and documentation skills. Familiar with providing administrative, technical support, and recommendations to Change Management Boards and Configuration Control Boards (10+ years), Desktop Support, Customer Service