SPLUNK ADMINISTRATOR SPLUNK ADMINISTRATOR SPLUNK ADMINISTRATOR - NDTI - HILL AIRFORCE, UT Clearfield, UT Work Experience SPLUNK ADMINISTRATOR NDTI - HILL AIRFORCE, UT January 2019 to Present • Experience in end-to-end event monitoring infrastructure of business-aligned applications.  • Expertise in searching, monitoring, analyzing and visualizing Splunk logs.  Environment: Splunk 7.1, Splunk 7.3, Linux, Splunk Knowledge Objects.  • Was an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Analyzed security-based events, risks and reporting instances.  • Troubleshooting of searches for performance issues by adding lookups, correct joints and using summary indexes.  • Created Dashboards for various types of business users in the organization and worked on creating different Splunk Knowledge objects like, Calculated fields, Tags, Event Types, and Lookups.  • Well versed on Parsing, Indexing, Searching concepts, Hot, Warm, Cold and Frozen bucketing.  • Actively involved in troubleshooting issues.  • Maintain documentation of applications including what work has been done, what is left to do and site-specific procedures documenting the Splunk environment.  • Developed scripts to automate batch jobs, loading data into Splunk including syslog and log files.  • Optimization of Splunk for peak performance by splitting Splunk indexing and search activities across different machines.  • Involved in standardizing Splunk forwarder deployment, configuration, and maintenance across UNIX and Windows platforms.  •Experience with eMASS, SIEM, Comparable tools and Using NESSUS to analyze Vulnerability Scans.  • Work with a team of Information System Owners, Developers and System Engineers to select and Implement tailored controls in safeguarding system information.  • Create Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M) management for identifying vulnerabilities and performed compliance monitoring.  • Experience with continuous monitoring of security controls and review of vulnerability scans and follow-up to ensure mitigations of vulnerabilities per standard operating procedures.  • I develop root cause for weaknesses, resources requirements, remediation activities and project plan within required time for formal identification of weakness.  • Conduct assessments of system safeguards and controls and respond to external audits as required.  • Investigate, contain and report all Classified Message Incidents (CMIs).  • Conduct vulnerability scans via the Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS) for all assets on the AF network (i.e. work stations, server, switches, and routers).  • Conduct SCAP / STIG Viewer scans for STIG compliance checks on all applicable assets.  • Develop process and procedures for all day to day operations. IT Security Analyst Lumark Technologies, Inc September 2015 to December 2018 • Installing and configuration Splunk multisite indexer cluster for data replication.  • Setting up Splunk Forwarders for new application tiers introduced into the environment and existing application.  • Responsible with Splunk Searching and Reporting modules, Knowledge Objects, Administration, Add-On's, Dashboards, Clustering and Forwarder Management.  • Splunk configuration that involves Saved search, summary search, and summary indexes.  • Experience with search ahead clustering and Index clustering.  • Experience with working on large datasets to generate insights and communicate insights to guide strategic roadmap.  • Extensive experience in setting up the Splunk to monitor the customer volume and track the customer activity.  • Installed and configured heavy, universal, and intermediate forwarders.  • Involved in Splunk upgradations, migrating infrastructure, troubleshooting Splunk Enterprise and capacity planning  • Analyzing reports generated by scanning tools and Providing recommendations on how to fix uncovered vulnerabilities  • Performing Web Application Scanning using WebInspect  • Proactively working in hosted SIEM environment to collaborate with engineers to detect and mitigate threats  • Creating a Plan of Action and Milestones and work accordingly to lower risk score across organization.  • Experience in analyzing results from vulnerability scanning and penetration testing in accordance with NIST 800-115, using tools like Nessus, WebInspect.  • Experience with FIPS 199/NIST 800-60 Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information system.  • Selecting the controls using NIST 800-53/FIPS 200, implementing controls and developing SSP and other key deliverable documents.  • Work with a team of Information System Owners, Developers and System Engineers to select and Implement tailored controls in safeguarding system information.  • Evaluating and/or creating System Security Plans (SSP), Contingency Disaster Recovery Plans (CDRP), Risk Assessment Reports (RAR), Security Assessment Reports (SAR) and Executive Summaries. Education Bachelor's in Cybersecurity University of Maryland - College Park, MD January 2018 to Present Bachelor's in Economics and Management University of Yaounde 2 - Yaounde October 2008 to September 2012 Skills Nist, Splunk, Elasticsearch, Security, Ms project, Ms office, Documentation, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Linux (2 years) Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E4 Certifications/Licenses CEH November 2018 to November 2021 ComPTIA Security+ May 2018 to May 2021 AWS- Associate July 2018 to July 2021