Regional Security Control Room Operator Regional <span class="hl">Security</span> Control Room Operator Regional Security Control Room Operator - Barclays Stanhope, NJ Experienced and self-motivated individual with proficient computer literacy and adaptable skill set seeking new challenges and growth opportunities. Work Experience Regional Security Control Room Operator Barclays - Whippany, NJ February 2019 to Present • Receive and respond to routine and emergency communication from client employees, outside vendors, law enforcement, and the security field force via telephone, e-mail, automated alarm monitoring, and radio systems.  • Evaluate global incidents that may impact employees or offices and escalate promptly to security management and subsequently to other departments outside and within the Joint Operations Centre.  • Make discretion-based decisions and exercise action during high tension and stressful situations.  • Represent the front-line of Barclays' incident/crisis management by utilizing situational awareness of issues around the world through internet observation and news media reporting.  • Coordinate appropriate internal and external resources available to Barclays to manage the situation.  • Fulfilled the daily routine in the RSCR by locating and identifying defective cameras, card readers, and alarms to our Ground Security and Technical teams  • Conducted investigations assigned to my team in a diligent and ethical manner as well as following the guidelines that must take place pre-investigation.  • Maintained and coordinated an organized workstation each shift to ensure the appropriate resources are ready at a moment's notice in addition to filing critical documents, reports, and any on-going correspondence to facilitate smooth transitions between shifts. PIA/Invoicing Case Analyst Solix - Parsippany, NJ February 2018 to October 2018 • Coordinated closely with school and library officials to quickly and efficiently audit applications for the E-rate Program funded by the Universal Service Administrative Company.  • Skillfully operated a combination of extensive computer programs as tools to complete the assessment of information provided for applications.  • Worked in combined effort with management and specialized teams to validate applicant information in accordance with the requirements of the Universal Service Administrative Company.  • Analyzed bills for telecommunications and information services in accordance with the program's rules to determine the validity of the funding requested by the applicants. Marketing/ IT Manager HMII - Hackettstown, NJ May 2016 to February 2018 • Developed marketing strategies to attract potential leads through website advertisements and Act e-mail campaigns.  • Proficiently utilized Microsoft and Adobe programs to complete a variety of different tasks needed to complete company goals.  • Skillfully navigated Wordpress and GoDaddy to manage the company's websites.  • Disassembled and reassembled a variety of different lighting fixtures and monitors in need of repair.  • Preserved the flexibility to adapt quickly and function at a high-level based upon the company's needs. Retail Merchandiser PepsiCo Beverage Company - East Hanover, NJ April 2014 to February 2018 • Managed shelf-space that is leased by PepsiCo.  • Handled merchandise that was purchased by the customers, as well as keeping the product rotated, organized, counted, and set to a planogram.  • Worked with account managers to strategize about product management, and also to provide a solution to any problems they may be experiencing.  • Maintained a role of individual responsibility to properly complete tasks in a timely and sensible manner as a representative of PepsiCo. Education Associate of Science in Criminal Justice in Criminal Justice Sussex County Community College - Newton, NJ September 2012 to 2015 Certifications/Licenses SORA February 2019 to February 2021 CPR, AED, and Basic First Aid February 2019 to February 2021 Additional Information INTERPERSONAL SKILLS  • Consistently work with a team of people efficiently.  • Proficient understanding of people, including an ability to communicate to meet the needs of those I work with.  • Ability to complete multiple tasks without losing sight of the initial goal.