Experienced Cyber Security Associate Experienced Cyber <span class="hl">Security</span> Associate Experienced Cyber Security Associate - PwC Chicago, IL Work Experience Experienced Cyber Security Associate PwC - Chicago, IL May 2018 to Present Collaborate with other key members in a cross-functional environment to support the design and development  of new or enhanced business and IT processes that comply with client engagements  ? Provide vendor risk assessments by identifying, analyzing, and finalizing score  ? Provide Forensic services by examining designated documents, emails, and logs to identify and escalate  potential indicators of fraud  ? Create work frameworks and provide subject matter expertise to less experienced team members  ? Served as Enterprise project coordinator preparing SDLC agenda and reporting to Board and upper-level  executives to share highly complex information related to areas of interest and/or to gain acceptance of new or enhanced requirements  ? Developed and executed operational activities that impacted important components and processes of specified  IT work functions, including responsibilities in the area of Security, Planning and Analysis, Strategy and Operations within Internal Firm Services (Cyber team) five year plan Information Security Analyst 1 Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines - Des Moines, IA May 2015 to May 2018 Conduct network monitoring and intrusion detection analysis using computer network defense tools such as:  Solutionary (IDS), Imperva (WAF), Websense (internet filter), Mimecast (email filter), FireSIGHT (IPS), CyberArk (IAM), TrendMicro, and Cisco (NAC)  ? Reviewed alerts and data from sensors and documents formulated, and created technical incident reports to assist in risk management and mitigation  ? Assist in creating KRIs and metrics to build risk reports for upper management  ? Create risk assessments of third party vendors by identifying, analysing, and finalizing score  ? Security Lead in creating company wide security awareness campaigns, article posts, and emails  ? Project leader for web application firewall wall implementation. Collaborated with other IT departments and vendor (Imperva) to implement web application firewall within our network  ? Create, edit, update security policies, standards and procedures. Create and modify Security Incident Response  Procedure primarily after NIST 800-61 and ISO 27000 guidelines.  ? Mimecast admin support in: message tracking, policy changes, and custom reports Undergraduate Research Assistant, IINSPIRE Program (LSAMP) Iowa State University Research Assistantship - Ames, IA September 2013 to May 2015 Create and update web pages using HTML and WordPress.  ? Assist in coordinating conference event programs to increase underrepresented population in STEM majors  with more than 15 colleges and universities in the Midwest area.  ? Create and framework workbook for IINSPIRE ambassadors and any other administrative tasks held within office setting. IT Process Management Internship Nationwide Insurance - Des Moines, IA January 2014 to August 2014 Assist with the coordination of activities relating to Nationwide's goal to develop and implement a standard  methodology for business process management, including new process design, process improvement, project  management and business analysis, using Agile/Scrum methodologies.  ? Served in a Quality Assurance team testing software and wrote internal documentation for developers and server administrators.  ? Assist with the creation of business cases, resource estimates for new initiatives, and help framework the network. Develop project reports for varying audiences within the organization  ? Provided process support to projects pertaining to the systems mainframe. Ran and executed programs using  COBOL. Created pivot tables, ran macros, vlookups, ect. Education Bachelors of Science in Management Information Systems Iowa State University - Ames, IA June 2015