Armed Security Officer Armed <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Security Specialist Garrettsville, OH I served in the Ohio Army National Guard for just under 5 years. I got released from the Army for a hardship discharge due to family medical issues. I was a Wheeled Vehicle Mechanic and was deployed overseas for Security Forces. I also have a total of 2 years experience with On-Site Security and Surveillance. I am very comfortable with computers as well. I worked at L'Oreal USA for a year as an IT Analyst after my deployment. I also have a few years experience on forklifts in warehousing and manufacturing jobs. Along with some machine operating experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Armed Security Officer Typhon Security - Akron, OH August 2017 to Present VIP Protection, Site management, Access Control and High School Security. The majority of my time i have done armed security at a second chance high school in Cleveland controlling access to building and ensuring the safety and well being of all of the students and staff. Security Guard Point 2 Point Global Security - Streetsboro, OH February 2016 to March 2016 Responsibilities  Check I.D.s and control access for everybody coming on site. I would also log every tractor and trailer coming onto the site along with all vendors and visitors.     Accomplishments  I got offered a position as a site supervisor for the company.    Skills Used  Punctuality, attention to detail, dependability and good time management. Private Investigator/ Security Guard SACS Consulting & Investigative Services - Akron, OH February 2015 to February 2016 Patrolled the facility and served as a general security presence and visible deterrent to crime and rule infractions. Conducted investigations regarding suspected incidents of external fraud, employee theft and embezzlement. Answered alarms and investigated disturbances. Patrolled industrial and commercial premises to prevent and detect signs of intrusion and ensure security of doors, windows and gates. IT Analyst L'Oreal USA - Solon, OH September 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities  I upgraded all of the computers along with upgrading all of the software to every computer in the plant. I also did a lot of troubleshooting and minor network troubleshooting. Wheeled Vehicle Mechanic Ohio Army National Guard - Youngstown, OH April 2010 to November 2014 Maintain and repair all vehicles located inside our motor pool. Maintain security of military base involving tower detail, controlling an entry control point, working as part of a Quick Reaction Force (QRF) and also visual inspection of local nationals entering base. Education GED Maplewood Career Center - Ravenna, OH 2008 Skills Leadership (2 years), Fast Learner (10+ years), Forklift Operator (3 years), Machine Operator (1 year), Security, Customer Service, Organizational Skills, Word, Stocking, Typing, Cash Handling, Excel, Management Military Service Branch: Ohio Army National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: Specialist April 2010 to November 2014 Wheeled Vehicle Mechanic in the service. Deployed to Kuwait and Bahrain for base security. I was a Squad Leader over 6 soldiers while deployed. Certifications/Licenses Security Guard