Enterprise Security Analyst II Enterprise <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II Enterprise Security Analyst II - Texas Tech University Lubbock, TX Work Experience Enterprise Security Analyst II Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX 2017 to Present Administered and optimized institution's use of Qualys Vulnerability Management and other modules.  Proposed and designed implementation path for Qualys Cloud Agent on all institution systems.  Monitored user accounts and systems for signs of compromise. Achieved PCIP (Payment Card Industry  Professional) certification. Audit of segmented PCI DSS compliant networks. Completed 5 day training  course in HIPAA Compliance. Completed ISACA CSX training courses. Developed minor Python scripts to assist with daily work. Built custom dashboards and searches within Splunk SIEM. Assigned as  designated team lead for compliance with PCI DSS, HIPAA, and NIST controls. Managed and optimized  Symantec Endpoint Protection. Established testing center for Enterprise IT Security team (EITS).  Developed and presented oral presentations and trainings. Assisted in design and administration of EITS  web page. Administered and monitored change management for Palo Alto firewalls. Responded to University Police's security concerns regarding lost/stolen mobile devices. Created and presented  security improvement proposals. Acted as security liaison with other departments regarding changes and improvements. IT Support Technician II Texas Tech University Health Science Center - Lubbock, TX 2015 to 2017 Performed troubleshooting and general IT maintenance work on Windows 7/8/10, Mac OSX, and Linux systems. Upgraded and installed Microsoft Office Suite. In daily activities utilized McAfee EPO,  McAfee SIEM, Solar Winds, Quest KACE, Active Directory, and remote access tools. Adhered to HIPAA  and FERPA regulations. Led project on preparing and configuring laptops and laptop carts for loan to other departments. Won Distinguished Team Award 2017. Studied for and achieved ComptTIA  Networking+, and Security+ certifications. Completed SANS Sec 301 training. Senior Officer Lubbock County Sheriff's Office - Lubbock, TX 2012 to 2015 2008-2012    Supervision of 64 inmates in a high stress environment. Trained new Officers. Personal written reports  were used in court and as templates for other officers. Testified in court. Adhered to information  security standards, especially regarding federal witness protection. Completed multiple FEMA  emergency management trainings. Completed courses in digital forensics. Graduated from the Federal  Law Enforcement Training Center with academic honors. Education Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies in Liberal Studies Oklahoma Christian University - Edmond, OK Skills Hipaa, Juniper, Nist, Pci, Qualys, Cyber Security, Information Security, Siem, Linux, Network Security