Senior Market Data Analyst Senior Market Data <span class="hl">Analyst</span> London, OH Work Experience Senior Market Data Analyst Nomura International PLC - London Present Project Management  Complete management of the RMDS backbone migration 10GB infrastructure project - Handled the whole project life cycle. This included liaison with the appropriate teams to install the 10GB cards in the RMDS hosts, the creation of a new VLAN and allocation of IP addresses to the new interfaces. The modification of the RMDS config files to migrate backbone to 10GB interfaces.  Migration of the Reuters Data Feed to MPLS circuits – involved liaison with Reuters’ tech support for the installation and test of the circuits in Nomura’s data centres. Liaison with Reuters and Nomura teams for the installation and testing of new Reuters Data Feeds. Migration of the RMDS source distributor connections to the new Reuters’ Data Feeds.  Market data Support  Desktop Applications  Devised the yearly roadmap for market data applications. This includes the planning, organising, testing and deployment of new versions of the desktop applications.  Provide on-going application support to users; this involves troubleshooting application installs, permissions and data queries.  Infrastructure  On-call responsibilities include the management and real-time monitoring of the applications and infrastructure that provide market data to users.  Optimised and automated the monitoring of processes with shell scripts  Deployment of System Sentinel Glow (Bloomberg usage collection application) to desktops  Installed and configured the Glow server and database  Liaised with the appropriate teams for the development of a desktop package for the application  Organised the deployment and testing of the application on pilot users  Organised the deployment of the application on approximately 200 hosts with Bloomberg running  Analysed the collected data to determine the pattern of Bloomberg data usage  Liaised extensively with the application vendors to troubleshoot several issue  Carry out the monthly consolidations to keep the Reuters’ permissions up to date.  Migration of a broker feed handler (GARBAN) from serial to IP-based feed connection. This involved the installation and testing of the feed hander application before deployment on production hosts.  Volunteered for the graduate mentoring scheme – this involves the provision of on-going support to the fresh graduates. Market Data Analyst Nomura International PLC - London July 2010 to December 2012 Part of the team that implemented and monitors the Reuters Market Data System  Built a test Reuters Market Data system (Point to point server and Market Data Hub) to test the capabilities of several 10GB NICs  Completed a risk assessment of the Market data infrastructure used in Nomura  Identified a number of areas of vulnerability and proposed measures to eliminate them and improve the daily processes  Significantly improved my interpersonal and communication skills through the incident management process where I dealt with several teams to track the cause of any incidents in the infrastructure that impacted the Market Data systems in any way  Produced visual charts that displayed the real-time and historical traffic on the south side of the Market Data Systems  Significantly improved my UNIX and shell scripting skills through constant practice as the market data infrastructure run on UNIX boxes   Liaised with the Reuters customer support team to discover several undocumented parameters in the configuration files IT Security Intern Nomura International PLC - London June 2009 to July 2010 Managing all Nomura Staffs’ user accounts and ensuring they have only authorized level access to applications and systems  Ensuring data kept in network shares adhered to the company’s Chinese Wall policy  Worked closely with some stakeholders involved with Leavers and Transfers in the organization to gather requirements for an interim manual Leavers and Transfers process   I proposed, designed and implemented an Access driven database system for the interim manual Leavers and Transfers process - this shortened the process time from 2 hours to 20 minutes.  Responsible for the daily execution of this interim process to ensure all users that have left or transferred have the correct levels of accesses to systems and applications  Significantly improved my presentation skills through presentations and meetings organized to give regular feedback on the progress of this interim process Education MSc. Advanced Computer Science with IT Management in Computer Science and Business University of Manchester - Manchester 2007 to 2008 BSc Hons Software Engineering in Computer Science University of Westminster - London 2002 to 2005