SECURITY GUARD <span class="hl">SECURITY</span> GUARD SECURITY GUARD - ALLIED SECURITY UNIVERSAL Miami, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SECURITY GUARD ALLIED SECURITY UNIVERSAL September 2018 to Present • Securing premises and personnel by patrolling property; monitoring surveillance equipment, inspecting buildings, equipment, and access points; permitting entry Completing production reports, new sales forms, customer invoice forms, daily vehicle inspection report.  • Maintain secure environment by monitoring and setting building and equipment controls. IT Quality Assurance Analyst Spirit Airlines - Miramar, FL October 2018 to May 2019 • Ensuring that products meet certain thresholds of acceptability.  • Plan and coordinate quality assurance programs and formulate quality control policies.  • Improve efficiency and profitability by reducing waste in several different applications. LAWN TECHNICIAN TRUGREEN August 2016 to March 2018 • Responding on a timely basis to customer requests for telephone and in-person service calls.  • Assisting in sales to current customers through contact on route.  • Completing production reports, new sales forms, customer invoice forms, daily vehicle inspection report. WAREHOUSE WORKER GOYA December 2015 to April 2017 Responsible for inventory control of warehouse merchandise that will be loaded on to trucks for delivery using a computer scanner which displays the information to be selected and trolley type cart to maneuver through the warehouse. SUPERVISOR AT&T FLORIDA RELAY - Miami, FL February 2013 to August 2015 • Communicating daily with managers concerning business affairs.  • Taking supervisor calls: included recording customer accommodations, complaints, inquiries and answering customer questions on AT&T's Florida relay service.   • Regularly walk around the unit and answer employee questions / troubleshoot problems.  • Completed reports to ATT troubleshoot center for consistent and unresolved technical problems. Education New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Miami, FL 2018 Braddock Sr. High School ITT Technical Institute Additional Information SKILLS    • Network Connectivity  • Troubleshooting hard/software  • Analytical Problem-Solving  • Excellent Customer Service  • Communication Skills  • Technical Skills  • Microsoft Window server  • LAN, WAN  • Group Policy  • Installation and Configuration