Security Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Security Analyst - 4square IT Consulting Cheverly, MD Over 8 years working experience in the IT field with 5 years extensive knowledge in Cyber Security, NIST 800 series Publications, FIPS 199 and FIPS 200, SDLC, DIACAP, the entire RMF process and FISMA guidelines. Also familiar with CSAM and FEDRAMP. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst 4square IT Consulting - Houston, TX March 2017 to Present • Perform Risk Management Framework (RMF) and system control assessment processes using NIST SP 800-53r4/53A.  • Perform assessment and continuous monitoring using NIST SP 800-137.  • Manage vulnerabilities to detect potential risk on a single or multiple assets across the enterprise network.  • Categorize agency's systems in accordance with NIST requirements and FIPS 199.  • Develop and maintain Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) of all accepted risk upon completion system (C&A).  • Perform Assessment and Authorization (A&A) projects in line with client security system.  • Develop NIST compliant vulnerability assessments, technical documentations and Plan of Action and Milestone (POA&M) and address system weaknesses.  • Support the C&A/A&A process by reviewing security artifacts such as SSP, PIA, SRA, and so on.  • Review and update System Security plans (SSP) using NIST SP 800-18 guidelines and system security checklists, Privacy Impart Assessment.  • Involved in on-site evaluations/audits for compliance with policy.  • Determine security controls effectiveness ( if controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and is meeting security requirements). Information Security Assurance ( Security Control Assessor) M & T Group - Washington, DC November 2015 to March 2017 • Conduct risk assessments to identify and mitigate risk to IT systems, facilities and critical assets.  • Involve in initiating FISMA metrics such as Annual Testing, POA&M Management, and program management.  • Assist in reviewing policies, security alerts, guidance, regulations and technical advances in IT Security Management.  • Create Security Assessment Reports and deliver test results to stakeholders while providing expert security advice and recommendations to manage identified risks.  • Performs security control assessments on cloud based systems.  • Plan, develop, and conduct security examinations, interviews and testing of management, operational, technical and privacy controls. Analyze and assess results based on risk to client's information system.  • Review and update some of the system categorization using FIPPS 199, Initial Risk Assessment, E-authentication, PTA, PIA, SAR, SSP, SAP AND POA&M. Help Desk/ IT Support Linac Health NW - Washington, DC August 2014 to November 2015 • Performing remote troubleshooting through diagnostic technique.  • Installing various software and network devices.  • Helped in training staffs on various security measures.  • Document and effectively communicate unresolved issues to Admin.  • Schedule appointments and meetings.  • Setup new computers, Lan and Wireless internet for computers. Database Administrator (Oracle DBA) Market Research Consultancy - Lagos February 2011 to January 2014 • Setup brand new machines including Oracle software installation, Oracle side Configuration, third party backup software trouble shooting and backup testing.  • Used Incremental and full ; Auto-backup with job functions.  • Experienced in working with DBMS (Database Management System) automation script and deploying scripts.  • Responsible for monitoring the database network connectivity.  • Created different table spaces, schemas, constraints to enforce business rules and users accounts.  • Changed passwords for users, killing sessions, granting privileges, altered roles and set alert.  • Monitor table spaces and Data files utilization.  • Manage undo table spaces, Redo logs, control files and archive logs.  • Analyzed tables and indexes on performance base regularly.  • Configure various RMAN parameters as per requirements.  • Perform backups using RMAN utility. Education M.Sc in Cyber Security University Of Maryland University College Adelphi 2019 B.Sc in Banking & Finance Nnamdi Azikiwe University Nigeria 2010 Skills Security, SQL, testing Additional Information Very Knowledgeable in the following;    A comprehensive knowledge of the RMF process.    Working knowledge of the NIST Publications and standards; NIST [ ] 18, 20, 26, 30, 37, 39, 53, 53A, 59, 60, 115, 128, 200, FIPS 199, FIPS 200, RMF and FISMA guidelines.    Skilled with vulnerability scanning tools such as Aircrack, Nikto, Openvas, Tripwire, Wireshark, Comodo Hackerproof and MBSA.     Knowledge in privacy impact Assessments, POA&M and ATO.    Experienced in developing System Security Plan (SSP), Contingency Plans, Disaster Recovery Plans, Incidence Response Plans and Configuration Management.     Ability to perform information security Risk Assessments and Analysis and Risk Mitigation.    Knowledge in Penetration Testing and IT security architecture ( Firewalls, Virtual private networking and intrusion detection).    Working knowledge of Network infrastructures, Oracle Database, Web applications, Nessus, Data Warehouses, Application Servers, Windows and Unix/Linux Systems.      Experience in developing and completing system authorization packages security plans, security assessment reports and contingency plans.     Develop A&A packages and Document in accordance with IA controls.    Very skilled with the Oracle Database.    Proficient in SQL, RMAN, SQL-Plus and PL/SQL.     Working knowledge of the DATAPUMP and Import/Export utilities for logical backups.