Job Seeker ? I own 7.9+ years of experience in Information Security.  ? Proficient in analysing information system needs, evaluating end-user requirements and troubleshooting for complex information Network management.  ? Experienced in identifying potential threats and ensuring security of network systems.  ? Experience with regulatory compliance audit such as PCI, ISO 27001 Standards.  ? Proven success in handling several process migrations while ensuring meting to the SLA levels.  ? Excellent interpersonal, communication and organisational skills with proven abilities in team management. Work Experience J.P. Morgan Chase August 2018 to Present Duration - Aug 2018 - till date  Designation - IT Risk & Security Management    Roles & Responsibilities  ? Responsible for ensuring quality delivery on conducted assessment.  ? Oversight and governance of the Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) process.  ? Working with onsite assessor to timely updated or closure all addressed observation.  ? Identifying opportunities to improve risk posture, developing solutions for remediating or mitigating risks and assessing the residual risk  ? Provide cover for the IT Risk Manager.  ? Provides risk mitigation recommendations and works with technology and business partners to help mitigate technology risk observations.  ? Performs regular reviews, and contributes to development and maintenance of information technology processes, standards, templates, tools and techniques.  ? Acts as technical advisor to recommend solutions for project managers, analysts, system development resources, and trainers.  ? Report risk performance against established enterprise risk metrics.  ? Conduct 3rd party/vendor IT risk reviews to ensure compliance with Regions 3rd party management framework and vendor has adequate IT controls in place. Consultant DXC Technology September 2016 to August 2018 Roles & Responsibilities-  ? Responsible for the managing information security policies based on Payment Card Industry (PCI) and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 27001 standards.  ? Performed risk assessments, Gap assessment, vulnerability assessments & identifying security vulnerabilities on the networks and systems.  ? Worked closely with internal/external auditors in gathering and providing artifacts of followed standard procedures for each process and following up on suggested corrective actions.  ? Produced security reports on findings on the identification of vulnerabilities and offered remediation procedures to the client.  ? Educated clients on best practice methodologies to harden their systems and minimize future attacks.  ? Reviewed security logs to ensure compliance with policies and procedures and identifies potential anomalies.  ? Analyzed security incidents and presented a weekly report to the client.  ? Educated business unit managers, IT development team, and the user community about risks and security controls by conducting security awareness session to avoid compliance issue, financial loss, security incident.  ? Monitor the security of critical systems and changes to highly sensitive computer security controls to ensure appropriate system administrative actions, investigate and report on noted irregularities.  ? Regularly conducting security awareness session to avoid any security incident, financial loss, policy or any violation.  ? Performing quality controls checks on various deliverables which received from operation team.  ? Reviewing the firewall rules for application specific before its goes to the change creation.  ? Define, establish and manage security risk metrics and track effectiveness.  ? Change management adds, changes, deletes, authorized submitter's lists. Metrics reporting for Operations team.  ? Preparing the Knowledge Transfer document of Process and Technical specifications guide for the Transition/Internal purpose. Security operation analyst Accenture Private LTD April 2015 to September 2016 Roles & Responsibilities-  ? Responsible for timely completion of all bank deliverables which involves coordination with different teams across geographical locations.  ? Assisted in IT security audits for clients/customers.  ? Provide regular vulnerability management report covering.  • Statistics on known vulnerabilities  • Scan exemptions  • Vulnerabilities that have not been patched within agreed SLA  • Failed or incomplete scans  ? Implement a documented SOC process manual by following the activities for Monthly, Quarterly and Yearly Vulnerability Management scans.  ? Recognize successful intrusions and compromises through review and analysis of relevant event detail information.  ? Launch and track investigations to resolution. Recognize attacks based on their signatures. Differentiates false positives from true intrusion attempts.  ? Alert clients of intrusions and potential intrusions and compromises to their network infrastructure.  ? Actively investigate the latest in security vulnerabilities, advisories, incidents, and penetration techniques and notifies clients when appropriate.  ? Generate monthly report on SOC activity. Engineer (ITS Security) HCL COMNET LTD November 2012 to April 2015 Roles & Responsibilities-  ? Providing proactive monitoring for security services like Firewall, IDS/IPS, Forward and Reverse Proxys, Security Event Logging and Management, URL Filtering, Email Security etc.  ? Responsible mainly involves working on troubleshooting for VPN connectivity for our end user to connect our CCB application to perform billing from remote location  ? Responsible for end to end coordination for application migration from remote site to Datacenter. Security Engineer ( IT Security) Aforeserve.com Ltd February 2011 to November 2012