IT Security Consultant/Systems Administrator <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> Consultant/Systems Administrator IT Security Consultant/Systems Administrator Denver, CO Work Experience IT Security Consultant/Systems Administrator Houston, TX May 2013 to September 2016 Advise and educate clients on network security  ? Install security networks and provide technical support  ? Troubleshoot and assist clients in network connectivity  ? Recover and migrate messages from archived email server  ? Organize and sort recovered messages by date and priority.  ? Provide guidance for security on new email servers Sr. Security Analyst Alert Logic June 2012 to September 2012 Consult monthly with customers to address any security concerns they had and report those findings for ongoing support of those issues and concerns  ? Analyzed network trending data for anomaly detection for customers and made security oriented suggestions regarding potential threats.  ? Work closely with customers in remediating vulnerabilities that the PCI council deems unacceptable for PCI compliance.  ? Worked with Armorlogic WAF development team as needed to provide customer feedback on improving product functionality and stability to meet the customer's needs.  ? Diagnosed, troubleshot, and maintained all sensors out in the field.  ? Utilized tools like Nessus, Nmap, Core Impact, Snort, and McAfee to understand and analyze network traffic and systems IT Security Analyst Alert Logic - Houston, TX July 2007 to September 2012 Security Analyst Team Shift Lead Alert Logic June 2011 to June 2012 Mentored tier 1 Security Analysts and provided technical training to my team  ? Provided support to Security Analysts on all critical cases and incidents  ? Updated and highlighted critical customers and issues checklist daily to minimize the risk of compromise for customers mission critical data  ? Mentored and provided guidance and assistance to all junior level analysts.  ? Analyzed security incidents and provided customer with recommended remediation  ? Actively maintained, troubleshot, and tuned Snort IDS signatures for a wide variety of environments  ? Continually monitored customer systems for potential SQL and DOS attacks Security Analyst Alert Logic July 2007 to June 2011 Analyzed security incidents and provided customer with recommended remediation  ? Actively maintained, troubleshot, and tuned Snort IDS signatures for a wide variety of environments  ? Maintain a working knowledge of information security standards, best practices, and emerging threats Education Bachelor of Applied Arts and Sciences in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems Sam Houston State University - Huntsville, TX May 2005 Associate of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Lone Star College - The Woodlands, TX May 2003 Skills Cisco (Less than 1 year), CRM (Less than 1 year), CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year), firewalls (Less than 1 year), Intrusion (Less than 1 year), Intrusion Detection (Less than 1 year), IPs (Less than 1 year), Juniper (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Metasploit (Less than 1 year), Nessus (Less than 1 year), Nexpose (Less than 1 year), Nmap (Less than 1 year), Qualys (Less than 1 year), Snort (5 years), Solarwinds (Less than 1 year), Tcpdump (Less than 1 year), Tripwire (Less than 1 year), Wireshark (Less than 1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Linux patch managers and Tripwire to address customers compliance concerns  ? Monitoring Tools: Scanalert, Whitehat, Acunetix, Qualys, Nexpose, Rapid7  ? Block malicious IPs on customers Cisco and Juniper firewalls  ? Used Snort routinely for Intrusion Detection  ? Utilized Kali and Metasploit for penetration system drills and exercises  ? Tcpdump utilized daily and Wireshark used as needed  ? Working knowledge of Solarwinds, Nessus, OpenVAS, NMAP, and SQLmap scans  ? CRM used routinely - Salesforce and Parature