Investigate Analyst- e-Discovery Technical Services Compliance Investigate <span class="hl">Analyst</span>- e-Discovery Technical Services Compliance Investigate Analyst- e-Discovery Technical Services Compliance - UBS Swiss Bank Hazlet, NJ Technical Professional with strong leadership skills and experience in technical support and risk management. Additional abilities in managing deadlines and communication. Able to problem solve accurately and efficiently. Work Experience Investigate Analyst- e-Discovery Technical Services Compliance UBS Swiss Bank - Weehawken, NJ February 2017 to July 2019 • Handled complex sizes of data for litigation by the attorneys and paralegals.  • Managed and preserved incoming data from multiple departments.  • Worked in the collection department on various technical projects  • Worked with the eDiscovery team to meet deadlines. eDiscovery Analyst - IT Risk Management and Security Merck & Co - Rahway, NJ January 2016 to February 2017 • Extracted and preserved information from hard drives, disks, usb and PCs.  • Reviewed and stored confidential data.  • Assembled hard drives shipped in from different locations containing legal information  • Provided reports to the risk management legal team on the daily basis.  • Reviewed and stored confidential information.  • Used internal E-discovery SQL based software to work efficiently and effectively.  • Trained new hires on the eDiscovery preservation process. Maintenance Temple Emanu-El - Westfield, NJ January 2011 to January 2016 Maintenance/ Security  • Performed maintenance on individual rooms/ laundry & bathrooms, and common areas.  • Maintained appropriate service and repair records on equipment for warranties.  • Preserved the grounds using a multitude of power tools and hand tools  • Fixed minor repairs and adjustments when needed.  • Completed basic carpentry, painting, plumbing and electrical work as assigned Computer Technician Internship Fanwood High School - Fanwood, NJ July 2015 to August 2015 • Provided troubleshooting for phones, computers, and other equipment.  • Utilized Casper Imaging software for configuration.  • Assisted many departments for technical support.  • Replaced and repair computers. Skills Sharepoint, Imaging, Virtual machine, Ftk, Excel, Microsoft outlook, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Mac Additional Information Technical Skills  Microsoft Outlook, Sharepoint, Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Office/365, Mac/Apple, FTK Drive Imaging, Virtual Machine Preservation, Syncplicity Preservation, and Email Export.