Information Technology Engineer Information Technology Engineer Information Technology Engineer - Smart Computing Solutions Bowie, MD Professional Summary  ? A Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A) professional knowledgeable in Compliance and Risk Management Framework (RMF), System Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Risk Assessment and Vulnerability Management, FISMA, FedRAMP and OMB.  ? Experience in using the following NIST SPs: 800-18, 800-37, 800-39, 800-53/53Arev4, 800-60, FIPS 199 & 200, Sans 20 and IS0 27001.  ? Experience in the development and review of artifacts such as System Security Plans (SSP), Contingency Plans (CP), Disaster Recovery Plans (DRP), Incident Response Plans (IRP), Configuration Management Plans (CMP), Privacy Threshold & Privacy Impact Assessments.  ? Understanding of Cloud protections as expressed in FedRAMP for Federal Government agencies.  ? Knowledge and experience with IT security theories, concepts, best practices, and emerging issues; the infrastructure protection environment and project management theory and techniques.  ? Experience documenting technical issues identified during security assessments and recommending improvements in the existing service support tools and standard findings  ? Knowledge of Assessment & Authorization (A&A) process to support Authority to Operate (ATO) activities including but not limited to security control assessments (SCA) and POA&M management  ? A proven team lead with aptitude for good customer service, and excellent communication skills.  ? Thrive in a highly collaborative, fast-paced work environment and multidisciplinary team setting where leveraging technology for continuous business improvement is the norm Work Experience Information Technology Engineer Smart Computing Solutions - Annapolis, MD May 2019 to Present Provided Desktop, Application, and Network support to 1500+ end users within the company head office and remote locations  ? Provided excellent customer service and ensure quick resolution to concerns  ? Performed Active directory services remotely and onsite for over 100 clients using  both physical servers and cloud environment  ? Assisted in installing complete network environment  ? Issued hardware, software, and application upgrades to clients  ? Researched and solved problems on workstation and LAN, including IP resolution, cabling problems, and peripheral malfunctions  ? Managed daily activities to include user support and systems administrator tasks  ? Reviewed logs for security for security incidents  ? Performed email analysis to defend against malware and ransomware IT Specialist & Business Analyst Reside One Corporation - Lanham-Seabrook, MD May 2014 to Present Diagnosed, troubleshot, and resolved a wide range of software, hardware, and connectivity issues  ? Researched and solved problems on workstation and LAN, including IP resolution, cabling problems, and peripheral malfunctions  ? Provided configuration support for both Office 365, Google Docs & Quickbooks  ? Implemented new software and data migration  ? Created website and housing listing database, website, and administered computer  systems  ? Review logs and defended against cyber attacks such as Malware, Phishing and MitM Help Desk Assistant UMBC Residential Life - Baltimore, MD January 2017 to December 2018 Provided level 1 and 2 support for 450 residents, operating in a 24/7 facility  ? Ensured quick resolution to concerns and escalated more complicated issues to managers  ? Encoded University cards, granting and restricting facility access  ? Guided university residents and resourced for emergency situations  ? Praised on performance reviews each year, with top marks in teamwork, customer  service, communication skills and technical problem-solving. Cyber Security Analyst Intern Encompass IT Security Solutions - Bowie, MD June 2018 to August 2018 Applied cyber security policy with company procedures  using NIST framework  ? Assisted in creating proposals for new GSA schedule 70 contract  ? Utilized virtual machines for remote penetration testing using Metasploit, Tenable  Nessus, Kali-Linux, and VMware Workstation  ? Formulated past performance reviews & quality controls Education B.A. in Information Systems University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC) - Baltimore, MD Skills IDS, NESSUS, NIST, SIEM, SPLUNK, Active Directory, Windows, Technical Support, Windows 7, Vmware, Security, Networking, Malware Analysis, SOC Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Additional Information Skills   Systems:  ? Windows, Mac OS X, Unix, Linux, Mobile  Software/Applications:  ? Microsoft Office, Microsoft Sharepoint, Google Drive, Quickbooks, IDS, SIEM, Splunk,  Tenable Nessus, WireShark, ArcGIS, VMware, Norton/McAfee Antivirus, SolarWinds, RMM  Networking/ IT:  ? Cyber Security, Cloud Security, SQL, TCP/IP, Switches, Routers, GIS, Python, Social Media,  Active Directory, Servers, System Administration, AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, Cabling  Management:  ? Customer Service, Multitasking, Organization, Problem Solving, Administration, Data  Migration, Detail Orientation, FISMA, NIST 800-53,60,171, FedRAMP, SDLC, DBMS, RDF,  Natural Language Processing, Risk Management Framework  Relevant Coursework:  ? Calculus I/II, Physics I, Computer Science I/II, Business Communication Systems,  Management Information Systems, Human & Physical Geography    Leadership NCAA DI Track & Field (UMBC) 2014 - 2018    ? Served as Team Captain, practiced and competed approximately  20-25 hours per week, while maintaining a full course load  ? Employed time management skills to balance training, meetings, travel, and  competition  ? Developed strong work ethic, concentration, and perseverance to meet team and  personal goals