IT Support Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Support <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Information Technology Plantation, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Analyst Envision Physician Services - Sunrise, FL November 2018 to May 2019 • Answer inbound calls  • Complete service desk incidents, requests, and tasks.  • Provide technical support for iOS and Android devices devices.  • Provide application support   • Troubleshoot with outstanding customer service.  • Open and solve incidents using Service Now ticketing system  • Proper escalation of tickets.   • Data entry   • Perform Remote Desktop sessions to solve problems  • Desktop Support within office installing and troubleshooting hardware   • Active directory password resets   • High documentation for all tickets opened, updated, or solved.  • Handling 400 plus calls daily Information Security Administrator Popular Bank - Miami Lakes, FL September 2018 to November 2018 • Provisioned accounts  • Performed frequent internal audits verifying updated information   • Created and edited all active directory accounts supporting the whole company  • Worked on massive projects to insure the security of the company    • Created excel reports supporting our provisioned work   • Microsoft 365 Administrator  • Disabled all terminated and retired employees across all applications   • Worked with INFOSEC team to resolve and update application users account history.   • Solved incidents and requests daily within a timely manner.   • Provided support for over 10,000 plus employees IT Support Analyst EAGLE HOME MORTGAGE - Miami, FL July 2017 to September 2018 • Suporrted 2,500 plus employees over the phone and email  • Closed 450 plus incidents and requests tickets per month using Service Now.   • Active directory experienced resetting passwords for hundreds of employee associates daily.  • Lockout Tool unlocked thousands hundreds of employees daily.  • Service Now use for ticketing system   • Managed call lobby and email queue solving over 400 plus incidents and requests  • Remote Desktop technical support using LogMeIn Remote Desktop application.  • Communicated technical information, both verbal and written,   • Setup printers and scanners   • Escalated urgent network issues with network and system administrators. Working diligently via email and phone to resolve major network issues.  • Installed software, scanned machines for potential virus threats, providing on hand assistance for hundred of in-office associates.   • Traveled for site administration tasks. Installing Microsoft disk images onto laptops and desktops. Setting up printers and scanners.   • Microsoft suite (Skype for business, Excel, Pages, Word, One Drive, etc) and sharepoint experienced.  • Re-added machines that were no longer under the company domain in active directory, back to the domain in Systems information.   • Comptia A+ trained iOS Advisor Apple - Fort Lauderdale, FL March 2017 to July 2017 • Answer inbound and outbound calls.   • Provide technical support for iOS devices.  • Troubleshoot with outstanding customer service.  • Log cases within iLog ticketing system.   • Data entry IT Support Specialist Orange Theory Fitness - Boca Raton, FL February 2017 to June 2017 • Managed and respond to software support tickets   • Supported and reinforced daily execution of systems and processes  • Logged and tracked inquiries using a problem management database and maintained detailed history of all issues and resolutions   • Communicated technical information, both verbal and written, to a wide range of end-users  • Followed up with customers to ensure that their inquiries are resolved  • Coordinated the resolution of advanced issues with appropriate teams  • Contributed to our Knowledgebase  • Assisted with Mindbody Online (MBO) database and other systems as required  • Assisted with support for all current and future technologies  • Assisted in working with all functional teams to set up, maintain and support databases  • Served as the subject matter expert in supporting Business Policies, and reinforce best practices and tech IT Support/Shipping Specialist Benchmark Connector - Sunrise, FL July 2015 to February 2017 • Invoicing orders and sales  • Network Administration  • Inventory control  • Shipping with UPS and FedEx software  • Data entry  • IT troubleshooting, help desk support.  • Installing printers and scanners Manager/Shift-lead Walgreens - Covington, GA October 2013 to May 2015 • Manage the whole store  • Warehouse duties  • Loaded and unloaded truck   • Resolved major problems dealing with the store and customers  • Handle inventory  • Great with taking care of large responsibilities  • Lead the way on the floor  • Cash handling, book keeping.   • Assign employees with tasks and duties  • Open/close store  • Dealt with files and office paperwork Application Support Specialist EPIC Loan Systems - Plantation, FL November 2011 to August 2013 Promoted within from Access Financial.    Help Clients with IT questions based on software.  • Provide application support   • Customer service inbound/outbound  • Troubleshoot problems  • Type documents for clients to use  • Did a lot of implementations work for clients with software  • Gave advice with running the software program for loans  • Assist clients with any questions and tasks they needed to be resolved Education High School Diploma Newton High School - Covington, GA 2007 to 2011 Skills Service Now, Zen desk, Active directory, Help Desk, Service Desk, Tech Support, Desktop Support, Comptia A+, Application Support, MAC Certifications/Licenses Apple iOS Present Apple certified iOS Teir 1-2 technical support. A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information • Computer skills  • Fast learner  • Hard worker