IT Help Desk Support <span class="hl">IT</span> Help Desk Support Arlington, VA Veteran of the United States Air Force, Senior Airman, 790th Security Forces Squadron, with four  Years of experience in Nuclear Security and Military Law Enforcement functions. Solutions-focused,  Versatile management professional offering a comprehensive background supporting U.S. military  Operations in roles of increasing responsibility during a 4-year career in the United States Air Force.  Effectively communicates roles and technologies to achieve positive results. Nuclear convoy response  Team Leader with extensive training in weapons (M9, M4, MK19, M203, MK19, and M240), police  Operations and security desiring a challenging position in private security. Accomplishments include  Being selected to complete over 300 nuclear convoys across the tristate area of Nebraska, Colorado,  And Wyoming. Outstanding experience in team management, administrative accountability, and supply  Management. Effectively managed more than 140 Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles $3.2 billion in  Equipment. Work Experience IT Help Desk Support College of Southern Maryland - La Plata, MD January 2019 to June 2019 • Installed and configured windows software updates along with hardware including, printers, monitors, and hard drive installation   • Developed servers and provide support to individual users to ensure that the system works reliably and quickly.  • Reviewed error logs and user-reported errors and identify stable and reliable solutions.  • Answered user questions throughout the setup and installation process.  • Monitored performance to reduce interruptions and server crashes.  • Performed Level I first call resolutions  • Previous experience of building and repairing PCs and Servers  • Obtained knowledge of PC and Server Hardware  • Ability to follow defined operational standards, understand data center critical infrastructure, and  understand server operating systems  Provide systems availability monitoring and reporting  • Provided systems diagnostics monitoring and reporting  • Performed Incident capture, verification, diagnostics and  • Performed data and system backups and restores Help Desk Personnel Security Specialist Melwood Horticultural Training Center - Upper Marlboro, MD December 2018 to April 2019 •Assists the Facility Security Officer (FSO) in initiating investigations and periodic re-investigations in JPAS as required for those personnel requiring a personnel security clearance or re-investigation.  •Reviews electronic Personnel Security Questionnaires (PSQ) in JPAS for accuracy and completeness before submission to OPM for review/approval.  •Recieved 20-30 calls per day for the utilization of JPAS. Managed each request by entering, monitoring, and update help desk tickets in the call tracking system to track progress and resolution of customer issues  •Submits fingerprints of personnel for initial security clearances, upgrades and background checks utilizing Secure Web Fingerprint Transmission (SWFT).  •Conducts initial security indoctrination briefings, security refresher briefings, foreign travel briefings/debriefings and security debriefings as required by the National Industrial Security Operations Manual (NISPOM).  •Maintains personnel security files on those personnel who have a personnel security clearance and those who undergo a background check by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) or other government agencies.  •Reviews site specific security forms for accuracy and completeness. Provide assistance and guidance to personnel as required.  •Monitors employee's completion of the Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP) initiated by the government agency and provide assistance and guidance as necessary.  •Other duties as assigned. Site Security Manager (site Representative) Serco/ Department of the Navy - Washington, DC March 2017 to May 2018 Provide on call Contractor Identification Card Administration to government personnel as a Defense  Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS)/ Real-Time Automated Identification System (RAPIDS)  Site Security Manager (SSM). Act as the site point of contact for all related matters.  • Register, process, and maintain the DEERS and the RAPIDS systems. Perform all ID card and CAC  Issuance related tasks to include researching and reviewing source documents and verifying eligibility.  Issue memorandums of authorization for use of Commissary and Post Exchange to eligible customers.  Ensure maximum protection against compromise and theft of sensitive information and prevent the Misuse or misappropriation of RAPIDS.  • Ensure that all assigned RAPIDS workstations are operated, maintained, and secured according  To security procedures. Maintain a file copy of the generic or type accreditation statement, and Prepare unit-specific recommendations, through the appropriate chain of command, for input into the  Accreditation document, as required. Ensure the RAPIDS audit trails are reviewed at least weekly and That audit files are maintained for thirty days.  • Responsible for managing the security of RAPIDS workstations that are under my purview. Maintain  The site roster of RAPIDS users. Add and assign roles for the various categories of RAPIDS users.  Request new DEERS logon IDs for new users, delete DEERS logon ID, and up-date security privileges on Previously issued DEERS logon ID.  • Deactivate and report security violators. Report SSM changes to DEERS Security. Maintain site  Information (i.e. site name, site location address, site phone numbers, and site mailing ad  • Produce and maintain COGNOS reports by creating charts and graphs to audit highly sensitive  Information.  • Utilized the Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) to grant/deny visit requests on military  Installations for civilian federal employees, and contractors.  • Worked jointly with the Defense Manpower Data Center ( DMDC) tier 1 help desk using Remedy ticketing software to manage service requests Reports & Analyst Clerk ( security forces dept.) United States Air Force - Cheyenne, WY December 2009 to June 2014 •Maintained over 1K control logs, files, accountability for citations, accidents, and incident reports.  • Compiled information and statistics on crimes and incidents for files, records, trend summaries, and Reports.  • Inputted, maintained, and tracked over 700 incident reports, traffic citations, barments, driving  Records,  Revocations, and suspense using the Security Forces Management Information System (SFMIS).  • Conducted over 2K local files checks using SFMIS in support of personnel security investigations.  •Provide statistical information on crimes, incidents and traffic trends to higher HQ as requested.  •Ensures the National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS), Defense Incident-Base Reporting  System  (DIBRS), Reports Control Symbol (RCS) reports, and other higher HQ/local reports are submitted as Required.  •Applied proper protection markings and safeguards Privacy Act Information IAW established  Directives.  Maintained control logs, files and accountability of all debarment actions, tickets, and accident/  Incident  Reports pending and completed.  •Performed as Freedom of Information Act monitor conducting research on all requests and responding  In  Accordance with local policy and federal law.  •Evaluated reports and paperwork for accuracy and correctness.  Used e-QIP and MS Outlook to invite subjects to complete their questionnaire in e-QIP.  •Reviewed requests completed by subjects in e-QIP errors, omissions, and quality review of all case  Documentation.  •Scan and or attach case documents to various systems.  •Interfaced with subjects of investigations to assist with e-QIP access issues or questions.  •Conducted fingerprint, name, credit, and alerts checks.  •Addressed deficiencies during case processing.  •Received notification from OPM regarding background investigation case matters and refer such Information to appropriate PS personnel.  •Performed other clerical support; e.g., photocopying, faxing, material assembly, etc. Education Security Forces Academy - San Antonio, TX December 2009 to May 2010 Skills Cognos (1 year), Exchange (1 year), maintenance. (2 years), statistics (4 years), BMC Remedy (1 year) Awards Air Force Outstanding Unit Award Air Force Good Conduct Medal National Defense Service Medal Global War on Terrorism Service Medal Air Force Longevity Service Air Force Training Ribbon Additional Information • January 2019 – Present: Currently enrolled at the College of Southern Maryland (La Plata Campus) IT workforce program. In the process to obtain an A+ and SEC+ certificate.   