Identity and Access Management Analyst - Consultant Identity and Access Management <span class="hl">Analyst</span> - Consultant Identity and Access Management Analyst - Consultant - Wells Fargo Fair Lawn, NJ Cyber security professional with a focus on SIEM activity, IAM compliance and anti-malware awareness and education searching for a new opportunity. Work Experience Identity and Access Management Analyst - Consultant Wells Fargo - Jersey City, NJ June 2019 to Present • Review application access provisioning and certifications.  • Collaborate with team members in onboarding applications in a timely fashion.  • Participating in information gathering sessions to assess application status and suggest any modifications required.  • Worked on updating entitlement owners for applications for potential audit tracking.  • Assisting in integrating application transition to new IAM program. Security Monitoring and Response Cyber Risk Analyst Sterling National Bank December 2017 to February 2019 • Monitor and Run Security Incident Event Manager as a Risk Analyst and remediated incidents that arose to prevent network intrusion and ensure proper administrative activity.  • Investigate and monitor spam on company network to prevent malware and phishing attacks.  • Examine and monitor physical security threats.  • Administrator for company-hosted file transfer system to ensure the proper transfer of sensitive PII files. Sterling National Bank - Yonkers, NY June 2015 to February 2019 Identity and Access Management Junior Analyst Sterling National Bank June 2015 to December 2017 • Successfully ran QA on new Vendor Management database in order to implement a custom vendor management website for the bank.  • Monitored and ran metrics on anti-virus software and on email spam provider on a weekly basis to increase compliance of computer systems. Successfully rose compliance to 99% of all machines and properly identified email traffic activity to the Executive Board.  • Identified and reported spam emails sent to employees of the bank.  • Lead Application Entitlement Employee Access Review for 1.5 years.  • Ran inventory of bank's data center and mapped out diagram. IT Analyst North Shore - Long Island Jewish Health System - Lake Success, NY May 2006 to August 2009 Summers)  • Assisted the staff in the Corporate Security office with computer networking maintenance and projects.  • Worked on daily network vulnerability assessments and helped organize and create tickets to the help desk to address and fix the issues.  • Worked with Websense to investigate false positives on websites flagged as malicious to determine whether or not the websites should be blocked from network usage.  • Assisted with the implementation of an Identity Management System. Performed data cleanup, update verification, and troubleshooting design issues.  • Assisted with the implementation of a company-wide wireless network Education Masters in Information Technology Administration and Security New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ May 2015 Skills SHAREPOINT, SQL, SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION, SIEM, C++, Identity Management, Active Directory