IT Security Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Security Analyst - United States Department of State Landover, MD IT security professional with extensive experience in conducting IT security assessment and  compliance, Cyber Security, Helpdesk technical support, system controls, system verification and  validation testing techniques. Comprehensive knowledge on regulatory compliance for implementing  and communicating Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) compliance for the Federal  government. Strong knowledge in a computer science, system and application software, system  administration and database management. Proven ability to diagnose and troubleshoot IT- related  issues, liaise between IT department and end-users and manage IT resource assets inventory. Reliable  driver, client focused with a continuing passion for growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Security Analyst United States Department of State - Washington, DC September 2017 to Present Assisted in develop Security Assessment Report (SAR) detailing the results of the assessment  and created (POA&Ms) for each of the findings within the SAR.  • Conducted IT risk assessments to identify system risk, vulnerability and threats.  • Assessed system design and security posture as well as advising stakeholders on information  security compliance consistent with FISMA.  • Manage and maintain Lab Environment.  • Conducted meetings with the client to discuss client's material weaknesses identified in an audit to gain an understanding and develop mitigation strategies for the findings.  • Provided mitigation strategies and recommendations to key stakeholders to enhance their  security posture.  • Supported activities for Assessment and Authorization (A&A) of new systems, and Information  Security Continuous Monitoring (ISCM), in compliance with NIST SP 800-53 controls within the Risk Management Framework (NIST SP 800-37).  • Develop and maintain assessment process documentation.  • Created and managed both virtual and physical servers.  • Troubleshooting server issues, server migration and maintenance.  • Software installation on analyst computers.  • Provided Tier 1 contact and incident resolution to customers with hardware, software and application issues.  • Answered an average of 20 calls per day, determining user needs and provided appropriate  solutions.  • Worked with IT vendors to troubleshoot issues.  • Kept and maintained a living document of SOPS and documents to record daily activity and solutions. CAT5, 6, Fiber Cable & System Technician COMCAST August 2015 to July 2017 • Responded in a timely fashion to customer location for schedule installations.  • Inspected installation sites to determine best line placements.  • Installed Xfinity entertainment system regular cable systems networking systems and security  systems.  • Tested all installed components to insure they were working properly.  • Activated new installations on-site.  • Gave customer brief tutorials on their new equipment.  • Responded to Comcast maintenance and troubleshoot calls.  • Tested existing systems with which customer were experiencing problems.  • Tested lines and signals using meters and tools. IT Security Analyst CANAN INC November 2013 to July 2015 • Review configuration management (CM) plans and procedures as part of security assessments.  • Responsible for tasks related to the system security Assessment and Authorization (A&A) and follow the Government IT security policies and standards.  • Utilize Risk Management Framework process to enable successful approval to operate (ATO).  • Prepare recommendation reports that are made available to system owners to remediate  identified vulnerabilities during the risk assessment process.  • Assist with day to day running of the company such as preparing invoices and sending them to customers.  • Monitor server system for any alarms.  • Installed hardware and software on computers  • Maintained servers and applications RENTAL SALES REPRESENTATIVE AVIS AND BUDGET RENTAL CARS July 2013 to November 2013 • Reviewing the sales performance and aiming to exceed sales expectations.  • Overcoming any objectives with a view of getting the customer to make a reservation.  • Listening to customer requirements and presenting appropriate solutions to make sale  • Relationship building by maintaining exceptional customer service standards.  • Team meeting on sales and sharing best practice with colleagues.  • Communicating company values to customers. Education Bachelor of science in Computer in Computer science Wesley University of Science and Technology Ondo Nigeria