IT Quality Assurance (QA) Analyst <span class="hl">IT</span> Quality Assurance (QA) <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Quality Assurance (QA) Analyst - Kingsdown, Inc Coats, NC Work Experience IT Quality Assurance (QA) Analyst Kingsdown, Inc August 2018 to July 2019 As a QA Analyst, I maintained and oversaw manaual testing in a blackbox testing environment. I was responsible for helping to catch and catalog bugs, through Azure DevOps, along with a team of other experts. Priorities were the overall functionality of the software and equipment. QA Software Tester Kingsdown Inc - Mebane, NC August 2018 to July 2019 Exporting data from SQL Server Database to provide reports to our field agents on current and updated product choices at our customer's request  ? I provide data validation to show that profiles post to our database, as well as changes made to customer accounts.  ? Using Azure DevOps, test cases are written and recorded. Test cases are executed using: Katalon Studio(Selenium GUI and automation), Postman(API testing and automation), and through manual functional/non-functional testing - working a Black-box test environment.  ? Bug/Defect tracking monitored through Azure DevOps with detailed reproduction steps, acceptance criteria, and any media that captures the evidence of the bug/defect. IT Business Analyst Kingsdown Inc - Mebane, NC August 2018 to July 2019 Point of contact for issues, feature requests, and status updates for the kiosk software. I routed contact to the proper sources to better answer questions and organized meetings to discuss those topics, otherwise.  ? I am responsible for the creation and maintenance of documentation, archiving and making available information on processes and problem resolution.  ? I work with IT Support and developers to help resolve deadline conflicts by participating/facilitating meetings that discuss issues with software deployment. Scrum Master Kingsdown Inc - Mebane, NC August 2018 to April 2019 Solely responsible for operating and maintaining the backlog and Scrum Board, each sprint. Created PBIs, Bugs, associated tasks in the business and architectural interests for Kingdown's kiosk software.  ? I facilitate Daily Scrum meetings and Sprint Planning sessions to help organize and direct workload, time-boxed to each sprint.  ? Facilitating conference calls, email exchanges, and meetings with Product Owners and my Scrum Team to gather acceptance criteria, which helped create strong user stories for the customer's business need.  ? Encourage brainstorming and collaboration sessions to help developers solidify their direction to avoid spikes in the sprint and help meet acceptance criteria and deadline requirements. Defined Contributions Associate Fidelity Investments November 2017 to March 2018 I provide customer service excellence in the realm of empowering my customers to understand and take advantage of a 401k retirement savings program..  ? Point of contact for facilitating the needs of the customer for changes to their accounts to include indicative data, password changes, transfers, educational information, pointing to where resources and information can also be retrieved.  ? Helping team members and customer find the right information regarding plan policies and have aided customers to better understand their options in stressful times of their lives.  ? Work with peers and managers to identify service delivery improvement opportunities for assigned scope of work; implement changes that the organization makes that has provided a better customer service experience for our customers. Security Operations Specialist Securitas Security Services May 2017 to November 2017 Asset Protection, involving the monitoring of CCTV systems and alarms; reporting issues to my command and relief.  ? Adherence to company policies and procedures are followed by employees.  ? Operations analyst for the regional and local observance of impact areas, weather conditions, and emergency situations  ? Shift Management experience, responsible for a small team of officers.  ? Create profiles, in our employee ID system, to provide badges for access control - based in company policy and role in the company. This is includes, given speical permissions to room based on approval. Supply Specialist and Field Artillery United States Army Reserves and National Guard June 2001 to June 2009 Served 14 months in Kuwait. Flood Relief participant. Honorably Discharged. Management and Leadership  ? Associate management experience (two years), supervising a small team on the day to day activities and routine training at the behest of my direct supervisor  ? Oversaw periodic maintenance on equipment for regular and seasonal preventative maintenance checks  ? Managed storeroom facilities and oversaw the audits of inventory    Operations and Logistics  ? Packed, stored, and moved equipment for ground and air transport in support of missions during training and deployment  ? Clerical document proofing  ? Helped plan deployment of equipment and personnel to chosen locations  ? Maintained supply databases for services, ordering, and information exchange with leadership using military specific software    Communications Management  ? Managed written correspondence, drafted and submitted requests for support, personnel, and supplies for organizational needs  ? Created PowerPoint presentations for training and planning  ? Delivered and implemented safety organizational duties, and training briefs to general personnel Member Services Representative Western Illinois Credit Union September 2006 to August 2007 Operated teller register and managed money collection for member accounts, handling checking, saving, IRA, CD, loans transactions at the member's request.  ? Validating the member, through approved and required measures for asset account protection.  ? Reconciliation of large sums of cash, checks by helping customers with their payments  ? Coordinating background checks and fulfilling federal requirements on deposits/withdraws for more than $10,000  ? Served as loan adviser, payment specialist, and member services advocate - helping our members take advantage of all benefits offered through our services. Education B.S. in Instructional Design and Technology in Human Factors and Interface Design Walden University June 2010 to November 2013 Instructional Design and Technology Western Illinois University August 2007 to December 2008 Diploma Pine Forest Senior High School August 1999 to May 2002 Skills SQL SERVER, SQL, API, T-SQL, DOCUMENTATION, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, POWERPOINT, WORD, Quality Assurance, QA, UFT, JavaScript (Less than 1 year), MySQL (Less than 1 year), HTML 5 (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Studying to become a Full Stack Web Developer at the UNC Coding Bootcamp.