PACS Analyst II PACS <span class="hl">Analyst</span> II Dynamic Radiology IT Professional Philadelphia, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PACS Analyst II Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA September 2014 to Present Responsibilities  • Investigate, develop, and implement programs to aid radiologist efficiency.  • Overall PACS and RIS Quality control monitoring.  • Liaison between outreach facilities and CHOP radiologists.  • Facilitation and coordination of site modalities and protocols.  • Coordination of client compliance with CHOP quality standards.  • Create and implement project plans for internal and external projects.  • Provide complete and timely project updates to Manager and supervisor.  • Coordinator for CHOP CT & MRI programs.  • Become an expert and point person on all CHOP owned clinical applications.  • Communicate and work with PACS staff at enterprise client locations in the capacity of liaison.  • Be a key member in design, implementation, and maintenance of systems and applications.  • Interacts with internal and external clients to resolve escalated help desk issues and implement projects.  • EPIC credential trainer in Radiology.  • Comply with all regulatory measures, including but not limited to HIPAA.  • Assist with development of new business and resulting implementation.  • Participate in On-Call rotation providing system support after hours and weekends.    Skills Used  Effective communication, training in daily applications, remote desktop, manage various projects Information Security Professional Computer Science Corporation - Newark, DE March 2013 to Present For more than 50 years, we at CSC have developed smart, technology-enabled solutions to solve our clients' toughest challenges, demonstrating a commitment to excellence and a passion for exceeding expectations.  Newark, De    Information Assurance Specialist Jr. March 2013- Present  • Monitors client SIEM alerts in real-time, researching threat  information, and escalating legitimate security incidents to the client.  • Provides support regarding FDE, media encryption and recovery files.  • Creates user accounts at the request of the clients for access to the appropriate consoles.  • Monitor emails and responds to customers in a timely manner.  • Assists in monitoring and analyzing attempted efforts to compromise security  Protocols using host and network IDS, NSM, ePO, Siteprotector.   • Identifies issues, conducts analyses and escalates initial results Reviews computer logs and messages to ID and report possible violations of security.  • Coordinates documents and reports for internal investigations of security violations.  • Interacts with customers to fulfill their security needs; assist in the development and implementation of procedures to accommodate them.   • Trains new staff on the operations and procedures of the business.  • Conducts and provides initial analyses for review and escalation of results.  • Writes security status reports to provide system status and report potential and  actual security violations. IS Support Analyst II Children's Hospital of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA August 2012 to March 2013 the nation's first hospital devoted exclusively to caring for children. The Information Services department makes extensive contributions to the CHOP mission, which is driven by four core values: patient safety, teamwork, accountability and transparency.  Philadelphia, PA  IS Support Analyst II August 2012-March 2013  • Provide laser-like focus on customer service and satisfaction with some knowledge and experience of incident management, problem management and change management processes, practices and procedures.  • Serve as the first point of contact for the IS Department and act as a liaison between the client community of five thousand and the rest of the IS Department.  • Assist with password resets regarding RSA tokens and other hospital applications.  • Monitor support emails/notifications and respond to customers in a timely manner.  • Apply strong analytical skills, including a full review of the client file ensuring accuracy and completeness, maintain MIS and workflow management for Quality Assurance Project.  • Adhere to Service Desk standards, processes and systems required to deliver consistent high quality customer service.  • Diagnoses and resolves problems which may involve hardware, packaged software, proprietary software and peripheral equipment over the phone, via remote control tools or on-site.  • Author support documents and procedures.  • Maintain strong technical skills to provide prompt support for customers to determine problems and provide resolutions  • Manage level 1 queues and recommends new queues to insure proper categorization and assignment of issues. Coordinates queues for site/service, working with various stakeholder groups.  • Provide recommendations on how to improve the quality of service as well as reducing repeat incidents. IT Systems Technician LASALLE UNIVERSITY - Philadelphia, PA July 2011 to August 2012 is a private Roman Catholic University committed to providing a liberal education of both general and specialized studies.  Philadelphia, PA  IT Systems Technician July 2011- August 2012  • Perform on-site analysis, diagnosis, and resolution of technology issues for end users and recommend/implement corrective solutions.  • Provide Help Desk support to three hundred and seventy-three members of the La Salle community, including students/faculty/staff and assist users on-line or by telephone. Maintain tracking logs of help desk calls.  • Support users with system support, regarding Banner, Password resets, Argos and MyLaSalle Portal.  • Provide day-to-day administration of technology including PCs, networking, and cable plant on the University campus.  • Maintain Information Technology's software inventory.  • Install and new computers based on the life cycle of the users' current computer.  • Install customized software based on users' needs.  • Resolved operational problems or issues; recommended and implemented changes and enhancements.  • Develop and provide technical instructions and documentation.  • Manage student lab by designating hours of operation, clean up and reservations for faculty use. Help Desk & Hybrid Support Intern ALBERT EINSTEIN HEALTHCARE NETWORK - Philadelphia, PA February 2011 to July 2011 A private, not-for-profit organization with several major facilities and many outpatient centers. Our primary mission is to provide compassionate, high-quality healthcare to the greater Philadelphia region.  Philadelphia, PA  Help Desk & Hybrid Support Intern February 2011-July 2011  • Provide front-line diagnosis and support for Information Services problems.  • Provide support for clinical systems at hospital and escalate to appropriate staff when issues occur.  • Develop and provide technical instructions and documentation.  • Provide service to seventy-two hundred customers via phone, voicemail, fax, e-mail and desk-side support. Provides desk-side support relating to Workstations, Operation Systems, Software, Hardware, Network and peripherals. Provides Audio/Visual equipment support, including scheduling, setup and removal of A/V equipment.  • Acts as a liaison with customers on administrative and technical matters for assigned projects.  • Perform technical computer system functions such as running reports, updating batch files, tape backup management, maintenance and monitoring.  • Updates tickets and assignments according to established procedures.  • Provide training on the use of new software.  • Monitor operations, provides instructions to users on simple, routine matters, documents malfunctions or other systems problems, and assists in resolving system related issues.    VARIOUS FINANCIAL SERVICES POSITIONS 2004-2010 Education A.A.S. in Information Technology Community College of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA September 2012 to Present M.B.A. in Finance Walden University - Baltimore, MD January 2008 to December 2010 B.S. in Accounting/Finance West Chester University - West Chester, PA September 1999 to May 2004 Skills Microsoft Office 2003-2010 (5 years), Remote Management (5 years), Project Management (4 years), Inventory Management (4 years), Incident Response (2 years), Account Reconciliation (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Comptia A+ Comptia Security + EPIC Credentialed Trainer (Radiology) April 2015 to Present ITIL v3 Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS/ADDITIONAL TRAINING  • Cerner, EPIC, Meditech, ICD-10, SQL, FDE, Active Directory management, Fraud and Forensic Accounting, Symantec Imaging, System Configurations, LanDesk(remote management), Novell Groupwise, C++, Linux +, Software installation, RSA support, Lotus Notes, Windows XP, Vista, & 7, Microsoft Office, PXE Imaging, VPN support, TCP/IP, troubleshooting/fixing printers, Printer maintenance/setup, replacing/upgrading RAM, laptop support, virus troubleshooting, replacing/upgrading HDD's, 65wpm, DHS/FEMA Certified Cyber Security Training; Information Security for Everyone, Information Security Basics    PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS  • Excellent interpersonal, communication and report writing skills.  • Demonstrated ability to effectively plan and pay attention to details.  • Ability to update old procedures and integrate new ones to eliminate manual labor.  • Proven as a resourceful, fast learner, energetic independent worker as well as a reliable team member.  • Exceptional organization skills with the ability to manage multiple projects/tasks.  • Ability to teach peers.