Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO) Information Systems <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer (ISSO) Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO) - KBRwyle Huntsville, AL Active Secret Clearance Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO) KBRwyle January 2018 to Present Assists in the oversight of day-to-day operations of information system security in accordance with Defense Security Service (DSS) and Department of Defense (DoD) requirements.  Oversees hardware and software implementation on classified information systems.  Assists users in classified WAN, LAN, and stand-alone environments.  Develops and updates security authorization packages in accordance with the NISPOM.  Supports the Information System Security Manager (ISSM) in writing and transitioning to the new DSS required Risk Management Framework (RMF).  Develops and maintains core documentation such as System Security Plans (SSP), Risk Assessment Reports (RAR), Security Assessment Plans and Reports, Contingency Plans, Incident Response Plans, Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M), Remediation Plans, and Configuration Management Plans.  Investigates, cleanses, and documents data spill incidents in accordance with DoD/DSS guidelines.  Validates that the protective measures for physical security are in place to support the systems security requirements.  Maintains an inventory of hardware and software for classified information systems.  Perform weekly audits and analysis on information systems and their automated audit records and events.  Ensures that users of information systems have the required authorizations and need-to-know and are familiar with internal security practices and requirements.  Provides continuous monitoring to enforce client security policy and procedures and create processes that provide oversight for the systems owners.   Active Secret Security Clearance Business Systems Analyst KBRwyle April 2016 to January 2018 Maintained application and server for company's enterprise proposal software, Privia, and other business development applications as needed.  Evaluated Stakeholder's needs and business processes to translate, communicate, and document the requirements to Applications Support team.  Designed and built websites from inception to completion to include project plans, design, development, testing, documentation, and website deployment.  Led the integration of Heritage HTSI's website to current KBRwyle website.  Troubleshoot software issues and patches within application software due to changing requirements.  Developed documentation for application updates and maintained troubleshooting guides.  Conducted audits to measure company's website data, storage, and activities.  Developed and maintained Google Analytics for HR Recruiting Department.  Identified inefficient processes and recommended improved solutions with corresponding documentation.  Tested and refined applications in a test environment to assure product quality.  Conducted backup server tasks to verify recent backup and restore files.  Administered, maintained, and configured SharePoint 2013. Service Desk Tier I Analyst KBRwyle February 2015 to April 2016 Supported end users by providing hands-on technical assistance to resolve hardware and software incidents.  Provided help desk support and resolve problems to the end user's satisfaction.  Installed, tested and configured network stations, peripheral equipment and software.  Troubleshoot network, software and hardware issues, set up end user desk phones in the Cisco Unified Call  Manager.  Supported conference rooms for meetings Asset management.  Provided support to multiple domains via virtual machines.  Performed mail encryption, hard drive encryption, and multi-factor authentication. IT Consultant Crimson Tech, LLC September 2013 to February 2015 Managed client's network infrastructure and email hosting.  Worked remotely and onsite with clientele of approx imately 350 users.  Specialized in data recovery on client's devices.  Built custom client servers and workstations.  Ran network cable and installed patch panels.    Performed server administration and maintenance including W indow updates and software patches. Education Associates in Applied Science in Management and Supervision-Information Technology Shelton State Community College April 2013 Skills MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (1 year), SHAREPOINT (1 year), .NET (Less than 1 year), AUTOCAD (Less than 1 year), CLIENTS (Less than 1 year), DHCP (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), NETWORKING (Less than 1 year), POLICY MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year), SYMANTEC (Less than 1 year), TCP (Less than 1 year), TCP/IP (Less than 1 year), VISUAL STUDIO (Less than 1 year), VMWARE (Less than 1 year), VPN (Less than 1 year), Information Security (3 years), Network Security (3 years), Security Additional Information Technical Skills    Software: TeamViewer, Acronis, CrashPlan, Carbonite, packetTrap, WordPress, VPN Clients, AutoCAD, Active  Directory, DameW are, VMware, Group Policy Management, WebEx, Priva, Symantec, Visual Studio, DreamW eaver,  SharePoint Designer, Google Analytics, Microsoft Office    Networking: TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, Routers, Switches/Hubs