GS-14 IT Specialist (INFOSEC) - Risk Management Team Lead GS-14 <span class="hl">IT</span> Specialist (INFOSEC) - Risk Management Team Lead GS-14 IT Specialist (INFOSEC) - Risk Management Team Lead - Health Services and Resources Administration Arlington, VA Experienced security professional (CISSP, CAP) specializing in the government cyber security industry for 9+ years. Skilled in implementing the NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF) including Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A), Vulnerability Management, and Network Security. Received Bachelor of Science degree in Security and Risk Analysis from The Pennsylvania State University (2009). Work Experience GS-14 IT Specialist (INFOSEC) - Risk Management Team Lead Health Services and Resources Administration - Rockville, MD August 2016 to Present • Served as lead of the HRSA Risk Management Team, which consists of two federal employees and five contractors.  • Prepared and reviewed authorization packages prior to review by Authorizing Official.  • Subject Matter Expert for the Trusted Agent GRC tool.  • Developed a process for reviewing scan results and tracking open scan findings on individual system POA&Ms.  • Coordinated with System Owners and Information System Security Officers (ISSOs) to ensure compliance with FISMA requirements.  • Subject Matter Expert for NIST 800 Series documents. Reviewed all NIST 800 series documents to determine their applicability to the HRSA environment and adapted HRSA processes to implement accordingly.  • Led the HRSA Security Assessment and Authorization project. The mission of the project was to develop consistent, repeatable processes for systems obtaining an Authorization to Operate (ATO). Deliverables included identification of common control providers and corresponding common control catalogs, System Security Plan guidance documentation, and a control responsibility matrix.  • Led the HRSA Archer implementation project. This project was an HHS-wide initiative to implement Archer as a replacement for Trusted Agent GRC. Role consisted of identifying requirements, performing testing, supporting data migration, and providing user training.  • Developed the Security Performance Dashboard. The Security Performance Dashboard translated raw compliance and operational data into meaningful dashboards that could measure a system's security effectiveness in a manner that was easily understandable for ISSOs, System Owners, and other HRSA management. Technical Security Control Assessor - Supporting HRSA CyberData Technologies, Inc - Rockville, MD June 2015 to August 2016 • Performed security control assessments of multiple system types (general support systems, applications, etc.). Assessment scope ranged from low, moderate, and high systems and included both annual and full assessments.  • Provided remediation recommendations for assessment findings. As part of the assessment Outbrief, identified findings' severity and recommended remediation priority.  • Tracked and managed weaknesses across organization. Reviewed all weaknesses prior to closure to ensure finding was remediated, evidence submitted was sufficient, and weakness was properly documented. Senior Computer Security Systems Analyst - Project Lead Triumph Enterprises - Bethesda, MD May 2014 to October 2014 - Supporting NIH  • Provided oversight for the remediation of penetration test findings.  • Contributed to development and oversight of the NIH Ongoing Authorization program.  • Offered Trusted Agent FISMA support and administration.  • Integrated Risk Management Framework (RMF) into NIH processes. Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM)/FISMA Analyst Knowledge Consulting Group - Arlington, VA April 2013 to October 2014 - Supporting TSA  • Received award from TSA CISO for contributions to the CDM program.  • Provided oversight for 15 systems.  ? Analyzed monthly continuous monitoring scans (Nessus/Tenable)  ? Tracked compliance with FISMA requirements (SA&A documentation, POA&M management, etc.)  • Created and updated parsing tool utilized by the CDM team.  • Developed management scan scorecards (vulnerabilities identified and scan quality).  • Prepared FISMA compliance reports for management. Security Administrator - Supporting NIH Cetech/ALTA IT Services - Bethesda, MD June 2012 to April 2013 • Performed TAF administrative duties (account/system creation, deletion, management).  • Provided SA&A/RMF support to NIH customers.  • Validated TAF system information.  • Managed vulnerability to POA&M weakness process. Cyber Security Analyst SRA International, Inc - Arlington, VA June 2010 to May 2012 • Security Testing and Evaluation (ST&E) of SRA-Network  ? Tested SRA-Network against NIST 800-53A rev 1 test objectives.  ? Produced Security Assessment Report.  • Security Compliance Team Member  ? Completed ATO certification package.  ? Led management of POA&M.  ? Led development of configuration management program. Information Technology Intern Cen-Clear Child Services Inc - Clearfield, PA June 2009 to August 2009 Education B.S. in Security and Risk Analysis in Cyber Security The Pennsylvania State University - State College December 2009 Skills SECURITY, SPLUNK, NESSUS, NIST, RSA, RISK MANAGEMENT, MICROSOFT OFFICE, Compliance, Governance, Internal Audit, Excel Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) Certified Authorization Professional (CAP) Security+ Assessments Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/aovzodmvvvq-hsxa Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SPECIALTIES/SKILLS  • NIST Risk Management Framework  • NIST 800 Series  • Security Control Assessments  • Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) Management  • Vulnerability Management  • Trusted Agent GRC  • Telos Xacta IA Manager  • RSA Archer  • Nessus/Tenable SecurityCenter  • Splunk  • Microsoft Office Suite