Omniplex Security Officer Omniplex <span class="hl">Security</span> Officer Omniplex Security Officer - AWS Data Centre/ Ashburn Springdale, MD About 13 years of experience in Information Technology services supporting security initiatives for government and commercial customers.  Work experience encompasses threat analysis, incident response, network surveillance, Data mining, Risk Management Framework (RMF), National Institute of Technology (NIST), System Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Information security documents, developing and promulgating Security Assessment Plans (SAP) and Security Assessment Reports (SARs). Work Experience Omniplex Security Officer AWS Data Centre/ Ashburn - Sterling, VA May 2019 to Present Patrolling, responding to alarms and securing doors Dreams Over America Security Guard Vie Towers - Hyattsville, MD April 2019 to May 2019 Control of entry and egress to and from the building, patrolling Self Employed Self Employed July 2012 to December 2018 Martial Arts Instructor/Masseur  Martial Arts Instructor: Under the name Senshi-Juku Martial Arts - Teaching adults and children the art of self-defense in the art of Karate, Muay Thai, boxing and judo. Wazas, katas, throws, takedown, disarming techniques, kicks, blocks and punches.  Masseur: Giving full body massage, relaxation massage and massage in unorthodox forms to people suffering from arthritis, back and body pains and also to those recovering from strokes. Hand and foot reflexology.  Screenwriting IT Security Analyst Dimensions Data/ Victoria Island - Lagos, NG August 2012 to September 2017 Conduct IT risk assessment to identify system threats, vulnerabilities and risk, and generate reports.  Maintain, review and update information security system documentations, including System Security Plan (SSP), Plan of Action & Milestone (POA&M), Risk Assessment (RA), policies and procedures, security control baselines in accordance with NIST guideline and security practices.  ? Apply appropriate information security control for Federal Information System based on NIST 800-37 rev1, SP 800-53, FIPS 199, FIPS 200, and NIST SP 800-53A R4  Assess security controls and develop security assessment report (SAR)  Support A&A activities (Categorize, Selection, Implement, Assessment, Authorize, Monitor) according to the A&A project plan.  ? Review authorization documentation for completeness and accuracy for compliance.  ? Facilitate Security Control Assessment (SCA) and monitor activities.  ? Executed examine, interview, and test procedures in accordance with NIST SP 800-53A Revision 4.  ? Ensure cyber security policies are adhered to and that required controls are implemented.  ? Validated information system security plans to ensure NIST control requirements are met.  ? Assist team members with proper artifact collection and detail to client's examples of artifacts that will satisfy assessment requirements.  ? Review security logs to ensure compliance with policies and procedures and identifies potential anomalies.  ? Update and review A&A Packages to include Core Docs, Policy & Procedures, Operations and .Maintenance Artifacts, SSP, SAR, FIPS 200, FIPS 199, and POA&M.  ? Collect Operation and Maintenance artifacts on an ongoing basis so that Security Control Assessment (SCA) is seamless.  ? Upload supporting documentations into the Sharepoint, Google Docs, and (CSAM360).  ? Manage vulnerabilities with the aid of Nessus vulnerability Scanners to detect potential risks on a single or multiple assets across the enterprise network. Computer Science Tutor ITAJI COMMUNITY COLEGE ITAJI, Ekiti State - NG July 2011 to June 2012 Network Assistant FASYL, Victoria Island - Lagos, NG March 2010 to June 2011 • Setting up the network of the organization  • Maintaining the office router and ensuring that all other networking devices are working properly In-House Office Assistant FASYL, Victoria Island - Lagos, NG September 2006 to December 2006 • Answering the phone at the office  • Switching the office server on and off and managing it  • Ensuring that the network system at the office is always up and running  • Keeping inventory of office tools, equipment and the computer systems  • Reporting any shortages in office supply to the Human Resources department    Computer & Software Proficiencies  Microsoft Office Suite  ? CSAM  ? Adobe  ? MS Office  ? FEDRAMP Education Bachelors of Science in Computer University Of Benin 2008 Skills Security