Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Charter St. Louis, MO ? Over 6 years of work experience as a Java developer in Design, Development, Integration, Testing, and Implementation in Web-based applications and Large Scale Enterprise applications using JAVA and J2EE technologies.  ? Expertise in Designing and building websites using Java, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, and Bootstrap.  ? Experienced in Java programming and have a good understanding of OOPs, JDBC, JSF, JSTL, Servlets, JSP, JQuery, Spring, Hibernate, CSS, HTML, and XML based technologies.  ? Experience in using AngularJS to build single-page applications.  ? Expertise in back-end development, for applications using Oracle 10g/11g, SQL, MySQL databases.  ? Significant experience in creating Database tables, Views and writing Queries, Stored procedures, Functions and Triggers in a Database management system with the use of PL/SQL.  ? Hands-on experience in the Software Development life cycle using various methodologies such as waterfall, agile and test-driven development.  ? Strong knowledge of OOP and OOD Design Methodologies in extreme programming and Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Experience in working with Core Java concepts with knowledge of multiple web technologies on JDBC, JSP, JNDI, Servlets OOPs concepts, Collections Framework, Hibernate, and spring.  ? Experience in developing GUI screens with the use of HTML and JavaScript.  ? Expertise in Maven to build/test/deployment, Log4J for logging errors and debugging, Junit for unit and integration.  ? Worked with the latest application servers and web servers such as OC4J, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere Application Server, JBoss, and BEA Weblogic servers.  ? Experience in using IDEs like Eclipse IDE, Eclipse Neon, Websphere IDE, Weblogic IDE, Visual Studio and Android Studio.  ? Experience in Designing blueprint for the application homepage and login page.  ? Experience in connecting the user interface to the database and making sure the data flows through the user interface connected.  ? Involved in Code review and Design Review Meetings; Experienced in working on Multiple tasks in the Project and reaching the Deadlines.  ? Experienced in the documentation of User Manuals and other phases in the development of the application.  ? Experienced in other documentation such as Software Requirements Specifications (functional requirements, data requirements and performance requirements).  ? Efficient in problem-solving, and positive listening with good communication skills as a team player. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Charter - St. Louis, MO February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Actively involved in client meetings and understanding the requirements for the android mobile application.  ? Involved in designing three-tier architecture for the application and implementing with J2EE design patterns.  ? Worked on creating the designed user interfaces in the front end with the use of Java and JSP in Android Studio.  ? Worked on testing the front-end portion of layouts in the virtual machine with the use of the emulator.  ? Directed each user interface one after one, creating the right direction to flow the user interfaces in the application.  ? Connected this application user interfaces to the SQL database with the help of JDBC.  ? Created database objects such as tables, views, indexes, stored procedures & amp; functions.  ? Written queries to make sure the data is going to the right place in the database (as the client requested).  ? Created sign up page so that the user can sign up with their data; double-checked if the data goes into the database and stores.  ? Checked if the login page goes into the database to check the details and log in the user successfully without any technical issues.  ? Resolved any technical issues regarding the connection of the database to this application.  ? Followed Agile Methodology when it comes to analyzing, developing and documentation of the application; by doing so, it will support functional and business requirements as requested by the client.  ? Involved in the documentation of user manual for this application.  ? Tested and implemented the mobile application with the help of the virtual machine.  ? Connected an android device to the Android Studio and checked if it works on the device.  ? Used Github to share the work between the team and the clients.    Technical Environment: Android Studio, SSMS, Java, Core Java concepts, Junit, J2EE, JSP, JDBC, Android SDK, Android Virtual Device Manager, XML, Logcat, GUI, JDK, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Github, HTML, SQL. Java/J2EE Developer Northern Trust - Chicago, IL August 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing user interfaces using Spring MVC framework, JSP, JQuery, AJAX and CSS.  ? Extensive usage of core java concepts such as Multithreading, Collections Framework, and concurrency.  ? Worked on other core java concepts like OOP concepts, Exception Handling, Input/output System and JDBC.  ? With the usage of JPA/hibernate, tested and provided production support for distributed loading XML data into Oracle database.  ? Using Spring JDBC annotation mappings, created POJO and DAO's for the database entities.  ? Involved in using Spring MVC and Spring Boot frameworks for Rest APIs and Microservices; Spring Core annotations for Spring Dependency injection.  ? Involved in Using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat for the development of cloud-hosted web application and Rest APIs.  ? Developed web services using spring frameworks and persistence using Hibernate and JPA ORM frameworks.  ? Experienced with development using Oracle, MySQL, and MSSQL.  ? Implemented MySQL and Oracle database with the help of JDBC.  ? With the help of enterprise architecture, my team and I leveraged J2EE in back end development.  ? Involved in creating Spring MVC components such as Dispatcher servlets and developing JSP pages using the Spring MVC framework.  ? Involved in using Hibernate to persist and retrieve data from the database and wrote hibernate queries, hibernate Caching.  ? Used PL/SQL stored procedures for the execution of the application.  ? Worked on using Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence into the Oracle database.    Technical Environment: Spring MVC, JSP, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, XML, Oracle database, JPA/Hibernate, POJOs, DAOs, JDBC, Spring Core Annotations, Spring Dependency Injection, Rest APIs, Spring Boot, Microservices. Java/J2EE Developer Zurich Insurance Group - Schaumburg, IL May 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Extensive experience in designing the tiers of the applications and implementing J2EE design applications.  ? Worked on development and maintaining the service-based architecture with the help of open source technologies such as Hibernate, ORM and Spring MVC Framework.  ? Followed Agile Methodology in analyzing, defining and documenting the application for business and functional requirements.  ? Worked on designing and developing the front-end using Servlet, JSP, HTML, AJAX, and JavaScript.  ? Involved in implementing JMS and integration of claimant information with the adapter for message queuing.  ? Used Hibernate by developing ORM scripts to synchronize Domain model & Relational model.  ? Involved in developing a web service, which is simultaneously shared between front-end and billing review system.  ? Involved in implementation of Spring MVC architecture; request module targeting servlets and flow of control generating JSP.  ? Using Oracle as a tier, developing PL/SQL stored procedures, Function, Event triggering in add and update.  ? Worked on developing DAO classes so that it is helpful to access the data from the database.  ? Used RAD IDE to code for JSP, Servlets, and Struts.    Technical Environment: Spring, MVC Framework, Servlet, JavaScript, Oracle, ANT, Webservices, WebSphere, JSP, AJAX, HTML, PL/SQL. Jr. Java Developer/J2EE Analyst HDFC Bank - IN January 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in client meetings to understand their specific requirements towards the website.  ? Analyzed, and designed the rough draft documentation of the website.  ? Created a dynamic web project by selecting a suitable version for the website.  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces with the use of JSPs.  ? Involved in a transaction module for the customers by developing components using Java, JSP, Hibernate, and Struts environment.  ? Responsible for status reports in transaction module.  ? Resolved technical issues and kept track with new updates, a client wants on this website.  ? Involved in the database connection with the use of JDBC.  ? Worked on creating the database tables, stored procedures and triggers by using Oracle SQL/PLSQL.  ? Tested and Implemented after each step of the process.    Technical Environment: Eclipse, Eclipse WTP, WebSphere Application Server, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, Hibernate, MVC, Struts. Education Bachelor of Science in Information and Decision Sciences in Information and Decision Sciences University of Illinois at Chicago - Chicago, IL Associate of Arts Harper College Skills Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Jdbc, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Java, HTML, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE Technology Servlets, JDBC, JSTL, JSP  Framework Spring, Hibernate, Maven, Junit, Struts, JSF, BootStrap and Log4J  Web Technologies XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX  Databases Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server, MySQL  Application/WebServers BEA Weblogic, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, OC4J  IDE Tools & Other Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio, Android Studio, SSMS, RAD  Operating Systems Windows, LINUX  Design & Version Control CVS  Middle Ware Web Services