Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer Wilmington, DE ? Having 8+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Enterprise Applications in the Client/Server environment as a FULL STACK developer using Java/J2ee in Client-Server, 3-tier and n-tier applications.  ? Experience in all aspects of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements analysis, design specifications, code development, code integration, testing, and deployment using Object Oriented Analysis and Design with Core Java/J2EE.  ? Expertise in JAVA/J2EE technologies like Struts, Spring, Hibernate, HTML/HTML5, CSS, JSP, EJB, JDBC, Servlets, MVC, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Subversion, Clear case and AngularJS.  ? Extensive knowledge & good experience on Java Application Development, Distributed Applications, Object Oriented Applications, and Internet/Intranet based Database Applications.  ? Having extensive GUI design development capabilities for different applications using HTML5, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, XML and AngularJS.  ? Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets and frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Mail, spring validation, Spring JDBC, Hibernate.  ? Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets and frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring WS, Spring Data, Spring Mail, Spring validation, Spring JDBC, Hibernate.  ? Experience with and solid understanding of Microservices.  ? Extensive experience in Design, Development and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) (spring, Struts, ORM Frameworks).  ? Well experienced in Core Java - asynchronous programming, multithreading, collections and a few design patterns.  ? Extensive knowledge of XML based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), Development of XSD schemas and implementing SOAP web services.  ? Experience in using frameworks like Struts, Struts validator framework, Hibernate and OR-mapping, spring, build tools like ANT, MAVEN and logging framework Log4J.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using Unified Modeling Language (UML).  ? Proficient experience in using the databases such as MS SQL Server, Oracle and able to write stored procedures, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries.  ? Good knowledge and experience with multiple Servers like IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic server, Apache Tomcat, Jboss.  ? Experience with Continuous Integration/Continous Deployment using Maven, Jenkins.  ? Expertise in using version control systems such as CVS, SVN and GIT.  ? Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, EJB transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), Java Beans, JDBC, XML, RMI, Web Services, Multi-Threading etc.  ? Good experience in writing SQL Queries, PL/SQL Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Cursors.  ? Good experience with Operating Systems like Windows XP/ Vista/7 and partially on UNIX.  ? Excellent team player, very dynamic, flexible with a positive attitude and excellent learning skills. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer JPMC - Wilmington, DE September 2018 to July 2019 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in design phase and data modeling, interacted with other team members to understand the requirements for the project.  ? Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  ? Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  ? Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Developed presentation tier using JSP, Java Script, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  ? Worked on J2EE frameworks like spring and Struts for developing industry standard web applications.  ? Developed dynamic emails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5 and CSS.  ? Involved in configuration of Spring MVC and Integration with Hibernate.  ? Used Spring MVC framework for design and development of web application.  ? Created Location Look up SOAP based web services using spring.  ? Used Spring Boot for the Application development.  ? Worked on JQuery for user interface interactions, effects and themes built on top of the JQuery JavaScript.  ? Involved in spring, Hibernate & JPA integration for the entire system.  ? Extensive use of HTML5 with AngularJS, JSTL, JSP and JQuery for the presentation layer along with Java script for client side validation.  ? Build RESTful web services using Spring-WS and documented the same with Swagger.  ? Involved in developing Static and Dynamic pages using JSP and Servlets.  ? The front-end JSP pages were developed using the Struts framework and were hosted in a J2EE environment on an Apache Tomcat Server.  ? Involved in the application involving Oracle, JAXB, web service Java.  ? Worked with Jenkins and Hudson for continuous Integration.  ? Involved in development of SOAP web services using Apache Axis to extract data from databases.  ? Built web-based applications using Spring MVC Architecture suitable for Apache Axis framework.  ? Used RESTful web services to expose certain functionalities of the application.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Implemented MicroServices Architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST, SOAP.  ? Developed JSP pages and Servlets for customer maintenance and used Angular JS.  ? Developed the data layer using Hibernate Persistence Framework. Created Hibernate mapping files and Hibernate configuration files for individual modules.  ? Validated Web service response using SOAP UI.  ? Implemented object/relational persistence and query service using Hibernate.  ? Used JSON, JQuery, and Ajax for updating the web pages.  ? Used Jenkins and Maven for building application.  ? Coding to build REST MicroServices using Spring Cloud, Oracle, XSD, JSON and Spring Config.  ? Involved in implementing Web Services server and client with JAX-WS Standard Implementation (SI) which provides the compile and wsdeploy tools for developing, deploying, and invoking a Web Service.  ? Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL and UDDI  ? Generated POJO classes to map to the tables in the database using the JPA-Hibernate integration.  ? Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures for data manipulation.    Environment: Java, Core Java, JSP, HTML5, Struts, Spring, AngularJS, CSS, Web services, J2EE, Design Patterns, Servlets, Hibernate, Struts Tag Libraries/JSTL, XML, spring boot, Spring MVC, JQuery, UML, Jenkins, JUnit, Oracle 10g, Apache Tomcat, Log4J, CSS, Maven, ANT, Windows XP/2007. Full Stack Java Developer Ericsson India Global Services Pvt.Ltd November 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Reviewing Business Requirements, Functional Specifications and creating Detailed Design documents for development.  ? Used Spring Framework at Business Tier and also spring's Bean Factory for initializing services.  ? Implemented the Application using Spring MVC Framework.  ? Configured the Web Logic handler for the Apache Web Server to serve static files (html, images and css).  ? Extensively used Spring IOC module to perform the bean dependency injection in various XML files that compose the entire web application.  ? Developed various Custom DAOs using spring's Hibernate DAO support to persist the records from suitable tables in the database.  ? Developing presentation layer with JSPs, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Spring Form tags, Tiles, JSTL tags etc.  ? Web application development for backend system using AngularJS with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  ? JQuery & Ajax are used intensely for producing responsive User Interface.  ? Developed SQL Statements as well as PL/SQL Stored Procedures for searching contractors depending on Selection Criteria.  ? Designed and developed Rest Services using Java, spring, Spring Boot, RESTful, JPA, Hibernate.  ? Developed Servlets for Document Upload, Image Streaming and Caching the data.  ? Involved in integrating spring with Hibernate and delegated the persistence operations using Hibernate Template.  ? Developed Contract first WebServices using Spring-WS to communicate with Database Tables.  ? Developed functional components using different concepts of core java like Multi-threading and Collections.  ? Wrote client side and server side validations using Struts Validators and Java Scripts Validations.  ? Used AngularJS to create maintainable and testable single page application.  ? Involved in Unit Testing, Integration Testing, and System Testing.  ? Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  ? Developed JavaScript validation for client side validations. Performed Code reviews and code fixes.  ? Developed user interfaces using JSPs, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP Custom Tags and AJAX.  ? Used AngularJS markup and expressions.  ? Developing Spring MVC Controllers for handling of web requests from the presentation layer by use of URL Handler Mapping.  ? Built MicroServices using spring boot with continuous deployment and continuous integration using Jenkins.  ? Involved in application deployment to Websphere using Jenkins  ? Constructed presentation layer implementing Struts framework.  ? Implemented business logic on server-side using Session Beans and Entity beans.  ? Followed Agile methodology and used Test Driven Development. Created Design Docs from Functional Specifications.  ? Developed Class and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose Software.  ? Involved in design and developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, XML Schemas, JAXP and XSL.  ? Deployment of application using Maven.  ? Developed Asynchronous means of retrieval of data from the Server and Database using AJAX features as well JavaScript.  ? Used Log4J to store log messages.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Core Java, Springs, JSP, Hibernate, Struts, AJAX, CSS, JDBC, Eclipse, Web logic 10.x , Web Services, AngularJS, Maven, SOAP, spring boot, Oracle, Apache, Spring MVC, ANT, Jenkins, Windows 2007, SOA, Maven, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML5,CSS. JAVA/J2EE Developer L&T Infotech - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) using agile development methodology.  ? Implementing Servlets, JSP and Ajax to design the user interface.  ? Used JSP, Java Script, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  ? Maintained the existing code based developed in Spring and Hibernate framework by incorporating new features and fixing bugs.  ? Designed and developed all the user interfaces using JSP, Servlets and Spring framework.  ? Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate for Database connectivity.  ? Developed custom controllers for handling the requests using the spring MVC controllers.  ? Developed Client Side Validations using Java Script and server side validations using Struts validation framework.  ? Extensively used the JSP in the view side of MVC.  ? Used Struts tag libraries, JSTL and created web interfaces using JSP technology.  ? Developed the dynamic User Interface using JSP utilizing Custom Tag Libraries, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Developed a web-based reporting for monitoring system with HTML and Tiles using Struts framework.  ? Expertise in developing integration services in SOA by offering Web Services based on XML communication on SOAP Layer.  ? Used the RAD for creating and deploy the application on IBM Web sphere Application Server.  ? Incorporated JUnit into the code to do the unit testing around the developed module.  ? Used JDBC connection and access database procedures.    Environment: J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, JAXP, SOA, Servlets, Spring Framework, Struts Framework, JSP, SWIFT, EJB, JMS, RAD, Windows XP, 2007. Java/UI Developer Global Logic - IN May 2010 to December 2013 The application was a Web based School Management System, developed for a franchise of National Open School. This system consisted of three main modules - student, teacher and administration. Features for student module included registration, attendance, timetable, report card generation, fee collection, library management, notice board and communication etc. The students/parents could go online to check the report card, fee dues, communicate with teacher and also check notice board.    Responsibilities:  ? Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  ? Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Designed and developed intranet web applications using JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Implemented and designed user interface for web-based customer application.  ? Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  ? Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  ? Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  ? Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Json, Tomcat Apache, Eclipse and SVN Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Monroe University 2016 to 2018 Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Acharya Nagarjuna University 2006 to 2010 Skills Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, C++, Html, Javascript, Json, Scripting, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Ajax Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java, C, C++, JSP,HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, XML, JSON  Java Technologies JAVA BEANS, RMI, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, Web services  Frameworks MVC, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Hibernate OGM  Web/Application Servers Web Logic , IBM Web Sphere, JBoss, Tomcat  Databases Oracle, SQL Server  Web Technologies HTML5/DHTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT, AngularJS  Scripting Languages JavaScript, JQuery  Operating Systems Windows 2000/XP/NT/vista/7, UNIX  Other Tools Maven, Ant, Log4j, JUnit, Entity Beans, UNIX Shell Scripting.