Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer - Cigna Bloomfield, CT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Cigna - Bloomfield, CT January 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Utilized Agile Scrum and Waterfall methodologies to deliver successful implementation of the ForgeRock Suite of products  ? Developed application using J2EE architecture with Struts, Spring and Hibernate using concrete principles laid down by design patterns  ? Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  ? Worked on interacting with RESTful web services, SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS.  ? Worked on Amazon EC2, S3, and Simple DB services.  ? Implemented JSF framework in the application which is based on MVC design architecture.  ? Development of Automation UNIX scripts to monitor JVM.  ? Implemented JAVA Web Services based on SOA architecture with SOAP and WSDL.  ? Packaged the developed component to be deployed on different JVM's  ? Designed and integrated the full-scale Struts/Hibernate persistence solution with the application architectures.  ? Used Hibernate as data mapping and persistence framework to implement data access abstraction.  ? Architect and development of core components of a web site application using J2EE, EJB, Hibernate, SQL/PLSQL  ? Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern.  ? Demonstrates expertise in SOA, JEE, OOAD, Frameworks, Patterns, Test Driven Development, Continuous Integration and Agile.  ? Worked in agile framework as an individual contributor Responsibilities include - Interaction with Business team in story grooming, reviewing story/acceptance criteria.  ? Converted a monolithic app to Micro Services architecture using Spring Boot using 12-factor app methodology. Deployed, Scaled, Configured, wrote manifest file for various Micro Services in PCF.  ? Implemented REST Micro Services using spring boot. Generated Metrics with method level granularity and Persistence using Spring AOP and Spring Actuator.  ? Implemented Zipkins for distributed Micro Service Monitoring. Integrated Swagger UI and wrote integration test along with REST document.  ? Implemented Hysterix a Latency and Fault Tolerance system for Distributed Systems. Wrote Controller, Services and directive code using Angular JS 1.X for a POC for converting CIM UI.  ? Responsible for Design and Architecture of J2EE application.  ? Mentoring team of Java/JEE developers on the best practices and patterns of development in CQ5, OSGi and JCR.  ? Maintain and supported existing and develops new applications and tools.  ? Evaluates compatibility of programs with existing communications hardware and software.  ? Develops protocols to support established standards.  ? Anticipates and prevents problems and roadblocks before they occur.  ? Gather updates and necessary information and communicates to appropriate parties.  ? Coordinate cross-functionally to accomplish assigned tasks.  ? Design and architectural decisions for a multi-tier reusable service based J2EE application.  ? Developed pipeline process using Camel to pull data from various Meteorological data-sources and ingest them into SQL Database.  ? Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  ? Implemented Ajax with JQuery to refresh results from Ajax page.  ? Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  ? Developed internal application using Angular.js 6 and Node.js connecting to Oracle on the backend.  ? Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular.Js 6  ? Implemented MVVM in all interactive views using jQuery & Knockout.js and layouts in Bootstrap.  ? Developed frontend widgets in Backbone.js and Handlebars.js  ? Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval  ? Used JPA with Entity Beans for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations.  ? Developed a prototype that Integrates two SQL databases using MULE ESB and Apache Camel Integration Framework.  ? Worked in RDBMS implementation using SOAP, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL on Oracle database.  ? Implemented the Connectivity to the Data Base Server Using JDBC.  ? Developed Dashboard to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  ? Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence.  ? Utilized MongoDB database management system for keeping user generated data  ? Bottle micro-framework implemented with REST API and MongoDB (NoSQL) as back end database.  ? Design and Developed using Web Service using Apache CXF.  ? Developed Rest architecture based Web Services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  ? Designed and developed SOA based enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite and WebLogic  ? Responsible for build and release the code from Subversion and Perforce.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  ? Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology  ? Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose.  ? Design & Development of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS and JSP.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Developed the User Interfaces using Struts, JSP, JSTL, HTML and Ajax, JavaScript.  ? Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.  ? Designed and developed Generate PDF functionality using Spring framework and iText  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, SaaS, Scrum, JVM, JEE, SQL, Hibernate, Struts, JQuery, Ajax, Sencha Ext.Js, JavaScript, NodeJS, Angular.Js 6, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Oracle, Crud, Pl/SQL, JDBC, Apache Cxf, Rest, Eclipse, WebLogic, Subversion (SVN), Mongo DB, Coherence, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, JSTL ( Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library), Servlet, Maven, IText, Google Web Kit (GWT), Jasper Report, Ilog, Web 2.0, SOA Java Full Stack Developer Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC February 2018 to December 2018 Scope here was to design develop a web-based unified commerce application which enables customers and partners to create estimates/quotes for the renewal of current software subscriptions and technical services. This application provides rich interface to Cisco partners/customer to search multiple product lines, existing quotes/orders and contracts.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Programming, testing, debugging, implementing, and maintaining of Java EE client/server distributed application to meet the organization's needs.  ? Enhancement of the DEEP libraries with new mechanism like Event engine and Event audit.  ? Implementing the new message retry mechanism using Kafka in the event of any failure in the downstream systems.  ? Rest services templates are generated using swagger specifications.  ? Development of new listeners for producers and consumer for both Rabbit MQ and Kafka.  ? New library development with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot and pivotal cloud foundry.  ? Enhancement of the existing functionality to persist the messages to Cassandra DB in Kafka.  ? Used Bi-weekly Sprints and Agile development methodologies.  ? Implementation of Hysterix circuit breaker to avoid loss of messages during handling of messages at the consumer level.  ? Implementation of Zuul proxy as the API gateway.  ? Test plans and Unit Testing using Junit and Mockito.  ? Design application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java  ? Design and implement customized exception handling to handle the exceptions in the application.  ? Involve in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  ? Complete CI-CD (Continuous Integration Continuous Deployment) Pipeline experience with GIT - Jenkins - (Gradle + Docker) - JFrog Artifactory - Kubernetes.  ? Used Spring validation and write validation rules.  ? Design the front end using JSP, Angular.Js 4, CSS and Html as per the requirements that are provided.  ? Used Jenkins with Maven for continuous integration  ? Primarily focus on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects.  ? Developed Business components using Java Objects and used Hibernate framework to map the Java classes  ? Designed data schema and development of SOAP web services with Axis implementation and REST Web Services with JAX-RS  ? Used RESTful web services (JAX-RS) to retrieve credit history of the applicants.  ? Created RFP (Request for Proposal) micro service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  ? Used Spring Boot for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate DAOs.  ? Developed Hibernate DAO classes and with the spring framework manager classes retrieve and save the data from the database.  ? Implement Spring ORM with Hibernate taking advantage of Java features annotation metadata, auto wiring, and generic collections using plain JPA specification that is used to implement the DAO layer with Hibernate, HQL, and SQL.  ? Develop payment flow using AJAX partial page refresh, validation and dynamic drop-down list.  ? Used MyEclipse IDE, configured and deployed the applications onto Apache Tomcat.  ? Implemented version controlling using SVN.  ? Implemented log4j for logging purposes and debug the application.  ? Prepared Junit test cases and executed the test cases using Junit in eclipse.  ? Participated in Scrum meetings and design review meetings  Environment: J2EE, JSP, Angular4, CI-CD: Spock, Gradle/Maven, JDK 1.6, UML, Eclipse, Oracle WebLogic Application server, JSP, SOAP, REST, JAX-WS Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Micro Services, XML, CSS, HTML, Junit, SVN, Log4j, Oracle database, Jenkins, UNIX, Maven, Agile Scrum Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer United Health Group - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2014 to June 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the detail design of the modules according to the J2EE standards.  ? Implemented the application using Agile development methodology.  ? Implemented the application modules using Spring Core layer (IOC), Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, Spring Batch, Spring Transaction Management in order to develop the application.  ? Built an Application and deployed in the AWS Cloud.  ? Used GIT as application repository and for deploying to Heroku.  ? Worked on Logplex for viewing log entries in application deployed in Heroku.  ? Performed actions such as creating database, fork database in Heroku.  ? Automated CI/CD with Jenkins, build-pipeline-plugin, Maven, GIT Set up Jenkins master/slave to distribute builds on salve nodes.  ? Implemented Spring Services and business operations Dependency Injection.  ? Used spring boot annotations for entire configuration and free of xml.  ? Used multithreading and synchronization to allow concurrency.  ? Developed Action classes, Form bean classes and Struts configuration file using Struts framework  ? Used Eclipse IDE for coding, debugging and testing the application modules.  ? Used different user interface technologies JSP, HTML, JSTL, EL, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.Js 2, React.Js and JSON for developing the GUI of the application.  ? Used NPM/Node.JS for the Angular.Js 2 dependencies and for building the API services.  ? Used Jasmine for Unit testing the Angular.Js 2 application.  ? Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to perform database activities and transactions.  ? Implemented Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files  ? Used Transaction Management to ensure data integrity and consistency.  ? Implemented and worked on order processing, payments and reports generations in the application  ? Used different design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Data Access Object, Value Object etc.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (MQ Series and JMS) for developing messaging services to interact with different application modules.  ? Implemented SOA using Web Services and its frameworks Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS API.  ? Implemented Restful web services to perform some business activities.  ? Created independent services using spring and Micro Service architecture.  ? Used Oracle and Postgres as database system.  ? Created stored procedures, Triggers, functions according to the application requirements.  ? Developed stored procedures and triggers with PL/SQL.  ? Developed Cassandra CQL queried for performing the DB operations.  ? Created Cassandra custom data types and collections.  ? Implemented SQL injection security checks, html sanitization and other security mechanisms.  ? Advanced password security using PBKDF2WithHmacSHA1 algorithm.  ? Involved in performance tuning, query optimization, maintaining coding standards and resolving JVM issues.  ? Developed Maven and ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in WebSphere app server.  ? Developed Junit test cases to unit test the business logic.  ? Used Apache Kafka for pub-sub and broadcast.  ? Programming with Big Data Frameworks: Apache SPARK, Lambda architecture, leveraging Apache Kafka.  ? Configured JNDI resources, Data Base resources, MQ Series and other configurations on the Application Server.  ? Involved in the SIT, UAT, Cutover and Hyper care activities and solving productions issues and doing Root Cause Analysis & troubleshooting operational issues.  Environment: Java 1.7, J2ee, AWS, JSP, Servlets, Multithreading, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, REST, GitLab, Apache Axis, SQL, PL/SQL, Micro Services, XML, XSD, JAXB, JavaScript, Web Sphere 8.x, Heroku, Jboss Fuse, RAD, JSTL, EL, HTML5, XML, Jasmine, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS 2, React JS, JSON, Maven, SVN, SQL Developer, Oracle, Cassandra, UML, JUnit, Log4j, TestNG, JIRA, Hudson Java Developer South Shore Health Care / Byte Alpha Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2012 to March 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Effectively worked in Agile environment with active scrum participation.  ? Involved in Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object-Oriented Design (OOD) Techniques using Unified Modeling Language (UML)  ? Developed JSPs strictly confining to the policy of no java use in them and AJAX was used for asynchronous Server calls  ? Built the Presentation tier of the application completely on Struts framework, heavily used Struts Tag Libraries, Validators and Tiles  ? Designed and developed the CIS application using Struts Dispatch Action  ? Developed the Hibernate entity classes using Annotations  ? Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions Actively involved in tuning SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers in Oracle 10g  ? Designed and implemented the Dynamic Web Pages using JSF  ? Used JavaScript for Client-side validations  ? Developed Java Web Service using WSDL, SOAP, UDDI and JAX-RPC and JAXB  ? Deployed the application on IBM WebSphere App Server  ? Used version control tools SVN, CVS and Build tool Log4j  Environment: JDK1.6, JSP, Struts 1.3.10, Hibernate 3.3, JSF 1.2, Oracle 10g, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JNDI, WebSphere 6.0, SVN, Ant, Log4j, AJAX, CVS, Eclipse 3.4, DK 1.3, Core Java (Multithreading, Collections), JSTL Servlets, JSF, Struts, NetBeans 3.6, EJB 2.0, Eclipse 3.2, XML, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, SOAP, WSDL, UML, JDBC, Shell Scripting, JUnit, log4j, CVS, JMS, JBoss 4.0.4, WebSphere Application Server, Oracle 10g, MS-SQL Server 2005, Windows NT, Unix/Linux Education Master's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT 2019 Bachelor's Degree in Electronics & Communication Engineering in Electronics & Communication Engineering Rajasthan Technical University 2011 Skills Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi, Servlets, Struts Additional Information ? Result-driven IT Professional with referable & strong experience in various web-based, Enterprise, Client/Server and Distributed applications using Java/ J2EE.  ? Highly skilled Java concepts including Polymorphism, Inheritance, Exception handling, Collections framework, Serialization, Multi-threading, Design patterns, Synchronization etc.,  ? Expert in designing and developing applications using J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, EJB, JNDI, Swing, Struts, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring, Web Services, XML, JDBC, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS 3, DHTMLX and JavaScript.  ? Strong experience in various modules of Spring framework like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring ORM, Transaction Management, Spring Security  ? Expertise in implementing the persistence logic using JDBC, JPA, Spring JDBC, Hibernate 2.x/3.x/4.x/5.x and iBatis framework.  ? Expertise in Application development using Struts framework including Struts, Struts Action, Struts tags, Interceptors & Validations.  ? Extensive experience in Heroku Cloud Platform including organization creation, app creation, Dyno scaling, DNS configuration, SSL configuration, SSO configuration, choosing best add-ons etc.,  ? Extensive experience in working with Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2 Relational Databases.  ? Experience in working with NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra, Graph DB (Neo4j).  ? Experience in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL. Joins, Stored Procedures and Database Triggers.  ? Experience in using Ant, Maven build tools and performing unit test by writing Junit test cases using Junit Frameworks like Mockito and JMock.  ? Experience in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.  ? Good experience with multiple servers like IBM WebSphere, IBM WebSphere ESB (Enterprise Service Bus), WebLogic Server, Apache Tomcat and JBoss.  ? Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architecture by using SOAP and RESTful web Micro Services.  ? Experience in using DOM4J, JAXB, JAXP parsing and XML Bean to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  ? Experience in designing and developing use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML, Rational Rose.  ? Experience in versioning tools like GitHub, Clear case, SVN and CVS.  ? Experience in creative and effective front-end development using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, D3.Js, Angular.Js 2,4,6 NodeJS, BackboneJS, Bootstrap, Ext.Js, React JS, Ajax, CSS and CSS3.  ? Experience in Programming with Big Data Frameworks: Apache SPARK, Lambda architecture, leveraging Apache Kafka.  ? Familiarity with Rules Management System (e.g. Drools, IBM Lombardi).    Technical competencies:    Languages: Java, C, C++, JavaScript, Python, PL/SQL, XML, XSLT, Shell Scripting  J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, RMI, EJB, JMS, JNDI, JSF, XML, Swing, Log4j, Kafka  Frameworks: Springs 4 +, Hibernate, Struts 2.x  Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, Bootstrap, Angular.JS 2,4,6, Node JS, Backbone.JS, Ext.JS, React.JS, Ajax, JSP, JQuery, Alloy.JS  XML/Web Services: REST, JSON, JAX-RS (JERSEY, CXF), ESB (JBoss Fuse), XML, SOAP, JAX-WS (AXIS, AXIS2, CXF), WSDL, UDDI, JAXB, DOM & SAX  Application/Web Services: Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, IBM WebSphere, BEA WebLogic  Databases: Oracle 11g, Oracle 12C, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2, Graph DB, MongoDB, Cassandra  Database Tools: SQL Developer, PL/SQL Developer, SQL plus, Toad  Build Tools: ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Artifactory, Hudson  IDE's: Eclipse, NetBeans, IBM RAD, IntelliJ and Plugins  Testing Tools: Junit, TestNG, Mockito, JMock  Version Control Tools: SVN Tortoise, Rational ClearCase, GitHub, CVS  Reporting Tools: iText, Jasper Reports  Middleware Tools: MQ Series, JMS, JBoss Drools, IBM BPM  Cloud: Heroku, AWS