Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Comerica Bank Austin, TX • With total 9+ years of experience in IT and 4+ years of versatile experience in Java analysis design development and implementation of software applications and in developing n-tier architecture-based solutions with distributed components and internet/intranet applications.  • Well versed in all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) including system design, development, and delivery of enterprise software and experience in developing applications using Agile Software Methodology.  • Expertise in conceptualizing, designing and coding technical solutions using Java/J2EE technology stacks.  • Experience in Java design patterns such as Session Façade, Singleton, Data Access Objects (DAO), Model View Controller, Front controller, factory, abstract factory, singleton and Business Delegate.  • Experience in developing Web Services using - SOAP, WSDL, REST and developing DTDs, XSD schemas for XML.  • Hands-on experience in different modules (Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC, Spring AOP, Spring Security) of Spring Application Framework.  • Experience in writing DAO using Hibernate and Hibernate mapping files.  • Experience in development of data access objects, data transfer objects as part of the persistence layer and EJB components to perform the business logic.  • Experienced in working with message-oriented middleware using different technologies like JMS, Web sphere MQ and Message driven beans (MDB).  • Experienced in design/development of UI screens using HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX.  • Experience in developing and deploying applications on Web Logic, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat Application servers.  • Good Knowledge in building and deploying Apache Ant/ Maven scripts for deployment and customizing WAR/ JAR file management for web applications.  • Good experience in designing and coding stored procedures and functions using PL/SQL and also fine-tuning SQL queries.  • Experience in software testing, Junit testing, regression testing, and defect tracking and management using JIRA.  • Experience working with version controller tool like GIT, Subversion and CVS.  • Integrated logging frameworks such as Log4J and commons for logging and debugging the application.  • Strong knowledge developing dynamic web applications and deploying in various environments.  • Strong communication & relationship management skills, enthusiastic & self-driven, with a high degree of commitment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Comerica Bank - Austin, TX September 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Designed Java Components and integrated Spring framework with Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with Spring MVC, Spring security and Spring restful web services.  • Develop Restful micro services and concurrent applications using Java.  • Form Validations using JavaScript and Validation Framework • Used Spring Core for concept Inversion of control (IOC) implemented using dependency injection.  • Developed Spring Controllers, Service Components, DAOs, Web Services and UI Integration for developing presentation layer of the application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, MVC, Hibernate, Junit, REST, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, GIT, Eclipse, PL/SQL, XML Java Developer Minnesota Department of Transportation July 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities: • Interacting with the teammates for understanding the business and the business users for gathering the requirements.  • Developed Application components and API's using core Java.  • Involved in integrating Hibernate Framework with Spring.  • Implemented TDD (Test Driven Development).  • Provided the support for integrating the Restful web services with clients.  • Good experience in consuming the existing Web Services.  • Involved in implementing and utilizing the J2EE patterns MVC, Dependency Injection (DI), • Inversion of Control (IOC), Data Access Object (DAO), Business Delegate, Service Locator, and Singleton for the enterprise application.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring security and Spring restful web services for application design.  • Used SoapUI and Rest client for testing the Web Services.  • Designed and developed various SQL scripts to meet the business requirements.  • Interacted with clients during various phases of the project.  • Developed Class Diagrams, Flow Diagrams and Sequence Diagram using MS Visio.  • Used Java script validations for client-side validations.  • Used Maven for developing builds and deploying the application on WebSphere • Developed User- Interface screens using Servlets, JSP and JavaScript.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSPs and HTML.  • Developed UI pages using HTML, JSP and jQuery and AJAX for asynchronous Communication.  • Responsible for fixing issues and defects of system.    Environment: Agile, Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, REST, Eclipse, Maven, Apache CXF, Hibernate, Junit, Log4j, Multithreading, Oracle, SQL Developer, TOAD, Java Developer Louisiana Department of Transportation and Development January 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities • Interacted with the stakeholders and gather requirements and business artifacts based on Agile Scrum methodology.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate and CMS.  • Developed the web interface using Angular-JS, HTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring Framework, Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Utilized Spring MVC framework to implement design patterns like IOC (Dependency Injection), Spring DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer objects), and ORM Mappings.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table persistency.  • Worked on writing efficient SQL stored procedures to generate outbound files for external systems.  • Developed Web Services to allow communication between applications through SOAP.  • Integrating jobs for manipulating and transforming the data • Developed Maven scripts for the build and deployment of J2EE components in application server.  • Performed unit testing on developed code using Junit.  • Used GIT version controlling to maintain project versions.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Agile, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP, Junit, HTML, CSS, XML, GIT, Maven, SQL, CSV, Excel, Windows SQL Developer Louisiana Department of Transportation and Development January 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities • Managed, reviewed, analyzed and prioritized defects, bugs and issues reported by client for resolution and reporting to developers in Bug Tracking Systems like JIRA, FogBugz and FreshDesk.  • Monitored system jobs and resolved any issues that occurred.  • Performed Functional, Regression and End-to-end testing for Upgrades, Hotfixes and Patches.  • Coordinated and planned for testing and delivery of Upgrades, Hotfixes and Patches.  • Developed and deployed new reports and enhanced existing reports using complex SQL codes.  • Created complex custom reports using iReports.  • Created training materials and end-user documents using uPerform.  • Used Query Optimization to increase Report performance.  • Coordinated hosted systems migration from DC datacenter to Austin datacenter.  • Facilitated legacy data conversions from various heterogeneous data sources using ETL functionality.  • Attended business reconciliation sessions to understand and collect business process requirements.  • Assisted in creation and update of various database objects like tables, views, triggers and indices.  • Assisted with creation of Business Process Work Flow diagrams using Visio.  • Participated in training of end-users and train-the-trainers.  • Assisted with Installation and deployment of Mobile Work Manager Application on state owned mobile devices.  • Troubleshooting of defects and issues with main Web System and Mobile Application.  • Lead the analysis and specifications development for conversion and interface activities.  • Assisted with design and development of interfaces with LaGOV ERP System.  • Assisted with creation of various project technical documents - technical specifications, blueprints, process design documents, reports design documents and interfaces design documents.  • Assisted with development and creation of User Acceptance Testing (UAT) test cases, scripts and plans.  • Assisted with System testing, configuration and validation.  • Provided support for go-live, post go-live and maintenance activities.  • Lead Installation, Configuration, Customization and Enhancement of Asset Management System (Maintenance & ITS modules) to provide the options and features requested.  • Communicated status and work required of project staffs, milestones, effort planned and actual effort.    Environment: Oracle, CSS, HTML, TOAD, SQL Developer, Excel, CSV, Windows, Groovy, GIT, Education Master of Science Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Institute of Engineering - Kathmandu, NP Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Core Java 1.8, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++  Java Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI  Frameworks: MVC, Spring 3.2, Hibernate and JDBC  Distributed Technologies: Web Services (SOAP/REST), SOA, RMI, XSLT, XSD, DOM, SAX, Apache, WSDL  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere, WebLogic  IDEs: Eclipse, My Eclipse, JDeveloper, NetBeans, IntelliJ  Scripting Languages: Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3  Markup Languages: HTML5, DHTML, XML  Testing/Logging tools: Junit, Log4j  Database Server: Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2    Methodologies: Agile, OOPS/OOAD, Design Patterns, UML  Messaging Services: JMS  Version Control Tools: GIT, SVN, CVS  Database development tools: SQL Developer, TOAD  Bug tracking tool: JIRA