Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Fifth Third Bank Mason, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Fifth Third Bank - Mason, OH August 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Effectively involved in analysis, design, development and testing of projects by following Object-Oriented Analysis and Design.  ? Involved in sophisticated programming techniques to utilize various versions of Java to perform the migration jobs.  ? Extensively worked on Client-Server web applications development, deployment and maintenance using Java, J2EE, Spring Batch, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, HTML, AJAX CSS, JavaScript, Web Services.  ? Developed/writing import scripts for migration jobs  ? Imported scripts for conversion of data from excel to csv read format and using this data into staging database.  ? Design, development and implementation of Model-View-Controller frame works using Struts and Spring MVC.  ? Involved in batch processing using Spring Batch framework to extract data from database and load into H2 staging database.  ? Responsible for running, monitoring, debugging and fixing larger volume of data/record migration jobs over windows server environment.  ? Used quick build for building projects.  ? Involved in Onshore/Offshore meeting with testing teams.  ? Handled Version Control Systems like GitHub.  ? Implemented Master Database Management like DB2.  ? Used Maven as build management system.  ? Used Jenkins, Ops Genie for incident management.  ? Built application and deployed it to various environments  ? Automated Jenkins pipeline for deployment, automated jobs and processing.  ? Implemented automation of new projects build framework through Jenkins & Maven build tools.  ? Performed UI testing to check the correctness of Data which consists of 10,000+ users.  Environment: Java 1.6/1.8, Spring Batch, DB2, H2Database, Spring MVC, Maven, Ivy Build, Tomcat, GIT, GitHub, Scrum Agile, Quick build, Jenkins, Ops Genie, UI Testing Full Stack Java Developer MFA Financials - Jersey City, NJ January 2018 to July 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Participated in sprint plans, code reviews and in daily stand-ups. Continuous co-ordination with the team during different phases of application development. Involved in all phases of SDLC including requirement collection, design, analysis, development and deployment of the application.  ? Used Angular 1.6 Router Module for implementing routing, imperative routing and Guards.  ? Used Angular 1.6 HTTP Module to make API calls and worked with the observables.  ? Developed User interfaces and prototypes for web-based internal system using Angular 1.6, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Type Script, jQuery, AJAX and Bootstrap.  ? Responsible to create DAO CRUD methods using Hibernate and spring framework.  ? Designed various Angular JS Components (/nag Module), Services (observable/promises), Directives and Pipes.  ? Used Selectors, Events, AJAX and DOM Manipulation using Angular 1.6 components for updating content on DOM nodes.  ? Responsible for the overall layout design of the web Application using Angular 1.6, ES 5 & 6, Bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS.  ? Configured Dispatcher Servlet and View Resolver to intercept incoming requests manage Spring MVC flow and invoke view components with the help of Dispatcher Servlet.  ? Developed upon Angular 1.6 Services that interacts with the RESTful services at the backend.  ? Created Rest-Controllers with respect to RESTful standards in Spring MVC to connect model with view.  ? Interactive maps with Leaflet, Mapnik and CartoCSS  ? Worked on migrating Angular 1.6 old forms to Final New forms and performed validations using Angular2Form module.  ? Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building Micro services and develop spring-based application with very less configuration.  ? Worked on Angular CLI to deal with trouble shooting and deal with Angular virtual environment bugs.  ? Checked for appropriate wiring of views using Routing in Angular 1.6.  ? Composed and executed Mongo DB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database; automating data changes and reporting.  ? Experience with Cloud technologies like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Developed custom directives, services and custom routing for data manipulations to display data in company standard format UI.  ? Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.  ? Tested REST APIs in the Spring-Controller at the backend for JSON data using Postman.  ? Involved in developing Java script for client-side presentation and data validation within forms.  ? Created/managed Mongo DB/NoSQL collections and handled CRUD operations on using Java libraries/API's.  ? Created functions to interact with the RESTful Web Services using AJAX  ? Implemented media queries to improve the responsiveness of the page to support mobile first approach.  ? Created reusable templates using HTML and style sheets based on UI standard guidelines and created responsive web design using CSS Bootstrap.  ? Used Mockito and JUnit for unit testing of the application.  ? Developed angular unit tests for testing angular components using Jasmine and Karma.  ? Used Maven for build and deployment, Jenkins for continuous integration and log4j for logging.  ? Used Jenkins which automates the provisioning and configuration for all the continuous Integration Server including plugins, jobs, server configuration, etc.  ? Part of a response team that worked on Production issues while the application is deployed to Production.  ? Responsible for compiling and submitting an error report for management each week.  ? Used Spring Boot at the backend for easy application development including plugins, jobs, server configuration, etc.  ? Developed test cases using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach.  ? Used JIRA to handle development issues, GIT for version control, Eclipse IDE for development and Tomcat server for application deployment.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS 1.6, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, Mongo DB, JSON, GIT, Restful API, Spring, Hibernate, Spring boot, Mockito, Micro services, JUnit, Jasmine, Karma, JSON, JUnit, Spring MVC, WebSphere Application Server, Agile, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA, Eclipse Java Full Stack Developer Verizon - Irving, TX December 2015 to December 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed a RAML based REST Web Services API's using Mule ESB  ? Used J2EE based App Servers like Jboss 7.0, WebSphere 6.1, WebLogic and Web servers like Apache Tomcat  ? Create RFP (Request for Proposal) Micro services to provide RESTful API and RAML utilizing Spring Boot with Micro services  ? Agile UI web development using JQuery, NodeJS, Leaflet  ? Used Java 8 Lambda expressions and functional interfaces, wherever possible. Also, used Java8 features like Streams, Producer, Consumer, BiConsumer etc.  ? Developed JMS components to send messages from one application to other application internally  ? Involved and Automate for CL, DL, CH Fulfilment using cucumber framework  ? Developed Restful Web Services using Spring Boot and configured Cucumber as testing tool.  ? Used Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade and DAO.  ? Worked on Single node/Multi cluster setup using technology NoSQL and Mongo DB.  ? Involved in automation infrastructure development using selenium  ? Used Micro services architecture with Spring Boot based service through REST  ? All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Micro services and Hibernate ORM  ? Involved actively performance tunings in Java spring boot layer, elastic side and side production issues.  ? Used SOAPUI for the functional testing and inspection and invocation of spring-based Web Services  ? Did performance and load testing, using JMeter.  ? Setup JMeter for analyzing and measuring performance on web services.  ? Deploy and manage applications to Tomcat servers.  ? Deploy and manage applications on JBOSS/Tomcat J2EE server. Managed the codebase using GIT  ? Worked with Java Transaction Management to work on multiple databases.  ? Developed user interface using JSF, HTML5, AngularJS, JQuery and performed client-side validations using Java Script, AJAX and CSS3.  ? Identified usability and develop functional and smooth, easy-to-operate and eye-catching web applications using, Angular JS.  ? Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  ? Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  ? Responsible for implementation of java integration components for JBPM and DROOLs.  ? Update the data from Posture SQL database automatically by the time detective function.  ? Handled HP Fortify issues, Sonar, PMD.  ? Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Spring framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance.  ? Developed Form Beans and Action Classes to model views and client-side functionality.  ? Built centralized logging to enable better debugging using Log stash and Kabana.  ? Implemented J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Session Facade, DAO and Singleton.  ? Used Maven to build, test and deploying purposes.  ? Used clear case version control for source code.  ? Used Software Configuration Management (SCM) tools like CVS, VSS (Visual Source Safe), SVN, TFS & Java Build tools like Apache Ant & Maven.  ? Involved in debugging the application modules.  ? Used Log4j for logging and debugging and used JUnit extensively for testing.  ? Deployed application using AWS services.  ? Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  Environments: Java 8, J2EE, CI/CD, Spring, JSF, Web Services, Micro services, Restful, Cucumber, Apache CAMEL, Tomcat, JMeter, JUnit, JBPM, JMS, AWS, IBM Clear case, IBM Clear Quest, Mongo DB, HTML5, CSS3, Perl (5.12), IBM RAD, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2, AJAX, XML, XSLT, Java Beans, Responsive Web Design, UML, Design Patterns, log4j, Agile Methodology Java Developer Peoplefy Info Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2012 to May 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Analysis and Design of the Project, which is based on MVC (Model-View-Controller) Architecture and Design Patterns.  ? Involved in developing prototypes of the product.  ? Optimized the code and database for maximum performance Designed Enterprise Application using MVC architecture.  ? Created UML Use Cases, Sequence diagrams, Class diagrams and Page flow diagrams using Rational Rose.  ? Developed ANT scripts for builds and deployments.  ? Developed Controller Servlets, Action and Form objects for process of interacting with Oracle database and retrieving dynamic data.  ? Day wise transactions were listed in the browser using Servlets.  ? Code complex SQL Join queries for reporting which include hundreds of different variations of reports Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  ? Parsing of XML documents was done using SAX and DOM and XML transformation was done using XSLT.  ? Wrote JavaScript validations on the client side.  ? Involved in writing Detail Design Documents with UML Specifications.  ? Responsible for packaging and deploying components in to the Tomcat.  Environment: Core Java, Java Beans, JSP, JBuilder, JavaScript Bootstrap, Servlets, JDBC, LOG4J, XML, XSLT, HTML, Struts, Tiles, SAX, DOM, Tomcat, UNIX, Oracle Education Master's Degree in Information Technology in Information Technology Wilmington University - New Castle, DE 2017 Bachelor's Degree in Electronics & Communication Engineering in Electronics & Communication Engineering JNT University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2012 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Application server, C#, C++, Cucumber, Design patterns Additional Information ? Result-driven IT Professional with referable & strong experience in designing, developing and implementing E-Commerce, B2B applications using JEE technologies.  ? Extensive experience in creating & consuming Web services in Maven Project /Dynamic Web Project/ EAR Project with SOAP 2.2, WSDL, Restful JAX-RS, Spring 3.0.  ? Expert in developing UI/UX and JEE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, Net beans, and J Builder, Sublime Text.  ? Expertise on various concepts of Core Java such as OOPS concepts, Design Patterns, Multi-Threading, Exceptions, and Collections.  ? Experience in web development using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOJO, Angular JS.  ? Hands on experience in building and deploying tools like ANT and MAVEN as well as version control using SVN/Subversion, Rational Clear Case, CVS, and VSS.  ? Experience in Designing and building dynamic and user interactive websites using JavaScript, Angular JS/2, Backbone.js, Express JS, Node JS, Ext JS, Servlets, Subversion, RMI, JNDI, JMS, JSF, JBPM, EJB (Session Beans, MDB).  ? Experience of Software Development using J2EE technologies in a web and client-server environment using JSP, JSTL, Servlet, JDBC, Hibernate 4.3, Spring Security 3.2, OAuth 2.0, JMS, Java Mail and Log4j  ? Experience with model 2 technologies using Spring MVC, EAD4J MVC, Spring Batch, data modeling and ORM using Hibernate persistence provider.    Technical competencies:    Languages: JAVA 8, Java 6, J2EE, C#, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++,  Databases: SQL Server, MySQL, PL/SQL with TOAD 8.5, Oracle 10g/11g/12c, DB2, MySQL, SYBASE,  NoSQL Database: Cassandra & Mongo DB  Web Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSON, Servlets, XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XSLT, JSF, JavaScript, jQuery, D3.js, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JAXB 2.2.11, JMS, Collections, JDBC, Multi-threading.  Frameworks: Spring Batch, Struts 1.x/2, JSF 2.x, Angular 2, Spring 4.x/3.x, Hibernate 3.x/4.x  J2EE Technologies: Struts, Spring, JDBC, EJB, Java Beans, Micro services  Application Servers: JBoss, WebLogic 8.1/10.3, AWS  Web Servers: Tomcat 6.x/7.x/8.x/9.0, IBM Web Sphere Commerce Application Server  Web Services: REST, SOAP, JMS  Database Tools: TOAD, SQL Developer, MySQL Work bench, AQT, H2  Operating Systems: Windows, Unix and Linux  Development Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ  Design Patterns: Singleton, Data Access Objects, Value Objects, Template Method, Business Interface, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Model View Controller and Front Controller.  Version Controls: SVN, GIT  Other Tools: Quick Build, Cucumber, Jenkins, Mockito, IBM MQ, Rabbit MQ, Log4j, JIRA  SDLC Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall and Scrum models