Technical Project Manager & Research Assistant Technical Project Manager &amp; Research Assistant Actively Seeking a Full Time Software Engineer Position San Jose, CA • 2+ Years of progressive experience as a JAVA Developer in the full SDLC (design, development, implementation, deployment, testing, and maintenance) with strong analytical, programming skills and having solid functional experience in the development, implementation, and the maintenance.  • Hands-on experience in designing and developing web applications with technologies such as core and advanced Java, Spring Boot, Restful Web Services, MyBatis, HTML/CSS, JVM technologies.  • Experience in Java Design Patterns, Multi-Threading, Interfaces, and Exception Handling.   • Expertise in Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Maven, Git and GitHub for Version Controlling.  • Understanding of web-based architecture - web servers, load balancing, caching, databases.  • Experience in databases like Oracle (SQL), SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB (NoSQL). Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Technical Project Manager & Research Assistant University of Missouri - Columbia, MO November 2017 to May 2019 COE Grant Dashboard  1.  Collected & analyzed user requirements, designed, coded and tested the whole website.   2.  It helps the College of Engineering managing records of awards/expenditures/proposals effectively.  3.  It is coded and well maintained in C#, Asp.net, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap.     COE Requests ( JAVA, Oracle, MyBatis)  1.  Managed a team of six programmers to create this Java full-stack website successfully.   2.  Greatly sped up the process of handling request by replacing paper-request to e-request, served all college members.   3. Practiced full software development life cycle, Agile programming.  4. Contributed more than 30,000 lines of code within 4 months.   5. Solved problem, update existing code, detect, solve and test bugs, including I/O error, logic error. SELECTED INDEPENDENT PROJECTS University of Missouri - Columbia, MO August 2016 to March 2019 Perfect PDF   1. It is used to convert pdf to image, convert pdf to Word, convert pdf to HTML, convert pdf to TXT, split and merge PDF, add watermark to PDF.   2. It is developed and hosted in AWS EC2.  3. Java, Spring Boot to provide Restful services, Angular (Single Page Applications).     E-commerce Web Service  1. This is a simple e-commerce web service in Java, Spring Boot, MongoDB.  2. Allowed user to manage users, products, comments, and shopping carts through HTTP/S calls. Return data through Restful API in JSON format.     Family Classification Base on Optimal Motif Distance  1. Protein families are grouped by structural similarity. Motifs are short, recurring patterns in a protein sequence.   2. Achieved 95% accuracy with 50 hidden nodes using Neural Network.   3. Python, K-mean, Hamming Distance, TensorFlow, Sci kit-learn. Java Web Developer University of Missouri - Columbia, MO December 2016 to December 2017 1. Closely cooperated with the project manager to define requirements and prototype, design new features for the product.  2.  Responsible for Java backend development of web services.   3. Contract Management System: simplified contract process and manage a huge amount of contract records.  4. HR Forms: it is used to submit and track salary increase, and server all faculty and staff of MU  5. Set up a web server (Tomcat or Jetty), running environment on Ubuntu, AWS EC2. Education Master's in Computer Science University of Missouri-Columbia - Columbia, MO August 2016 to July 2019 Skills Java Awards 2019 Outstanding MS Student Award (Top 5%) 2019-03