Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Walmart • Around 7 years of experience as a Java Full Stack Developer in IT industry and experienced in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object Oriented Applications and Web based Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE.  • Knowledge in developing front-end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, and CSS3 frameworks such as Angular.JS, Angular 2/4/5, Backbone JS, and React.JS, Ext JS.  • Skilled in using various tools and IDEs for development and design such as Web storm, Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, and Dreamweaver.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and Java Script.  • Experience in all stage of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and followed iterative methodologies like Agile (SCRUM) in multi-project implementations.  • Good Knowledge with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation.  • Hands on experience in MySQL, Node.JS and JavaScript  • Expertise working with Apache Tomcat Application Server  • Experienced in using CSS like CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  • Excellent working knowledge and experienced on various versions of browsers like IE, Mozilla FF, and Chrome.  • Thorough knowledge about Angular.JS Features like Two Way Binding, Custom Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services and Project Architecture.  • Experienced in working in AGILE based environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  • Hands on experience on CSS pre-processors such LESS and SAAS.  • Develop user interfaces with React, using components, subcomponents, routes, work with state to handle events, updates of views, search results and more  • Work experience with JavaScript, JQuery, Unix Shell Script, CSS, XML, Linux, and Docker.  • Experience in developing, publishing, running and maintaining websites from scratch on Linux and windows environment.  • Good understanding on Typescript and running on different browsers.  • Customized the Node.JS server to pick the local Package. And run the application without changing the local paths and variables.  • Experienced in Jasmine framework which runs only on JavaScript-enabled platform.  • Strong experience in MongoDB, MySQL, database programming using PL/SQL and standard built-in Oracle Packages.  • Experienced in debugging web applications in different browsers and tools using Firebug, and testing applications using Protractor, Jasmine, Mocha, and karma, Firefox, Chrome developer's tool and Firebug.  • Experience in Data visualization using ChartJS, D3JS, High-chart, C3JS Chart, Google-map  • Experienced in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and knowledgeable in writing queries, using Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Experienced with programmatic interaction of APIs like SOAP and REST.  • Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the node.js environment  • Experienced with MDL Button elements and material design color schemes.  • Experienced in the Node.js Client API which allows developers to quickly and easily integrate Mark Logic into the Node applications.  • Developed new UX capabilities by researching and documenting relevant UX methodologies.  • Experience in using Software development methodologies such as Waterfall, Agile, and Scrum.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, quick learner, self-motivated, and proficient in adapting new technologies.  • Ability to work independently and as well as in a team environment with good team spirit. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR January 2019 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development,and Customization of the Application.  • Used Hibernate framework in the persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database.  • Created data models and database structure for business entities in the MySQL database.  • Integrated 3rd party service REST & SOAP APIs such as payment gateway, identity, chat and calendar services.  • Built module for XML to JSON conversion for connecting with 3rd party SOAP APIs.  • Deployed the application on cloud AWS utilizing EC2, S3, RDS, SES, VPC, ELB, IAM, and other services.  • Bulk on-boarded 80+ services, 200+ service providers using SQL which reduced onboarding time by 90%.  • Installed node.js and utilized the NPM with Grunt for the build.  • Involved in the development of presentation tier using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular JS and JSP.  • Developed validations for forms data as well as a server-side using Angular JS validation.  • Configured Swagger-UI registered Microservice with Eureka server to monitor service health check etc. from Spring Boot admin console.  • Built a web frontend using Spring MVC Framework with JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Implemented Angular JS and AJAX for the better performance of the system and partial page rendering  • Hands-on experience in using Backbone.js to build a large web application with data that change over time.  • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Webservices and Legacy Systems using SOAP, and REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks)  • Involved in implementing ActiveMQ the JMS ( Java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • The backend application layer is implemented using EJB (Enterprise Java Bean) in a WebSphere Application Server environment.  • Created Stored procedures using PL/SQL for data modification (Using DML insert, update, delete) in Oracle11g.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Developed user interface as JSF, prime faces, HTML and CSS and BOOTSTRAP with custom tag libraries using JSF Framework.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  • Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, Sharding, and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature-wise.  Environment: Java 1.9, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 5.0, AJAX, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, REST, JDBC, JAX-WS, JAXB, JavaScript, UML, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, SVN, Log4J, JUnit, WebSphere 8.5, IBM RAD, Oracle 11g, Maven. Java Developer TD Bank - Mount Laurel, NJ June 2017 to December 2018 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Designed and developed the application in sprints using Agile Scrum methodology and participated in weekly status meetings and daily scrums.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS 2.0, Ajax, Bootstrap and JSP based on the W3C standards.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user  • Involved in integrating Spring Framework with Struts Framework.  • Developed Action forms, Action classes using Struts framework to handle user requests.  • Used AngularJS 2.0 (grid) for Grid data displays all over the application and also developed Light-box plugins using AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS directives to reduce the usage of redundant code and to create pie-charts, bar-graphs and also familiar in using data-binding and dependency-injection concepts in AngularJS 2.0.  • Built RESTful Node.js and Express API to communicate with AngularJS front-end for faster data transfer.  • Developed REST API for assessment indicators module and token based authentication for REST services using Spring Security.  • Worked on Asset Management Module in order to develop services using Restful Web services and collaborated on design spec reviews together with Business Analysts.  • Experience in Cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience with Bootstrap.  • Involved in defining & designing the layers, components of the project using OOAD methodologies and standard J2EE patterns and guidelines.  • Implemented Spring services and Spring DAO's for controller interactions to operate on data and developed asynchronous message listeners using Spring JMS template.  • Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with Spring framework and also developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes, which are used across all the modules of the application.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Developed Java Web applications (API) called by Java batch apps using RESTful web-services to provide response in JSON format.  • Installed environment for developing Angular2 include getting familiar with NodeJS, TypeScript and Loader.  • Responsible for deployment of applications and applying FileNet Patches. Worked with Database team for maintenance of all FileNet Related databases.  • Reverse Engineered using Hibernate plug-in for RAD to generate Hibernate configuration, POJO classes, DAO classes and wrote finder methods using Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for dynamic searches.  • Experience in installation, configuration and deployment of J2EE components on IBM WebSphere Application Server using Eclipse IDE.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Worked on creating Java web services using SOAP, implemented the SOAP 1.2 standards.  • Involved in working with the QA to assist in writing test code and debugging the defects in the application  Environment: Java 1.7, Angular-JS, Spring, JSP, Maven, JUnit, Agile Scrum, IBM WebSphere Application Server, RESTful Webservices, HTML5, CSS, TDD, JPA, React JS, Angular2, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache CXF, Node-JS, Hibernate, JMS, Mongodb, Eclipse, Git, Core-IOC, AOP, Log4J, AWS. Web Developer Sabre Hospitality Solutions - Westlake, TX August 2016 to May 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Developed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS 2.0.  • Used JQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Developed creative intuitive user interfaces that address business and end-user needs, while considering the technical, physical and temporal constraints of the users.  • Developed internationalized multi-tenant SaaS solutions with responsive UI's using Java or ReactJS, and CSS.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js and Ext.js.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Angular JS and HTML.  • Built different modules, controllers, templates, custom filters and directives in Angular JS.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Involved in rendering additional components with custom HTML.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX and Angular resources.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js..  • Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js and Node.js.  • Used Knockout.js to simply the complex database for user interfaces.  • Used groovy and Spring boot to collecting the data from users and packaged the data as JSON distributed to applications.  • Implemented Grails Services and controllers to perform actions.  • Install configure Jboss Application server for the VPDC environment and currently working on the Prod environment setup in Cloud environment.  • JBoss configuration is done in thoroughly firewalled environment using TCP.  • Experience working withRedux for maintaining the consistency to run the application in different environments (client, server, and native) which are easy to test.  • Used Grunt for building the project.  • Reported bugs and tracked defects using JIRA.  • Proficiency with front-end development such as HTML, CSS, Sass, JavaScript. Familiarity with JS frameworks should include one of the following: angular, EXT JS, Express Js.  • Involved in Developer Testing, Review and Trouble shooting.  • Rest API or front end development experience Java as primary language.  • Responsible for OpenStack project core infrastructure including code review, continuous integration systems, and developer tools.  • Established OpenStack project Infrastructure Program and served as tech lead.  • Demonstrated understanding of Core java concepts like OOPS, OOAD, ORM, and REST.  • Developed UI tests with Protractor and Java tests in JUnit.  • Designed and Developed automation script using Selenium Web Driver in Eclipse.  • Used LAMP to suitable for building dynamic web sites and web applications.  • Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using XML, JSON and JQuery to update UI Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Created GET/PUT request and response using RESTFUL web services.  Environment: Java,J2EE, Swing, Oracle 11g, JDK 1.4/1.5,MySQL, Eclipse 3.4, WebLogic 9.2,GUI, Spring, Hibernate,OOPS,HTML,HTML5,CSS3,JavaScript,JUnit,Jboss,Angularjs2.0,React.js,Backbone.js,node.js,JQuery,Struts 2.0,Web services , Toad, Node JS, Grunt, Tortoise SVN, Putty, LAMP, Visio, Team track, Quality Center. Java Web Developer TCF Financial - Minnetonka, MN December 2015 to August 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the time-lines for the project.  • Developed front-end/presentation tier development using JSP, Servlet, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS.  • Followed Agile Methodology, worked in Sprints of 15 days and handle Modules like Billing and ticketing.  • Involved in the process of analysis, design, and development of an application.  • Responsible for working with the client on establishing deliverables, timeline, budget, managing project scope and project resources.  • Debugging and Troubleshooting any technical issues while implementing the applications  • Extensively worked on Spring Frame Work  • Responsible for writing SQL and PL/SQL queries for writing stored procedures  • Worked on ticketing and Billing Module  • Implementation of REST full WebService and SOA Architecture  • Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate, Leveraged the AOP features of spring framework to handle exceptions.  • Utilized Java Swing framework to develop client-side components.  • Used Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object into Action Classes.  • Involved in writing code to transform XML documents using JAXP (SAX and DOM Parsers).  • Involved in the development of data points as per ULDD (Uniform Loan Delivery Dataset).  • Developed additional data points for XML formatted file using XML beans.  • Contributed in design and development of Struts/MVC web-based application.  • Service layer development using Spring Core Framework.  • Used EJB to develop enterprise applications.  • Used Struts Tiles and Validator framework in developing the applications.  • Involved in writing JSP and JSF components. Used JSTL Tag library (Core, Logic, Nested, Bean and Html tag libs) to create standard dynamic web pages.  • Developed action classes and form beans and configured the struts-config.xml  • Provided client-side validations using Struts Validator framework and JavaScript.  • Used Hibernate in persistence layer and written hibernate mapping files and Named Queries.  • Effectively prepared for and organized technical inspections to review code and design models with peers and software architects.  • Involved in performing Unit and Integration testing (JUnit). Strictly followed Test Driven Development (TDD Approach) environment using Agile methodologies.  • Used Clear Case for source Version Control.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, XHTML, HTML, CSS, XML, DOM, MVC, Core Java, Java 1.6, Spring MVC, Clear Case, Apache, JSP, JSF, Struts, swing, JNDI, Log4j, JUnit 4.5, XML, HTML , JavaScript, Web logic Application Server 10.0, JBoss, Apache Tomcat 6.0, Oracle 10g, Windows XP and IBM MQ Series, Apache CFX. UI Developer Sanoits Software Solutions Pvt Ltd February 2013 to September 2015 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQUERY plugins for Drag and Drop, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Created Spring Rest API Created an automation unit and regression testing suites for the Rest API and batch jobs using Junit and Test NG  • Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Worked on CSS to design the navigation, gradient background and used other style properties to enhance the look of the web page.  • Worked on JQUERY to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML5 and JavaScript codes and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues.  • Created and performed SQL queries to fetch data from the backend database.  • Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and JQUERY.  • Worked on testing the cross-browser compatibility.  • Used SVN for Version Control.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Analyze the response of JSON to update DOM.  • Documented the entire project, which contains detail description of all the functionalities.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues. UI Developer Zolon Tech Limited August 2012 to February 2013 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Used the functionalities to write code in HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MongoDB database as the backend.  • Used HTML and CSS in the development in front end of the application.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, CSS in ongoing projects  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Extensively worked on ES5 new features such as Arrow functions, Classes, Iterators and Generators.  • Developed application pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Involved in developing a new business application to the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Developed JQuery code using an XML Http Request Adapter to send an AJAX request to the server side code and also implemented a callback function to handle the results.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive Web design.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Developed the JQuery callback functions for implementing asynchronous communication using AJAX.  • Extensively used JQuery UI for screen design and development.  • Styling pages using CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  • Used CSS Blueprint to create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features and to make the web pages more interactive.  • Implemented XML parsing code for different application.  • Created Storyboard & Sprints in Jira, configured Confluence for Project management  • Monitor and support daily activities of multiple scrum teams to keep process aligned with Agile manifesto. Conduct iteration planning, daily scrums and retrospective.  • Setup Continuous Integration environment using Jira, Git and ant python  • Contracted to serve as the JIRA Systems Administrator fortheinternational JIRA/Confluence infrastructure, including all associated programs, plugins and systems  • Worked with javascript testing frameworks like jasmine.  • Frequently met with the project manager to review project goals and to create proposals for future developments, researching their fields for UI design.  • Worked with the team of architects, back-end Developers and Sr Front-end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap, Responsive Web Design, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, Rest Web Services, Jasmine, JIRA, Git, JSON, XML, Eclipse and Windows. Education Master's Skills Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Ionic, Node.js, Redux, Webpack, Jenkins, Json, Xml, Ajax, Tomcat, Web server, Android, Html5, Ios, Sass, Database, Jquery, Node, React, Angular, Java Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, XHTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, ES6, Apache, Android, iOS, Windows  Other Technologies: Karma, Jasmine, Webpack, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, Protractor, Mocha, Agile methodologies, Jenkins, LESS, SASS.  JavaScript Libraries: React.js, Angular.js, Angular4/2, Redux,Polymer.js, Ext JS, Backbone.js, Node.js,D3.js, Ionic  IDE's and Tools: Eclipse IDE/3.X, HTTP web server, Apache Tomcat server 7.0.63, Sublime, VScode, Bracket.  Publishing Tools: Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Wire Frame Tools: Adobe Illustrator CSS3 and Adobe Photoshop.  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Bugzilla, (internet explorer)  Database: PL/SQL(oracle), MySQL, MSSQL  Operating System: Windows NT4.0 XP/, LINUX, MAC OS X