Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Caterpillar Peoria, IL • Over 8+ years of experience in analysis, design, implementation, and testing of Object-Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  • Experienced in Java Web-based, Desktop Based Development with Concepts of, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Experience working with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model, Iteration.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes to thedatabase and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Experience in working with cutting-edge front-end technologies/framework and libraries like JQuery, Prototype, DHTML, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML, AJAX.  • Extensive experience on Angular JS MVC Framework, Angular JS Tables, Modules, Angular Filters and Angular Events  • Strong experience in developing web applications using various Spring framework features like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring ORM, Spring Security, Spring Boot, and Spring MVC  • Expertise in databases such as My SQL, Postgre SQL ,and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages.  • Experience in developing User Interface (UI) rich Web Applications using Front End/UI Technologies like HTML5, CSS3(LESS), JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSP, XML, AJAX that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible  • Experience with features of Angular 4 like Modules which configure the injector and the compiler and help organize related things together  • Extensive knowledge in developing applications on a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Backbone.js, React JS, Node JS, and Bootstrap.  • Having strong Experience with Web Service Applications using User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, JavaScript& UI Libraries/Frameworks, Angular JS, Angular 2, 4, React JS, Node JS, Twitter Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, XML, XSLT, AJAX, JQuery, JSON.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Development, Documentation, Testing, Deployment, Version Control, and production support.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3, DHTML and JavaScript that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Developed and updated web pages quickly and effectively using, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery with the webpage crosses browser compatibility.  • Experienced in implementing Service-oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Experience with Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Experience in developing and a solid understanding of Service Oriented Architecture and Micro services Architecture.  • Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages using TOAD.  • Worked in Building application platforms in the Cloud by leveraging Amazon Web Services, open source technologies & best engineering practices of CI/CD.  • Expertise in using IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, and RAD for developing and debugging rapid web and enterprise Java applications.  • Extensive experience in working on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Sun Solaris, Linux and Microsoft Windows.  • Goal oriented individual with excellent analytical, problem-solving, communication and interpersonal skills with the ability to interact with individuals at all levels and work independently. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Caterpillar - Peoria, IL July 2018 to Present Description: Caterpillar Inc. has been making sustainable progress possible and driving positive change on every continent. Customers turn to Caterpillar to help them develop infrastructure, energy and natural resource assets. Caterpillar is the world's leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases by following Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology.  • Designed and Developed application based on Micro service Oriented Architecture using Spring Boot and node with Express JS.  • Analyzed business requirements to translate functional requirements into technical requirements and develop web application using Mongo DB, Express, React.js/Redux and Node.js (MERN stack).  • Implemented React JS with Redux architecture for fetching asynchronous data from the Restful webservices.  • Worked in using React JS components of NPM (Node packaging manager) such as Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture, building components library, including Tree, Slide-View and Table Grid.  • Created single page web application by creating templates with HTML5(for pages), CSS3(styling), Bootstrap (speed development, responsive, consistency), ES6 and responsive components by using event binding and routing services for great user experience with Angular 4.0  • Created Reusable Angular 4.0 components using Typescript and services are obtained using Dependency Injection to consume REST API's.  • Designed pages using Angular 4.0 Validations, Modules, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers and Filters.  • Worked with Angular 4.0 using Angular CLI and generated various components, routes, services, pipes and structured the application code using Component-based architecture.  • Created many custom filters using Angular 4.0 and an external module to manipulate the routing.  • Extensively worked in writing minimal code in building re-usable forms with their validations using React JS.  • Used React JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send a request to the server.  • Works using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations.  • Automated different Unit Test Cases using Jasmine and Karma Testing Frameworks on Angular 4.0 and Mocha and Chai for reacting testing.  • Created Node JS services using Express JS which are consumed by Angular 4 components on the client side.  • Developed Micro services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud with Netflix Eureka to create the discovery Server, service, discovery clients and integrated Apache Kafka and Zoo Keeper as a message broker.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and develop a Spring-based application with very less configuration.  • Used Spring Boot framework to write Presentation Layer, Business Layers and Controller Servlets.  • Used Spring Boot Actuator to externalize application's configuration properties for different environments.  • Designed and developed custom message adapter components using Apache Kafka that allowed the message to travel through Micro services to base on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Build a prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third-party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Experienced in all phases of UI/UX implementation of a Travel Search and Booking web application including Design, Prototyping, Development and testing phases.  • Met with the project manager frequently for reviewing project goals and for creating proposals for future developments and researching their fields for UI design.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Utilized Swagger framework for design, documentation, testing, and deployment of REST APIs in Spring Boot.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) to interact with the Oracle database.  • Installed, configured, and administration of No SQL database clusters in AWS Virtual Private Cloud Network. Created architecture stack for data access with No SQL database Mongo DB.  • Unstructured data was handled using Mongo DB and used Mongoose Connector for connecting to the database.  • Maintained log delivery system by creating a producer, consumer and broker architecture using Apache Kafka.  • Worked on the ELK (Elastic Search, Log stash, Kibana) stack to facilitate information processing and sharing.  • Designed, built, and deployed a multitude application utilizing the Amazon Web Services stack (Including EC2 & S3 SQS) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Developed a third-party API with OAuth 2.0 authentication and used as a gateway for all the web services.  • Used GIT as version control and regularly pushed the code to BitBucket and used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Deployment (CI/CD).    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular 4.0, Type Script, REACT JS, ES6, Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, Chai, Spring Boot, Node.js, Express JS, Hibernate, Mongo DB, Apache Kafka, ELK, Docker, AWS, EC2, Jenkins, Swagger, OAuth 2.0. Full Stack Java Developer Ernest and young - Atlanta, GA April 2016 to July 2018 Description: At EY, our purpose is Building a better working world. The insights and quality services we provide help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities.    Responsibilities:  • Experience working in Agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint, and daily stand-up meetings.  • Designed and developed the UI using spring view component HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap and Angular JS 4.0.  • Utilized MEAN stack, REST design pattern, MVC framework and Single Page Application framework based on Node JS. Transaction management is done by JTA API specification by implementing them.  • Worked with Angular 4 directives, components, pipes, injectables.  • Expertise in application development using Java 8 features like Lambda Expressions for array operations, Collections, J2EE, Annotations, Hibernate, JUnit, Ant, Maven, CSS, XML.  • Developed Spring Features like Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Integration, Spring frameworks.  • Used Spring framework including Spring core/IoC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, Spring Batch, Spring Security and implemented the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Well exposed to Hibernate and spring and thorough knowledge on Hibernate configuration file. Used Hibernate for accessing the database and mapping the entities by using annotations.  • Used Hibernate as an ORM tool to store the persistent data and for communicating with the Oracle database.  • Designing and coding Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions using PL/SQL, Oracle10g/11g and SQL Servers.  • Composed and executed Mongo DB scripts and queries to fetch and test data from No SQL databases.  • Used a Micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST.  • Involved in developing Restful Web Services with JAX-RS to provide functionality for future development.  • Developed REST Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well another enterprise Wide Web Services.  • Experienced in transferring data from different data sources into HDFS systems using Kafka producers, consumers, and Kafka brokers. Worked on creating Kafka topics, writing custom petitioner classes.  • Deployed the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka, Spring Hystrix as the fallback method, Spring Ribbon for load balancing and a broker service to maintain status using Spring Kafka and Zookeeper.  • Involved in Docker containerizing the applications and pushing them to quay and deploying on kubernetes. Ensure the deliverables meets the design requirements and technical specifications.  • Defined strategic initiatives on Continuous Integration and Delivery (CI/CD) model in the AGILE development environment to help, respond quickly to business needs.  • Used DROOLS engine as java runtime rule engine to validate business rule before executing in runtime.  • Used GIT as version management, JIRA for defect management system.  • Analyzing Maven dependency in the base code to annotate the dependency on Spring Boot application into Gradle and Developed Unit test cases using JUnit, Mockito, and Easy mock, Jenkins.  • Understanding big data technologies like Apache Kafka and Apache Spark Using Scala in Play framework.  • Performed deployment of applications on Web Sphere Application Server (WAS) and tested Service and data access tier using TestNG and performed UI testing and front-end testing using Selenium.  • Track production incidents, identify and prioritize scope for bugs and enhancements, conduct reviews with State counterparts and plan releases.    Environment: Core Java, Tomcat, Apache Kafka, Swagger, JMS, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Boot Framework, Micro service, Mongo DB, Angular 4.0, Spring Security, Hibernate 4.X, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX, Node js, Web Services, XML, JavaBeans, JavaScript, Apache Maven, Gradle, JUnit, HTML/UNIT, XSLT, HTML/DHTML, JIRA. Java UI Developer T-Mobile - Atlanta, GA January 2014 to April 2016 Description: As America's Un-carrier, T-Mobile US, Inc. is redefining the way consumers and businesses buy wireless services through leading product and service innovation. T-Mobile expand its products into banking. T-Mobile would provide Visa card with banking features and a smart phone money management application with reduced-fee for T-Mobile wireless customers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, implementation and testing phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) based on the functional requirements.  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application iteratively and incrementally. Participated in scrum related activities and Daily Scrum Meetings.  • Developed Customer GUI using HTML, CSS, LESS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, JQuery and Backbone JS to simplify the complexities of the application and to create a single page application.  • Created several models with key-value binding, custom events, views, and declarative event handling using the BackboneJS framework.  • Implementing the Backbone JS and Spring MVC framework for data access.  • SOAP web services were developed in a top-down approach using hibernate and Oracle and the clients were generated with JAX-WS  • Designed and developed Spring Batch Applications to read data from flat files and databases.  • Used spring batch framework to update data in databases.  • Used spring batch framework to create custom readers and writers to work with the application.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring IOC (Dependency Injection), Spring Transactions and Spring security models.  • Created spring batch jobs for reliability, robustness and essential automatic processing using Spring Batch.  • Used Spring Batch to develop batch processing to handle bulk requests from the clients.  • Used Spring Batch as spring batch jobs can meet the requirements of reliability, robustness, and traceability, which are essential for automatic processing of a large amount of data.  • Extensive experience in developing batch jobs using an open source framework like Spring Batch framework.  • Developed application using Frameworks Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP  • Segregated functionality related to caching using Spring AOP and Ehcache framework using hibernate.  • Used Spring Security for user Authentication and authorization.  • Extensively worked on Jersey for creating REST API's services.  • Responsible for writing/reviewing server-side code using IBATIS and DAO Framework for executing stored procedures and complicated SQL queries.  • Created Data Access Objects to fetch data from the database and integrate them with IBATIS.  • Implemented Web service calls using SOAP (JAX-WS frameworks)  • Used Apache Camel for messaging technology glue with routing. It joins together messaging start and end points allowing the transference of messages from different sources to different destinations.  • Used Mockito for unit tests development of Test-driven Development (TDD).  • Used version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA for issue tracking.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application  • Used Apache Maven builds tool to automate the build process and Jenkins CI for continuous integration.    Environment: HTML, CSS, LESS, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Batch, Jersey, IBATIS, My SQL, SOAP, JAX-WS, Apache Maven, Jenkins, SVN. Java UI Developer CVS Health - Dallas, TX September 2012 to January 2014 Description: CVS Health Corporation (previously CVS Corporation and CVS Caremark Corporation) is an American retail pharmacy and health care company headquartered in Woonsocket, Rhode Island. The company began in 1964 with three partners who grew the venture from a parent company, Mark Steven, Inc., that helped retailers manage their health and beauty aid product lines.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design of application framework using J2EE guidelines and different J2EE design patterns and Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) methodologies.  • Developed UI using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap responsive framework and JSP for interactive cross-browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Performed Front end validations for the screen using JavaScript, Angular Js directives, and core java.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in Angular JS and JQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end Restful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing Angular JS controller, directives, services, and route providers.  • Developed the application on Node.js platform using JavaScript programming.  • Applied data transformation business rules to transform code from one format to another format using Node.js.  • Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server to build MVC framework from front-end side Angular JS to the back-end Oracle.  • Used Reacts for rendering views and to update the Document object model dynamically.  • Used Springs ORM and DAO layers to offer abstraction for the business from the database related code.  • Implemented design patterns like Session Façade, Singleton, Factory, Service Locator and DAO.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices  • Involved in mapping Java objects to database tables using Hibernate and Java annotations.  • Used JDBC connectivity for querying, inserting, updating, deleting data from Oracle database.  • Used hibernate to store the persistence data into the Oracle database and written HQL to access the data from the database  • Used Jboss as an Application Server. Experience working on Grunt for magnification of JavaScript files, a compilation of LESS files into CSS and for monitoring the application.  • Used Eclipse IDE for code development along with GIT for managing the code and JENKINS for continuous integration.  • Involved in Test Driven Development by writing JUnit test case in the coding part of Java methods  • Used Cucumber to write test cases for new modules. Created automated test cases for the web application using Selenium.  • Used ApacheMaven as the software build tool and Log4J for logging errors and messages Used JENKINS for continuous integration. Used JIRA for tracking bugs.    Environment: Java/J2EE, D Design Pattern, Servlets, Hibernate, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Web services, React JS, Angular JS, JSON, JUnit, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Restful API, JENKINS, GRUNT, GIT, LESS, Jenkins, Selenium, JIRA, Backbone.js and Eclipse. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, C++, Design patterns, Git, Node.js, Oop, Svn, Xml, Dhtml, Security Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Java , Java Swings, Maven.  Methodologies/Design patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development.  Web Technologies  JSP, Servlets, Angular JS, JQuery, React.JS, Node.JS, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, JDBC, HTML5, DHTML and XML, CSS3, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, Apache Camel, Kafka, Spring Boot, Express.js.    Web Services SOAP, Restful Web Services.  Tools & Framework  Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JMS, JSF, Log4J, Mockito, SOA, JSP reports, SOAP UI, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Data.    Application/Web Servers Apache Tomcat Server.  IDE Tools Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD) and Net Beans, STS.  Databases Oracle 11g, My SQL, SQL, Mongo DB.  Cloud AWS.  Version Control Tools SVN, Clear Case, Git.  Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac, Solaris.