Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Charles Schwab Los Angeles, CA • Over 8+ years of extensive IT experience in Object Oriented and Web-based Enterprise applications using Java/J2EE and Client-Server technologies  • Having experience in different stages of Application and Product Development -Analysis, Designing, Development, and Deployment.  • Experience in building web applications using spring framework features like Spring ORM, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring AOP, Spring Context, Spring Security, Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring Batch and Web Services using Eclipse and integration with Hibernate as well as Struts.  • Developed and maintained User authentication and authorization by employing EJB  • Used ng-react angular module to use React components in the view layer.  • Implemented SVG images for faster page loading.  • Expertise in RDBMS namely Oracle, MS-SQL Server, MySQL and DB2, Sybase and Stored procedures & Triggers.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) mainly on Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Extensive experience in developing UI using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, JSF/PrimeFaces, Angular JS, Bootstrap,and AJAX.  • Experience in Core Java concepts that includes Exceptionhandling, Multi-threading, Synchronization, Serialization, IO, Collectionsframework.  • Experience in Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB (Session beans), EntityBeans and MDB (Message Driven Beans), JNDI, Custom Tags, and JMS.  • Hands on development working experience with Open source libraries and in-depth working knowledge of Spring, SpringBoot, Hibernate, and Struts, DAO, JDBC and Webservices (Soap, WSDL,and Restful API) frameworks.  • Experience in core interfaces of Hibernate with Configuration, Query, Criteria,and Transaction.  • Involved in development of SOAP-based web services using WSDL, SOAP, CXF, AXIS, JAX-WS and RESTful web services using JAX-RS,CXF,and Jersey APIs.  • Experience in working with the RestfulAPI along with the Ajax calls from the web page and representing the JSON data on the web pages.  • Extensively worked on XML related technologies like XSL, XSLT, DOM, XPath, WSDL, XML Beans parsers for parsing XML into java object.  • Working experience in using logging framework Log4j.  • Experience in working with application servers like IBMWebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat.  • Excellent experience with major relational databases Oracle, SQLServer, MySQL.  • Experience in writing SQL Queries, Oracle PL/SQL that includes Procedures, functions, triggers, cursors,and packages.  • Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3bucket, RDS, EBS, Cloudfront through AWS Console.  • Used Amazon EC2 for integration with REST APIs for management and control.  • Implemented a variety of services layer component at AWS platform to perform ETL tasks using Lambda, S3, DynamoDB, CloudWatch.  • Hands on Experience in configuring and using Maven and Ant build tools.  • Experiencing in writing Maven Scripts to create JAR, WAR, EAR& dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto the WebLogic Application Server. Expert in using version control tools such as SVN, CVS,andGIT.  • Worked on developing Python, Perl, Bash scripts.  • Extensive experience with Java compliant IDE's like Eclipse3.0, NetBeans,RAD 6.1  • Professional experience in relational database management MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server and DB2.  • Participated in the designing and developing of Software using Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience with source code control management like subversion SVN, CVS, GIT.  • Involved in issue tracking and agile project management using JIRA.  • Proficient in writing UNIX and shell scripts.  • Methodical knowledge of Application development life cycle and Software Engineering Principles. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Charles Schwab - Los Angeles, CA February 2019 to Present Description: The Charles Schwab Corporation is a bank and brokerage firm, based in San Francisco, California. It was founded in 1971 by Charles R. Schwab and is one of the largest banks in the United States as well as one of the largest brokerage firms in the United States    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and maintenance phases of application. Developed responsive UI Webpages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, Angular JS, JavaScript.  • Involved in building a single page and cross-browser compatible web application using Angular and Bootstrap.  • Implemented various validation controls for client-side validation and implemented custom validation controls using Bootstrap and jQuery.  • Worked with Angular filters in expressions and directives to filter data rendered in the UI.  • Developed a core component of analytics with Angular.  • Implemented core features of the Angular framework such as Dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Directives, Templates,and services.  • Worked with MVC Framework such as Spring-IOC, AOP, MVC and Batch which is used for implementing backend functionality.  • Developed session Beans for necessary transactions like fetching the required data, Updating the customer information.  • Involved to implement various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux.js library. Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-HibernateORM.  • Responsible for ReactUI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View and TableGrid.  • Extensive experience with ReactJS/ Redux tech stack, implement React to build UI components, Redux for managing app state and interaction.  • Used Spring framework for Dependency Injection (IOC) and integrated with Hibernate framework.  • Used Spring framework to inject services, entity services, transaction management and concerns by factory class corresponding to the use case operation executing.  • Support and Enhancement to the existing implementation of correspondence components which are developed using JPA and WebServices /JMS Technologies.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, gettingJSON response and parsing them using to get the required information.  • Achieved Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment using Jenkins and used Maven as a built tool.  • Handled the back end operations using SQL, Stored procedures, triggers and developed the persistence structure using ORM based Hibernate.  • Created UNIX shell scripts to automate the build process, to perform jobs like transferring of files between different hosts.  • Involved in development of REST Web Services using Annotations to extract client related data from databases. Built Restful API web services using MongoDB to store and present assessments.  • Used JSON parser to extract data from the Endpoints using REST clients to display data to the front end.  • Implemented business logic components using POJOs.  • Used Hibernate Query Language(HQL) for accessing data from the database and created Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Written SQL queries & PL SQL - Stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursors, sequences, and indexes, which are going to be invoked by Batch processes.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, Python on familiar servers such as Apache and IBM Web Sphere.  • Configured AWSIAM and security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC.  • Interacted and worked with the development team to analyze the defects and reported them in Jira and tracked them for closure. Involved in doing JUnit testing and ran the TESTSUITE using EMMA tool.  • Used POSTMAN to test API end client using REST Web Services.  • Involved in unit testing using JUnit with Mockito, Integration testing and system testing.  • Used Jenkins with the methodologies like CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment).  • Used GIT as version controlling tool and maven for building the application.  • Implemented application logging feature using log4j.  • Involved in WebLogic server configurations set up, data sources and queues set up and deploying the application.    Environment: JAVA/J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, Servlets, Angular, JSF, JavaScript, XML, XSLT, CXF, XPATH, REST, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, IBM WebSphere, JMS, Maven,Jenkins, AWS, Hibernate, Spring JUnit, Mockito, GIT, Jira, EMMA, IntelliJ. Full Stack Java Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ October 2017 to February 2019 Description: The American Express Company, also known as Amex, is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in Three World Financial Center in New York City. The company was founded in 1850 and is one of the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in the various phases of SDLC to analyze business requirements, analysis, design, development, testing,and support.  • Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring and auto-scaling.  • Object storage service Amazon S3 is used to store and retrieve media files such as images and Amazon Cloud Watch is used to monitor the application and to store the logging information.  • Involved in the development of presentation tier using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular JS and JSP.  • Configured Swagger-UI registered Microservices with Eureka server to monitor service health check etc. from Spring Boot admin console.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Multi-Threading, Exceptions,and Collections  • Combined collections and customer service to cure customer accounts while maintaining an amicable and professional manner throughout the call using probing questions.  • Built a web frontend using Spring MVC Framework with JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, Spring MVC architecture using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Integrated Spring Security Delegating Filter Proxy filter chain in web.xml to secure the application and limit access privileges to the users  • Created and maintained the configuration of the Spring Application Framework (IOC) and implemented business logic using EJB.  • Strong experience in Client-Server systems using Object Oriented Concepts and Design Patterns.  • Expertise in coding business components using various RestAPI's of Java-likeMultithreading, Collections  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like HTML, DHTML, JavaScript/jQuery, CSS, XML and XSL and AJAX.  • Experienced various screens for front end using ReactJS and used various pre-defined components from NPM and Redux library.  • Coordinated in all testing phases and worked closely with performance testing team to create a baseline for the new application.  • Involved in writing application-level code to interact with RESTfulWebAPIs, WebServices using AJAX, JSON, XML,andJQuery.  • Involved in Authentication&authorization checks using Encryption and decryption techniques using Public/private key methods etc.  • Good knowledge of EJB Session beans with JNDI mapped naming &JMS message-driven beans.  • Extensively used several interfaces and features provided by Spring MVC framework for new web applications like Handler Mappings, Controllers, View Resolvers, Multipart file resolver, Handler Interceptor, Handler Exception Resolver, Locale Resolver, Theme Resolver, Annotations,and Validators.  • Load data from various data sources into HDFS using Kafka.  • Install KAFKA on Hadoop cluster and configure producer and consumer coding part in java to Establish aconnection from twitter source to HDFS with popular hashtags.  • Implemented DAO design pattern for database related activities (Add, Delete, modify etc.) and to interact with the database using JDBC.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST APIs and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Created architecture towards a micro-services approach using RESTful java web-services framework.  • Wrote SQL Queries, stored procedures, triggers, packages on Oracle Database.  • Coded soap and Rest web services using spring boot to rewrite existing application to micro web application.  • Mastered the Grunt with commands for building and deploying the project.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Configured and managed AWS Glacier, to move old data to archives based on retention policy of databases/ applications.  • Developed REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Used SQL Developer framework to write SQL queries and used JDBC to access database and implementation of connection pooling.  • Developed JUnit test classes to test the functionality of a code and developed test cases for Camel Routing.  • Used SLF4j to record the log messages to the log files.  • Worked with Gradle build tool to build and deployed theapplication on JBoss application server.  • Followed the Agile (Scrum) development methodology and participated in daily Stand-up meetings to update the task status on the assigned tasks such as technical documentation, development of different modules.    Environment:JDK1.7, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, Spring, Spring JDBC, IBM Informix, Oracle 11g, SQL Assistant, XML, XSD, Eclipse, Tomcat Application Server, Kafka, Load Runner, JBoss, GIT, Source Tree, Maven, Windows OS, Log4j, JUnit, JMockit, AWS. Full Stack Java Developer Perseus Mirrors,TX July 2015 to October 2017 Description:We simplify everyday tasks through smart technologies, starting with your mirror. The Perseus Mirror is an interactive mirror where the smart world stares back.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and maintained Front-end Page layout using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Designed Web Page UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS and developed single page applications using Angular JS Framework.  • Developed Message receiving framework to accept JMS messages from the queue.  • Participated in the discussion with the business experts to understand the Business requirement and prepare them for technical requirements towards development.  • Developed processor to process messages through the queue.  • Used Core Java Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Intercepting Filter, Front Controller, Session Façade and DAO.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot, Restful Microservices using Spring Rest and MVC, for OSS services.  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Design and Analysis of the Customer Specifications, implementing and testing.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Developed REST based web services for the client side to send a query request to Elastic Search and auto-generated documentation for REST.  • Analyzed, designed, implemented web-based applications using JPA, Java, JSP, jQuery, spring, XML, XQuery, and SQL.  • Created thread pool of 15 threads to process the incoming messages and save them to database then deliver the files to users.  • Used SpringAOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  • Developed multiple user tools with Core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  • Developed dump and Load Utility to extract and load the data to DB2 using Java.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications components using Restful web services by using Jersey.  • Design and develop the processes using multithreading to make it asynchronous.  • Involved in designing SpringMVC application and Hibernate to design module structure.  • Used AWS to promote code in the various application.  • Involved in migrating existing monolithic application into MicroService Architecture based RESTful Service and deployments were done using Docker.  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, WebServices using AJAX, JSON,andXML.  • Worked on analysis of algorithms and used various searching and sorting algorithms like binary search, quicksort, insertion sort, and heap sort.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication, schema design, etc.  • Used WebSphere server to route our JMS queue messages to different business floors and configured routes in WebSphere and used WebSphere in the e-mail notification.  • Used Microsoft Visio to design the workflows and sequence diagrams, class diagrams.  • Extracted and manipulate the data from XML documents using XQuery.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  • Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and Maven as a built tool.  • Implemented the application using SpringIOC, SpringMVCFramework, SpringBatch, SpringBoot and handled the security using SpringSecurity.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Javamulti-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Worked Extensively with the ReactJS by Implemented React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable) and developed UI pages with JSP, Spring MVC, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Node.JS and used Bootstrap for creating Responsive Web pages.  • Setup the Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) process for the application using the Jenkins.    Environment: Java, Spring, J2EE, Angular JS, JavaScript, Tomcat, Oracle, XML, Unix, Python, Hibernate, Mongo DB, JPS, Elastic Search, Restful, Log4J, AWS, Microservices, Jira, Jenkins, Agile, GIT. Java/J2EE Developer Dini Communications, Inc - Edison, NJ April 2013 to July 2015 Description:Dini Communications, Inc. filed as a Foreign Business Corporation in the State of New York on and is approximately sixteen years old, according to public records filed with New York Department of State.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design,and development of e-bill payment system, transactions, History, Branch Locator as well as account transfer system and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams in UML with Rational tools  • Developed the presentation tier using Spring Framework that ensures MVC rapid application development.  • Developed account transfer system using Spring beans and developed persistence layer in Hibernate for data access  • Used SpringFramework for Dependency injection and integrated with the JSF Framework and Hibernate.  • Experienced in using Spring annotations based on thelayer in applications like @Component, @Controller, @Service, @Repository, etc. annotations.  • Implemented and configuring Spring MVC components Dispatch servlet, Controllers and View resolvers.  • Implemented Centralized dispatch controllers for all incoming requests using Spring Interceptors, custom annotations and Controller  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXB in the web service's request/response data for marshaling and un-marshaling.  • Developed SOAPWeb Servicesby using JAX-WS and Restful web services by using (JAX-RS) Jersey framework.  • Developed Web Servicesto provide the list of transactions for an account as a SOAP endpoint service  • Conversion of major Openwork's components into Eclipse RCP/SWT platform along with thesupport of Swing-SWT components.  • Worked with Swing and RCP using OracleADF to develop a search application which is a migration project.  • Design and development of Sync Administration UI that includes different modules/plug-ins like Well Manager Conflict UI, Seismic 2D/3D file synchronization UI in OSGi RCP/SWT platform.  • Used XSLT to transform the response data in a readable form to be presented to the user  • Implemented persistence layer usingHibernate that use the POJOclasses to represent the persistence database tables. These POJOs are serialized Java Classes that would not have the business processes.  • Implemented Hibernate utility classes, session factory methods, and different annotations to work with back-enddatabase tables.  • Implemented Hibernate second level caching to improve read performance.  • Used Jersey API to implement Restful web service to retrieve JSON response and used Jackson library to parse JSON response.  • Implemented Ajax calls using JSF-Ajax integration and implemented cross-domain calls using jQuery Ajax methods.  • Implemented the application using the concrete design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Session Facade, DTO, Singleton,and Factory.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers for efficient interaction with MySQL.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Used Log4J to capture the log  • Built, configured and deployed applications using Maven.  • Used CVS for version control across common source code used by developers.    Environment: Java, Hibernate, Spring, SOAP/Rest web services, JSF, Maven, WSDL, Jax-Rs, Junit, Log4j, RCP. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jdk, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Design patterns, Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 8 (JDK 1.4/1.5/ 1.6), JEE, SQL, PL/SQL,Python  Methodologies/Design patterns Agile,OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Singleton  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, HTML 5, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS 3, XML, AJAX, JDBC.  Web Services SOAP, Restful Web Services  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular.js, Node.js, React.js.  Application/Web Servers Tomcat, Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss, Jetty.  IDE Tools Eclipse (Juno, Galileo, Helios, Indigo), Rational Application Developer (RAD) and NetBeans, STS.  Databases Oracle 8i / 9i / 10g/11g, MySQL 4.1, MS SQL Server.  Tools  Ant, Maven, Log4J, JUnit, Spring Boot, SOAP UI, Active MQ, Apache Camel, IBM Rational ClearQuest Expertise in developing applications using Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Web services, EJB, JMS, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, JSF, AJAX, jQuery, CSS and JavaScript.    Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, Macintosh HD.  Testing tools Selenium, Quick Test Pro, Win Runner, Load Runner.