Senior Java developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior Java developer - VERIZON Manitou Springs, CO PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY    • Strong development experience creating rich frontend UI in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSF / JavaScript technologies using JavaScript libraries like JQuery, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node JS.  • Expertise in design and development of multi-tier web based applications using J2EE technologies like JSP,  Servlets, JDBC and frameworks like Struts, Spring IOC, Spring boot, MVC and Hibernate.  • Experienced in configuring and deploying applications on Jboss eclipse, Web Sphere, Weblogic.  • Designed and implemented server-side RESTful web services using JS and handled communications to the client side (Node JS) using JSON.  • Extensively used Camel Services in backend services for routing purpose.  • Excellent work experience with Designing and developing Web Services to communicate with business partners using SOAP / REST protocol.  • Excellent working experience in Databases like My SQL, Oracle and SQL Server.  • Experience in automating the tasks using shell and batch scripting.  • Experience in Test Driven Development.  • Worked with JUnit, Maven and Log4j for testing, building and logging information.  • Experience in software development methodologies like Agile and Waterfall model.  • Experience in client interactions for understanding requirements, creating design, reporting status.  • Strong problem solving and trouble-shooting capabilities, ability to work efficiently in both independent and team work environments. Work Experience Senior Java developer VERIZON - Colorado Springs, CO September 2016 to Present Description: CLEAR (Client Electronic Access and Reporting) is an application which supports file transmissions over various protocols including Connect Direct, AS2, SFTP, FTP, MQ, Mailbox Add etc from the Bank to various Trading Partners. The files undergo various masking using the cryptographic standards like PGP encryption, decryption and Swift 3skey signature validations. The Trading Partners have SLA's (Service Layer Agreements) which will ensure delivery in the agreed time frame.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, UAT and Production phases of the application.'  • Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC, Spring boot, Microservices & used core Spring concepts like MVC, AOP, IOC.  • Extensively worked on both consumption & producing of RESTful based Webservices using JAX-RS & jersey parsers.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP's, CSS, AJAX, HTML, Java Script, React Js.  • Developed custom AngularJS directives to build custom reusable components to use across the application pages.  • Implemented Angular 5.0 components using structural directives like *NgFor, *NgIf, NgClass, Property Binding and Event Binding.  • Developing and updating a web page quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and JQuery with the web page cross browser compatibility.  • Used intelliji for building its syntax tree, creating references between classes, variables, fields, methods, and their usages, analyzing the execution flow.  • Used Intelliji as a development/IDE tool for the entire project.  • Participated in JAD sessions gathering along with the Business Analysts.  • Handled the requirements, code and test walkthroughs  • Documented use cases, functional requirements based on the A&D using RUP and UML.  • Developed XSLT files for transforming the XML response from the web service into HTML as per the business requirements  • Used REST API, HTTP requests and implemented JSON format for data exchange for communication of microservices with one another.  • Developed the Persistence Layer using Hibernate.  • Used Business Delegate, Singleton, Front Controller, Factory and DAO design patterns  • Used session beans to expose the application for the use by the third party users.  • Wrote CRON Jobs to schedule the daily scripts  • Involved in performance tuning of application and environment for optimized performance during month end load using JProbe.  • Designed data formatted web applications using HTML, DHTML, XHTML and CSS and deploy the script by client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Have Knowledge on Apache Spark with Cassandra.  • Gained Hands on experience in analyzing the Cassandra data from flat files using Spark.  • Involved in designing dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, and ReactJS.  • Used Node.js as a cross-platform runtime environment for developing server-side web applications.  • Added new features using Node/Redux(RXJS)/Lodash for functionality of few modules.  • Responsible for front end development using Node, Mobx, CSS, Ant design and various modules.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Environment: Node.JS, Express.JS, REST, AWS, Angular.JS, Javascript, CSS, HTML,  • Database backup & recovering the database as per business requests.  • Implemented DB2 Security, Locking and Concurrency Control.  • Design the backups and recovery strategies for Oracle databases from 10.5 thru 12C and DB2 UDB databases to meet our customer SLA requirements.  • Used Storm and Kafka Services to push data to HBase and Hive tables.  • Used Sqoop to connect to the ORACLE, MySQL, and Teradata and move the data into Hive /HBase tables.  • Experience integration of Kafka with Spark for real time data processing.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration, Github for version management & Maven for building the application in the cloud leveraging AWS API's.  • Extensively used Fusion Charts for reporting the data  • Implemented logger for debugging using Log4j  • Served as POC for on call support in the production team on a rotation basis.  • Worked on creating Spring Data Repositories for PL/SQLSQL databases.  • Developed few stored procedures, triggers and sequences.  • Involved in PL/SQL changes whenever needed in the application and used Toad to access tables, packages, jobs and stored procedures.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML 5, CSS, Bootstrap, AJAX, AngularJS 1.X, REST, AWS (Amazon Web Services), XML, JIRA, Junit 4.0, GIT, Maven, Weblogic 12.0 and WebSphere Application Server. Sr Java Developer Fannie Mae - Reston, VA November 2014 to August 2016 Description: AT&T's Hosting and Application Services deliver a range of hosting and management capabilities that provide organizations with a global, secure network infrastructure and managed hosting services. Designed to support business applications with leading technologies, high-performing facilities, comprehensive capabilities and the leading-industry customer portal, AT&T's expansive portfolio includes security, storage, intelligent content distribution, load balancing, multiple-carrier failover IP connectivity, utility computing and virtual services offerings, professional services, VPN and data networking integration and more.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, UAT and Production phases of the application.  • Experience in Waterfall Model, Agile methodologies such as Scrum and Test-Driven Development.  • Developed Microservices & APIs using Core Spring, Spring MVC, Spring boot and Used JMS ( Java Messaging Service) as messaging system between the APIs and Microservices  • Used Spring framework to handle application logic and make calls to business objects and services.  • Developed the UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, Ajax JQuery, BootStrap, Angular JS 2.0 and was involved in resolving cross browser Java script issues.  • Developed XSLT files for transforming the XML response from the web service into HTML as per the business requirements.  • Used Angular 2 as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Designed and developed the Presentation layer using Angular 2 and Angular Material.  • Worked on AJAX controls and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.  • Developed the Persistence Layer using Hibernate.  • Developed RESTful web services using JERSEY API and developed both the producer & consumer.  • Used DOM Parser to parse the XML response from web services.  • Used Business Delegate, Singleton, Front Controller, Factory and DAO design patterns  • Used session beans to expose the application for the use by the third-party users.  • Developed few stored procedures, triggers and sequences.  • Worked on concurrency API to increase the throughput of the batch application.  • Design classes in backend to process various requests from front end and to generate responses using Servlets, core java and PL/SQL.  • Involved in performance tuning of application and environment for optimized performance during month end load using JProbe.  • Worked on deployment of the application and helped build team to provide deployment scripts using Ant, Maven and Jenkins.  • Extensively used Fusion Charts for reporting the data.  • Create Unit testing scripts using Java Testing Frameworks and perform unit testing of the developed code.  • Experience in building and maintaining cloud based infrastructure on AWS.  • Served as POC for on call support in the production team on a rotation basis.    Environment: Java 1.8, AWS, JSP, CSS, HTML 5, Spring 3.1, Hibernate JMS, Maven, Log4J, JavaScript, Angular JS, JUnit, Oracle 11G, Weblogic 9.1, iPlanet, Unix, Github, Oracle, TOAD, Web Services. JAVA/J2EE Developer Guardian Life Insurance - Bethlehem, PA November 2012 to October 2014 Description: Straight Through Processing (STP) streamline the new business process by automating and facilitating the application and underwriting process enabling Guardian to serve its distribution better, reduce operating expenses and foster business growth.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Integration & Testing, Implementation and Operations & Maintenance phases of the project.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Designed and implemented a framework for exposing software development assets through a RESTful web service.  • Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with Hibernate.  • Used Springs JDBC and DAO layers to offer abstraction for the business from the database related code (CRUD).  • Used Spring AOP module to handle transaction management services for objects in any Spring-based application.  • Formed complex associations between Plain Old Java Objects using Hibernate.  • Worked with JUnit, Maven and Log4j for testing, building and logging information.  • Worked on Splunk monitoring tool dashboards for easy debugging.  • Developed and debugged the application using Eclipse IDE  • Designed and coded application components in Agile environment utilizing a test-driven development approach.    Environment: Java 1.6, Spring Core, Spring Security, MVC, Hibernate, Web Services, AngularJS, UNIX, Splunk, SQL, Log4j, JAX-Restful Services, WebLogic Server12c, JUnit, Eclipse Java developer CSC - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to October 2012 Description: ATLAS is a Product of Bank's solution for online bill payments. It allows BAC customers to pay their Utility bills using the BAC online and mobile banking applications. Behind the Customer facing interface there are many systems interacting to fulfill the Bill Pay functionality like Bill Pay UI, Bill Pay Web Service, Payment Engine, UBD (Universal Biller Directory), Pay Mon (Payments Monitoring Tool), YCC (Yodlee Customer Care). Payment Engine is a standalone Java Application performing various payment processing tasks. It is the heart of the BillPay functionality where LCR (least cost routing), Risk and other core business logic is implemented in JAVA and PL/SQL.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the database and UI design for the web module.  • Built prototypes of complex modules and analyzed the performance.  • Developed EJBs, JSPs and Java Components for the application using Eclipse.  • Prepared the Unit test plans and the integrated test plans.  • Implemented Version control for the Project using Microsoft Visual Source Safe.  • Coordinated and supported the team during implementation.  • Involved in design, development and testing phases of the application.  • Implemented Struts framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Involved in the understanding and designing of the complex back-end middleware framework.  • Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, HTML and CSS for developing the Web component of the application.  • Planned and implemented various Oracle Tables, stored Procedure, triggers, views, cursors.  • Involved in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • Participated in the technical code reviews, prepared unit test cases, detailed time estimation, impact analysis and code review documents.    Environment: Java 1.4, Struts 1.2, Hibernate, EJB, WebLogic Server 8.1, HTML, CSS, JUnit, JSP, Servlets, JMS, Oracle 9i, Windows XP, MVC Pattern, SVN, Log4J. Education Bachelor's Skills Bea, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Struts, Jdbc, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, C++ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Technologies: Java, J2EE, Angular JS, JSP, EJB, JMS, JDBC, PL/SQL, CSS3, HTML5, C++  Web Technologies JSTL, JAXB) HTML 5, AJAX, JQuery, Angular JS 2.0 Frameworks Struts 2.0, Spring 4.0, Spring Boot, Hibernate 3.0, JSF. Web & App Servers BEA Web Logic 12.0, Apache Tomcat 5.0/6.0, JBoss. Operating System Windows XP/Vista/8, Unix, Linux. Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g/12c, PL/SQL  Version Control  CVS, Rational Clear Case, SVN, Version One, Git    Testing Tools  Junit 12.0, Easy Mock, Mockito, Docker    DevOps Tools  Jenkins, Maven, GIT    Methodologies  Agile, Waterfall    Cloud Platform  AWS, EC2    Apache Tools  Log4j, ANT and Maven.    IDEs  Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, Oracle SQL Developer, Atom