Java developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Java developer - Neighbors Telehealth Houston, TX • Over 6 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, implementation and execution of test cases of software application using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experienced in Java Application Development, Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Experienced with developing rich user interface applications using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 2.0, JQuery, XML, JSON that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Experience working with various SDLC methodologies like Agile Scrum, RUP and Waterfall Model.  • Expertise in implementing the persistence logic using JDBC, JPA, Spring JDBC, Hibernate, iBATIS.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Design and implement a Web based content management utilizing XML, JAXB, DOM, XSLT, XPath and JavaScript for data generation and presentation with JSF.  • Strong knowledge on OOPs concepts, Core Java, Multithreading, Exception handling, and Collection Framework.  • Strong programming skills towards developing and implementing complete n - tier web based application systems using Java/J2EE technologies- JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Enterprise Java Beans, Struts, JSF, Spring, SOA implementation, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JNDI, XML, JAXB, JSON, WSDL.  • Experience in using Restful framework like JAX-RS Framework, SOAP Web services using JAX-WS, Apache CXF, Jersey.  • Have considerable knowledge in developing UNIX shell scripts and pearl scripts.  • Strong knowledge in implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework.  • Good knowledge on the Spring Modules like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Batch, Spring Web Flow, Spring Security and Spring Boot.  • Having knowledge on (JMS) MQ's like Apache Kafka, Rabbit MQ, IBM MQ and Active MQ.  • Experience with Web/Application servers (Tomcat, Web Logic and JBOSS)  • Experience in using Restful framework like JAX-RS Framework, SOAP Web services using JAX-WS, Apache CXF, Jersey.  • Good knowledge in using Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, and AWS Identity), Pivotal Cloud and IBM Web Sphere.  • Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances.  • Experience in using different version controlling/tracking systems GIT, CVS, Subversion, and Rational Clear Case.  • Experienced in working with multiple databases like Oracle 10/11g, SQL Server, NoSQL (Mongo DB, Cassandra), PostgreSQL, MySQL and DB2.  • Experience using JIRA as issue and bug tracking tools.  • Experienced with J-Unit Framework4.x, Jasmine and Mockito for developing test cases using Test driven development (TDD) approach and log4j for logging.  • Expertise in using NoSQL databases like Mongo DB, Apache Cassandra 2.0.12 as a distributed database management system and writing queries to it using CQL 3.0  • Experienced in performing unit testing using JUnit, Mockito integration and deployment of applications using tools such as ANT, Jenkins and Maven & debugging through log4j.  • Experience in using Ant1.x and Maven3.x for build automation.  • In-depth knowledge of PL/SQL with the experience in constructing the triggers, tables, functions, user defined data type, procedures etc  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, JBoss, RAD and NetBeans for debugging and using java coding standards.  • Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java developer Neighbors Telehealth - Houston, TX January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked in an agile environment with standard software design methodology for development.  • Developed PayPal related services in the payment-settlement department with java based frameworks - Spring Boot and Kafka messaging services.  • Developed micro services using SpringBoot.  • Developed Kafka producers and consumers.  • Received information from Kafka using Apache Spark.  • Developed Customized Spring Multi Action controllers for handling similar operations and configured Spring to develop full-fledged MVC application.  • Implemented the logic based on design patterns - Singleton, Business Delegate.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Enhanced graphical user interface using CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Developed DAO classes to interact with the database.  • Mapped business objects to database using Hibernate.  • Worked on implementing security for the application. Configured the users and roles in LDAP.  • Coordinate multiple services through Zookeeper.  • Developed Oracle queries per requirement to retrieve and save values.  • Code is maintained under Github.    Environment: Kafka, Zookeeper, Spark, JSP 2.0, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, JQuery, JavaScript 1.2, RESTful Web services, Github, Hibernate, Eclipse 3.4, Maven 2, Oracle, Mac, SpringBoot, Spring, Bootstrap. Java Developer US Bank - Richfield, MN January 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology with two weeks' iterations.  • Developed application on spring framework.  • Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring MVC framework and O/R mapping tool Hibernate for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  • Used Hibernate as an implementation engine for JPA API.  • Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Tomcat.  • Developed WSDL for defining contract between requestor and provider.  • Used Maven for building, deploying application.  • Developed, Tested and Deployed application in Apache Tomcat server.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Hibernate Template support.  • As a Java developer analyzing the business requirements of weekly sprint.  • Gathering review and understanding the business and logical Requirements.  • Designed Frontend with object-oriented JavaScript Framework like AngularJS.  • According to requirements generating API specs, flow diagram as required and sharing with the team.  • Creating all markups from existed files using html5, css3.  • Writing middle-ware services and JUNIT tests or writing tests in TestNG.  • Doing the internal testing and debugging using postman and tests.  • Documenting Various Reports and documents as per the tasks assigned before handling the build to QA Team.  • Explaining the services written to QA team.  • Fixing Bugs raised by QA team.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSP, XML, angular, jasmine, karma, bower, Maven, Adobe Flash, RESTful API, Java, SQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Windows. Java Developer Cardinal commerce - Mentor, OH September 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement discussions with all stake holders.  • Involved in design discussions, design reviews and data modeling of project.  • Developed UI components Using HTML, Java Script, SAP UI5 and Angular JS.  • Front end is developed based on Spring MVC Restfull webservices and struts MVC architecture.  • Developed business logic using Spring Java Beans, POJO classes and Spring Dependency Injection.  • OR mapping tool Hibernate is used for persisting data.  • Used Session Facade, Singleton, DAO, IOC, DTO, Service Locator and Factory design patterns.  • Implemented Web Services for business layer interaction with Virtual Learning Systems (VLS) like Adobe, Centra and WebEx using SOAP, JMS, WSDL and Apache Axis.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon web Services (AWS).  • Developed SQL queries, stored procedures.  • Used Hibernate OR mapping tool as Data Persistence.  • Involved in writing Hibernate mapping documents for persistence classes.  • Implemented 508 Compliance, localization and internationalization(i18n) the product.  • Developed test cases using JUnit framework and automated application using WebDriver/Selenium APIs.  • Used BIRT framework for developing various Reports.  • MyEclipse Findbug tool used in development for maintaining high quality of code.  • Participated in the build, deployment and release process for patches and service packs using WebLogic 10, JBoss 4.3 and Apache Tomcat 7 servers.  • Experience configuring Apache web server for static web content.  • Participated in code review and involved in integration, unit and functional testing.  • Implemented Agile methodology with Scrum in the development.    Environment: JDK 1.7, J2EE, Struts 1.2/2.0, Spring framework 2, Hibernate 3.5, JSTL, Maven, XML, XMLSchema, XStream, Webservice, AWS, SOAP 1.2, WSDL, JMS, XSL, AXIS-2, UML, HTML, DHTML, Angular JS, JQuery, Web 2.0, CSS, Weblogic 9.1, JBoss4.3, Apache Tomcat 7/6, Log4J 1.2.7, JUnit, Subversion(SVN), BIRT, Oracle 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, RequisitePro, JUnit, WebDriver/Slenium2.0, SQL Developer, MyEclipse 9 Windows 7 and UNIX. Jr. Java Developer Dark Horse August 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Engaged in design, development, testing for the application.  • Involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system. Captured requirements using use cases and sequence diagrams.  • Used the Agile methodology to plan and analyze the code as per the requirement for building the application.  • Used DAO framework for accessing data from database.  • Developed interactive UI to visualize data from server side for better usability using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Designed database schema and defined relationships between tables.  • Used a Spring service layer for dependency injection/IOC, DAO and annotations.  • Consumed REST web services APIs to enable access from external systems.  • Implement new features for existing application and assisted in building new applications based on customer specification, involvement in the entire software development life cycle process.  • Responsible for development of configuration, mapping and Java beans for persistence layer (Object and Relational Mapping) using Hibernate.  • Reviewed source code and generated peer reviewed reports.  • Involved in the building of management and resolution activities for e-commerce projects.  • Integrated AngularJS front end to Java server side to make service calls to database.  • Utilized AngularJS dependency injection to inject different services just like custom service, and create some custom directives.  • Wrote and modified database stored procedures, triggers, functions, and PL/SQL scripts.  • Used Maven to build the project and CVS for version control.    Environment: J2SE 1.5.x, JSP 2.0, HTML, CSS, JBoss Application Server 6, AngularJS 1.0, JQuery, JavaScript 1.2, RESTful web services, CVS, Hibernate, Eclipse 3.4, Maven 2, SQL, Windows 7, Servlets, Spring. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Angularjs, Java J2Ee, JSP, Javascript, MVC Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, C++, Java 1.8, J2EE, SQL and PL/SQL  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, NodeJS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM and JSON.  Tools & Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, JSF, JUnit, SOAP UI, Jersey.    Build Automation ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Gradle.  Web services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Micro services, Apache CFX.  Cloud Technologies Amazon Web Services (EC2, SQS, S3), and Spring Cloud.  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Logic Server and Apache Camel  Databases Oracle, MS SQL-Server, MySQL, IBM DB2, MongoDB.  IDE tools Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite (STS) and IntelliJ.  Testing Tools/ Others Selenium, JUnit, Soap UI and Mockito.  Version Control Tortoise SVN and GIT.  OS & Environment Windows, Sun Solaris, UNIX