Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Western Health Advantage Work Experience Java Developer Western Health Advantage - Sacramento, CA June 2014 to Present Designed, tested and assisted in enhancement of the existing application to get quotes for health insurance policy. This project added features that enabled customers to get quotes directly online and also to get real-time assistance with various types of insurances available.  Responsibilities  • Analyzed and estimating the change requirements.  • Helped design and code website content using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Javascript.  • Used SVN for revision Control/ Configuration Management.  • Used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Involved in JDBC connection pooling to access the oracle database.  • Implemented open source Log4j logging framework in whole application.  • Worked in the enhancement of registration servlet application using Java, servlet, JSP, JSTL, Spring and several design pattern like MVC, DAO.  • Used Spring MVC Action Classes and regular Java classes to develop the middleware.  • Used Spring Beans for modular construction of enterprise application in the server-side.  • Responsible for main module of the Hibernate including all the key Hibernate features such as session support, transaction management, object caching or HQL.  • Worked on developing user interfaces for member portal using JSP and JSTL, and converted the request parameters from user interfaces into XML format.  • Implemented application logging using log4j framework.  • Developed JUnit test cases.  Environment: J2EE, JSP, Spring MVC, Oracle, HTML, XML, Servlets, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, JavaScript Jquery, SQL Server, Windows, Tortoise SVN, JUnit, Maven, Log4J. Sr. Business Systems Analyst/Functional SME CVS Health - Cincinnati, OH October 2016 to January 2019 Optimize existing pharmacy dispensing system/application by collaborating with stakeholders and delivering subject matter expertise. Provide support for projects by ensuring strict adherence to EDI (835/837), NCPDP, HIPPA and other Healthcare regulations. Recommend robust to-be/future processes, data flows, and software development artifacts, also create workflow diagrams for requirement specifications. Devise project planning charters and contribute towards development and enforcement of project plan. Conduct performance and regression testing and proactively track defects for swift resolution.Coordinate with stakeholders and spearhead user acceptance criteria testing for sign-offs on UAT scripts. Java/J2EE Developer SutterHealth, CA March 2013 to May 2014 This system was developed to establish a platform for information exchange and management in hospitals and clinics. Doctors can track status of their patients, give medication advice, and schedule/cancel/reschedule appointments. Patients can review their medical history, get their own medication reminder set by their doctors, make appointment, and leave messages for their doctors.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing.  • Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.  • Used Spring MVC module to develop MVC Architecture.  • Developed the Controller to handle the requests and responses.  • Used Core Java to develop Business Logic as Spring Beans.  • Configured Spring Container to implement IOC/DI of the Spring Beans, and to manage the beans' life circle.  • Developed POJO objects and used Hibernate as the Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool to access the persistent data from SQL Server.  • Stored procedure in the database and used Dynamic SQL to load the data.  • Developed the UI using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Developed Unit Test Cases. Used JUnit for unit testing of the application.  • Configured pom.xml to deploy the project using Maven.  • Provided Technical support for production environments resolving the issues, analyzing the defects, providing and implementing the solution defects.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, MVC, SQL, Dynamic SQL, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat, SQL Server, JUnit, Maven. Java/J2EE Developer AccessoryGeeks - San Jose, CA August 2011 to February 2013 AccessoryGeeks is an industry leader, committed to offering a wide variety of cell phone accessories and small electronic accessories at competitive prices. AccessoryGeeks online Shopping Cart Application supports corporate customers who are interested in buying cell phone accessories. The Objective of the project is to design, develop and implement an E-commerce website as an online Shopping Cart Application, Which enables online shopping for customers. The entire system features user account management, shopping cart management, easy transaction, friendly UI, single sign on, knows discount and offers of the products secure payment system.  Responsibilities:  • Developed various UI screens using JSP and HTML for retrieving details.  • Involved in Multi-threading during UI development to provide a heavy processing in a background thread when UI is still active.  • Extensively used Custom JSP tags to separate presentation from application logic.  • Implemented the assigned module using JSPs on server with Oracle.  • Wrote Stored Procedures to populate the database with Oracle.  • Developed DAO design pattern for hiding the access to data source objects.  • Developed the web-based application following the MVC architecture using spring Framework.  • Developed the custom Logging framework used to log transactions executed across the various applications by using Log4j.  • Developed Classes in Eclipse for Java development, using the Class Specification provided in Rational Rose.  • Involved in writing SQL, Stored procedure and PL/SQL for back end. Used Views and Functions at the Oracle Database end and used Hibernate for Object Relational mapping.  • Designed and used JUnit test cases during the development phase.  Environment: Java, Multi-threading, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, SQL, HTML, Spring MVC, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, Rational Rose, JUnit, Log4J Java Developer Acumen Building Enterprise - Oakland, CA February 2010 to July 2011 The project was to develop an Office Automation System that could manage the employers' information of different departments, publish informs, and send massages inside the system.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Developed the Servlet to handle the HTTP request and responses.  • Used Core Java to develop Business Logic.  • Deployed the application in Apache Tomcat.  • Developed Session beans and used JDBC to access data from MySQL database  • Developed the UI using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript  • Used JUnit for unit testing of the application.  • Provided Technical support for production environments resolving the issues, analyzing the defects, providing and implementing the solution defects.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Servlet, JDBC, SQL, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, JUnit, CVS. Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Jboss, Jdk, jquery, Database, Jdbc, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Reporting tools Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Java Technologies: JDK (1.8), Spring 3.x/2.x, Hibernate, JDBC 2.0, Java Beans, REST, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, (Schema, DOM, SAX).    Frameworks: Spring 3.x/2.x, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Hibernate 3.0, Maven, ANT, UNIT    Languages: Java, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, HTML, and UML.    Database: SQL Server 2005/2008, Oracle 9i/10g. AWS EC2    Servers: Apache Tomcat 5.5, JBoss 5.0, and Weblogic App Server.    Platforms: Linux, UNIX, Windows, AWS.    IDE & Reporting Tools: Eclipse (3.5), STS, Sublime, Jenkins,  Maestro Scheduler, Service-Now, HPSD, and BMC.