Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Ericsson Richardson, TX • Around 8 Years of Professional experience in developing web applications using J2EE technologies like Java, RESTful services, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, Java Script, spring, Spring Batch, Hibernate, XML, JSON, UNIX shell scripting, Web services.  • Extensive knowledge and hands on experience in Web development using HTML, DHTML, AJAX, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XSL, XSLT, validations with DTD & amp, XML Schema and processing files with SAX, DOM Parsers.  • Strong Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), ERD documentation, UML artifacts modeling with Rational Rose and Enterprise Architect. Applied the requirements engineering, analysis, and design disciplines of the RUP to J2EE projects.  • Application development experience using multithreading, Serialization, Externalization, Collections, Generics, Core JAVA.  • Hands on development experience with Open source systems and in depth working knowledge of Spring3.1, Hibernate3.X, Struts 2.0 frameworks, AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Good Working experience in using different modules like Spring Core Container Module, Spring Application Context Module, Spring MVC Framework module, Spring AOP Module, Spring ORM Module etc. in Spring Framework.  • Strong experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and publishing Web Services both SOAP & REST (consume and implementations) that include several components like SOAP, WSDL, XSD,and JAX-WS, JAX-RS.  • Experience with JMS both Synchronous and Asynchronous messaging. Hands on experience on IDE tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Web Storm, IBM RAD, Spring Tool Suite.  • Competent in developing and designing web pages efficiently using jQuery, jQuery UI and jQuery mobile.  • Expertise in back-end/server-side java technologies such as Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), Java Persistence API(JPA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), Java Connector Architecture (JCA), Java Data Base Connectivity (JDBC).  • Implemented Design patterns such as MVC, View Dispatcher, Data Access Objects, Singleton, Observer, Factory, and Session Facade.  • Experience in configuring and deploying Web Applications using Web Logic, WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat and Apache.  • Expertise in using ANT, Maven and Gradle for building and deploying application on the servers.  • Experience in building and deployment of EAR, WAR, JAR files on different SDLC systems in IBM WebSphere Application Server v7.  • Extensively used AJAX, JSON, and XML to link clients to server back end applications.  • Experienced in Agile methods like Scrum and Extreme Programming (XP), and Agile practices like Continuous Integration and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Proficient in writing Selenium Web Driver automation scripts in JAVA using Maven, Cucumber and Test NG Automation Testing for Web Applications.  • Very good understanding of Oriented Design (OOD), Spring MVC architectures, distributed architectures.  • Expertise in database modeling, administration and development using SQL, PL/SQL, toad in Oracle (8i, 9i, 10g and 11g), IBM DB2 and SQL Server environments. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Ericsson - Richardson, TX January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements and participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules.  • Designed and implemented web-based applications using J2EE, Java, POJO, REST, and JDBC.  • Responsible for the operation, maintenance and integrity of a distributed networked Linux/AIX environment.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP API's, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Implemented the project using Web Services, WSDL, UDDI, and SOAP to communicate with other systems by using apache Axis.  • Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM and Spring Integration.  • Implemented SOAP Services (JAX-WS) to interact with external systems. Involved in writing client code for invoking SOAP based web services.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Value Object Pattern, Business Delegate, service locator, and session façade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  • Installed and configured Apache on Linux and Solaris and configured Virtual hosts and applied SSL certificates.  • Developed POJO and implemented Hibernate and integration with Spring Framework.  • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  • Used RESTful web services to communicate with third party services or internal applications. Wrote java back end web services in RESTful framework using the jersey JAX-RS framework.  • Designed and developed user interface (UI) components using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed pages using HTML5, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, CSS3, and JSON.  • Managed JSON objects through AJAX to present the data to the front-end interface.  • Also designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript framework like Angular.js, Node.js and Ext.js.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.JS, NodeJS and JQuery.  • Used Ajax, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing. Used concepts of Directives, Data-Binding and Dependency Injection in AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA), which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Developed JAXB objects to represent request and responses to support XML and JSON format.  • Developed the Spring AOP Programming to configure logging for the application.  • Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Developed, implemented and maintained an asynchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience using XML parsing, XSLT templates.  • Facilitate scrum ceremonies like grooming, sprint planning, retrospectives, daily standups etc.  • Using Soap UI to test the service call, by passing required parameters for the service.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using JQUERY UI Library.  • Used Maven to package java classes into jar archives. Used Jenkins for build automation and Git for Version Control  • Developed unit test cases and suits on Junit framework for unit testing, writing Junit tests cases for every java class.    Environment: Java 8/7, J2EE, SQL, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, JSON, XSLT, XPath, Groovy/Grails framework, Ext JS, JavaScript, DOJO, DAO, Junit, Spring 4.x, HazelCast, MongoDB, Log4j, Spring Integration, iBatis, Hibernate ORM, TDD, Git, Web Services (SOAP), Linux, Tomcat server, Agile, Jenkins,Mokito, Maven, Servlets, Node.js, JSP, HTML5. Java Full Stack Developer Sprint Corporation - Overland Park, KS August 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked with HTML, CSS, JSP, XML, JSON, and Ext JS for developing user interface.  • Involved in requirement gathering phase of SDLC with Business Analyst and worked with Agile-Scrum methodology.  • Creating, installing, Weblogic Application servers, deploying WAR, JAR files on them installed on both Linux, Solaris servers.  • Involved in implementing Object Relational Mapping (ORM) using Hibernate for persisting business objects data into underlying database.  • Used Maven repository to include all the jar files required for the JDBC Connections and JSP Tag libraries.  • Implemented dynamic functionality to screens using Ext JS and Implemented Asynchronous means of retrieval of data using AJAX.  • Developed application in Angular JS, JSON, and deployed into development, Test and production environment successfully.  • Extensively involved in developing and consuming Restful web services.  • Developed RESTful Web Services for CIP using Java, SpringBoot, NoSQL databases like Couchbase.  • Consumed SOAP based Web Services to integrate with the Web Application.  • Published and consumed Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and deployed it on WebLogic server Web Server.  • Configured, tested and troubleshoot newly built Linux servers with NIC card configurations  • Used various J2EE design patterns, like DTO, DAO, and Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Singleton and Factory patterns.  • Created dynamic HTML pages, used JavaScript, Ext.js, JQuery, NoSQL, Restful and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  • Worked with CSS3 background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  • Using AngularJS and Angular-Bootstrap UI extensively for developing the UI using MVC framework.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed Single page web applications object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.JS and Ext.JS.  • Configured and managed Apache Web Server on Linux for web based applications using REST/SOAP, Apache and Weblogic.  • Extensively used/modified JQUERY to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Coded extensively using JavaScript MVC Framework, AngularJS to make rich internet web application for a Single page app.  • Hibernate is used as persistent at middle tire for providing object model over relational data model.  • Used SOAPUI tool extensive to conduct regression and performance testing of our services  • Implemented migration from Oracle coherence cache with Hazelcast cache.  • Extensively used Spring Bean Wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOP modules.  • Used JERSEY framework to implement the JAX-RS ( Java API for XML and RESTful Service).  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Worked on JavaScript framework that is BackboneJS, NodeJS, and Express JS to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with SQL Server.  • Used Maven for build automation and used Log4j for the logging. Source control using Git and Github. Implemented and configured Jenkins job for Continuous Integration (CI) tool.  • Used Spring Core for Inversion of control (IOC) implemented using dependency injection.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Design Pattern, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, Ajax, Jquery, web services, ReactJS, AngularJS, JSON, JUnit, HazelCast, HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JBoss Application Server, Apache Maven build tool, PL/SQL, Linux, RESTful API, GRUNT, Jenkins, GIT, LESS, Backbone.js and Eclipse. Java Developer UPS - Louisville, KY December 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented application using spring, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring MVC, Spring Transactions, Hibernate 3.0, SQL, and IBM WebSphere 8.  • Involved in development of data abstraction layer using Hibernate ORM framework with Spring support, and JDBC driven components  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  • Created optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML, CSS, and spring framework.  • Developed JSPs for displaying account activation criteria using JSON and oracle stored procedure.  • Developed GUI using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, DOM, XHTML, AJAX and AngularJS as a part of current project.  • Used AngularJS for creating Routes, Filters, Directives, Factory and Services.  • Development UI modules using Bootstrap, HTML, JSP, JSF, JavaScript and CSS.  • Participated in designing of Use Case, Class Diagram and Sequence Diagram for various Engine components and used IBM Rational Rose for generating the UML notations.  • Developed module for activate/deactivate criteria for account data service using JSON to send AJAX request and spring framework to implement the MVC.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) In order to develop code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using annotations.  • Implemented different Design patterns like DAO, Singleton Pattern and MVC architectural design pattern of spring.  • Worked on Live Class & Study Calendar module by using Adobe Flash, Action Script, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for other applications to communicate  • Implemented Spring Batch and Spring Task Scheduler to automate importing data from CSV files sent from client into DB2database.  • Used SQL Developer framework to write SQL queries and used JDBC to access database and implemented of connection pooling.  • Involved in consuming, producing SOAP based Web services using JAX-WS and tested the web services with SOAPUI.  • Designed and developed a number of RESTful web services that support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development using Spring MVC, Spring Web Services, JSON, RESTful, MySQL, and Maven.  • Implemented Backup & Disaster recovery management on Linux platforms  • Integrated HTTP Apache Http plug-in with WebLogic Servers.  • Developed stored procedures and complex queries for manipulating the banking database.  • Developed Jenkins build scripts and created the War, Ear files and deployed in Openshift. Used Maven to build the project, Jenkins as version control and GitHub as repository.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.    Environment: Java, Springs, Hibernate 3.0, JMS, SOAP web service client(using JAX-WS), Restful Web service client (using JAX-RS), AngularJS, Linux, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS,AJAX, Oracle 11g, SQL , JUnit, Eclipse 4.2, Jenkins, Maven, IBM WebSphere. Java Developer Consolidated rail corporation - Philadelphia, PA September 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Collaboration with Business Users or Business Analysts and gathering the requirements and splitting them into stories workable items, involved in security implementation using SPRING Security.  • Installed, maintained and upgraded REDHAT Linux and Solaris Servers.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers  • Extensively worked on Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), EJB, Serialization, and Java Beans.  • Architected a JSF, Websphere, Oracle, spring and Hibernate based 24x7 Web application.  • Implemented a sophisticated configuration module entirely programmed in Flex POJO based domain model integrated with Hibernate ORM for persistence  • Used jQuery and AJAX for performing client side validation and implemented server side validating business rules in Java.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers.  • Involved in the integration of spring for implementing Dependency Injection (DI/IOC). Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IOC framework.  • Used Hibernate for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations. Developed Rest architecture based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Involved in developing custom tag libs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Created the Node JS EXPRESS Server to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end Oracle.  • Worked on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC and SPRING DAO.  • Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and worked with it to perform many different operations.  • Used deployment and Continuous Integration (CI) tools like Maven, Jenkins, SonarQube and Nexus.    Environment: Java, J2EE, SPRING, Hibernate, Struts, WebLogic, Restful, JQuery, AJAX, Ext JS, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, SERVLET, Oracle, CRUD, JDBC, AngularJS, Mongo DB, Backbone JS, Node JS, Adobe (CQ5), Bootstrap, Core Java, UML, Eclipse, Junit, Jenkins, Shell Scripting, Agile, Linux. Java Developer DODGE - Auburn Hills, MI June 2011 to August 2013 Dodge is an American brand of cars owned by Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. My responsibility is to build up the info management system with responsive design and UI/layout coding with front end functionality which will help analyze the data from the customers.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application using Struts framework that leverages classical MVC architecture.  • Generated UML artifacts such as use cases, sequence diagrams, class diagrams using Rational Application Developer.  • Experience in administering the Linux systems to deploy Hadoop cluster and monitoring the cluster using Nagios.  • Developed the workflow interfaces using JSPs, CSS, Struts Tiles layouts and the request processors using Dispatch Action and Action.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Installed, configured, and maintained WebLogic 10.x and Oracle 10g on Red Hat Linux.  • Used Spring Core for Inversion of control (IOC) implemented using dependency injection.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  • Developed DAO classes to access the databases using JDBC and Action classes, Logic classes for executing business logic.  • Core Java development and Support of Java/J2EE applications with emphasis on OOP-based web forms, business logic, and database access components.  • Designed, coded and configured server side J2EE components like XHTML, Servlets, Java Beans, JTS, Java Mail API, XML, XMLParser API.  • Using MVC design pattern on Struts Framework (Struts MVC) developed the code for tabulated listings, reports and charts for performance of the employees.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, CSS, jQuery Scripting.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application  • Used SWING components to develop standalone client, which communicates with the multithreaded server application.  • Used JAX-RPC Web Services using SOAP to process the application for the customer. Used Node JS, React JS, MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application.  • Performed Data driven testing using Selenium and TestNG functions which reads data from property and XML files. Involved in CICD process using GIT, Jenkins job creation, Maven build and publish.  • Used Maven to build and run the Selenium automation framework. Involved in building and deploying scripts using Maven to generate WAR, EAR and JAR files.    Environment: J2EE 1.4, Eclipse, Web Sphere Application Server, JSP, Servlet, HTML, JUnit, JavaScript, CSS, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, XML, JAXP, CVS, JAX-RPC, AXIS, SOAP, TOAD, AJAX, Jenkins, Maven, Log4J, UNIX, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE