Salesforce Developer / Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Administrator Salesforce Developer / Administrator - Miraclesoft Atlanta, GA • Experienced in Salesforce.com Administration, configuration, Lightning platform and development.  • Worked extensively on building Apps visually with Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components.  • Proficient in Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components to enable anyone to quickly and easily create modern enterprise apps.  • In-depth understanding of SaaS, PaaS, and PaaS.  • Excellent programming skills and strong Object-Oriented programming concepts (OOP).  • Extensive experience in salesforce.com Setup, Configuration, Customization, Administration, Data Migration and Integration tools like Apex Data Loader etc.  • Worked on Salesforce provided Cloud Software Service max and SAAS for maintain work order according to user requirement and generating reports.  • Strong exposure to Security and sharing rules implementation at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization.  • Extensive knowledge in developing stored procedures, functions, Views, Triggers, Complex queries using SQL Server (TSQL) and Oracle PL/SQL.  • Worked with Sales cloud and Service cloud to leverage the functionality, Lead Management and Opportunity management.  • Proficient in Sales cloud implementation, Service cloud modules, Salesforce SF1, Salesforce lightning and Chatter. Expertise knowledge of CRM processes like Sales, Marketing, Customer Service, Customer Support, Business processes and recommended solutions to improve their processes in salesforce.com.  • Have knowledge in implementing various advanced fields like Pick lists, Custom Formula Fields, Many to Many Relationships, Lookups, Master-Details, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates & Email generation according to application requirements and clients.  • Proficient in Configuration, Customization, Programming with Apex API (Controllers & Triggers), Visual force Pages, Visual force Components using up-to-date technology & implementing new instances of Sales force  • Created multiple 'generic' communities that many external users could access, enabling further revenue from existing customers and management of cases.  • Involved in Automated business process by using Workflow Rules and Approval Process for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirement.  • Experience in working with Data Loader, import wizard, salesforce.com and Sandbox environments.  • Extensive experience in working with various standard objects like Accounts, Events/Activities and Opportunities.  • Involved in creating Formula fields, Workflow rules, Escalation rules, Validation rules, Page Layouts, and Email generation according to the business needs.  • Worked on Opportunity Dashboard - for bulk modifications instead of going to each Individual record.  • Experience in setting up the sharing model including custom Profile creation, assigning the roles to the users and creating the Sharing Rules to share data between different hierarchies.  • Participated in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Contract Life Cycle Management i.e., System Analysis, Design, Development and Testing. Expertise with Object Oriented Design (OOD), Analysis (OOA), based on Unified Modeling Language (UML) architecture.  • Proficient in creating Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Specification Document (SFD), System Requirements Specification (SRS), Test Plan, Test case and Test reports.  • Had experience working in Software Lifecycle Methodologies like Agile/SCRUM and Waterfall.  • Good experience in Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, Java Server Pages (JSP), Struts, HTML, Java Script, CSS, JQuery, Junit.  • Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, WSDL, and SOAP. Work Experience Salesforce Developer / Administrator Miraclesoft - Atlanta, GA June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Admin and Developer in the organization.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements.  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend, Visual Force pages and Salesforce Lightning Experience as user interface.  • Configured Sales Force Automation (SFA) for Campaign management, Opportunity Management, Account and Contact Management, Data Quality Management.  • Developed complex workflows and approval processes for automating business logic.  • Used Force.com platform for developing feature rich and user friendly Visual force pages for enhancing Salesforce UI.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules on the objects and tabs, Components and Custom links.  • Used Salesforce.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Controllers and Triggers, Visual force pages, Force.com IDE, Migration Tool, Web Services API.  • Configured federated login to ensure that single sign on in implemented across the company.  • Enabled Salesforce connections between partner sales force orgs and the client's org.  • Created search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Used Salesforce Automation Process (SAP), Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Worked on Salesforce.com Application to Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Sales force as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created a Business required document (BRD) to provide the developers insight about the objective, goal and scope to kick-start a new version of the product  • Perform Gap and data analysis in support of identifying improvement opportunities  • Maintained all the tasks in JIRA and updated status on a regular basis.  • Responsible for meetings with users and stakeholders to identify problems, resolve issues and improve the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  Environment: SalesForce.com CRM Application Platform, Sales cloud, Service Cloud, Apex Language, Visual Force, HTML, JavaScript, Custom Objects, Tabs, Workflows, Approval Processes, Email, Messaging, Dashboards, Reports, Eclipse, Sandbox, Production environment, SSO, Sfd2sfdc. Salesforce Developer / Administrator KSU - Marietta, GA August 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Used Sales Force Automation for Sales Management, Opportunity Management, Account and Contact Management, Data Quality Management, Approvals and Workflow.  • Interacted with Product, Sales and Order processing teams for gathering the requirements.  • Created the Technical Specification documents.  • Created the data structure and planned the security for various profiles.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created business rules to ensure the data integrity and built the approval processes.  • Analyzed and imported thousands of account and contact records using Data Loader.  • Achieved import and export operations to load customer data and other master data adopting data loader.  • Created triggers and classes to automate the Opportunity and Quote integration process.  • Created Visual Force Pages to override the standard functionality of Edit and Delete buttons.  • Provided technical assistance and guided the developers in the team.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Customized profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide / restrict data access.  • Used XML serialization for interacting with the database.  • Enabled territories for better forecasting. Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects. Responsible for writing SOQL & SOSL queries with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Release Management (Managing different Salesforce instances and Releases) and involved in Data Migration and Deployment activities.  • Implemented Sales cloud and incorporated the enhanced features as required to streamline the business process.  • Service Cloud enhancements - Portal entitlement wizard changes  • Built Lightning components on the developer console.  • Worked with Lightning Components in the Eclipse Force.com IDE.  • Accessed Custom Object & displayed its record using Lightning Components.  • Created a component that loads contacts data and interacts with Salesforce1 and Lightning Experience.  • Developed multiple Custom Objects to the needs of the project.  • Implemented multiple discounts and finance charge calculations on the Opportunity.  • Built the deployment planning document and did the production migration.  • Created a custom order object to the extensive order processing needs of the business.  • Provided the sales teams the option of generating multiple quotes and automated the Quote acceptance process.  • Implemented Web to Case, Email to Case functionalities to provide a better customer support to the customers.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts) and represented it in the form of graphical using dashboards to assist managers to better utilize Sales force as a sales tool.  • Used multiple sandboxes for development of various components of the project. Deployed the code to the UAT Environment for testing.  • Integrated the Salesforce Order with NetSuite Order.  • Built the Quote templates.  • Helped the Product managers to define the products and cleaning up the data.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Sales cloud, Service cloud, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, ERP, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, C#.net Saledforce.com Data Loader, Salesforce Developer / Administrator Omnicell - Cranberry Township, Pennsylvania January 2017 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used Sales Force Automation for Sales Management, Opportunity Management, Account and Contact Management, Data Quality Management, Approvals and Workflow.  • Performed in-depth analysis of business practices and provided recommendations on ways to improve the processes.  • Created Profiles, Roles based on Organization role hierarchy and implemented Record-Level and Field-Level security and configured their sharing settings.  • Worked on Sales cloud and service cloud.  • Experience working on Case Management, captured cases from the company's website and customer emails.  • Created case sharing model and assigned cases to users according to the role hierarchy.  • Escalated cases according to the case priority  • Worked on Auto response rules if customers contacted beyond the business hours.  • Created Case Queues which automatically assign cases to a specific user or group of users based on predefined criteria  • Worked on Record Types, Validation Rules, Triggers and Page Layouts.  • Planned and conducted requirements elicitation meetings with the business to collect functional and non-functional requirements relating to client's Salesforce technology enhancement and initiatives.  • Conducted brainstorming sessions with the development team to actively involve them during the requirements stage level analysis.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Created a sync of contacts, email alerts, events and tasks between Salesforce to Outlook and Outlook to Salesforce successfully.  • Created Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the mail merge for different standard and custom objects.  • Worked on various AppExchange products according to the needs of the organization.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Case Management, Accounts, Contacts, Content, Reports and Workspaces.  • Worked towards preparation of requirements management plan, business and functional requirement documents.  • Developed custom Objects and Fields as specified in the scope document  • Created data flow diagrams and process flow diagrams to facilitate better system understanding.  • Outlined the organization hierarchy and created profiles, roles accordingly in Salesforce; worked on visibility and security settings around them as required by the business.  • Used Data Loader to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files or from a database connection  • Involved in mapping the fields between the current reporting system and Salesforce using data loader.  • Performed import and export operations to load customer data and other master data using data loader.  • Conducted internal training sessions for business users on Salesforce technology functionalities, especially with respect to reports and dashboards.  • Analyzed different business reports and guided the team on deployment and customization of those reports in Salesforce.  • Extensive knowledge on CTI tools like CTI data connector to track the incoming calls and Cisco unified communication tools.  • Worked on designing different custom dashboards for various user groups based on their business functionalities and needs.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Record types, Reports, Dashboards, Email, Sharing Rules, MS Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Waterfall, Validation Rules, Messaging, Dashboards, Standard and Custom Object. Salesforce Developer / Administrator Interactive Advertising Bureau - New York, NY January 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the business requirements and mapped to Salesforce.  • Involved in data migration from Excel to Salesforce using Apex Data Loader.  • Created user Roles and Profiles, security controls and sharing settings  • Worked on various SFDC standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Reports and Dashboards.  • Created workflow & approval processes, validation rules, Auto-Response Rules, Approval process, email alerts and templates, and field updates.  • Developed Apex Classes, Visualforce pages and Apex Triggers to develop the custom functionality as per the requirements.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked on various AppExchange products according to the needs of the organization.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Cases, Solutions, Reports and Dashboards.  • Responsible for all the activities related to configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files into Salesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data.  • Integrated Salesforce with Microsoft Outlook to synchronize contacts, events and tasks.  • Implemented Case Management by creating record-types specific to the user groups, assignments rules, escalation rules, case templates, workflow rules and actions, etc.  • Configured and Integrated Salesforce with Oracle database.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Worked on Apex classes, controllers, controller extensions with WCAG 2.0.  • Interact with Business Analysts and Developers to design better test plan and strategies based on the Requirements of the business  • Customized page layouts for Accounts, Contacts, Campaigns, Leads, Opportunity depending upon user roles and groups.  • Designed various HTML Email templates for Auto-Response to customers.  • Deployment of code from sandbox to production using Force.com IDE tool.  • Created Visualforce pages and Visualforce components to achieve custom functionality.  • Wrote SOQL, SOSL considering the governor limits.  • Integrated Salesforce CRM with Siebel CRM explicitly using web services API  • Configured user Roles, Profiles, sharing settings, organization wide defaults.  • Used Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, APEX Language, Visual Force - Pages, Component & Controllers, WCAG 2.0, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Java, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Jr.Salesforce Developer / Administrator Genesis Software Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:    • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards  • Created various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components, Triggers, S-controls.  • Created several Validation Rules, workflow rules, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response  • Rules for automating business logic.  • Create auto response emails including suggested solutions for cases raised via email and web-to-case  • Worked on Data integration, metadata management. ETL data modeling tool sets. Performed Functional Testing and Back-end  • Involved with ETL test data creation for all the ETL mapping rules and source data validation  • Strong ability in developing advanced SQL queries to extract, manipulate, and/or calculate information to fulfill data and reporting requirements including identifying the tables and columns from which data is extracted  • Maintained Object permissions, Field permissions, and User permissions, Tab settings, App settings, Apex class access, Visual force page access, Page layouts, Record Types, Login hours & Login IP ranges.  • Wrote Apex web services to get real time data from 3rd party systems.  • Used Apex Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com objects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values  • Perl scripting for automation of data validation from Oracle  • Preparing and supporting the QA and UAT test environments  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Agile Environment, Data Loader, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Informatica (ETL), TOAD, Perl, Oracle 10g using PL/SQL, Oracle (8i, 9i & 10g), Perl scripting, Batch scripting, VB script. Java Developer January 2014 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational rose.  • Developed the application as per the requirements and business rules.  • Responsible for developing the Registration modules of the wholesale application.  • Utilized the various J2ee Design patterns to develop the Business modules based on the required functionality.  • Part of the team which was responsible for designing and developing the application in n-tier fashion as per struts based MVC architecture standards  • Responsible for developing the application level flow by utilizing Java, JSP and Struts.  • Responsible for developing the OS specific scripts (Shell Scripts) for automating the closing doc Process.  • Used JavaScript front end Validations.  • Responsible for testing of application on various levels like integration and System testing by utilizing various methodologies  • Developed Session beans and entity Beans representing business logic abstractions.  Environment: Java, JSP, Oracle 8i, Servlets, Java Beans, Java Script, Apache Tomcat JDBC, HTML, Rational Rose and Dream weaver. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Fairleigh Dickinson University - Teaneck, NJ May 2017 Technology Aurora's Technological and Research Institute - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 Skills Apex (3 years), Api. (2 years), C+ (Less than 1 year), Change management (Less than 1 year), Crm (2 years), Css (Less than 1 year), Customer relationship management (2 years), database. (4 years), Eclipse (3 years), Force.com (2 years), Html (3 years), Java (2 years), Loader. (3 years), Oracle (2 years), Oracle 10g (Less than 1 year), Powerpoint (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Web services (2 years), Word (Less than 1 year), workflow (4 years) Links http://Salesforce.com