Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - P&G Cincinnati, OH ? Full Stack Developer with over 8 years of experience in analysis, design, development, testing and deployment of Web and Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Extensive experience in designing and deploying highly responsive web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ES6, jQuery.  ? Good hands on experience with using Bootstrap, UIKit, Foundation, Skeleton frameworks and SASS, LESS preprocessors for developing rich and interactive user interfaces.  ? Proficient with new features of TypeScript, ES6 like Type Restrictions, block scope, decorators, classes, modules and arrow functions.  ? Good experience with various JavaScript MVC frameworks like Angular JS, backbone.js, Ember.js, Knockout JS and PHP frameworks like Cake and Laravel.  ? Expertise in developing web applications using MVVM architecture based Angular 2, Angular 4 core concepts like components, templates, directives, data binding, services, dependency injection, Modules, observables and routing.  ? Experience in MVVM frameworks and developing single page applications using Angular 2/4.  ? Experience in developing Angular 4 advanced features such as interfaces, nested components, services, routing and modules.  ? Experience in developing client-side validations ns using Angular 4 and in developing Custom pipes, Shadow DOM.  ? Experienced in developing applications using React JS components, routes, events for view rendering, Redux asynchronous functions and implemented React - Flux pattern for core dependency.  ? Extensive experience in developing dynamic SPA using MEAN (MongoDB, Express JS, Angular, Node).  Worked with server-side JavaScript frameworks using Node JS (Hapi JS, Express JS)  ? Expertise in using Build tools Gulp, Grunt, Gradle and Ant for compiling, packaging and  linking code into a reusable format.  ? Used Bower and NPM (Node Package Manager) to download and manage dependencies in various projects.  ? Strong experience in unit testing tools of JavaScript Frameworks like Karma, Jasmine and Protractor for Angular, Mocha and Chai for React JS.  ? Extensive experience with Advanced and Core Java technologies including Spring MVC, Spring REST, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, XML, JEE, JSP, EJBs, JDBC, Struts, Servlets, JMS, JPA, Java API for XML Web Services, JSF.  ? Successfully developed and deployed various Microservices based applications using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  ? Good experience in Java 8 features like Collections, Interfaces, Transaction Management, Exception Handling, Multithreading, Stream API, Time API  ? Expertise to interact with relational databases using ORM frameworks like Hibernate, Spring Data, JPA, IBatis, MyBatis, Java Persistence API (JPA), Hibernate's second level cache - Ehcache.  ? Hands on experience using ODM frameworks to connect asynchronous environment with Mongoose Connector and Cassandra Node Driver.  ? Worked with Spring transaction management, Spring Data, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch, Spring JTA, Spring IO and Spring Security (Spring security, SiteMinder).  ? Proficient in using Spring Data JPA that helped in creating automatic Data Access Objects (DAOs) during compile time.  ? Developed multiple applications using Spring Community framework projects and used Spring and EJB containers to manage the bean life cycle.  ? Extensive experience in developing scalable, reliable, efficient web and enterprise applications using JSP, EJB, JNDI, JMS, Struts, JSF (PrimeFaces).  ? Developed projects with RESTful services (JAX-RS, Spring Boot), SOAP (JAX-WS, Apache CXF, WSDL, Apache Axis2) and automated the documentation using Swagger and WADL.  ? Solid experience in using the Spring AOP facets Transactional Management, Logging, Security and Authentication.  ? Have good knowledge on different databases like PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2, Oracle 13c/11g, Microsoft SQL Server, NoSQL DB (Raven DB, Mongo DB and Cassandra, Couch DB, Redis, Dynamo DB) and good experience in writing stored procedures, functions and triggers using PL/SQL in JDBC, ODBC and in WebLogic server.  ? Better understanding of implem entation using Spring Cloud-Netflix OSS stack for microservices deployment and auto configurations like Eureka (Service Discovery Server), Ribbon (Dynamic Routing and Load Balancer), Hystrix (Circuit Breaker), Zuul (Edge proxy) and Monitoring and centralized log analyses (ELK).  ? Experience in integration tools like Spring Integration, Mule ESB, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka and Apache Camel to integrate the enterprise application technologies with existing JVM environment.  ? Used Apache Kafka Steams API to build real-time data pipelines and horizontally scalable and fault-tolerant stateful stream-processing and worked with Kafka Connect to build custom connectors using connector framework  ? Worked on Kafka Performance monitoring for coordination among consumers using Burrow  ? Experienced in handling message queues using JMS, Rabbit-MQ, IBM-MQ, Active-MQ and Amazon-MQ  Building real-time dashboard applications for visualizing, analyzing and exploring data on Apache Web servers using Elastic Search, Logstash and Kibana 4.0 (ELK), Splunk.  ? Good knowledge in employing database caching strategies using Redis, MongoDB Elastic search.  ? Hands on experience in implementation of PCF (Pivotal Cloud Foundry) Paas (Platform as a Service) services such as Pivotal Application Service, Pivotal Container Service and Pivotal Functional Service to continuously deliver applications on to the cloud.  ? Highly experienced in using various AWS (Amazon Web Services) IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service) Components like EC2 for running applications on virtual machines, S3 and Glacier for storing and long term back up of data, EBS for persistent block level storage, Elastic Cache, Dynamo DB, SQS for message queueing, RDS for setting relational database in cloud and Lambda for server less program functions.  ? Experience in Spring Security Framework for User Access Management, JWT token-based authentication and involved in OAuth 2.0 configuration for authentication, authorization.  ? Experienced in using build tools like Maven, Ant, Gradle and logging tools like Log4j.  ? Expertise in unit-testing with tools like JUnit, Mockito, Spock, TestNg and Integration testing tools like Selenium Web driver, Cucumber (Behaviour Driven Development testing).  ? Used Orchestration container Kubernetes for load balancing and to schedule the tasks across the computer cluster and load balancers for backend API services.  ? Extensive experience in building continuous integration and continuous deployment using Jenkins, Bamboo, Travis and AWS Code Pipeline with cloud repository.  ? Used various version control software such as GIT, GIT LAB, SVN, CVS, Big Bucket for maintaining code repositories. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer P&G - Cincinnati, OH September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? The application is a Micro Service Oriented Architecture built using MEAN 4+ (MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node) stack.  ? Designed and developed web application UI using HTML5, CSS3 and UIKit CSS framework including SASS and LESS preprocessors.  ? Used built-in AJAX HTTP Service with observables for making quick changes and incremental updates to UI components.  ? Developed several Angular components that are compatible with TypeScript ES6.  ? Configured various routes, directives for grid, pagination, conditional validations, templating dynamic loading, lazy loading, Shadow DOM, NgRx store.  ? Developed angular views to hook up models to DOM and synchronize data with server as SPA.  ? Implemented Node.js as a server-side proxy for event-driven, non-blocking I/O model to make the application lightweight and efficient.  ? Developing RESTful web services using Node.js and Express.js and used Node.js server to interact with the Rest services and database, hosted on multiple load balanced cloud instances  ? Utilized the inbuilt NPM package manager to configure the right versions of the packages and to achieve dependency management.  ? Configured Express JS node HTTP framework to set up middle-wares to respond to HTTP requests and used its front-end tooling like web packs, starter packs, boiler plates efficiently.  ? At a later point, migrated from Express.js to Hapi JS which is configured on top of Node JS to attain better performance, to use built in authentication and authorization techniques.  ? Designed and developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Boot and Jersey framework.  ? Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  ? Worked with various features in spring such as Spring AOP, Spring Transaction management.  ? Implemented Spring Bean Factory using IOC Configured Bean properties using dependency injection.  ? Developed microservices using Spring Boot and deployed them in AWS  ? Worked on Hibernate and JPA for persitance with oracle database.  ? Worked with NoSQl database MongoDB  ? Published Restbase API's and interacted with multiple consumers.  ? Worked on asynchronous communications with JMS and Rabbit MQ  ? Deployed applications in Docker instances using cloud AWS EC2 instances.  ? Designed and developed RESTful web services using Spring boot and Jersey framework.  ? Used Spring boot which is radically faster in building cloud micro services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  ? Migrated existing application into REST based Microservices to provide all the CRUD capabilities using Spring boot.  ? Used Swagger for automated documentation to the web services in the application by configuring Hapi-Swagger and Hapi- Swagger-UI  ? Configured Redis (Remote Dictionary Server) with node server for caching the responses  ? Behavioral driven testing for the angular application is carried out using Karma test runner and Jasmine test framework tool  ? Achieved TDD (Test Driven Development) by using Mocha and Chai for testing Node.js  ? Configured OIDC (Open ID Connect) on top of OAUTH 2.0 authentication and authorization framework to provide the security to rest web services.  ? Implemented Single Sign On and policy-based authentication using Site Minder security framework.  ? Configured JBOSS Application server and used Oracle database with Hibernate ORM framework and used the functionalities of Hibernate's second level EHCache.  ? Created dynamic schema design through NOSQL Mongo DB by writing rich queries and achieved data in a collection to be distributed across multiple systems for horizontal scalability as data volumes increase through automatic sharing.  ? Implemented Mongoose Connector as our ODM framework.  ? Configured Docker container service and build pipe line Jenkins CI/CD tool for continuous integrating and deploying application on servers  ? Responsible for migrating existing modules in IBM MQ to Apache Kafka and worked on creating Kafka adaptors for decoupling the application dependency  ? Installed, configured, and administered NoSQL database clusters in AWS Virtual Private Cloud Network for available data on cloud.  ? Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, Optimized volumes and EC2 instances and created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  ? Implemented Netflix Zuul API gateway for all the requests from the devices and websites by registering services to Eureka.  ? Created various Docker images from the Docker containers and published these images in the Docker hub repository. Deployed the Dockized Spring Boot application using AWS Elastic Bean Stalk (EBS).  ? Worked on Deployment Automation of all micro services to pull image from Private Docker registry and deploy to Kubernetes Cluster.  ? Configured Kubernetes in the application for automating deployment, load balancing, scaling, and management of containerized applications  ? Configured Kibana data visualization plugin for Elasticsearch, Logstash and created bar, line  and scatter plots, or pie charts and maps on top of large volumes of data.  ? Configured New Relic to measure and monitor the performance of application.  ? Provided production support/on call support to fix production issues after the deployment.    Environment: Angular 4.0, Node JS, Express JS, Hapi JS, HTML5, CSS3-SASS, Twitter Bootstrap 4.0, Site Minder, Hibernate4.x, OAuth2.0, OIDC, Eclipse Java EE IDE, JIRA, Apache Kafka, IBM MQ, Jenkins, Babel, Log4j, Redis, Mongo DB, Mongoose Connector, Oracle, JBoss, Kibana, Elastic search, Logstash NPM, Webpack, EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Docker, Apache tomcat, Selenium, Spock, Karma, Jasmine, Mocha, Chai, Mokito, Junit, mock MVC, Kubernetes, New Relic, Dump Analysis, Netflix Zuul, Eureka, Swagger, Maven3.0. Java Full Stack Developer TracFone - Miami, FL April 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Actively participated in Managing team performance and progress and Training new team members and also participated in requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing phases, and responsible for the full stack development.  ? Focused primarily on the MVC components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  ? Involved in development of REST Web Services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from databases and SOAPUI tool is used for testing Restful API web services.  ? Implemented the Web Service client for the login authentication, credit reports and applicant information using JAX-WS and Apache Axis 2.  ? Configured JDBC and LDAP security in the application server. Developed LDAP server configuration file to enable encryption support for password storage.  ? Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and utilizing Hibernate Annotations  ? Parsed those XML messages using JAXB and then store the data into Oracle Database using Spring JDBC.  ? Developed messaging module using Spring JMS and ActiveMQ.  ? Used different phases of JSF lifecycle for client-side and server-side data validation.  ? Developed user interface using HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Ajax and Jquery  ? Used JIRA to fix and track the workflow.  ? Developed microservices using Spring Boot and deployed them in AWS  ? Worked on Hibernate and JPA for persistence with oracle database.  ? Worked with NoSQl database MongoDB  ? Published Restbase API's and interacted with multiple consumers.  ? Worked on asynchronous communications with JMS and Rabbit MQ  ? Deployed applications in Docker instances using cloud AWS EC2 instances.  ? Created web applications prototype using Angular JS, Node JS  ? Worked on setting up JBOSS Fuse ESB and building and deploying applications to Fuse server.  ? Participated in builds using Maven and CI (continuous integration) using Jenkins.  ? Involved in the creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases for each java class that is being developed for this application using a mocking framework Mockito using Test Driven Development technique.  ? Following Agile practices to develop and deliver the requirements.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, REST, SOAP, Restful API, JAX-WS, Apache Axis 2, JDBC, LDAP, Hibernate, POJO, XML, JAXB, JMS, ActiveMQ, JSF, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, and Jquery, Angular JS, Node JS, JIRA, JBOSS, Maven Jenkins, JUnit, Mockito, AGILE. Java Developer Broadridge Financial - Kansas City, MO October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, outline and advancement and testing periods of the application improvement (SDLC) utilizing Agile Scrum procedure.  ? Developed Front-end pages using HTML, CSS3 (using SAAS), jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Used Angular JS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Applications.  ? Worked on Angular expressions and built-in directives to render functionality to the UI.  ? Implemented various AngularJS filters against data sets to filter and formatted data currency, strings rendered in the UI.  ? Worked with AngularJS and jQuery for DOM manipulation and two-way binding. Implemented AngularJS controllers to update entity models.  ? Used custom AngularJS Filters to provide better search experience. Deployed the drools rules as a service in J2EE stack environment.  ? Used AJAX and Custom HTML Helper Classes to implement asynchronous calls to the server to update the changes.  ? Experience in developing RESTful web service usually defines a URI (Uniform Resource Identifier), which is a service that provides resource representation such as JSON and a set of HTTP Methods.  ? Used RESTful Web Services making HTTP protocols as a medium of communication between client and server. A client sends a message in form of a HTTP Request and the server responds in the form of an HTTP Response.  ? Developed a Module that enables the administrator to provide access rights to users based on their credentials. Used AJAX Controls like Script Manager and Update Panel to develop the GUI.  ? Responsible for creating Model/Value Objects in MVC Design Pattern and involved in writing Spring Container and Controller classes.  ? Worked on server-side validation using various web forms through annotation-based approach.  ? Created various Advice (before, after) methods as required using Spring AOP.  ? Hibernate ORM framework used to interact with database through Hibernate query language (HQL).  ? Hibernate second-level cache is set up in two steps to decide which concurrency strategy to use and configuring cache expiration and physical cache attributes using the cache provider.  ? Used Hibernate for connecting to the database and mapping the entities by using hibernate annotations.  ? Wrote SQL Queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers, packages on Oracle database.  ? Configured Log4j for adding the debugging information in the code base.  ? Implemented security functionality for various projects using Site minder (SSO).  ? Deployed our Application on Pivotal Cloud Foundry which is used to reduce the development overhead by providing a ready to use platform.  ? We used Load Balancer in Pivotal Cloud Foundry to improve the performance and reliability of the server.  ? Deployed a single instance of HAProxy for test environments in pivotal cloud Foundry.  ? Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on Rabbit MQ synchronously and asynchronously and send JMS message to Apache Active MQ on the edge device.  ? Used Rabbit MQ for transport of data in Queue in between components of the application.  ? Integrated testing methods implemented by using Karma and Jasmine.  ? Performing unit Testing utilizing JUnit and ridiculing systems like JMock and Mockito and ensured code changes won't break existing Unit Tests    Environment: HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS, DOM, REST, Spring MVC, Hibernate, HQL, SQL, PL/SQL, Site minder (SSO), Pivotal Cloud Foundry, HAProxy, AMQP, Rabbit MQ, JMS, Apache Active MQ, Karma, Jasmine, JMock, Junit, Mockito. Java/J2EE Developer T. Rowe Price - Owings Mills, MD March 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in requirement gathering with clients and prepared the data dictionary.  ? Assisted in moving the components from Development to TEST to Production, troubleshoot and resolved issues.  ? Involved in coding front end using Swing, HTML, JSP, JSF, Struts Framework  ? Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using ORM tool Hibernate  ? Worked on Hibernate persistence tier. This involves developing Mapping files and Hibernate (POJOs/DAOs)  ? Involved in working with J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Factory, DAO, and Business Delegate) and Model View Controller Architecture with JSF and Spring DI.  ? Design and Development of Spring service classes and JSF pages.  ? Wrote SQL, PL/SQL and stored procedures as part of database interaction.  ? Extensively used Hibernate for Object relational Mapping for data persistence.  ? Unit testing, bug fixing in multiple environments (DEV/INT/CERT/PROD) and reproduce bugs for fixing and code review of individual modules in the application.  ? Developed customized Exception classes for all modules to display user friendly messages  ? Responsible for complex queries using JDBC and also implemented JPA using provider as Hibernate at the Persistence layer.  ? Used web services to retrieve information from remote services using SOAP, WSDL and Axis Webservices  ? Worked on Java APIs like Collections, Generics, exception handling, etc.  ? Leveraged Ant, JUnit (Test Driven Development) and log4j open-source projects.  ? Coordinate with the off shore team and client for resolving the queries and finalize the timelines. Responsible for data modeling and database design in Oracle 10g.  ? Involved in resolving Integration Test, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Production Issues.  ? Created Hibernate DAO component for persistence logic [CRUD operations]  ? Implemented JUnit test cases.    Environment: J2EE 6, Hibernate, JSP, JSF, JMS, MQ Series, XML, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Tomcat, Eclipse 3.7, JUNIT, CVS, Oracle 10g, Windows 7. Java/J2EE Developer Accenture - IN August 2011 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in Requirements gathering, Analysis, and Design and Development phases of the project with major emphasis on Development of the modules.  ? Interacted with business users and testing team to develop requirements, use cases, class and sequence diagrams, Functional Specification, Database Design, Program Specification and project and test plans  ? Implemented Agile Scrum Process in the form of daily standup meetings and pair programming.  ? Created Spring MVC Controllers, Spring MVC-REST based JSON services.  ? Used Content management tools like Drupal for Job Track module and WordPress for plug-in architecture.  ? Used Spring security framework for authentication security flow and permission security flows.  ? Worked extensively with Java including Threads, collections, Servlets  ? Worked with JAX-RS, SOAP, JAX-WS to create Web Services and consuming the existing services  ? Developed and maintained the client-side application using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Consumed Rest Based Services from AngularJs with HTTP services.  ? Responsible for data validation on the Client side by using JavaScript.  ? Developed, deployed worked on UNIX OS with extensive UNIX shell scripting.  ? Used custom tag libraries for the structured display of the screen.  ? Used ORM Hibernate for mapping Entities: one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many, cached data using EHCache.  ? Developed Ibatis mappings and configurations and used Ibatis as a persistence layer to connect the application to the database.  ? Used Oracle SQL Developer for development of database, accessing tables, creating stored procedures and back-ups. Used Log4j for logging and tracing API. Developed pom.xml for the build of the application using Maven.  ? Developed web services, SOAP message envelopes and headers using WSDL, UDDI, XML and JAXP.  ? Extensively used Rational Clear case for version control.  ? Developed the application on Websphere using Websphere Integration Developer 6.0.  ? Used Mercury Quality Center as bug tracking tool.    Environment: Websphere 6.1, Spring 2.5.x, Spring MVC, Java 6.0, JQuery 1.4, AJAX, JSTL, XML, XSLT, Ibatis, Hibernate ORM, Java Script, AngularJs, JSP 2.0, JUNIT 4, JAX-WS, Multi-Threading, Websphere Integration Developer 6.1, Oracle 10g, SQL Developer 1.2.1, Rational Clear Case 7.0.1.5, Mercury Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Java api for xml, Jaxb, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jta, Servlets, Struts, Database Additional Information Skills    Programming Languages Java, C/C++  Web  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ES6, TypeScript jQuery, Bootstrap, SASS, XML , LESS, UIKit, Angular, backbone.js, EmberJS, KnockoutJS, Node.js, Hapi.js, Express.js    Technologies  Spring MVC, Spring REST, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JEE, JSP, EJBs, JDBC, Struts, Servlets, Java API for XML Web Services, JSF, SpringBoot, Spring Cloud, Spring Data, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch, Spring JTA, Spring IO and Spring Security, Spring JPA, using JSP, EJB, JNDI, JMS, Struts, JSF    IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, STS  Web service protocols SOAP, REST, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAXB, WSDL and UDDI  Version Controls GIT, GIT LAB, SVN, CVS, Big Bucket  Build Tools Gulp, Grunt, Gradle, Ant, Maven  Database  PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2, Oracle 13c/11g, Microsoft SQL Server, NoSQL DB (Raven DB, Mongo DB and Cassandra, Couch DB, Redis, Dynamo DB)    ORM Frameworks Hibernate, Spring Data, JPA, IBatis, MyBatis, Java Persistence API (JPA), Hibernate's second level cache - Ehcache  Integration Tools Spring Integration, Mule ESB, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka and Apache Camel  Messaging Tools JMS, Rabbit-MQ, IBM-MQ, Active-MQ and Amazon-MQ  Application Servers Apache tomcat, JBOSS, Websphere  Testing Tools JUnit, Mockito, Spock, TestNg, Selenium, Spock, Karma, Jasmine, Mocha, Chai  Logging Tool Log4J  Tools  AWS, Amazon Web Services, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) Spring cloud Netflix (Eureka, Zuul, Hysrtrix, Ribbon), Docker, Kubernetes, Jenkins