Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer - Rally Health • Around 7 years of expertise within the IT business in computer code Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation of business software applications, Window based and Web-based environment, in Client-server architecture and Testing of Object-Oriented applications using Java.  • In depth knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) having thorough understanding of various phases like Requirements, Analysis/Design, Development and Testing.  • Knowledgeable in implementing oops ideas exploitation java/j2ee technologies like Core Java (Collections, Generics and Annotations etc.), Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring, XML, JNDI, Java Beans Hibernate and Web Services.  • Hands-on experience in the Spring Framework, Spring Core (IOC Container, AOP), Spring MVC, Spring Templates, Data Access (Transactions, JDBC and ORM), Spring BOOT technologies and Struts framework.  • Experience working with SOAP and RESTful Web services  • Experienced in different software development methodologies like Water Fall Model and Agile Methodology.  • Experience of Database design in Oracle10g/11g/ DB2/ MySQL/ SQL Server query-based programming and PL/SQL procedure programming and proficient in Database programming using JDBC and SQL.  • Experience in deploying the Web/Application servers like Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic and JBOSS Servers.  • Performed server migration using cloud services like AWS from physical to cloud environment.  • Strong knowledge about Multithreading, Collections and Exception Handling in Java.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse and Net Beans for debugging and using java coding standards.  • Worked with Version Control Systems like GIT, Subversion, and SVN.  • Experienced in developing the UI pages from scratch using HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery, JavaScript, ReactJs, Nodejs, AngularJS, Ext.JS, BackboneJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XSD, XSTL, Tiles, Tag Libraries.  • Developed test cases and determined application functionality using JUnit, Log4j and Mockito.  • Experienced in using build tools such as ANT, Maven and Gradle.  • Capable of Learning new technologies quickly and adapting to a new environment. Excellent Troubleshooting, Technical document writing skills.  • Strong analytical and interpersonal skills along with excellent communication skills.  • Analytical, methodical, and resourceful approach to problem-solving and decision-making; identifying and documenting root causes and counteractive actions to meet short and long-term business and system requirements.  • Implemented the authentication and authorization of the application using Spring Security and Oauth2. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Rally Health - Chicago, IL April 2018 to Present Description: Rally Health, Inc. provides digital health engagement solutions. The application which we worked is ISP (Integrated Specialty Pharmacy) . It's a system which exposes web services with pharmacy, drug and patient details. The ISP projects include various transactions from pharmacy to customers and customers to the pharmacy and they are Request and Receive Enterprise Patient Profile Data, Patient Rx Profile Data and Patient DUR Profile Data (demographic and clinical Information) Display an Enterprise Patient Profile, Patient Rx Profile for all specialty systems (HBS and CATS)    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development and Testing, followed Agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Used Java 8 features like Parallel Streams, Lambdas, functional interfaces and filters for fast performance.  • Worked with Angular 2 to develop single page applications, worked with ngrx/store for managing Angular 2.0 applications and worked with Angular 2 directives, components, pipes, injectables.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Ext JS, Bootstrap and jQuery for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. Implemented the Project structure based on SpringMVC pattern using springboot.  • Developed the Spring Features like Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Integration.  • Used Spring Ribbon API to check whether the servers are up & detect those servers that are down.  • Worked with NoSQL database like MongoDB installation, configuration and in designing MongoDB multi-shared cluster and monitoring with MMS.  • Used Micro service architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers and worked with Kafka Cluster using Zookeeper.  • Developed REST based Web Services using JAX-RS and Axis to interact with backend systems  • Used Postman, Rest Client, Spring Mock MVC, Spring 4Junit for testing the web services.  • Responsible for creating and designing APIs using ApigeeEdge and documented the API's in APIGEEDeveloper portal and used as content management system (CMS)  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, cache concepts.  • Reverse Engineered using Hibernate plug-in for RAD to generate Hibernate configuration, POJO classes and DAO classes and wrote finder methods using Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for dynamic searches.  • Used Hibernate interceptors to intercept the existing business functionality to provide extensible or add-on features. Acquired application customization using Hibernate interceptors to required tasks at different stages.  • Interfaced with the Oracle 11g back-end database using Hibernate Framework and XML config files.  • Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Experienced to build and configure a virtual data center in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, S3, Cloud Watch and Elastic Bean Stalk for code deployment. Designed, built, and deployed a multitude application utilizing almost all the Amazon Web Services stack.  • Used Drools as a rule engine for categorizing every business rule based on the business needs.  • Used continuous integration tool Jenkins for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Ran Log aggregations, website Activity tracking and commit log for distributed system using Apache Kafka.  • Extensively used the LOG4j to log regular Debug and Exception statements.  • Resolved bugs/defects in application by using GIT as version management.  • Used Gradle as a Build tool and retrieved all dependencies for the application.  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase.  • Performed UI and front-end testing using Selenium. Developed test case and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Worked with Docker engine and Machine environments, to deploy the micro services for scalable applications and worked on creation of custom docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  • Used Eclipse IDE for developing the applications and IBM Web sphere server for deploying various components of application.  • Implemented in J2EE design patterns like MVC, Singleton and Factory.  • Implemented Spring Hystrix to enable real-time monitoring, alerting, and operational control.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat application server in development and production environment.  Environment: Java1.7/1.8, J2EE, Spring 4.x, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Integration, Spring Security, Hibernate, XML, Java Script, Angular2, HTML5, CSS3, Gradle, JIRA, Selenium, JAX-RS, JUnit, GIT, Oracle 11g, Tomcat Application server, AWS, Docker, Kubernetes, Drools, Eclipse. Senior Java Developer Delta Faucet Company - Indianapolis, IN August 2017 to March 2018 Description: Delta is one of the world's largest manufacturers of brand name products for home improvement and new home construction. The project was to develop inventory management system to provide information for the internal shipping and maintenance teams about the faucet products they manufacture and deliver around across the country.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI using Swings, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, XML and jQuery.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) of the application like Design, Analysis and code development.  • Involved in developing the business logic, database structure of the project and database schemas.  • Used Scripting Languages like jQuery and Javascript to implement several client-side functionalities like validations, service calls, sorting, filtering etc.  • Developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes which are used across different modules of the application.  • Spring framework is used to implement Inversion of Control (IOC) and Model View Controller (MVC)  • Used AJAX (jQuery) to display data using asynchronous calls.  • Deployed EJB Components (both Session and Entity Beans) in IBM Web Sphere Application Server, which encapsulate business logic and build up the model for the system.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in UI using was a part of moving the existing Angular 1.5.x component based legacy application to Angular 4 typescript.  • Developed a RESTFUL service interface using Spring MVC for applications to communicate.  • Using Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into the Oracle 10g database.  • Using hibernate.config.xml file to configurations and mapping entries to access database.  • Written Unit and Integration test cases for services and ensure good code coverage.  • Involved in design & development of SQL queries, Functions and Stored procedures for performing database operations.  • Deployed application updates to AWS EC2 and monitored the load balancing of different instances and used AWS IAM for access management.  • Used elastic search for features of java API and replication.  • Involved AWS for deploying of the application.  • Involved in performance tuning of the application and eliminating memory leakages in the product.  • Participated in the implementation of efforts for unit testing and code reviews.  • Worked on Rest API calls and integrated with UI.  • Used Bootstrap for Responsive Web design.  • Used GIT as version control tool.  • Implemented some Analytics services using Angular 4, where Adobe Analytics tool can track custom events, generic click events, tracking routes, form tracking, and track click events.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Maven, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap,  AngularJS, JSF, JSP, Web Services WSDL, AWS, Junit, GIT, MVC, Eclipse. Java/J2EE Developer Texas Health and Human Services - Austin, TX July 2015 to July 2017 Description: This application primarily used to monitor state contract. It allows to renewal current contract, modify contract and stores changes in contract. This application is used by Texas state employee and Texas vendor. It acts primary communication between state and vendor people. My role is to Design the patterns, transferring data through different layers, exposing the web services.    Responsibilities:  • Designed EJB2.1 like Stateless Session Bean for the Session Facade design pattern.  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Requirements gathering, Design, Code, Integrating, and Deployment and production phases.  • Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans to transfer calls from presentation tier to data services tier.  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Objects DTO and Data Access Objects DAO patterns.  • Used Web Services to communicate with different application.  • JAXB parser for marshaling and unmarshaling.  • Working with WSDL and SOAP messages.  • Used Hibernate3.1 to store the persistence data into the Oracle9i database.  • Used Web Sphere MQ for enterprise level messaging system.  • JMS was used to send/receive asynchronous data from various message brokers.  • Worked on Proof-of-Concept by developing the Responsive UI to render the content from the FileNet.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build the application.  • Involved in using Log4J to create log files to debug.  • Used Rational Clear case for version control.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for Unit Level Testing.  • Worked in IBM RAD 6.0 to develop complete application.  • Implemented Jakarta Struts Framework2.0 along with JSP2.0, Struts Tiles, and Struts Tag libraries to facilitate user interface design.  • Deployed the application on Web Sphere Application Server6.0 (WAS)  Environment: WAS 6.0, RAD 6.0, Struts 1.2, EJB 2.1, Servlet 2.3, Struts, HTML4, JSP 2.0, JNDI, Web Services, JMS, SOAP, IBM MQSeries (Web Sphere MQ), JavaScript, WSDL, UNIX, Oracle 9i, IBM FileNet, Unit, Rational Clear Case, Log4J and ANT1.7. J2EE Developer Ybrant Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2013 to May 2015 Description: Info Tech an ISO Certified Organization has been set up by the Regime of Goa to promote overall magnification of the state's economy through the utilization of Information Technology. Regime decided to entrust the work of development of infrastructure for IT Industry to this Corporation.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding of business requirements, design and development of the project.  • Worked closely with developers to define and configure Application Servers, Web Resources, JDBC as well as deployment of EJBs across multiple instances of WebSphere.  • Involved in the deployment of components to run Java Beans, Servlets and JSPs to be deployed on the WebSphere Application Server.  • Used different features of Struts like Validation framework and extensively used Struts Tag Library.  • Involved in creating and reviewing technical design documents.  • Used XSLT to convert XML document into HTML Page.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML and client-side validations using JavaScript/AJAX.  • Applied J2EE design patterns like Business Delegate and Singleton.  • Involved in coding and code reviews.  • Implemented Struts framework with MVC Architecture.  • Deployed the application using WebSphere application server.  Environment: J2EE, JDBC 3.0, SQL procedures, Hibernate, Spring, Struts Framework, SOAP, DAO, JSP, JTA, Servlet, Web Service, IBM WebSphere, Oracle 9i, JavaScript, HTML, Ajax Eclipse. Java Developer Smart Card - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to October 2013 Description: LM Benefits Client GUI an Intranet web application designed and developed to create a workspace for Highmark Business users to create Insurance Claim codes and associate various health diagnosis categories to each code. These claim codes are in turn used by Highmark Insurance Customers to claim their Benefits while claiming their insurance. Each Diagnosis code (or Product Service Component) is composed of several health related diagnosis attributes that are fetched from database (pre-loaded) . The main functionalities involves creating new PSCOs, Searching PSCOs, PSCo Copy, Combining two or more PSCOs based on class/Type modifiers and displaying attributes for PSCo creation from Database, based on Business Rules.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed front view components using HTML and JSP.  • Involved in prototyping, proof of concept, design, Interface Implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  • Developed UI navigation using Struts MVC architecture (JSP, JSF, tiles, JSTL, Custom Tags)  • Created services for various modules like Account (CD/Checking/Savings) Creation and Maintenance using Struts framework.  • Developed reusable utility classes in core java for validation which are used across all modules.  • Developed Java classes for implementing Business logics using EJB 3.0 (Stateless session, entity, message driven beans)  • Used JNDI to support transparent access to distribute/d components, directories and services.  • Provided data persistence via Hibernate for CRUD operations in the application.  • Configured and tested the application with database server Oracle 10g.  • Used Oracle, server databases as backend applications and generated queries using Toad.  • Deployed and tested the application with servers Tomcat.  • CVS was used for the version control.  • Responsible for writing JUnit test cases and Peer level testing.  • Involved in bug fixing using Jira.  • Involved in developing various reusable Helper and Utility classes using Core Java, which are being used across all the modules of the application.  Environment: Java 1.4 HTML 4, JavaScript, JSP 2.2, JSTL 1.2, Struts 2.0, EJB 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, JNDI, XML, AJAX, SOAP, WSDL, UML, Shell Scripting, JUnit, log4j, JMS, Apache Tomcat 6.0, JBoss 5.0, Oracle 10g Database, Toad, CVS, Eclipse, Windows NT, Unix/Linux. Education Master's in Computer Science Governors State University - University Park, IL Skills JAVA (7 years), ORACLE (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), JSP (5 years), JUNIT (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Java Technologies  JDBC 3.0/2.0, Servlets 2.5/2.4, Spring Core, Spring Security, Spring JDBC, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, SOAP and RESTful Web Services, JPA, EJB 3.0, Hibernate-6.    Programming Languages Java 1.7/1.8, C++, C, PL/SQL.  Application/Web Servers: WebLogic, WebSphere3, JBoss, Apache Tomcat.  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 2.0/3.0/4.0/10, Hibernate 3. x.  IDEs Eclipse, Intellij, NetBeans, IBM RAD.  Web technologies AngularJS, Angular4, BackboneJS, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap XML, HTML5, CSS3.  Web Services REST, SOAP  Databases Oracle 10g/11g, DB2, MongoDB, SQL server and MySQL.  Version Control CVS, SVN, GIT.  Unit Testing Tools: JUnit, UAT, Regression Test and Customer Test, Cactus  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Gradle  Design Patterns: Business Delegate, Front Controller, Singleton, Observer, DTO, DAO, MVC, Factory, Abstract Factory  Design Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Test Driven, Waterfall  Platforms Windows, Linux, MacOS.