Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - JP Morgan Chase Wilmington, DE • Software Professional with 8+ years of experience in Object Oriented programming, design, developing and testing of Client/Server, Enterprise and Web Applications.  • Proficient in the development of Client/server and web applications using JAVA, J2EE, J2SE, technologies and Web technologies for enterprise applications.  • Expert in developing enterprise web-based application based on Java technologies using J2EE, J2SE, EJB, Java Servlets, Struts, Java Beans, JMS, JNDI, ANT and Apache Maven.  • Expertise in developing web based GUIs using Java Applets, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, XML, DOJO, AJAX, JSF, & spring form tags.  • Seasoned professional in various frameworks: Struts, Hibernate, Spring 2.0, JSF.  • Extensive work experience in JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JDBC.  • Strong understanding and excellent skill in developing, designing, professional, Ajax driven elegant enterprise web application using Ajax, Flex, Action Script and JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Custom Tag Libraries, JSF, JQuery, Dojo, ExtJs and various java design patterns  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment  • Extensive Knowledge on databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Developed ANT scripts, and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications  • Proficient in working with JavaScript Frameworks like AngularJS, Backbone.js.  • Working Knowledge on XML, XSLT, XPATH, XQUERY, and XSL-FO.  • Hands on experience in configuration and deployment of multi-tier applications using servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat.  • Extensive experience to SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and experience in developing web services using Axis, WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, WSSecurity, XML-RPC and JAXB/JAXP.  • Extensive experience working in Spring 2.5/3.0 framework, Struts framework, O/R Mapping Hibernate 3.x framework and web services (SOAP and RESTful).  • Experience with ORM mapping tools like Hibernate and IBatis, which implements Java Persistence API (JPA).  • Strong experience in writing SQLs, stored procedures, joins and Triggers.  • Good working knowledge of database tools like TOAD, PL/SQL, Db Visualizer and SQL Navigator.  • Very good experience in OOAD, UML, Rational Rose Methodologies.  • Working experience in relational databases like ORACLE and SQL Server, DB2.  • Very good knowledge in writing Shell, ANT scripts for building the projects.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Data bases and hands on work experience in writing application on No SQL databases like Cassandra and Mongo DB.  • Good working knowledge of Ant for project build/test/deployment, Log4j for logging and Junit for unit and integration testing.  • Strong knowledge of IDE's Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD 7.0.0), WebSphere studio application developer.  • Extensive experience in software development methodologies Agile.  • Good Work experience on RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL. Creating SQL statements & subqueries.  • Development web components using JSP, Servlets and server side components using EJB 3.0 under J2EE Environment.  • Design and development of web-based applications using different web and application servers such as Apache Tomcat, WebSphere 8.0, JBoss, 7 and WebLogic.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Implemented Unit Testing using Junit and Integration Testing during the projects.  • Exposure to tools such as ANT and hands on experience on SQlyog and SQL developer.  • Expertise in using grid technology like Hazelcast, MyBatis.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer JP Morgan Chase - Wilmington, DE May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in business requirements gathering and technical and functional walk-through meetings.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS and JSON and bootstrap for developing responsive single page applications.  • Developed single page responsive design application using Angular JS  • Used and implemented Angular JS Directives, Filters, Controllers, Services and Expressions for developing client-side widgets, validations and client-side business logic using java script  • Developed reusable custom Directives, Services for Angular JS.  • Built the application with React JS with client custom architecture built over MVC4 UI development with technologies like HTML 5, AngularJS 2 and jQuery.  • Experience with Service oriented architecture (SOA), developing SOAP web services based on JAX-WS (Document Style) using HTTP Protocol on Bottom Up style development for creating Endpoints.  • Worked with JPA for the use of relational databases structuring of the application.  • Implemented Unit test cases on filters, Directives, Services and other Angular components  • Used Bootstrap for responsive themes and other Bootstrap CSS components  • Involved in migrating data from Oracle 11g to Cassandra.  • Followed RIA best practices while design and developing the Angular components and services  • Developed and configured page routing and called Rest service using $http service components  • Followed best practices and principles while designing single page Angular JS application  • Configured and used different Angular modules in the application to achieve rich, responsive application  • Have extensive debugging and bug and issues fixing experience in Angular JS application  • Implemented jQuery and AJAX calls to retrieve JSON data from the data base on the fly via Rest API  • Extensively used and implemented Interfaces, OOP concepts, Collections, Exceptional Handling, JVM, Garbage collections, Multi-threading, Compositions and aggregations  • Experience in developing cross platform Client-side applications using Node.js, BackBone.js and Angular.js.to achieve scalability in real-time web applications.  • Designed and developed Micro Services architectures and components in the applications  • Implemented the application modules using Spring Boot, Spring Core, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch in order to develop the application  • Implemented Spring Services and business operations using Dependency Injection  • Used Spring JDBC to perform data base activities and transactions management  • Involved in the configuration of Spring Framework modules  • Used different design patterns for building scalable, robust application modules  • Worked on designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language.  • Used JMS/MQ for developing messaging services to interact with different application modules  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS API  • Implemented Restful web services to perform simple business operations  • Deployed the application on to WebLogic application server.  • Used Oracle and MongoDB/No SQL Server as backend data base systems  • Designed and created data base tables, constraints as per the application requirements  • Implemented SQL injection security checks, html sanitization and other security mechanisms  • Followed Agile development methodology while developing the application  • Developed Cucumber test cases using Feature, Scenario and Steps format  • Extensively worked on Responsive Web Design page development using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Angular 4, JavaScript, AngularJS, and JSON.  • Extensively Used Jenkins as Continuous Integration tool to deploy Spring Boot Microservices to Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) using build pack.  • Used and worked on JMeter for performance testing and load testing  • Used Sonar for validating coding stands violations, monitoring code and projects and checksum  • Worked in AWS Cloud environment and worked on EC2, S3, Cloud Watch, Elastic Beanstalk  • Designed and implemented IAM, RDS, EC2, S3, LBS, Auto scaling, Load balancers in AWS  • Implemented auto deployment scripts, instance creation and destroy scripts and CICD pipeline in AWS  • Used Jenkin jobs for building and deploying(CI/CD) the application into app server  • Involved in DevOps to configure Maven, GitHub, Docker and AWS to build and deploy pipeline in Jenkins.    Environment: Java 8, J2ee, JSP, Servlets, HTML5, AJAX, JQuery, Angular JS, Grunt, NPM, Node.js, JSON, Bootstrap, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, REST, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, XSD, JAXB, JavaScript, Python¸ Web Sphere 8.x, WAS, Maven, GIT, DevOps, SQL Developer, Oracle, COBOL, CICS, UML, JUnit, Protractor, Cucumber, Mockito, JMeter, JIRA, Jenkins, Log4j, Sonar, Crucible, Cloud, AWS (Amazon Web Services), EC2, S3, IAM, Docker, Cloud Watch JAVA Full Stack Developer Citizens Bank, RI October 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in programming, testing, debugging, implementing and maintaining of Java EE client/server distributed application to meet the organization's needs.  • Developed Groovy scripts to test Report application output.  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, Angular MVC Framework, JSTL, and AJAX.  • Performed AngularJS form validation and validation messages displaying with ng-show and created a custom validation directive for comparing two input fields.  • Worked with SQL databases like Oracle, My SQL, IBM DB2 andHands on Experience in working with NoSQL Database like MongoDB, Cassandra to manage extremely large data sets.  • Used AngularJS to route different endpoints and created custom directives to display data in UI.  • Responsible for the redesign and implementation of the AJAX / synchronous implementation of the client Web portals for SOA Web applications.  • Proven capability configuring and provisioning cloud infrastructure in Amazon Web Services(AWS) and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Worked on capturing the user events and rendering the appropriate action and dynamically rendering the UI based on user actions using ReactJS.  • Used Hibernate Template and Core Hibernate3.0 in the data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Implemented Agile development methodology using XP, Scrum and Kanban/Continuous Flow. Deployed the application to amazon web services (AWS).  • Deployed Docker contained Spring Boot Microservices in to AWS EC2 container service using AWS admin console and used lambda to run applications in AWS console.  • Developed RESTful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Microservices architecture.  • Implemented BackboneJS and ReactJS to create a dynamically changing website.  • Configured and Integrated JSF, spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Expertise in programming, deploying, configuring, and fine-tuning middle-tier popular J2EE Application Servers like open source Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, Web Logic, Glassfish and Wildly.  • Developed user specific Highlights (dashboard menu) section, Homepage, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create user's screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP, and XSLT.  • Created the Spring Bean Factory for initializing services. Added security for service layer methods using Spring Security.  • Involved in developing interactive web applications using a dynamic scripting language like PHP, Ruby, and Python& Perl.  • Responsible for designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Bootstrap to build this SPA (Single Page Application).  • Used Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers and leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy micro services.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection / Inversion of Control (IOC), and Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) on Spring Source Tool Suite.  • Used RabbitMQ for asynchronous message processing functionality to support batch processing modules.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Developed core search component using Apache Solr to handle fallback and custom functions.  • Developed end to end application on spring boot framework (Rest API Application/Spring JPA using Crud repository)  • Responsible in implementing CRUD operation using Spring Jersey based JAX-RS implementation.  • Created complex PL/SQL, Postgres, MySQL and used JDBC connectivity to access the database.  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Testing internal routes and Get, Put, Post, Delete methods using Postman.  • Expertise in unit-testing with tools like JUnit, Mockito, Spock, TestNg and Integration testing tools like Selenium Web driver, Cucumber (Behavior Driven Development testing).  • Wrote complex SQL and PL/SQL queries using hibernates native SQL.  • Developed Maven scripts for compiling and deployment and Used Web Sphere 5.1.2 to develop the Entity Beans where transaction persistence is required and ran UNIX shell scripts and implemented auto deployment process.  • Developed RESTful web services to manipulate data in MySQL.  • Involved on migrating SQL Server databases to SQL Azure Database using SQL Azure Migration Wizard and deployed the application to Azure cloud.  • Used TDD to run the tests and refactor code to pass the test. Unit tested the complete application using JUnit.  • Experience in Gradle Build tool and understanding the Artifactory and repo structure.  • Performed unit testing using Karma & Jasmine at Server side and Mocha in client side following test driven development (TDD).  • Worked and Performed Tuning and Query Optimization in AWS Redshift and micro services.  • Developed GUI using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, bootstrap, AngularJS and JSP's for user interaction.  • Reading the log files using Elasticsearch, Log stash and alerting users on the issue and saving the alert details.  • Used Splunk tool to search the application logs and used Log4j for logging.  • Participated in Retrospective meetings after every sprint to discuss the overall ranking of the previous sprint and to discuss the drawbacks and scope for development.  • GIT was used for project management and version management.    Environment: Java 8, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, jQuery, AngularJS MVC Framework, Node.js, JSTL, AJAX, SOA, BackboneJS, ReactJS, Splunk, Struts, Restful, Apache, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JUnit, Apache Solr, JSON, Postman, SOAP UI, Spring Tool Suite, Microsoft Azure, Web Sphere 5.1.2, Maven, TDD, Gradle, Unix Shell scripting, GIT. JAVA Full Stack Developer J.B.Hunt - Lowell, AR November 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participating in user requirement sessions to gather business requirements.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules  • Designed and developed Class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Unified Modeling Language (UML)  • Used Eclipse 3.2 IDE for coding, debugging and testing the application modules  • Developed presentation layer for the application modules using Adobe Flex and Action Script controls  • Developed Styles, Skinning, Charts using Flex controls  • Worked on JavaScript frame work (Angular JS, Bootstrap) to augment browser-based applications with MVC capability.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Data bases and hands on work experience in writing application on No SQL databases like Cassandra and Mongo DB.  • Implemented SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) with web services using SOAP(JAX-WS), REST(JAX-RS), WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Implemented ETL operations for transformation of historical data into Hadoop environment using Apache Spark and Oozie Workflows.  • Written Jenkins pipeline template script in Groovy programming language for the automation of build and deployment process.  • Implemented data push using BlazeDS, Remote Object, Web Service components  • Built centralized logging to enable better debugging using Elastic Search Log stash and Kibana.  • Used Java Script libraries for developing the Java Script Programs  • Extensive usage of tools like SVN for Version control, Jenkins for Continuous integration, JIRA for Agile Methodologies, AutoSys for scheduling jobs. Designed the Cascaded Style Sheets for designing the styles, skinning and layouts  • Experience in writing test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on WebLogic Server.  • Extensive experience using spring framework and ORM mapping tools like Hibernate, which implements Java Persistence API (JPA).  • Legacy data from Sybase database was made available to the uses to view through newly developed framework using GWT and XML implementation.  • Responsible for Configuring Apache Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance and monitoring.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and develop Spring based application with very LESS configuration.  • Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Involved in designing the page layouts using Wire Frames templates  • Implemented AJAX base applications using DOJO and GWT API for Performance oriented and browser  • Implemented Event Manager, e-Distribution Admin modules using Struts-Spring-Hibernate  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table persistency  • Written Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files  • Implemented Batch Updates using Spring and configured beans in Application Context file  • Used the features of Spring Core layer (IOC), Spring AOP, Spring ORM layer and Spring DAO support layer in order to develop the application  • Used JQuery to make the HTML5, CSS3 interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to web page.  • Involved in the configuration of Struts Framework, Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool  • Developed the Servlets for invoking the remote notifications  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) and Hibernate for performing the Database Transactions.  • Worked on Java Messaging Services (JMS) for developing messaging services  • Implemented different types of messaging prototypes using JMS  • Implemented service oriented architecture (SOA) using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI  • Used SOAP UI for testing the SOAP input and output messages  • Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database  • Used Oracle 10g as the backend database storage  • Designed/Developed Singleton, Factory design pattern in the project for project  • Used JBoss, Apache, JDK1.7, JIRA, Bamboo, Stash and Gitto setup linux servers.  • Designed/Developed the project by using JMS (Active MQ) as asynchronous messaging services.  • Designed/Developed and developed base framework classes, common re-usable components.  • Used GIT as version control tools to maintain the code repository.  • Deployed the code in Tomcat 8 application server.    Environment: Java/J2ee, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Tiles, Spring, Hibernate, Adobe Flex, Action Script, Kafka Adobe Flex Builder, Cairngorm architecture, SOAP, WSDL, WS-Security, Apache Axis, SQL, MsSQL PL/SQL, CSS, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, JBoss, IBM Web sphere MQ 5.3, Eclipse, HTML, DHTML, XML, AJAX, Maven, CVS, TOAD, Oracle 10g, UNIX, UML, Shell Scripts, Agile (Scrum), Rational Rose, JUnit, Log4j, Remedy. Java Developer BCBS - Newark, NJ January 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and development applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML and OOAD.  • Created Use cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose. Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern.  • Developed user management screens using JSF framework, business components using Spring framework and DAO classes using Hibernate framework for persistence management and involved in integrating the frameworks for the project.  • Application and developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.  • Developed DAOs using JPA, Hibernatepersistence API for the database operations to interact with Oracle Database.  • Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using JSF, JSP's, Prime Faces, Ajax4JSF framework (Ajax), JavaScript and Backing Beans.  • Testing and production support of core java based multi-threading ETL tool for distributed loading XML data into Oracle database using JPA/Hibernate.  • Used Multi-threading concept to post data from files to tables involving transformation of file from one format to another.  • Moved from existing Angular 2 to Angular 4 components for more responsive and LESS dependency.  • Used Grunt for build tool for configuring tasks, Karma Jasmine for Unit Testing and deployed the application on to JBoss application server.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO, DTO, and MVC.  • Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework.  • Hibernate used as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Wrote Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Developed the presentation n-Tier using JSP, Java Script and HTML.  • Worked on advanced Hibernate associations with multiple levels of Caching, lazy loading.  • Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validations.  • Implemented Ajax using Ajax4JSF Framework and nested taglibs API along with other standard taglibs in the application, as a better approach for screen development and reusability of visual components in the JSP pages.  • Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized xml documents using Spring framework.  • Consumed restful web services using apache HttpClient for the data coming from external systems.  • Involved in designing data schema and development of SOAP web services with Axis implementation and REST web services with JAX-RS.  • Developed Dashboards and UI pages with JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, and used Bootstrap to create Responsive Web pages.  • Consumed SOAP/ JAX-WS based web services using Spring framework and used SOAP UI for testing these services.  • Created Logging aspects for auditing and logging purposes using Spring AOP and implemented security for the application using Spring Security.  • Consumed SOAP and REST web services to get the persisted data from different databases.  • REST (JAX-RS) web services have been developed to be consumed by middleware module to push the communication center messages into web module.  • Was responsible for deployments using IBM WebSphere application server.  • Configured and Integrated JSF, Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Responsible for writing Java code to convert HTML files to PDF file using Apache FOP.  • Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from IBM MQ Series using JMS.  • Involved in UI testing using Cucumber and Selenium.  • Rational Clear Quest used for defects, change tracking across the application.  • Designed and developed direct live interfaces to handle multiple systems within the bank to subscribe the data in real-time.  • Involved in the performance tuning of PL/SQL statements.  • Developed database triggers and procedures to update the real-time cash balances.  • Worked closely with the testing team in creating new test cases and also created the use cases for the module before the testing phase.  • Involved in writing JUNIT test cases and day to day builds and deployments using GRADLE.  • Implemented web services API using HTTP.  • Coordinated work with DB team, QA team, Business Analysts and Client Reps to complete the client requirements efficiently.    Environment: Java, Hibernate, spring (AOP, Dependency Injection), XML, Tortoise SVN, JSP, Spring MVC, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, Web Sphere, UML, SOA, SOAP, Log4J, Oracle, JavaScript, Jasmine,AJAX, JIRA and RAD. JAVA/ J2EE Developer IP Infusion - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Hands on experience in Web Application Development using Client Script design technologies like jQuery as well as HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript.  • Involved in coding front-end components using J2EE, MVC, JSP, JSF, jQuery, and AJAX.  • Worked on core javaand java Collections concepts to implement the business logic.  • Designed, developed, and configured server side J2EE components like EJB, Java Beans, and Servlets.  • Wrote EJBPOJOs for fetching patient SDE information.  • Responsive web design (RWD) is developed using frameworks like Angular2.0, typescript and MVC frameworks and Bootstrap.  • Designed and Developed java batches using spring batch framework.  • Extensive experience in Struts Tag Libraries and Custom-tag implementations in JSP to embedded business logic.  • Optimized the design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Singleton, Service Locator and Business Delegate. All code was written using the RAD.  • Mapped POJO (plain old java objects) to the tables already created in the database using the *. Hbm.xml files.  • Designed and Developed Web Services using WSDL, SOAP to communicate to the other modules and used SOAP UI for testing the web services.  • Wrote stored procedures, complex queries using PL/SQL to extract data from the database, delete data and reload data on Oracle 10g database using the Toad tool.  • Involved in JUnit Testing on various modules by generating the Test Cases Involved in building and deploying projects using Hudson and do end to end testing.  • Used CVS as a version control for applications.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, Core Java, J2EE 6.0, MVC, EJB, JSP, JSF, SOAP, WSDL, Struts, DOM, PL/SQL, JDBC, XML, Oracle 10g, ANT, Web Services, Hudson, Eclipse, SOAP UI 4.0, Grunt, JBoss 6.0, RAD, CVS. Skills J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Amazon web services, Api, C++, Docker, Html, Javascript, Jenkins Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JMS, Java Security  Mark-up Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, XML, Angular 2, XSD, JSON  Tools & Framework  Struts, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud- Netflix OSS- stack (Eureka, Hystrix-circuit Breaker), Spring Data(JPA), Hibernate, ANT, Maven, Apache ActiveMQ, Apache Camel, drools.    Web services SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, Restful, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2  Architecture SOA, Microservices.  Web/App Servers IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Logic Server.  Database Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, DB2, MongoDB/NoSQL.  Cloud Technologies AWS (Amazon web services) -EC2, S3, VPC, Elastic Beanstalk EBS, Elastic Load Balancing ELB, API-Gateway,  DevOps Tools Jenkins, Docker.  Testing Tools JUnit, Soap UI, Putty, Postman, JMeter.  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS, Rational Clear case, GitHub.  OS & Environment Windows, Sun Solaris, UNIX, Linux.