Application Developer I Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> I Application Developer I - Cardinal Innovations Healthcare Charlotte, NC ? Three years of experience working in corporate environment as a Full Stack Developer.  ? Sound knowledge of Object Oriented Programming using C#, ASP.NET, Java and J2EE technologies.  ? Hands on experience working with C#, ASP.NET, LINQ, WCF Services, KendoUI, Java, Servlets, EJB, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JDBC, SQL Server, MySQL.  ? Hands on experience developing MVC and MVVM architecture applications. Work Experience Application Developer I Cardinal Innovations Healthcare June 2017 to Present Using C#, ASP.NET MVC, WCF, LINQ, VB.NET, JavaScript, Bootstrap, KendoUI, AJAX to develop, debug and check in code in TFS environment.  ? Working in a team to develop features, adding new functionality, pulling up data to the grid using KendoUI and porting Legacy application from VB.NET to Enterprise MVC and MVVM architecture by utilizing various design patterns and best practices.  ? Collaborate with the team in Agile Scrum methodology by following Sprint planning, Estimating Story Point, attending Sprint Retrospectives, grooming sessions for Product Backlog, and presenting the accomplished work to business users in a sprint during Sprint Review sessions.  ? Involved in design and development of applications with implementation of OOPs concepts in MVVM architecture.  ? Integrate services into the main application to achieve ease of maintaining the code and scalability.  ? Research and understanding the functionality, business logic and identifying and troubleshooting the code defects and fix them.  ? Responsible for creating user interfaces by adding Views, Controllers to pass and route data to appropriate view model, create Proxies to call WCF services and to toggle the code wherever necessary.  ? Responsible for creation of new WCF services and integrate the service into existing application.  ? Worked on Data Access Layer with data adapter to interact with SQL Server database.  ? Write LINQ queries to access data from database.  ? Use Dependency Injection pattern in the application to make the code less coupled and reusable.  ? Develop test cases and perform unit testing wherever necessary.  ? Resolve complex issues in the web application including bugs in a timely manner.  ? Query SQL Server database and perform operations on tables, stored procedures, views, functions.  ? Coordinate with Quality Analysts to make sure that all test cases are passed and deliver reliable code.  ? Collaborate with Product Owners and Business Analysts to ensure that the applications developed meet technical and user requirements.  ? Deliver reliable and user friendly product in Continuous Delivery approach. Software Developer TCI Software, Inc September 2016 to June 2017 Closely associated with Chief Technology Officer to develop, review and debug software.  ? Developed second version of healthcare software by creating dynamic Charting capabilities for the clients using C# as a programming language, ASP.NET MVC framework, LINQ, JavaScript and Bootstrap as front end.  ? Worked with XML data and transformed it into JSON.  ? Responsible for writing queries in SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Used Git as a source control to clone, pull, push changes on to the production. Java Developer Intern Antra Inc June 2016 to August 2016 Trained in Core Java and Advanced Java technologies including Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  ? Worked extensively on developing a web application using Java and J2EE technologies.  ? Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  ? Used Spring framework that handles application logic and makes calls to business objects and services.  ? Used MAVEN as build tool.  ? Implemented MVC, Singleton, and DAO J2EE design patterns.  ? Performed database operations in SQL Server Management Studio. Intern Programmer Dizer Corp February 2016 to June 2016 Trained in Big Data technologies including Map Reduce, Hive, Sqoop, Oozie, Pig.  ? Developed a Hadoop project to automatically update records and generate reports.  ? Wrote a Mapreduce program in Java for reading a file and transform state value column by state code.  ? Performed joins and created external tables in Hive, which were used in mapreduce program.  ? Scheduled an automatic update of records using Oozie.  ? Analyzed and visualized data using ETL tool.  ? Used Hive to create UDF's, performed partitioning and bucketing on the tables.  ? Implemented Pig to perform data analysis and processing on Hadoop. Education Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC December 2015 Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 Skills HTML, Javascript, SQL, SQL Server, jQuery, C#, JQuery, Ajax Additional Information Technical Skills:  Front End languages HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX  IDE's Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio 2015, Visual Studio 2017  Frameworks/Services ASP.NET MVC, MVVM, KendoUI, WCF, LINQ  Programming languages C#, Java, VB.NET, Linux shell scripts  Databases SQL Server 2016, Oracle 11g/10g/9i, MySQL  Web Servers Apache Tomcat, Glassfish, IIS  Source Control Git, Team Foundation Server