Sr. Java/J2ee Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2ee <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2ee Developer - Comcast San Antonio, TX • Have 7+ years' experience in developing web based, internet/intranet, client/server, distributed architecture and component oriented architecture applications using Java/J2EE technologies and varied exposure to different types of project phases like Development, Maintenance and Production Support.  • Application development experience using multithreading, Serialization, Externalization, Collection, Generics.  • Working with relative ease with different Software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile (SCRUM) and Rational Unified Process (RUP).  • Proficiency in developing MVC2 based applications by using various integration of open source frameworks like spring, Struts and Object Relational Mapping Technologies like Hibernate  • Expertise in developing MVC patterns based web applications using Struts by creating forms using Struts tiles and validates using Struts validation framework.  • Proficiency in using Hibernate features such as HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Criteria queries for effectively use of the relational Databases and prefer Second level cache (EH-Cache) to optimize performance.  • Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, Spring (Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, JSF, AJAX frameworks (Rich Faces, My Faces) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate, IBATIS  • Proficient in OOA Technologies like developing Use Cases, Activity diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class diagrams using tools like UML, Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose  • Experience in SOAP, REST and expertise in creating Restful Web Services with Spring MVC Framework.  • Experience in Messaging technologies like JMS, IBM MQ and Rabbit MQ  • Extensive experience in J2EE platform including, developing both front end & back end applications using Java, Servlets, JSF, JSP, EJB, AJAX, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, JAXB, JMS, JDBC, Web Services.  • Developed UI pages withHTML5, CSS3 and created the Responsive Web pages using CSS Media Queries, and Bootstrap.  • Developed and deployed Micro Services based applications using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud  • Experience with Angular JS in developing web applications, developed single page applications using this JavaScript MVC framework Angular JS.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows 7/XP/2000/98/95, UNIX and Linux.  • Experience with Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, and Microsoft Access in writing PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and triggers.  • Experience in preparing TDD/BDD and Unit testing  • Very good understanding on NOSQL databases like MongoDB and Cassandra  • Proficiency in Enterprise Java modern programming languages such as RUBY and C#.  • Experience in storing data using Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool for communicating with database.  • Hands on experience in design, implementation and maintenance of system architectures using application servers like WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat and JBOSS.  • Hands on experience in Continuous Integration using tools like Jenkins, Bamboo.  • Experienced with XML related technologies such as XSL, XSLT, DOM, and SAX.  • Hands on experience in automated JUnit testing tool as well as Mockito framework.  • Hands on experience in automated TestNG testing tools in Powermock framework.  • Extensively used SVN and IBM Rational ClearCase for version control, using JUnit testing framework and comprehensive knowledge of Log4j for logging and MAVEN&ANT for project build.  • Expertise level knowledge in entire software development lifecycle (SDLC) process from business analysis to development, testing, deployment, documenting, maintaining and user training.  • Good understanding of PAAS platforms like Openshift and Pivotal Cloud foundry (PCF)  • A strong leader and team player, adept at supporting team members to achieve personal and professional goals. Outstanding oral and written communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2ee Developer Comcast - Englewood, CO January 2017 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Development of features in various applications used by Comcast  • Developed Front end Comcast Activation interface using Velocity, Ajax, jQuery  • Designed the data layer using a combination of SOAP, AXIS 2, RESTful web services and occasionally Hibernate ORM.  • Used the Spring Framework for Customer authentication services.  • Using Micro services based architecture to develop Micro services from a large monolithic  • Develop REST services using Jersey.  • Worked with various frameworks in Spring such as Spring AOP, Spring transaction Management, Spring Data, Spring Batch, Spring Boot and Spring Cloud  • Achieve integration between applications using Apache Camel.  • Create Camel routes and made use of built in components to make REST calls, handle exceptions and enrich data.  • Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) and managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry  • Developed application on Spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Boot, Spring Dependency injection  • Develop custom processors and beans for mapping and data manipulation.  • Experienced writing Use cases sequence diagrams and class diagrams with UML tools like Visio, Rational Rose for business modeling  • Used Spring MVC, Spring Security modules to integrate with database to implement the persistence layer with Hibernate  • Used MongoDB as a Backend Data Store and used Mangoose for Schema generation. This is used for a couple of modules in the application  • Used Test driven development (TDD) & developed unit test cases using JUnit.  • Used Google Guice for dependency injection.  • Worked heavily on JUnit test cases using mocking frameworks like EasyMock and Mockito  • Create workflows using Jboss Business process management.  • Integrated services with JBPM using custom work item handlers.  • Write SQL queries in Dev Center to query Cassandra for data validation.  • Used Jackson for processing Json objects and arrays.  • Write Unit and Integrations tests using Mockito and Powermock frameworks.  • Used JQuery in the project to develop API layouts and the external user frameworks.  • Developed web applications using AngularJS, JQuery, JavaScript and CSS.  • Deployed the drools rules as a service in J2EE stack environment  • Created graphical user interfaces (GUIs) front-end using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery&HTML5  • Developed Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server  • Update Maven pom files with latest release builds.  • Followed Agile for rapid software development.  • Developed websites using AEM, including the creation, configuration and integration of templates, components, dialogs, widgets, workflows, and more.  • Employ strong coding standards for efficiency, readability, and reuse.  • Propose technology solutions to enable the business to meet/exceed those goals.  • Developed Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, State diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Configured connection pools and establish a connection with MySQL.  • Configured and build Asynchronous communication with JMS services with IBM MQ Series  • Extensively used Git for version controlling.  • Worked with Jenkins CI/CD tool and installed various plugins to automate the deployment and generate a JAR/WAR  • Assist in ad-hoc projects, assignments and provide solutions using SQL and backend Oracle databases  • Rich experiences of database design and hands on experience of large database systems in IBM DB2  • Created and maintained mapping files and transaction control in Hibernate.  • Provided Log4j support for the application for debugging the system.  • Developed software installer for Mac OS X operating system.  • Used JUnit, TestNG test environments for test based development.  • Utilized XSLT transformations for XML files, and created java code documents using Javadoc  • Used JAXB for marshalling and unmarshalling of message data.  • Used MyEclipse IDE for developing application.    Environment: Java, Apache Camel, AngularJS, Java script, HTML, JAXB, JQuery, Micro Services, Hibernate, Struts, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF), Jboss JBPM 6, REST Web Services, UML, SOAP, XML, MyEclipse, Mockito, Powermock, XSLT, AEM, TestNG, mocking frameworks, Rational Rose, Jenkins, Bamboo, Log4j, Jboss, Rally, Drools Rule Engines, Maven, Git, TDD, Agile, MongoDB, MySQL, Mac OS. Jr. Java Developer UHG - Warwick, RI January 2015 to December 2016 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Analysis and Design of Documents required to develop API is using Atlassian Confluence.  • Used spring core container to implement IOC concept to avoid tight coupling.  • Developed Controller class and defined spring configuration mappings.  • Designed UI component with AJAX and JavaScript libraries (JQuery) , AngularJS  • Involved in Building RESTful API's to communicate over internet.  • Analyzed Use Case Diagrams and created various UML Diagrams such as class and sequence diagrams.  • Used SQL and Involved in writing the scripts to create tables and Indexes.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Used JSON for data transmission for Restful web services  • Used Spring Boot, which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop spring, based application with very less configuration.  • Worked extensively on Spring boot for building web service  • Performed Unit and Integration Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit Mockito framework  • Responsible in writing Constraint Validators for Email, Phone etc.  • Involved in the implementation of Data Access Layer using Spring Data JPA.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using JBPM for querying oracle database  • Developed multiple RESTful API to interact with MongoDB  • Responsible for designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, to build this SPA Single Page Application.  • Involved in writing JPA Queries to get the data from the repositories.  • Involved in development of business logic by using PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Deployed applications into Continuous Integration(CI) environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on Continuous Integration (CI) environments for development testing and implemented test cases in JUnit  • Development of test cases using TestNG and Mockito to check expected results.  • Worked with complex database SQL queries to create canned and ad-hoc reports  • Implemented service layer on top of Cassandra using core Java, Datastax Java API and Restful API.  • Involved in Configuring Apache Tomcat Web server for running the applications.  • Provided support to Front End team in integrating our API's.  • Maintained documentation using Javadoc  • Worked with Docker to deploy Micro services in modern containers to increase Isolation.  • Used Cassandra Query Language (CQL) to perform analytics on time series data  • Used Spring Security for authentication and authorization of the application  • Used MQ Visual Edit for creating and managing data in the IBM web sphere MQ's  • Used Apache Maven as a build tool to manage projects build.  • Used parsers like SAX and DOM for parsing XML documents and used XML transformations using XSLT  • Used agile development methodology.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Used sl4j for logging and debugging the application.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring 4.1.1, Spring Data JPA 1.5.2, Spring Boot 1.2.3, Spring Data Commons 1.7.2, Jersey 1.7, Oracle12c, Micro Services, Angular.JS, Ajax, Faster XML/Jackson-module-JSON Schema, Apache Camel, Tomcat 8, UML, Web Services (REST), Intellij IDEA, UNIX/LINUX, Dockers, Pivotal Cloud foundry (PCF), TDD, Cassandra, MongoDB, Jenkins, Slf4j, GIT, XML, XSLT, DOM, GIT. Java Developer Tyco - Cranston, RI May 2012 to December 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Used Servlets, Struts, JSP and Java Beans for developing the Performance module using Legacy Code.  • Involved in EMI (Repayments), ChequeBounce, Deposits module in all activities.  • Involved in coding for JSP pages, Form Beans and Action Classes in Struts.  • Created Custom Tag Libraries to support the Struts framework.  • Involved in Writing Validations.  • Involved in Database Connectivity through JDBC.  • Involved in Writing DAO's.  • Developed JUnit Test cases and performed application testing for QC team.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Developed Core Java components to develop the transaction report.    • Developed asynchronous components using IBM MQ Series with JMS for queuing and messaging    • Contributed to the Continuous Integration (CI) pipeline running component builds, creating and running Deployment jobs on individual stages on Jenkins, and running automated functional tests    • Developed JSON strings to persist the saved (incomplete) applications into Cassandra submitted applications into DB2.  • Configured connection pools and establish a connection with Ms Access.  • Participated in weekly project meetings, updates and Provided Estimates for the assigned Task.  • Responsible for deploying the application on Apache Tomcat.  • JUnit was used for unit testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology  • Implemented the project using IDE Eclipse.  • Performed administration duties for TCP/IP based peer-peer network of more than 10 computers.  • Performed upgrade of the network from peer-peer to a Windows based Client-Server network  • Used Rational Rose suite for designing the System.  • Used Spring Security to develop Login and Logout features of the application.  • Worked on Spring Security for application authentication based on role-based security system for web-based administrative applications  • Working on Drools Rule Engines with corresponding to validate the business User Roles. Implemented a highly scalable vertical and horizontal, performance efficient drools architecture  • Prepared Javadoc code documentation for future reference and upgrades  • Used SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problem.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Struts, JSP, JDBC, ANT, XML, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Jenkins, TDD, JUNIT, Ms Access, Rational Rose, SVN, SOAP, IBM MQ Series, JMS, mocking frameworks, Drools Rule Engines, Javadoc, log4j. Java Developer Visa Inc - Austin, TX January 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the overall system analysis, design, development, and documentation.  • Involved in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using UML for designing the application.  • Developed the application using the Struts.  • Developed JSP pages for the presentation layer, used custom tag libraries, JSP Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  • Used Hibernate for handling the database access.  • Performed the front-end validations using JavaScript.  • Extensively wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Cursors, Views for data retrieval and data storage and updates in T-SQL database.  • Strong experience with developing test cases using Junit, dbunit and mocking libraries using Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.  • Wrote Apache ANT build scripts for building the application and test cases using JUnit for performing the unit testing.  • Used CVS for Version Controlling.  • Involved in resolving high priority tickets and issues related to the support system.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSP, Hibernate, Struts, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, CVS, UML, XML, T-SQL, Web Sphere, JUnit, Apache ANT Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JUNIT (8 years), XML (8 years), J2Ee, JSP, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information Technical Skills    Java/J2EE Java, JSP/J2EE, RMI, Java Beans, JDBC, Spring, Servlets, JMS, JNDI, GWT, SSL  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, Struts, EJB, JSF, AngularJS, Camel  Application Server Web sphere, WebLogic, JBoss, Tomcat  Languages C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, UML, Unix Shell Scripts  Version Controllers SVN, CVS, Clear Case, Git  IDE's Eclipse, RAD, WSAD, MyEclipse, Net Beans  Web Services Soap UI, WSDL, RESTful  Testing JUnit, Mockito, TestNG, Powermock    Operating Systems Unix, Windows XP/Vista/7, MAC OS  Software packages MS Office, MS project, MS Visio, Rational Rose  Database DB2, Cassandra, MongoDB, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access  Build Tools & Configuration Tools Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, Bamboo Gulp  Web Technologies XML, HTML/HTML5, XML Schema, CSS/CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, DOJO, JQUERY, AJAX, JAXB and DOM, XSLT, XPATH  Networking/Protocols TCP/IP, FTP, FTTP, HTTP, UDP, SMTP