Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - BCBS Chicago, IL • Over 8+ years of software development experience in object oriented programming, design and development of Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise applications using Java, J2EE and UI technologies.  • Worked on Java and related technologies - Core Java and J2EE - Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JPA, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, XML, XSLT, JAX-WS, JAXB, SOAP/REST Web Services, WSDL, JAXB, JAAS • Extensively used open source frameworks Spring, Kafka and Camel Kafka.  • Extensive experience in using J2EE design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Singleton, DAO, DTO and Business Delegate, View Helper Pattern.  • Expertise in developing dynamic user interfaces, cross-browser event handling, DOM manipulation.  • Strong hands on experience with Spring IO, Spring JDBC, Spring AOP, Spring JTA, Spring MVC, Spring IOC and Spring Boot.ss • Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) with XML (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) and REST based Web Services.  • Experience in using various Version control systems like GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Experience with Use-case design, Class & Sequence diagrams using UML/Rational Rose.  • Involved in several web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design.  • Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome DevelopersTool and Firebug.  • Experience in developing websites using HTML 4.0/5.0, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Sencha touch, Ajax and JSON.  • Worked on ESB to simplify the problem of integration.  • Experience with Knockout.js, Angular.js and Backbone.js JavaScript Libraries.  • Good experience with continuous delivery pipeline using Docker, Jenkins and GIT HUB.  • Experience in working with Columnar NoSQL database like HBase, Cassandra to manage extremely large data sets.  • Worked with the JavaScript frameworks like JQuery and AngularJS.  • Experience in UNIX, LINUX and UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Good experience in database development using database engines like Oracle, SQL Server, MY SQL and DB2.  • Strong experience in coding using SQL, PL/SQL Stored Procedures/Functions.  • Experience in basic use of oracle RDBMS, including SQL DDL and DML and PL/SQL.  • Good working knowledge in building applications using Apache ANT and J Unit automated testing.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and thrive on building world-class software quality assurance systems and processes that ensure the delivery of perfect applications.  • Exceptional ability to quickly master new concepts and capable of working in-group as well as independently with excellent communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer BCBS - Chicago, IL November 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Followed agile methodology and Participate in Sprint planning meetings with business users and prioritizing user stories.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2/4, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Designed the page using Bootstrap and some custom CSS.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Worked on UML Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams for Design requirements.  • Work closely with the UI team and provide Restful API's which deliver data in JSON format needed by the User Interface, which uses Angular JS.  • Implemented all the components of Spring Frame work (Controller classes, Spring Bean Configuration file dispatcher-servlet.xml).  • Data Operations were performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns like DAO, Front Controller, Session Facade, Factory Pattern and Singleton.  • Working with AWS Identity and Identity Access Management (IAM) to created roles and policies • Used JSP, Java script, Angular JS, Ajax and J Query for implementing Web pages • Used Hibernate framework to interact with Database to retrieve using Cursors inside PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Functions.  • Worked on Permanence by loading the data to staging table and invoke the cronjob by scheduling as per business requirement.  • Migrating of code from on premise to cloud. Using AWS to migrate code from the application.  • Worked on Integration of Spring and Hibernate Frameworks using Spring ORM Module.  • Used SOA Architecture to Develop SOAP Web service, generated WSDL and consume the services.  • Tested the Webservices using SOAP UI Client tool.  • In-depth knowledge in creating classes, interfaces, methods, components and modules in Angular applications using Typescript.  • Developed Complex Angular 2 UI nested components for reuse and rapid development of Angular 2 web app.  • Be responsible for client-side front-end development. Implemented UI features in a three-engineers • Team. Followed Agile to perform fast-paced and efficient development.  • Used React framework to build the website. Added Redux to simplified components data and state.  • Implement Bootstrap CSS styles and React Strap components to enhance the interaction. Used Sass and BEM (class naming convention) to make the front-end coding more maintainable.  • Used XSD, DTD transforming using XSLT, used DOM parser to convert XML content into a Java Object.  • WebLogic Application server used for Deployments in different environments.  • Perform Unit testing and integration testing in local and development environments.  • Deployment of the web application archive to Dev and Test environments within each Sprint.  • Use Git Hub and Source Tree for code branching and merging when implementing new features.  • Used Maven scripts to build the application • Create and work on hot fix branch to address any post production issues encountered in the application.  • Develop and maintain company API using Silex PHP micro framework.  • Worked on a POC related to our project in Angular2, Typescript.  • Maintained groups of multiple users with Drupal CMS.  • Worked on an open-source CMS Drupal to build website using Drupal.  • Automated deployment of micro services to pull an image from private Docker Registry and deploy Docker swarm cluster using Ansible • Used TFS for Business Requirement Task's maintenance, Commitment, Development, Testing, Build, Deployments among the Team.  • Suggest and implement performance improvement strategies both within critical areas of xo360 and the SQL queries in the data layer.  • Work with database (EBI) team to complete data sync from external sources into our Dev and Test databases.  Environment: Core Java1.7, HTML5.0, Ajax, JQuery2.0, JavaScript, Angular2/4 Servlet, JSP, Spring4.0, Hibernate4.0, SOAP/REST based Web services, log4J, Maven4.0, JUnit4.0, GIT, Eclipse, Drupal, REACT,REDUX, UNIX, Weblogic12c, SQL Server 2008, SQL Developer Client tool, Source Tree, Git Hub, Sublime tool. Java/J2EE developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR December 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities: • Analyzed requirements by requirements confirmation meeting and converted them into User Requirement specifications and also functional requirement specifications for the developers.  • Involved in making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML, simultaneously in manipulating HTML5, CSS3 in jQuery.  • On top of jQuery framework and AJAX based UI framework, designed Java Script framework.  • Using Bootstrap worked on responsive design, with device specific apps and developing a single responsive website that could be served to desktop.  • Using CSS3 and HTML 5 tags as per W3C standards, designed table less layouts.  • Used node.js and angular.js MVC frameworks in the development of web applications.  • Designed and implemented UI with vast use of JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON and AJAX.  • Used Angular JS Http Request to read data from web services and process JSON data to render in UI.  • Responsible for splitting the UI logic into Angular JS MVC Architecture Views, Models and Controllers • Involved in building the single page applications using Angular JS Directives and filters in manipulating text within HTML.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and involved in performance tuning the website.  • Maintain User groups with Drupal CMS.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices in Amazon EC2 container using Jenkins • Designed applications in AJAX with rich user interfaces.  • Implemented and designed Spring MVC and Spring BOOT architecture.  • Install MySQL workbench Client to access MySQL Server.  • Build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC EC2, S3, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates.  • Worked on customizing modules, themes using API's and core Drupal modules.  • Design and developed different PL/SQL blocks, Stored Procedures in DB2 database.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Involved in scheduling the Quartz jobs using Cron trigger and simple trigger when necessary.  • Took responsibility for accomplishing the website's UI, API and database development.  • Implemented the web application using REACT framework, along with Flux architecture on Nodejs.  Added Bootstrap library to make the website responsive.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, for integrated product testing, user acceptance testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Used Git as Source Control.  • Involved in Production Support and minor enhancements as per application requirements.  Environment:HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, JSP, JSON, React, Visual Studio 2012, AWS, Oracle, DOM, angular.js, node.js, Bootstrap, Drupal, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, Windows. Java Developer Coca Cola - Atlanta, GA October 2013 to October 2015 Antares Capital provides services to professionals whose skills at risk profiling, institutional asset allocation, money management selection and investment policy development can help you navigate in a constantly changing environment. It receives data in various forms from different systems and integrated to single dash board to see all the details with a single click.    Responsibilities: • Involved in the design, future estimations and Software Requirements Specifications.  • Developed class diagrams, use case diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML/STAR UML.  • Developed web interface for Users Modules using JSP, HTML, XML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, and Action Servlets with Struts Framework, spring frame work.  • Used spring framework for transfer of the data from GUI to DB with Ajax frame work.  • Designed user-friendly navigation for displaying various sections of data using JQuery.  • Implemented User Friendly UI design with HTML, CSS and JavaScript for client-side validation and form submission functions and PHP for server-side scripting for web development.  • Extensively worked on CORE JAVA (Collections of Generics and Templates, Interfaces for passing the data from GUI Layer to Business Layer).  • Developed business logic and Entity Beans to manage the transactions with the database to deliver the content to presentation layer and to store data into the data layer.  • Implemented DAO (Data Access Object) design pattern to access data from Oracle.  • Development process the SCRUM, Iterative Agile methodologies for web Application.  • Implemented Spring MVC, IOC & AOP.  • Mapped the objects with the Database using Hibernate Query Language (HQL) as the Persistence Frame Work.  • Extensively worked with the retrieval and manipulation of data from the Oracle database by writing queries using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Used log4j for debugging the application.  • Configures JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup deployed them on to WebLogic Application server.  • Involved in Configuration of data source and deployment of application in development, Test and Production.  • Used Linux bash terminal window to run bash commands in order to produce shell script • CVS for version Controlling.  • Involved in configuration setting for Development, Test, and Production Environment.  • Used J-Unit test cases to test the application and performed random checks to analysis the portability, reliability and flexibility of the project.  • Mainly involved in 24x7 support, Maintenance and enhancement of the application.  Environment: Bea Web logic Application server 9.2/10.3, Eclipse, Java API, JDK1.5, JDBC, JMS, Message Queues, Web services, PL/SQL, UML, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, log4j, Git, JUnit, J2ME and Windows OS. Java/J2EE Developer Zyion November 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities: • Responsible for developing the web based admin portal to search the table for messages, view message details, facilitate manual adjustments and change logging levels using technologies such as Spring MVC, JSP and JSTL tags, CSS, Ajax, Servlets etc.  • Developed CDW core application to process claims, send messages to affiliates with claim information, and update the affiliates with HSA balance information, handle reversals and adjustments using Core Java, Spring IOC, and Hibernate DAO to maintain persistence and XML for Hibernate mapping.  • Developed CDW batch processing mechanism to process batch files and convert the records to messages for processing by implementing Multi-threading concepts, JMS, MQ and Spring batch framework.  • Configured MQ queues, developed message consumers and producers, developed clients to access connection factory and destination objects using JNDI, developed mapping files, implemented O/R mapping, managed transaction and concurrency using Hibernate.  • Involved in Business Research and Development by realizing Use Case document requirement, designed and developed code in accordance with those models by implementing Agile methodology.  • Responsible for maintaining the code versions using SVN, deploying the application in DEV, Test and Stage environments, provided support to the QA team during production and deployment, and troubleshoot the application to improve and optimize the performance.  Environment: Spring, Angular JS, UI 4.5.1, JSP 2.0, UNIX, SVN, WebSphere 7.0, Tomcat 7.x, Maven, Oracle, Hibernate. Java / J2EE Developer Bank of Baroda August 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities: • Developing Web Application using Angular JS & Spring Framework.  • Understanding functional requirements and design User centered designed with page designs.  • Writing Business layer login using springs, JDBC.  • View forms and Validate pages using JSP.  • Design the requirement using Object oriented Design.  • Used Micro Services to Get Data from Data Source using Spring Boot.  • Manage application in Open Shift.  • Have dealt with the total development and integration of Security Services from end - to - end.  • Creating and modifying the views in spring's framework so as to mask the appearance of URLs to end users.  • Writing Unix Scripting for Jenkins to load the Files and execute.  • Performing Transaction Management & claims reports.  • Developing web-services for different functionalities in the application in SOAP architecture.  • Developing REST services (SOA).  • Tested applications in different prospective during junit test cases.  • Have written Database queries to deal with updating of records in ORACLE Database.  • Used hibernate in order to deal with large databases.  • Deploying Application in to a server and Integration with Jenkins.  • Creating packages using Maven • Actively participated in production support.  • Documenting and updating the work that is being done.  • Used Firewall rules for security.  • Used Linux command-line to test log files.  • Design and Develop n-tier architecture.  Environment: Java 7, J2EE, Servlets, AngularJS, JDBC, Java Script, Tomcat Server, Spring tool suite(STS), Maven, JAX-WS, JAXB, SVN, Oracle 11g, jQuery, Openshift, Hibernate, JSP, XLS, SQL, PL/SQL, AJAX, HTML 5, XML, Tomcat, Eclipse, Springs Frameworks. Education Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Java & J2EE Technologies: Core Java1.8/1.7,JSP 2.1, Servlets 2.5, JDBC 3.0, JSTL 1.3, Custom tags, EJB 3.0/2.0, RMI, JAXB 2.0, SAX and DOM, Tiles, DOJO.  Web/Application Servers: IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x/4.x, Web sphere MQ, BEA Web Logic 1 0/9.2, Oracle Weblogic12c, JBOSS, and Tomcat4/5/6.  Frameworks & Middleware: Spring Framework2.0/3.0, Spring boot. Spring web flow, JSF2/1, JMS, Hibernate5/4/3.0/3.1, IBatis2.0, Active MQ, Axis1.4/2.1.3, Apache CXF  Languages: Java, python, SQL, PL/SQL  Web Services: SOAP, REST  Development Tools/IDE's: Eclipse Kepler/Juno, My Eclipse8.0, IntelliJ  Design Methodologies: RUP, UML, J2EE design Patterns.  Design Tools: Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio 2003, Visual Paradigm, Micro services  Open Source: J Unit, log4j1.2, GIT, CVS, SVN, Rational Clear Case, Source Tree and GIT Hub., Ansible, bamboo, bitbucket.  Platforms: Windows 7/XP, UNIX (SOLARIS), LINUX.  Databases: Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL Server 2008, MS Access, My SQL, NoSQL, PostgreSQL.  Database Tools: TOAD 9.0 and SQL Developer Client tools.  Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS, CSS3 JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XHTML, JSON, Bootstrap, NPM Js, Spring Boot, Knockout.js, React Js, Reduct ES6, Angular.js, Angular 2.0, Angular 4 Backbone.js, Node Js, Grunt Js, git  Scripting Languages: Maven3.0, Ant 1.5/1.7, Perl, PHP, Java Script, UNIX.  Markup Languages: HTML 5.0/4.0, XML 1.1, XSL, XSLT, DHTML.