Senior Full Stack Java Developer Senior Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Full Stack Java Developer - Navistar Inc Lisle, IL • Around 5 years of experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object Oriented Applications and Web based Enterprise Applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in Waterfall, Agile (scrum) methodologies where there is a daily SCRUM meeting to understand the status and resolve any issues and in making web pages cross browser compatible and server scripting languages.  • Experience in Financial, Telecom, Health Care and E-Commerce domains.  • Proficient in UI design, developed Front End using HTML, CSS / CSS 3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap like Node JS, ReactJS and Backbone JS.  • Expertise in DOM manipulation using JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC.  • Worked with WebSphere Application Server, Oracle Web Logic application server, JBoss, IBMWebSphere and Apache Tomcat Application Server.  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Highly experience with Java IDE's like Eclipse, STS, RAD, IntelliJ, NetBeans.  • Used JDK 1.8 features to improve the code readability and performance such like Stream, Lambda etc.  • Hands on work experience on various Enterprise Integration frameworks like Apache Camel.  • Experience in developing with various open source frameworks such as Java Server Faces (JSF), Spring (Core, IOC, AOP, Batch, Security, Boot) Framework, Struts Framework, Tiles Frameworks, FileNet and ORM Tools like Hibernate and IBatis.  • Actively involved in coding using Java7, Spring and Angular 4 to develop features from end to end.  • Expertise in implementing various J2EE and J2SEx design patterns like Singleton, Session Facade, Data Access Objects (DAO), Factory, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Business.  • Exposure to application development using RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle 11g/10g/9i, SQL, PL/SQL  • Worked with different reporting technologies like SSRS, BIRT, IBMFileNet  • Expertise in developing web services using SOAP, WSDL, RESTful, Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAX-RPC.  • Strong skills in RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle, IBM DB2 Database Servers and hands on experience with SQL, PL/SQL.  • Good understanding on NoSQL databases like Mongo DB, Couch DB.  • Experience with water GRADLE for dependency, version management and Jenkins continuous  integration (CI/CD) to setup automated builds.  • Subversion SVN, CVS, GIT, RTC and Visual Source Safe as versioning software tools.  • Used Vaadin for rapid front-end user interface development in Java.  • Demonstrated how to set up and use Jira to organize issues, assign work, and follow projects  • Working in the IT department as a JIRA/Confluence, which has 5 different instances of JIRA and 2 different instances of Confluence running  • Hands on experience in building tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle.  • Involved in issue tracking and agile project management using JIRA.  • Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  • Experience in developing applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Good understanding of Business workflow, Business logic and Business methods for further implementation of user requirement in a distributed application environment.  • Having Experience on UNIX commands and Deployment of Applications in Server.  • Domain knowledge and business expertise in Banking, finance, Insurance, Healthcare.  • Capable of learning new technologies and adapt to new environments quickly.  • Strong analytical and dynamic trouble shooting skills coupled with excellent communication skills and able to work individually or lead others. Work Experience Senior Full Stack Java Developer Navistar Inc - Lisle, IL February 2019 to Present Description: The project deals with development of a website for the company on commercial or end-user business areas related to sales, order management, service, and catalog applications manufacturers commercial trucks, school buses and engines, materials management, financial management, HRIS, mobile apps or desktop applications products.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC including design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  • Designed and developed application using JSP, AngularJS 2.0, Java Script, JQuery, HTML, CSS, JSON, SAAS, Spring MVC Framework and Hibernate to handle workflow of the application with Oracle as back-end.  • Designed and developed Micro Web services using spring Boot for customer based applications. Used AngularJS to connect with backend micro-services to store, retrieve data to show to front-end.  • Designed and developed browser side MVC, custom directives using AngularJS. Developed services, factory, controller, compile using AngularJS.  • Implemented module to convert XML to Java, Java to XML using JAXB bindings, JDOM and SAX parsers.  • Developed Web components using Servlets tag Libraries, XSL, Tiles Framework, Struts and UML.  • Developed Restful web service API. Implemented front-end UI using AngularJS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Developed the application using Core Java, Collections, Multithreading and Serialization.  • Expert at Spring MVC framework using hibernate and annotation.  • Hands-on experience with Material Design, GCM, IAB API, SQLite, REST services, RX (ReactiveX), Gradle.  • Used Java 8 features such as Lambda Expressions for array Operations, default and static methods in interfaces, Collections throughout the application for well-defined programming.  • Java Message Service (JMS) API was used to relate messages between different resources the project.  • Designed and developed the web application using Spring security, Spring-ORM module to integrate with Hibernate and Spring-JMS module to produce and consume messages.  • Worked on FileNet CE JAVA API's, Webservices and Monitoring the SMTP servers, verifying ICC Dashboard.  • Extensive use of SpringFramework for DependencyInjection and integrated along NodeJS and Hibernate.  • Used ReactJS developing webpage and adding validations to the page.  • Reactive Microservices using the Akka reactive framework, Reactive programming using JAVA 8 and Scala, multi-threading programming.  • Responsible for deployment of applications and applying FileNet Patches. Worked with Database team for maintenance of all FileNet Related databases.  • Used Gulp as a build tool in this project for tasks like building scripts, minifying and bundling JavaScript files.  • Experience in installation, configuration and deployment of J2EE components on IBM Web Sphere Application Server using Eclipse IDE.  • Designed and implemented application using Maven, Tortoise SVN, IBM Web Sphere application server.  • Utilized JIRA to list tasks on the ticket system and for tracking the issues.  • Developed Selenium WebDriver automation scripts using Java covering all requirements for enhancements.  • Used Firebug to identify the Object's id, Name, XPath, link in the application  Environment: Java1.8 ( JAVA 8), J2EE, J2SE, NodeJS, Spring, Hibernate, MySQL, DOM, JMS, MDB, Restful, SOAP, Micro web services, XML, XSD, SVN, WebSphere, Spring Tool Suite, Maven, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, ReactJS, RX (ReactiveX), Ajax, JSF, UML, JSON, Windows, Log4j, JIRA, Selenium WebDriver, Test NG, Agile Scrum. Senior Full Stack Java Developer McDonald's Corporation - Chicago, IL January 2018 to February 2019 Description: Responsible for building out a microservices architecture using both serverless technologies and RESTful, Java Spring Boot APIs. Worked on a infrastructure as code framework, using AWS services such as Lambda, ECS, Fargate, Step Functions. Modeled complex product data and working with multiple data stores, including MySQL, PostgreSQL.    Responsibilities:  • Agile development (2-week sprints/Iterations), Test Driven Development (TDD), Behavioral-Driven Development (BDD), JUnit, Mockito, Maven, JIRA issue navigator, Crucible Code Reviews is part of every day's work.  • Experienced in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, AWS Config, Auto Scaling, Cloud Front, IAM, S3.  • The front-end use HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, jQuery, SAAS and Bootstrap to build a single page web app that communicate with back-end via RESTful API.  • Experienced in designing and implementing Restful Microservices.  • Responsible for creation of design artifacts such as use cases and sequence diagrams.  • Integrated struts with spring and made use of struts tiles framework and tag libraries.  • Developed application on Spring4.x framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection (spring core), Spring Beans, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring JDBC, Spring boot, Spring Web flow using MVC.  • Performed form validations using Reactive Programming Forums from Angular2.0 framework.  • Facilitated upgrade to Java 8, replacing the Joda library, using Streams and Lambda expressions.  • Experience with Implementing and Leveraging Search Implementations like SOLR and Elastic Search.  • Designed highly accessible, fault tolerant and cost effective and fault systems using multiple EC2 instances, Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balance and AMIs.  • Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC to build an application from scratch using Spring XML configurations, annotations. Wrote controllers to handle incoming requests and send output to the UI.  • Worked on the Web application development using HTML5 JSF 2.2 (RichFaces/PrimeFaces), JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3 and AJAX.  • Involved in designing & coding of business logic using Spring IOC, Pure MVC & AOP features.  • Performance Optimization of the Front end (JSP) and backend Hibernate and across the other systems like FileNet communicated through JMS.  • Hands on experience in Angular built in angular directives like input, outputproperty, Observable, subscribe, Error handling RX (ReactiveX) JS.  • Experience in NodeJS, implementing NodeJS callbacks, NodeJS web server, NodeJS Restful apis  • Created the AngularJS controller to restore the data from the factory service design pattern and do the data visualization using the Kendo UI component such as grid chart and view list.  • Managed release infrastructure and developing UI control tools to manage software release/deployment to all servers Python, MongoDB, Ansible, Bottle, Jenkins, Git, Perl, Groovy.  • Reduced operating costs for third-party customers by offering PostgreSQL as the primary RDBMS.  • Java Message Service (JMS) API was used to relate messages between different resources the project.  • All these batch Microservices are written utilizing distributed message passing via KAFKA message broker with JSON and CSV as data exchange formats.  • Proficient in designing data model in RDBMS, MPP, Columnar and NoSQL Databases which can support 3Vs of Big Data.  • Used GitHub to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Worked on automating the deployments for WebSphere Process Server and WebSphere Application Server applications.  • Used Spring Security framework to set up authentication and authorization for the application using firm wide single sign on (SS0)  • Build the application using MAVEN and deployed using IBMWebSphere Application server.  • Developed persistence layer integrating Hibernate with Spring ORM support, also used Spring JDBC for lightweight database operations  • End to end application design and development using RESTful APIs, Micro-services and Spring Boot.  • Used JPA Annotations for Mapping Objects to Tables, hibernate features such as Lazy Loading, Hibernate Query Language (HQL), Criteria and Pagination.  • Worked on consuming and producing using Restful (JAX-RS) web services.  • Developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB and MQ Series.  • Experience with Service oriented architecture (SOA), developing SOAP web services based on JAX-WS (Document Style) using HTTP Protocol on Bottom Up style development for creating Endpoints  • Made use of design patterns such as Singleton, Factory method, Session Façade and Business delegate.  • Used JMS (Active MQ) to communicate between the components and configured on the server.  • Wrote complex SQL joins, Stored Procedures, Functions PL/SQL using SQL developer & TOAD, executed on Oracle Database.  • Good experience and understanding relational database modeling and design and ER diagrams.  • Used Subversion as source control tool for branching, merging and maintain code versions in the repository enabled using Maven Versioning Capability.  • Developed, Tested and Deployed application in Apache Tomcat 7.0 and IBMWebSphere  • Used Maven for building, deploying application, creating JPA based entity objects and compiling GWT application.    Environment: Java 1.8 ( Java 8), J2EE, J2SE, Multithreading, Agile, Webservices, TDD, BDD, Struts, Spring, JPA, Hibernate, GitHub, AngularJS, RX, Ext JS, ESB, Jenkins, Spring Batch, Web logic, Cassandra DB, IntelliJ, AWS, EC2, SOA, Python, JBPM, SOAP-UI, RAD, Active MQ, JAXB, JAXP, NoSQL, WSDL, JAX-WS, XML, PostgreSQL, RDBMS, Spring boot, Microservices, XQuery, XML query, Shell, XSD, XPATH, Mocha, DOM, RESTful, Apache CXF, Jira, Typescript, JUnit, spring framework, Oracle 12c, DB2, WebSphere, PL/SQL developer, SOAP-UI, GWT, Swing, Ajax, ss JS, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, JSF 2.2, JSTL, bootstrap, Unix, SVN, GIT, Sonar, JIRA, Rally, Stash, Crucible, SQL Developer, Maven. Sr Java/ J2EE Developer Roche Pharmaciticals - Pleasanton, CA October 2016 to December 2017 Description: The project deals with development of a website for the company to enable the people throughout the world to select the medicines and place order online from different pharmacies. The agent or the customer need to register themselves and can choose any product from the website once they get access. The administrator of the company will see the order and accept or deny accordingly.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC including design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Participated in system implementation, including maintenance, user allocation, approval, design, coding, error removal, logic optimization, systems re-evaluation and documentation.  • Worked simultaneously in both production and development teams.  • Designed and developed dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, and Angular-JS for single page applications.  • Experienced in developing functionalities like navigation bars, dropdown lists, custom filters and state parameters using AngularJS.  • Unit with JavaScript and node.js. Used Angular-JS Http to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Developed internal coding using J2EE technologies based on the MVC Architecture.  • Used NPM, Angular JS to work with various front-end libraries, frameworks and integrations  • Responsible for being application Admin for JIRA and Confluence on Demand then migrated to On Premise.  • Implemented Business Logic using Java, Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Implemented Restful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS, parsed the data to project to client and handled security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations and avoid redundant database access statements  • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP, Ehcache Framework and Spring Annotations.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache.  • Developed the unit test cases Test Driven Development (TDD) and mock testing using JUNIT and Mockito frameworks. java  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Spring Boot.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Services.  • Created new tables, Stored Procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality  • Used Maven building tool for creating EAR file to be deployed in application servers. It is also used for dependency management of code in application.  • Used NoSQL DB like MongoDB for the proof of concept.  • Used Mongo DB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Optimized the full text search function by connecting to Mongo DB.  • Actively involved in coding using Java 1.8, Spring 4.x and Angular JS to develop features from end to end.  • Used JIRA tool for tracking stories progress and follow Agile methodology.  • Developed the application using Eclipse as the IDE and used its features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation.  • Deployed WebSphere Adapters inbound and outbound integrated ECM systems and Rule Engine to BPM  • Deployed Applications on Oracle WebSphere Server.  • I started with very few Confluence pages and built up to hundreds, managed and trained users both onshore and external.  • Involved in Maintenance and Enhancements for the project.    Environment:  JDK 1.7 and 8, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, Angular-JS, Bootstrap, JSON, J2EE, Spring MVC, Micro Services, AWS, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring JDBC, Spring ORM, JSP, Hibernate, Restful, Stored Procedures, WebSphere, RAD, Unix, log4j, , BPM, Agile/Scrum Methodology, Maven, JIRA, TDD, Mongo DB, Jenkins, GIT, JUnit, Eclipse, SVN. Java/J2EE developer iPlace Software Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2015 to July 2016 Description: Web Based Shopping System is to provide shopping facility to both buyers and vendors. The central concept of the project is to allow the customers to shop virtually using Internet and to buy the items and articles of their desire from the store. The information pertaining to the products are stored on the RDBMS at the server side.  Responsibilities:  • Developed screens with JSP, AJAX and JavaScript, CSS, HTML.  • Used hiber framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI Components, Validation, Events and Listeners.  • Designed the application using Agile Methodology.  • Determined & developed the Web Services.  • Involved in Creation of WSDL and schemas.  • Made proficient use of WSDL files. Used SOAPUI for testing the web services.  • Implemented SOA based web services, designed and built SOAP web service interface, implemented using SOAP & Apache Axis.  • Involved in Implementation of Spring IOC container.  • Extensively used DAO design pattern, including mapping DAO objects, configuration file and classes to interact with the Sybase database.  • Used Core Java concepts such as multi-threading, collections, garbage collection and other JEE technologies during development phase and used different design patterns.  • Wrote EJB Stateless session to communicate with Controller and Service layer i.e. make the EJB calls from Backing Beans.  • Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  • Set up Web Sphere Application server and used Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in Web Sphere Application server.  • Used UNIX Shell Scripting to update the databases and Start up the application server.  • Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  • Used Apache JMeter for load testing.  • Maintained code source control using SVN  • Implemented JUnit for testing.    Environment:  Java 1.5, Core Java, Spring, EJB, WSDL, XSD, JSP, AJAX, JavaScript, JFace, CSS, HTML, Web Services, Web App, SOAP, WebSphere Server, DB2 database Server, XML, JUnit, Sybase, Apache JMeter, Rational Unified Process (RUP), Java Developer Ryaan Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to July 2015 Description: Participated in the development of a paperless web-based document tracking and management system for department specializing in transportation of Trucks. Responsible for both front end and back end development. HTML5, JavaScript/JQuery, and Java Server Pages were used on the front end. Implemented backend rules and logic using Java/J2EE and Spring Tools. SCRUM (Agile Development) was the methodology used for the development of this product. Eclipse IDE was used for development.  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering, Design Analysis and Code development.  • Implemented Struts framework based on the Model View Controller design paradigm.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Struts MVC.  • Designed the application by implementing Struts based on MVC Architecture, used simple Java Beans as a Model, JSP-UI Components as View and Action Servlet as a Controller.  • Used JDBC for data access from Oracle tables.  • Implemented EJB's Container Managed Persistent strategy.  • Worked on triggers and stored procedures on Oracle database.  • Apache ANT was used for the entire build process.  • JUnit was used to implement test cases for beans.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE to write the code and integrate the application.  • Application was deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Coordinated with testing team for timely release of product.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JMS, JavaScript, Eclipse, WebSphere, PL/SQL, Oracle, Log4j, JUnit, ANT, Clear-case, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (5 years), JAVA (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), JUNIT (4 years), jQuery (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL.  Mark-up/XML Technologies  HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, JSON, DOJO, NodeJS, Angular js 1.x, Angular 2, Angular 4, ReactJS    Tools & Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JMS, JSF, JUnit, AJAX, Jasper reports, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security.    Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic.  Database Oracle 9i/10g/11g, SQL-Server 2000/2005, MySQL server, Mongo DB.  Development Tools Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite (STS), Maven and Gradle, CVS, SVN, GIT  O-R mapping Hibernate, JPA.  Web services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Micro Services.  OS & Environment Windows Vista/XP/2000/NT, Linux, UNIX