Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - SunTrust Bank Inc Atlanta, GA • 7+years of Professional experience in IT industry, involving requirement analysis, design, development and implementation of software applications using OOP Concepts, Java 8 and Java EE(Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB ), Web Services(SOAP, WSDL, Axis), HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, Jenkins, JMS, Maven, Log4J, Oracle Web Center Suite, XML, Apache Tomcat, and JBoss.  • Experience in Pair Programming, Test Driven DFevelopment, Waterfall model and agile methodologies like SCRUM and KANBAN.  • Good knowledge and hands on experience in MVC (Struts Framework 1.x/2.x), spring Framework 2.x/3.x, Java Server Faces and ORM (Hibernate 2.0/3.0) frameworks.  • Extensive knowledge on the spring modules like Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring Web flow, Spring Security, Spring MVC and Spring AOP.  • Good understanding of various types of AWS Elastic Block Storage (EBS) and their utilization based on requirements.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM) and managed network security using Security Groups and IAM.  • Extensively worked on open source control frameworks Struts, Hibernate and have in depth knowledge of design patterns and Multi-threading.  • Expertise in Distributed and Web environments, focused in JAVA Technologies - Java collections, Threads, J2SE, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate Framework.  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Hands on experience working with Web and Application Servers such as Apache Tomcat, JBoss, IBM RAD, WebSphere, WebLogic and Sun Glass fish.  • Hands on experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse (Indigo, Juno, Europa, and Helios), Net Beans, RAD, WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer).  • Very good understanding and experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Object Oriented Programming (OOP).  • Extensively worked on implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using REST web services.  • Strong Knowledge and Hands on Experience in working with relation databases such as Oracle [ ] DB2, MySQL PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, Database triggers, Procedures, Functions.  • Closely worked with Release Management Team in doing builds and deploying code into various environments like DEV/QA/SIT/UAT/Prod.  • Experience in using DOM4J, JAXB, JAXP parsing and XML Bean to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  • Expertise in Creating Use-case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams in UML and Rational Rose.  • Experience in using CVS, GIT, Microsoft visual SourceSafe and Subversion (SVN) for project integration across modules  • Created various Spring boot and spring batch applications to connect them to various databases and created queries to retrieve data and modify the tables for the databases  • Excellent client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.  • Good learner with quick learning skills and good team member with communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer SunTrust Bank Inc - Atlanta, GA January 2019 to Present The Scope of this project is to establish a Medicare platform to support claims processing, enrollment, billing and reconciliation within and outside the diamond system. It will also serve as a repository of previous proposals. Medicare Enrollment is used to enroll member in the project. These enrollments come by Web module.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze and write detailed design specifications, traceability matrix sheet and test requirements.  • Conducted Agile and Waterfall vision and strategy presentations to managers, investors, partners and sponsors  • Developed and coded interfaces, classes and created appropriate relationship between system classes and interfaces.  • Extensively involved in system architecture, software development, database design, deployment, testing, performance tuning, and maintenance for large-scale, web-based and distributed J2EE projects.  • Developed and implemented front-end applications using Adobe Dreamweaver. Designed and developed UI using JSP, JavaScript, and jQuery, HTML, CSS and AJAX.  • Implemented transaction management, high level authentication and authorization, logging and Exception Handling using Spring Security and AOP.  • Used concepts such as synchronization and thread pools.  • Spring framework was leveraged for Inversion of Control (IOC), Spring JDBC; Spring AOP based Transaction management and Unit testing  • Used Message Driven Beans with JMS APIs for asynchronous communication  • Implemented Web Service calls for data parsing and server interaction using spring, Threads, JSON, SOAP, RESTAPI and Apache.  • Developed EJB's for implementing business logic and actively involved in deploying application on JBoss application server.  • Developed persistence layer module using EJB java persistence API annotations and Entity manager.  • Involved in working with JAVA APIs used to establish communication between JavaBeans.  • Implemented several design patterns like MVC, Business Delegate, ServiceLocator, DAO, DTO and Factory.  • Used XML web services using SOAP to transfer the remote application to different institutions.  • Developed web services to allow communication between applications through SOAP over HTTP using Axis-2  • Used I BATIS framework with Spring Framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Actively involved in coding using Core Java and collection API's such as Lists, Sets and Maps  • Working on parsing the XML using DOM/SAX parsers.  • Created stored procedures using SQL for data modification.  • Actively used Eclipse IDE for building, developing and integrating the application.  • Deployed the developed application on Tomcat application server  • Developed JUnit test cases for integration testing and integrated with ANT build tool.  • Fixed many bugs and handled interfacing issues while deploying application on Tomcat application server.  • Actively guided support team in live issues during deployment in Tomcat server.  • Extensively involved in code review and documentation review of technical artifacts.    Environment: Agile/Scrum, Java, JSP, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, EJB, SAX, DOM, SOAP, Java Beans, SQL Server, Eclipse, Tomcat, ANT, JIRA,Log4j, SVN, MS Office, MS Visio, MS Project, Spring, HP Quality Center, J Boss Sr. Java Developer Macrosoft - Alpharetta, GA July 2016 to November 2018 Partner with MasterCard to build loyalty programs to help merchants increase sales, attract new customers, and retain existing customers.  Responsibilities:  • Developed JSP and extensively used tag libraries  • Designed the system with OOAD methodology using various design patterns like factory method, Singleton, Adaptor, Template etc.  • Implementing and planning the server-side architecture using spring and Hibernate.  • Configured the spring framework for entire business logic layer with XML bean configuration files.  • Preparation of Low Level Designing and High Level Designing and relevant documentation.  • Unit testing using JUnit.  • Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection and worked on Custom MVC Frameworks loosely based on Struts.  • Wrote Controller classes in Spring MVC framework in the web layer.  • Extensively used Eclipse based STS IDE for building, developing and integrating the application.  • Used Table per hierarchy inheritance of hibernates and mapped polymorphic associations.  • Developed one-much, many-one, one-one annotation based mappings in Hibernate.  • Developed DAO service methods to populate the domain model objects using hibernate.  • Used java collections API extensively such as Lists, Sets and Maps.  • Wrote DAO classes using spring and Hibernate to interact with database for persistence.  • Performed on e-Commerce by using JSF framework and JavaScript, Jquery HTML5 pages.  • Wrote and tested Java Beans to retrieve trading data and subscriber's information from MySQL database server  • Implemented Unit and Integration test cases with JUnit Framework based on Functional Flow.  • Wrote request handler methods in the Spring MVC controllers.  • Configured view resolvers for Spring MVC Web layer.  • Configured Log4j for logging and debugging  • Used JDBC API, Data source, and JNDI for data access with Oracle DB.  • Designed unit test plans and developed JUnit cases    Environment: OOAD, Java, JDBC, Spring Application Framework, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, Oracle 11g,Eclipse based Spring Source Tool Suite(STS), JUnit,Log4J, Maven, Apache Webserver, Linux and Windows, MS Visio, MS Office, MS Project Java Developer Guttenberg Information Technologies Center - Newark, NJ August 2014 to June 2016 GGK Technologies Pvt. Ltd. develops web applications and business intelligence solutions. The company provides web, .NET, and Java application development; e-commerce applications development; project management; prototyping; software and automation testing; bug fixing and enhancement; support; and maintenance services.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Requirements Specification, Design documents and writing Test cases -Waterfall to Agile methodology.  • Used the Use cases, Interaction diagrams and Class diagrams in development of the application.  • Worked extensively on creating rich front-end web interface using HTML/CSS, jQuery, and JavaScript.  • Used IntelliJ as IDE andthetotal application was developed in J2EE using Struts MVC architecture.  • Developed the user Interface Presentation screens using Struts Tiles, HTML, and JSP.  • Created numerous web applications utilizing MVC, jQuery, AJAX and Web Services  • Implemented cross-departmental Innovation Meetings to engage employees to explore new avenues of revenue-generating or cost-saving ideas  • Coordinated branching/merging strategies incorporating Team Foundation Server.  • Running various Agile project management meetings (Sprint Planning Meetings, Scrums, etc.  • Created Servlets and Java Server Pages, which route submittals to the appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information.  • Developed EJB Components, both Entity and Session beans, modeling the business logic.  • JDBC is used for data interaction with Oracle database.  • Involved in deployment components on WebLogic application server.  • Performed Unit Testing of all Modules.    Environment: Java, Hibernate, Struts, HTML/CSS, J2EE, JSP, EJB, XML, WebLogic Application Server, Oracle, Eclipse, ANT. Java Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Atlanta, GA November 2012 to July 2014 Liberty mutual is a market leader in key insurance and investment product lines. Liberty Mutual continually seeks to better serve its customers by leveraging ongoing product innovation, knowledge and experience, a strong brand, a broad and powerful distribution system. The project deals with building up of a new web-site for Liberty Mutual Agents to assist Liberty Mutual customers. This web-site is used by Underwriters as well. Agents were given access to view their corresponding policy related documents  Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using Agile Model.  • Used Eclipse IDE tool to develop the application and Used JIRA to create EPICs and User Stories for the Sprint cycle.  • Developed web application using Spring MVC framework. Implemented Navigation using Spring MVC controllers, configured controllers using Spring MVC annotations and configuration files.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database.  • Designed Hibernate entities that map data base tables, implemented inheritance strategies using Hibernate inheritance strategy.  • Custom buildpack (WebSphere Liberty and Jboss) installation in PCF.  • Developed Micro services with spring boot and Spring Batch along with the test cases and used the spring test's framework to create integration tests.  • Implemented search functionality, filtering, pagination using Hibernate criteria Query interfaces.  • Develop Rest web application by Spring Boot and implemented single sign on by OAuth2.  • Provided connections using Spring JDBC to the database and developed SQL queries to manipulate the data.  • Implemented RESTful webservices for communicating using JAX-RS annotations.  • Established efficient exception handling and logging using Spring AOP.  • Experience with automation using GIT Docker Jenkins, Ansible, and Chef  • Used Spring DAO concept in order to interact with database (DB2) using JDBC template.  • Used Web sphere 8.5 Application Developer with RAD 7.5 as development IDE for building, testing and deploying application locally.  • Designed and Developed consumer, producer using Restful web services using JAX-RS for various backend services in NichPRO application.  • Developed applications using MVC frameworks and API like Struts, Spring MVC and Spring AOP  • Used Postman to access the results of Rest API calls  • Nachos Operating System Design and ImplementationJava multithreading, Process scheduler, Memory & I/O managers, CVS, Eclipse  • Used threads features to API calls to enhance the application Performance  • Reporting to Manager EDPP Data Ingestion, currently responsible for operationalizing enterprise data lake on Big-data platform called Enterprise Data Provisioning Platform (EDPP)  • Worked on proof of concept for metadata ingestion process which will drive down the cost and effort to get meta data into EDPP  • Produced Restful Webservices using JAX-RS and Jersey Framework  • Developed the application by using JSP, Servlets, Web Services, JavaScript, WebLogic, JAX-RS and SaaS.  • Used Tibco Streambase with LiveView Datamart to stream the Live data from the various servers.  • Created functional interface with useing Lambda expressions  • Used different tools like TIBCO StreamBase, TIBCO LiveView Datamart, SQL, Java, JavaScript, Linux, Highcharts, HTML, CSS, Web Applications in the process of development and deployment.  • Worked on building proxies and policies with in APIGEE along with security frameworks  • Migrating existing application into REST based Micro services to provide all the CRUD capabilities using Spring Boot, which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and develop Worked with Spring JDBC to store and retrieve data from Oracle Databases.  • Strong experience with configuration management tools i.e. Chef and Ansible  • Working on creating a distributed network by hosting the application on AWS cloud, Amazon EC2 servers.  • Utilized spring annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection.  • Deployed the application to apache TOMCAT server.  • Troubleshoot issues within PCF environments and involving Pivotal vendor as and when needed.  • Build components scheduling and configuration using Maven.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control, to make application easy to test and integrate.  • Used Auto wired Pojo and DAO classes with Spring Controllers.  • Used Log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • User login, search & portfolio created using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery  • Used GIT for version control.  • Created and managed team deliverables for the EDPP Data Ingestion Support team by creating a tracker for the team to use  • Created numerous test cases using JUnit framework and JUnit for front end UI testing.  Environment: Java 8.0, RAD 7.5, Web Sphere Application Server 8.5, Hibernate 4.30, Spring Framework 4.0, Angular JS, JQuery, Maven 3.3, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, JSP, Spring boot, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, DOJO, RESTful, JAX-RS, JDBC, DB2, Log4j, Jenkins, Apache Tomcat. Java Developer United Services Automobile Association - San Antonio, TX August 2011 to October 2012 Description: Experian create credit reports by collecting and analyzing credit histories - sorting through data about the credit people applied for, whether or not their applications were successful, and how they paid the credit back. They share this information with businesses so they can calculate a credit decision, usually using a credit score.  Responsibilities:  • Used JIRA for project management, tracking and monitoring errors and fixed the errors.  • Developed code using Test Driven Development.  • Development UI modules using Bootstrap, HTML, JSP, JSF, JavaScript and CSS.  • Familiar with concepts of Directives, Data-Binding and Dependency Injection in AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS to implement rich functionality in various pages: form validations, CRUD Rest Operations, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced directives, authentication, server-side proxy, slide pages, user switch etc.  • Created cumstom adapters in Java to pull the live data from database and encorporated in Tibco StreamBase to create Dashboard  • Installed and configured TIBCO JMS and also configured TIBCO EMS server to be fault tolerant.  • Application Deployment on PCF using CF push and Urban code deploy.  • Involved in unit and integration testing using both SOAP UI and APIGEE trace tool.  • Used Spring Security framework for login authentication, password hashing. Worked on Java Message Service API for developing message oriented middleware layer for handling various requests.  • Used Hibernate for accessing database and mapping the entities by using hibernate annotations.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and cache concepts.  • Used Spring MVC framework for developing the application.  • Expertise in designing and implementing the RESTful web services with Spring Boot and Microservices with Spring Cloud and Netflix Components.  • Well versed in installation, configuration, supporting and managing of Big Data and underlying infrastructure of Hadoop Cluster.  • Hands on experience in performing real time analytics on big data using HBase and Cassandra in Kubernetes & Hadoop clusters  • The JMS API was used to allow application components to create, send, receive, and read messages.  • Involved in the integration of spring for implementing Dependency Injection (DI/IoC). Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IOC framework.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Experience supporting applications using Docker, Jenkins, Artifactory, Ansible & GIT  • RBAC configuration in PCF for user roles and responsibility  • Used Hibernate for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations. Developed Rest architecture based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Designed and developed application using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets and Struts.  • Involved in developing RESTful WebseSrvices using JAX-RS with Jersey implementation.  • Used GIT for version control system and JBoss as the Application Server.  • Used Log4J for logging the user events and MAVEN for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files.  • Involved in project status update and deliverables and actively involved in client meetings.  • Maven is used as a buid tool and GIT is used as version control.  • Wrote Unit test cases using Junit and Mockito.  • Experience with Ansible, Chef, puppet and other configuration management tools  • Used Oracle10g as the database.  • Tomcat is used as an Application server and used to run the application.  • Used JUnit for the unit testing of various modules, Selenium for automated testing and JENKINS for continuous integration.  Environment: Java, Design Pattern, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services, AngularJS, JSON, Junit, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Oracle, JBoss, Spring boot, Application Server, Maven build tool, RESTful API, JENKINS, GIT, Jenkins, JIRA and Eclipse. Education Bachelor's in Information and Assurance Wilmington University Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java, SQL, PL/SQL.  Web Technologies CSS, HTML5, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, ReactJS, Java Script.  Frame Works JSF, Spring, Hibernate, Struts.  Test Tools Junit, Mockito.  Databases DB2, MS SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle.  Operating Systems Windows, Linux.  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD, STS.  SOA/WebServices WSDL, SOAP, (JAX-WS), REST (JAX-RS), SOA.  Build and Automation tool Maven, ANT, Gradle, Jenkins, JIRA.  Version Control CVS, SVN, GIT