Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - T-Mobile Bellevue, WA • Around 7+ years SDLC experience in Design, Development, Deployment and testing of Enterprise Applications.  • Worked on new features of Java 7 annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop, Enums and Lambda expressions.  • Experienced working in projects involving Agile, Scrum, Test First Development.  • Ambitious Go-getter with extensive adaptiveness in web application development using Spring, Hibernate, SOAP, RESTful, AJAX, XML, Drools, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular 4, ReactJs and Bootstrap.  • Performance Targeted Implementer with substantial experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Web Services such as SOAP using Apache CFX, RESTful using Jersey and Jackson.  • Worked on SOA such as Apache Axis web services, SOAP, WSDL. Exposure to JAXB, JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  • Quick-witted Competent with skillful ability in using Spring 4.x(Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Security Spring JDBC, Spring Mobile, Spring REST, Spring Boot) and Object Relational Mapping frameworks (ORM's) like Hibernate with mapping of persistent classes and usage of Hibernate Query Language.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Extensively used different Tag Libraries like JSF Tags, Struts Tags, JSTL, Spring Tags, Spring EL, Display Tag.  • Experienced in Client-side validation, Client-Server data interactionusing Ajax in Nodejs.  • Developed core modules in large cross-platform applications using JAVA, J2EE, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, XML, and HTML.  • Technically savvy in using multiple RDBMS like IBM DB2, Oracle 9i/10g/11i, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Mission Focused Aspirant with sweeping proficiency in using version controls such as SVN and GIT.  • Experience in database modeling, design and development of PL/SQL stored procedures, packages in relational databases: Oracle 10g/11g, IBM DB2, MySQL, Sybase, SQL Server 2000, MongoDB.  • Worked on AWS, High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure • Expertise in software configuration management using CVS, SVN and IBM Clear Case. Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven and logging tools like Log4J.  • Spearheaded Application Developer conversant with developing applications using various servers including Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, BEA WebLogic and JBoss Application Server.  • Experienced in developing UNIX Shell Scripts for batch processing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA July 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Project 1: Rebellion (Retail, Care and Web)  Universe 2. Rebellion is advanced version of UI customized such a way that 3 channels Retail, Care and web integrated with unique backend service level architecture for better maintenance and stability.  • Developed user interface with HTML5, CSS3, SAAS, JSON, AJAX, Angular 2.  • Designed and coded the application in agile environment.  • Used JQuery for creating different menus and dialog boxes and used different JQuery plug-in for calendar.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, CSS, and JQuery Scripting.  • Expertise in developing Web pages using JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, Bootstrap, JavaScript.  • Developed SOAP and REST web services using Hibernate.  • Configured the front end of the application using JSF framework.  • Involved in developing the application, which are developed using Hibernate, RESTful Web services.  • Developed data replication mechanism using Spring Batch to replicate bulk data from csv to application database.  • Analyze and fix issues related to SOAP Web services and Application responses.  • Involved in producing & consuming SOAP based web services using SOAP and Hibernate.  • Implemented the Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact with database.  • Expertise in coding optimized SQL queries on SQL Database.  • Developed back-end PL/SQL packages, UNIX shell scripts for data migration and batch processing.  • Created and customized UNIX shell scripts for automating regular maintenance and batch jobs.  • For Identified the KBS scenarios and write the feature files using Gherkin and generate Step definitions using Cucumber framework • Developing Page Object classes and identifies locators and implementation of method functionality.  • Develop scripts using Selenium Web driver and Java.  • Code reviews with leads and check the code quality at development phase • Integration of Project with SAS labs and Jenkins for continuous integration of code and reporting.  • Involved in writing common methods and logger files at framework level, involved in the framework level implementations and Database connection.  • Defect Analysis, fixing and debugging issues while automation.  • Review of the Test results and comparing with the expected results • Provided ongoing technical support to businesses and end users.    Project 2: EMV(Rebellion Payments) Sr. Java Developer FedEx - Collierville, TN August 2017 to June 2018 Technologies: JQuery, CSS, HTML, JSP, Oracle, JSON, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Batch, Bootstrap, SOAP UI, GIT, REST, JPA, Shell Scripting, JBoss, Cucumber, Maven, TestNG, Jenkins,Cassandra DB.    FedEx, Collierville, TN Aug 2017 - Jun 2018  Sr. Java Developer    Responsibilities: • Worked on complete Agile Development, story grooming, estimations, retrospectives and spring planning.  • Developed user interface with HTML5, CSS3, SAAS, JSON, AJAX, Angular 2 and Type Script.  • Worked with single page application framework Angular 2 extensively using routing, services, views, directives navigation through the different status and multiple modules.  • Used Angular 2 for HTTP Module to make API calls and worked with the observables.  • Designed and Developed REST Web Services based on REST architecture, implemented various HTTP methods, did Error Handling to provided data to the front end Angular 2 in JSON format.  • Designed modular and reusable React components using Redux Architecture and Material-UI.  • Developed RESTful service interface using Spring Boot to the underlying Agent Services API.  • Established simulation service with Spring Bootand REST.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using Spring Boot.  • Developed Multi-Threaded Producer and Consumer MQ applications using spring boot.  • Developed RESTful service interface using Spring Boot to the underlying Agent Services API.  • Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  • Integrated Spring ORM frameworks Hibernate for database operations with ORACLE.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions and Cache concepts.  • Used Apache Kafka for building real-time streaming data pipelines (Message Queues) for asynchronous exchange of vital information between multiple business applications.  • Written SQL Scripts and PL/SQL Scripts to extract data from Database and for Testing Purposes.  • Supporting daily loads and work with business users to handle rejected data.  • Developed Interfaces using UNIX Shell Scripts to automate the bulk load & update Processes.  • Executing test scripts to verify actual results against expected results by using Power Connect for source (DB2) validation and Oracle for target validations.  • Performed Service Level Testing for Web services using Soap UI.  • Supported Change Management Tasks to deploy code in QA Cert Testing and then into Production.  • Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions.  • Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Performed unit testing for java using JUnit and Jasmine framework for JavaScript testing.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, SAAS, Type Script, Bootstrap, Java 1.8, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Angular 2.0, REST Web Services, ReactJS, AWS, EC2, S3, Soap UI, Docker, AXON, Apache Kafka, JUnit, Jasmine. Java Developer Penn National Gaming - Reading, PA May 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities: • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality.  • Developed and designed User Interface using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angular JS.  • Developed the J2EE application based on the Service Oriented Architecture.  • DevelopedUser Interface with technologies like HTML, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Used Angular two-way binding and implemented the search functionality using Angular JS.  • Used Angular JS Directives like ng-app, ng-model, ng-repeat, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-controller, ng-route.  • Involved in configuring mapping files and POJO objects and used Singleton Design Pattern for web application.  • Implemented logging using log4j and implemented various cross-project functionalities using Spring AOP.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC to maintain loose coupling between the layers.  • Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  • Used Apache Maven for project management and building the application.  • Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs and CVS was used for project management and version management.  • Performed Regression testing on new builds, every modification in the application using Selenium Web driver.  • Deployed the application onto WebLogic application server and developed Functional Requirement Document for Beans Binding and seamless integration with spring framework and for routing unit test by Apache Camel.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to quickly build, deploy and update the applications • Used ANT and Jenkins for Build process and continuous integration.  • Utilized Grunt and Node for templating and build, component-based Angular architecture and SASS preprocessing • Implemented core javaMultithreading, Collections, Exception handling and used generics.  • Developed test driven development code using JUnit.  • Involved in requirements gathering and Capacity planning for Multi-Data and Cassandra Cluster.  • Used Karma Test runner and Jasmine Testing frameworks.    Environment: Cassandra, J2EE, Java 1.6, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, Hibernate, JSP 2.0, Angular JS, Web services, XML, AWS, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, JQuery, Log4j, JavaScript,  Oracle 10g, WebLogic, Apache Maven, HTML 5, karma, Jasmine, JUnit, Jenkins. Java Developer First Data Corporation - Hagerstown, MD December 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities: • Designed, coded, implemented, optimization and tested new features and modules for the derivatives system as part of an Agile team and improved automation test suites.  • Utilized Modernizer extensively to build HTML5/CSS3 based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible.  • Implemented client-side Interface using ReactJS. Worked on responsive design and developed a single web page applications responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React JS.  • Utilized create-react-app to launch product to stay update with current Webpack configuration.  • Gained Knowledge on Electrode Platform NodeJS/Web platform built on top of the ReactJS frameworks.  • Developed Web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Developed Spring Boot to fasten the application for removing boiler plate configurations.  • Used loosely coupled architecture Spring Boot. Developed Micro Services in the application by using Spring Boot.  • Developed Micro Services for service-oriented architecture to build flexible and independently deployable software.  • Developed RESTWeb Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other Enterprise Wide Web Services.  • Worked with Spring AOP module to perform logging operations.  • Developed independent Microservices using Spring Boot Rest Controller model and are deployed on UNIX boxes.  • Employed Spring Boot for initialize and bootstrapping the build configuration for the boot-based web applications.  • Development of cloud hosted web applications and REST APIs using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat.  • Extensively Used Jenkins as Continuous Integration tools to deploy the Spring Boot Microservices to Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) using build pack. Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to quickly build, deploy and update the applications.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence on to the database.  • Developed different join strategies with Hibernate to improve performance while retrieving collection items.  • Used Spring MVC and Hibernate to establish the Connection with Database for Stored Procedures.  • Involved in implementing Queries to the backend MongoDB database using Http service to fetch JSON contract.  • Unstructured data was handled using Mongo DB and used Mongoose Connector for connecting to database.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts and queries to fetch and test data from NoSQL databases.  • Responsible for installation & configuration of Jenkins to support various Java builds and Jenkins plugins to automate continuous builds and publishing Docker images to the Nexus repository.  • Used CI/CD tools Jenkins, Git/Gitlaband Docker registry for configuration and automation using Ansible.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services specifically on AWS EC2.  • Performed UI and front-end testing using Selenium. Developed test case and performed unit testing with Mocha    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, React JS, Babel, Spring Boot, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Hibernate, NodeJS, Webpack, JSON, Jenkins, GIT, Docker, Nexus, Mongoose, MongoDB, Chai, Webpack, Mocha, and Selenium. Java App Developer SunTrust Bank September 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities: • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC-2) Architecture using Jakarta Struts framework at presentation tier.  • Used Struts frameworks and MVC design patterns to complete several projects on complex areas of development including user interface design, batch processing, stored procedure development, XML, data exchange and integration.  • Extensive use of Struts Framework for Controller components and view components.  • Implemented Spring IOC for inter connection between modules in our application.  • Designed and Developed UI using JSP by following MVC architecture.  • The Java Message Service (JMS) API used to allow application components to create, send, receive, and read messages.  • Used JUnit for unit testing of the system and Log4J for logging.  • Created and maintained data using Oracle database and used JDBC for database connectivity.  • Created Data Access Objects to fetch data from database with SQL queries.  • Developed Shell Scripts used to monitor production applications, start and stop custom Java applications.  • Used Java Multithreading concept to concurrently execute small parts of the code.  • Installed Web Logic Server for handling HTTP Request/Response and controlled using Session Tracking in JSP.    Environment:Core Java, J2EE 1.3, JSP 1.2, Structs, Spring IOC, EJB 2.0, Struts 1.1, JDBC 2.1, Oracle 8i, UML, JMS,XML, Web Logic 7.0, MVC Design Pattern, Eclipse 2.1, Log4j and JUnit Education Bachelor's in architecture Ingenico and IPC management Ingenico and IPC Skills Api (4 years), J2ee (4 years), Java (7 years), Oracle (5 years), web services (5 years) Additional Information Skills:    Languages/API: Java/J2EE, JDBC,UML, Design Patterns, ANT, PHP.  Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Hibernate  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DHTML, Servlets, JSPs, EJB, JMS, XML, XSLT, XSD, JSF, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, NodeJs, ReactJs, JSON.  Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere and J-Boss  IDE's: Eclipse, NetBeans.  Databases: Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, and NoSQL (mongo)  Web services: AXIS, SOAP, WSDL and Restful  Version Control: GIT, BITBUCKET.  Scripting Language: Shell Script, Java Script