Job Seeker Java Developer Fairfield, IA Knowledgeable Java Developer with over 4 years of experience in implementing applications using JavaEE, Servlet, JSP, Thymeleaf, spring, and Hibernate,microservice,RESTful services. Skilled in using relational non-relational databases and building web services through complete software development lifecycle along with Design Patterns. Excellent team player with experience in collaborating with diverse cross-functional teams. Work Experience MUMSched App, Maharishi University of Management 2019 to Present 2019): Designed web application to manage course scheduling when integrated with existing student registration system. Created more than 16 Use Cases. Developed database and user interface for use by faculty, staff, and students. Technologies Used: Java, JavaScript, Boot Strap, Spring Tool Suite, Maven, Apache Tomcat, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Spring Security. ETHIO TELECOM - Addis Ababa, ET October 2013 to October 2018 Integrated telecommunications services provider with more than 50 million subscribers and over 22,000 employees Airline Ticket Reservation System, Maharishi University of Management 2018 to 2018 Created airline ticket reservation system retrieving flight info from 3rd-party systems to book flights. Cooperated with 4-person team. Technologies Used: Java, RabbitMQ, AMQP, Spring ORM, Spring Tool Suite, RESTful Web Service. Java Developer 2013 to 2018 Designed and developed a number of process-oriented web applications. Worked on a large web services integration project. Engaged in a unit testing and system testing  Tasks Performed:  • Created quality Java code based on requirement specifications.  • Developed multiple UI features of customer support system using HTML 5, CSS and javascript  • Used JQuery and AJAX to transfer information to interconnected forms  • Developed single page and Multiple pages web applications for Customer Resource Management system using spring and hibernate  • Implemented the business logic and data accessing codes in separate layers using Spring and Hibernate  • Mapped objects to a relational database entities(MYSQL) in a programmatic transaction using JPA  • Successfully Developed microservices and integrated them using Spring Cloud and JMS  • Conducted troubleshooting, debugging and upgrading of an existing Inventory Management system  • Undergone features test and integration test among subsystems using Junit and Mockito.  • Designed, developed and deployed an E-guard system to collect current data of remote telecom sites using java and javaFx.  • Developed RESTful webservices using Spring.  • Implemented method level and URL level token-based authentication using spring security.  • Implemented MVC design pattern to separate / decouple UI from business logic and DAO pattern at data access layer.  • Created employee leave management subsystem and per diem requesting module using Spring Data and Spring MVC with REST API  • Developed task management web application that streamlined IT department operations and reporting  • Designed Database schema and implemented itusing MySQL  • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis    • Designed class diagrams and created use cases, sequence diagrams, and collaboration diagrams.    Achievements:  • Increased sales of telecommunications services by 40% after developing customer relationship management system.  • Increased customer satisfaction by introducing modern customer support system which helped Ethio telecom to rapidly address subscriber issues, to improve call center staff reachability time and reduced the number of staffs involved in serving complaints over a phone or in person  • Streamlined business processes by automating Inventory Management System.  • Enhanced user satisfaction by developing and integrating Billing management process module.  • Reduced paper waste by more than 80% as a result of using an employee leave request subsystem and per diem management module.  • Delivered significant savings by avoiding overstocking of products and outages by using automated warehouse management system which had previously poor functionality and performance  • Improved telecom sites monitoring trend and hence avoided sabotage of fuels and performance of Generators and Batteries through analysis of gathered real-time data.    Technologies Used: Java, JavaScript, Spring, Spring Data, web services, RabbitMq, JMS XML, SQL, JQuery, HTML5, CSS, Servlet, Tymleaf, JSP, AJAX, JSON, MongoDB, SQL, MySQL, Glassfish, Tomcat, MS Access, Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio, Atom, IntelliJ IDEA, Star (UML Modeling Tool), JUnit, , MVC, Singleton, Factory Method, Iterator, Composite, Windows. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA June 2021 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Hilcoe School of Computer Science - Addis Ababa, ET Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering Bahir Dar University Skills Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring Boot (4 years), RESTful Web Service, (3 years), RabbitMQ,JMS (2 years), : Java 7 / 8, SQL (5 years), : Apache Web Server / Apache Tomcat, (3 years), Hibernate (4 years), JUnit, ,Mockito, Git (4 years), MS SQL, MySQL, MongoDB (3 years), JSP, Tymleaf,Servlets, XML,CSS, HTML, jQuery,Javascript (4 years), : RUP, Agile / Scrum, Waterfall (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dawit-asefa Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate, Java SE Programmer April 2018 to Present Java 7 and 8 features Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) December 2017 to December 2020