Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - GROUPON • Around 7 years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, Struts, spring 3.0/2.0, Spring Web Services, Spring Boot, Spring Integration, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading etc.  • Experienced with developing rich user interface applications using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, React JS, jQuery Mobile, XML, JSON that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Good experience in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOAD) using different design methodologies/ process frameworks like SDLC, Rational Unified Process (RUP) and tools like UML, Rational Rose.  • Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Experience in using Struts, Spring & Hibernate framework for various web/portal based application development.  • Worked with BEA Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, and Apache Tomcat & JBOSS Application server.  • Proficient in XML technologies like XSL/XSLT, SAX, DOM, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, Schema, SOA, JAXB, JAXP.  • Good hands on experience in developing web applications such as MVC Architecture using Struts & Spring Framework, developing custom tag libraries for JSP Pages.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts like JSP, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multithreading etc.  • Experienced Implementing Microservices. We had worked in an Enterprise Application where we had to implement microservices to separate the tasks and not to have dependency on other Parallel on-going tasks of same Application.  • Experience in re architecting Monolithic web application to Microservices and AWS cloud using Docker.  • Strong Experience of Angular JS to interact with a web service to render the page from data returned from the service.  • Good experience in Unit Testing using JUnit and Version control using CVS, SVN.  • Hands on experience in configuring of build files with ANT, Maven and logging using log4J.  • Involved in Data Integration using Java Web Services (JAX-WS, JAX-RS)  • Proficient in RDBMS using Oracle 11g/10g.9i, IBM DB2, MySQL database servers.  • Hands-on experience with UNIX, Linux environments.  • Experience in building and deploying applications on Application/Web Servers like Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic.  • Experienced in using various IDEs like Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Hands on experience with JUnit in performing unit test and Log4J in determining the application functionality.  • Production Support-Provided development (quick fixes) and technical support for complex/ critical applications. Coordinated with other teams to resolve end-user issues promptly.  • Rich work exposure in software development with responsibilities as Team Coordinator and Team Member being involved in the project life cycle. Work Experience Java Developer GROUPON - Chicago, IL September 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with the team to analyze the business requirement and scenarios and driving suitable solutions in an agile development environment.  • Developed JSP and Servlet with Core java coding for the back-end service and used AJAX to connect to the back-end.  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Heavily used Core java (Collection API, Exception Handling, Generics, Annotation) to manipulate and transfer data in the back-end.  • Planned and coordinated Oracle database upgrade from 10g to 11g.  • Used Spring framework for IOC (Inverse of Control), security and managed other Java Beans and Spring Boot to build Microservices.  • Involved in design discussions, review meetings with Avis clients and provide design and development estimates based on the complexity of the service (s)  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures with Ref Cursors for Actuate reports.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins, GitHub, and AWS.  • Design and develop the useful microservices using Spring Boot.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL.  • Developed restful resources using spring and Jersey to serve the web application data in JSON format and used Apache Camel for messaging routing, http endpoints and used free marker to customize the rest responses.  • Developed the service layer, a layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with spring framework.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript framework like Angular.JS, Node.js.  • Developed applications using Application Lifecycle Management to deliver reliable applications  • Configured development environment using WebLogic application server for developer's integration testing.  • Developed DAO's for retrieving the data from the database.  • Developed the distributed Java Applications using core Java, thread/Concurrency Exception handling, Java Lang, Memory Management, Collections, IO.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including AWS.  • Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB, in order to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  • Designed, developed and tested Java/J2EE/JEE/Portal applications also using Spring and Spring IOC.  • Worked on Spring DAO, Spring MVC and Spring AOP Interceptors in Logging and Auditing.  • Requests were processed using the powerful Scala collections and persisted to the database in synchronous fashion.  • Solid understanding of React Virtual DOM Algorithm, for React performance optimization  • Used Tomcat as web server to store the static contents and JBoss as application server.  • Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Client and Server layer.  • Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration  • Testing and used JTest Tool for performance testing.    Environment: Java, J2ee, Servlet, Angular 2, MVC, JSF, Spring, AWS, Struts 1.2 & 2.0, Struts tag library, AngularJS, JQuery, JavaScript, XSLT, Spring Web Services, REST, Microservices, SOAP, XML, JUnit, JDBC, JNI, AJAX, Maven, Log4J, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL Java Developer GROUPON 2015 to Present Java Developer eBay - San Jose, CA May 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Heavily used Core java (Collection API, Exception Handling, Generics, Annotation) to manipulate and transfer data in the back-end.  • Involved in design and implementation of web tier using Servlets and JSP.  • Worked closely with internal clients to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various knowledge research applications.  • Developed the user interface using JSP and Java Script to view all online trading transactions.  • Testing and production support of Core java based multithreading ETL tool for distributed loading XML data into Oracle11g database using JPA/Hibernate.  • Developed highly Complex Stored Procedures, Packages, Functions, Cursors and Materialized Views in PL/SQL Developer, Toad in Oracle 10genvironment.  • Implementing Microservices and modules using cutting edge reactive technologies.  • Created client-side validation tool using Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Writing Asynchronous code on the server-side for fetching data and communicating with the front-end application using AJAX calls from Front-End application using jQuery.  • Coded and debugged the stored Procedures, Packages and Views in Oracle Databases using SQL and PL/SQL, which were called by user-oriented application modules.  • Built the reusable service components using Angular JS services with Object Oriented JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS3 based on the visual designs.  • Developed various AngularJS directives to help build the functionality and UI behavior using JavaScript with extensive knowledge of and use of Angular JS directives to bring additional functionality to HTML.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL.  • Developed the service layer, a layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with spring framework.  • Implemented Microservices architecture to convert monolithic heavy application into smaller applications.  • Used Gulp as a build tool in this project for the tasks like building scripts, minifying and bundling the JavaScript files.  • Used Tomcat as web server to store the static contents and JBoss as application server.  • Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Client and Server layer.    Environment: JavaScript, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, Angular-JS, JSON, MongoDB, RESTful web service, Microservices, Docker, SASS, Agile, JIRA, GIT. Java Developer Wright Express November 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design discussions, review meetings with clients and provide design and development estimates based on the complexity of the service (s)  • Developed the frontend and service layer, a layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with spring framework.  • Used Multithreading and Concurrency and implemented threads while preparing and generating mails.  • Developed applications using Application Lifecycle Management to deliver reliable applications.  • Developed persistence Layer using Hibernate to persist the data and to manage the data  • Implemented the web tier using Spring MVC and all components therein, Simple Form Controller, Parametrizable View Controller, and so on.  • Used Spring Injection/Inversion of Control, Hibernate ORM to get data as objects and for backend Queries writing easily.  • Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, JavaScript  • Developed Hibernate configuration files and queries and Implemented DAO classes  • Implemented Spring Boot and Spring Security features.  • AJAX was used to perform simple XMLHttpRequest callbacks for retrieving data dynamically into the client pages.  • Designed the data model from scratch capturing best practices for ORM as it applied to the problem at hand.  • Heavily used Core java (Collection API, Exception Handling, Generics, and Annotation) to manipulate and transfer data in the back-end.  • Interfaced with the data architect and provided direction to the approach and the solution.  • Persistence mechanism implemented using Hibernate utilizing Table per subclass inheritance based mapping, component mapping and another association mapping.  • Oracle used as the relational backend.  • Designed and developed several SQL Scripts, Stored Procedures and Triggers for Oracle10g Database.  • Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing using junit.  • Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing and used JTest Tool for performance testing.  • Used Tomcat as web server to store the static contents and JBoss as application server.  • Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Client and Server layer.    Environment: Java, Hibernate, Struts, XML, TortoiseSVN, JSP, MVC, J2EE, React Js, Servlet, Web Services, REST, SOAP, JUnit, Maven, JDBC, JNI, AJAX, Log4J, Oracle 10g, JavaScript, PL/SQL, Tomcat, eclipse.