Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Miami, FL • Around 5 years of experience in the IT industry with diversified exposure in Software Process Engineering, designing, building and testing a Web Application using Java/J2EE technology.  • Proficient working with Design, Development, and Implementation in the field of Web Applications development using HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, JSON, Restful web services and Responsive web designing, JAXP, JAXB, JSON, JSTL, Backbone JS, PHP, Express JS, YUI (yahoo UI) Ext JS, React JS, Node JS and AJAX meeting W3C standards.  • Expertise in server-side development with JDBC, JNDI, Servlets, spring frameworks like MVC architecture, spring boot, analyzing data with Hive, Spark using Scala scripts in yaml and xml to manage Database Test data.  • Expertise using Spring Cloud-Netflix OSS stack for microservices deployment and auto configurations like Ribbon (client-side Load Balancer), Hystrix (latency and fault tolerance library), Zuul (gate way for routing, monitoring, security) with Eureka service registry and log management with ELK.  • Proficient in working on various Spring modules (Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot and AOP, Batch, cloud, security) along with Hibernate and JPA as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Experience using Pivotal Cloud Foundry for building cloud native services  • Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement and Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement and enhanced the customer search experience by developing searchable components with Splunk.  • Hands-on writing Stored Procedures, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL, PL/SQL programming.  • Strong experience on Hibernate and in using Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching etc.  • Experience in designing User Interactive UI Web Pages and visually appealing User Interfaces with the help of HTML 5 and CSS3.  • Expertise in Web Services Technologies like SOAP with WSDL and RESTful using JAX-RS specification with Jersey, spring, Apache CXF and Node-JS and implemented SOA architecture with web services.  • Expertise in coding optimized SQL queries on databases like My SQL, SQL Server and Oracle DDL and DML.  • Worked on IDE's like Microsoft visual studio, Sublime text, IntelliJ, Web Storm and Eclipse.  • Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Factory, Abstract Factory, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  • Experience in developing web applications using MVC, MVVM, MVP, Singleton architectures.  • Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT, JIRA and Jenkins.  Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD) with involvement in several web application development projects.  • Good knowledge on Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud platform.  • Solid knowledge on Core Java, Multi-threading, Algorithms and Object-Oriented concepts as well as have good experience with web services like RESTFUL, SOAP.  • Implemented XML and related technologies like XSL, XSTL, XPATH and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  • Experience in spring framework (MVC) and Struts (MVC Architecture, interceptors, action mappings and resource bundles).  • Good knowledge in deploying applications on web servers like Apache Tomcat, Glassfish and IBM WebSphere.  • Hands on experiences with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, File Handling I/O, Generics, Data Structures and Collections and Garbage Collection. Work Experience Java Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA November 2018 to Present • Involved in analysis of requirements, design, development, Unit and Integration testing, and performance management of TCS BANCS application.  • Designed and developed a RESTful hub application which resolved the Single-Sign-On authentication of the target secured REST services.  • Used Microservices with Spring Boot services and combination of REST, Apache Kafka broker as well as Involved in development and design of OOPS design and concepts such as Collections, Multithreading and Exception Handling.  • Interacted with Business Analysts and Subject Matter Experts to understand the requirements and any clarifications required by team.  • Involve in Up-gradation of existing system into technical platform and building in environment in cloud base Pivotal cloud foundry (PCF) platform. Mapping them into system requirements specifications.  • Data sources from Injection micro services produce and consume data from apache Kafka to enhance data from enhancer micro services.  • Creation of Scripts of Data Definition Language (DDL), Data Manipulation Language ( DML) and Data Control Language.  • Implemented Spring Cloud-Netflix OSS Stack along with using Ribbon for client-side load balancing, Netflix Zuul Api Gateway with Eureka service registry for reverse proxy infrastructure and Hystrix Circuit Breaker for fault tolerance.  • Followed agile methodology, interacted with the client, provide/take feedback on the features, suggest/implement optimal solutions and tailored application to customer needs.  • Developed new features required by Transamerica to be integrated to the TCS BaNCS Application.  • Converted complex excel formulas and multi sheet excels into Java code for to be used for calculations for various types of Insurance such as Life, Health, Annuities.  • Configured an optimal Spring-Boot micro- service which exposes Cassandra NoSQL payload via JBoss RESTEasy platform and multiple Transaction Managers.  • Created JUnit test cases, and Development of JUnit classes. Test driven development approach was used and hence worked intensively on developing test cases.  • Coordinated with Quality Assurance Team to ensure the validation of the system is without any issues.  • Integrated with Eureka components for Service Discovery, Load Balancing and other services  • Involved in code review process, validating designs done by other developers and development of the application.  • Quality Control Activities such as defect tracking, fixing using TCS Mastercraft.  • Analyzed the application performance using application performance monitoring tools like Dynatrace, Splunk, Introscope, SiteScope.  • Developed micro-service using Completable Future pipelines with custom Push-Back Policy  • Made sure the Average Response Time for supported services were matching the competitors' using the Dynatrace Reports. Fine-tuned the configurations if needed.  • Created new dashboards in Splunk using multiple Splunk queries. Also created alerts and reports to retrieve required data over a regular period of time.  • Made sure there were no customer impacting, as well as contact/banking center agent impacting issues and prioritized to resolve the issues as quickly as possible if any.  • Analyzed production defects and suggested fix/resolution for the issue to development and breakfix teams.  • Used Node.js for deploying POC and used for Bower and other development automation tasks.  • Used Scala collection framework to store and process complex device metadata and other related information.  • Used Hapi.js which is fast, assertive, essential and moderate web framework of Node.js that helps manage a server and routes. Circuit Breaker and Ribbon Mc Donald's Corporation - Chicago, IL September 2017 to October 2018 Chicago IL  • Analyzed the business requirements of the project by studying the Business Requirement Specification document.  • Worked with Data Governance, Data quality, Data architect to design various models and processes.  • Used a Microservice architecture, designed and developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Boot framework.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services.  • Used ANT scripts to fetch, build, and deploy application to development environment worked on SCALA technologies.  • Written DDL, DML queries to insert, retrieve and modify the data from database.  • Converting all legacy applications to cloud native by Spring BOOT, Soring Cloud in to PCF (Pivotal Cloud Foundry).  • Implemented SOA to develop Spring Restful/Micro Services and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis  • Building cloud Microservices and implemented back-end using Spring Boot. And Authored application using Spring Cloud services (spring version of Netflix OSS- Eureka that helps in routing, Circuit Breaker and Ribbon for client-side load balancing).  • Integrated Node.js with Hapi.js and communicated with Mongo dB for CRUD operations on the data repository.  • The back-end use of Node.js, Hapi.js, MongoDB and Mongoose the complete MERN Stack to provide RESTful API.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from Node Package Manager (NPM) and Flux library.  • Proficient in technologies Java, J2EE, Scala, Play Framework, Ruby, Apache Camel, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Junit, Log4j, Ant, Maven, SBT, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, XML, JSON, Custom Tag Libraries.  • Developed dynamic and responsive web pages to user interface screens using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Created reusable components and used across various modules using Angular custom libraries.  • Developed a dashboard based on Ajax calls with Business customers count, Flags, Real-time graphs for analytical reporting using Node.js.  • Worked in using React JS Components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Extensively worked in writing minimal code in building re-usable forms with their validations using REACT with Flux Architecture.  • Performed CRUD operations like Create, Update, Insert and Delete data in MongodB.  • Worked on Mongo dB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication and schema design.  • Configured mongo-connector to create a pipeline from the MongoDB cluster to keep synchronize with the multiple sources like Elastic Search or another MongoDB cluster.  • Used Docker Engine and Docker Machine environment, to deploy the micro services-oriented environments for scalable application.  • Designed and developed custom message adapter components using Apache Kafka that allowed the message to travel through Micro services to base on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Implemented Netflix Zuul API gateway for all the requests from the devices and by registering services to Eureka.  • Deployed the Docker image of services building Docker file and build a continuous delivery pipeline for containers using AWS Code and Amazon ECS.  • Designed and deployed a multitude application utilizing almost all the AWS stack which Includes EC2, MongoDB, Docker, Kubernetes Orchestration container focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Worked on AWS Cloud Front, S3 and Lambda Web Services to integrate the server side and client-side code.  • Worked with app developers during API development, to implement a secure server by using OAuth2 between server and client applications.  • Maintained log delivery system by creating a producer, consumer and broker architecture using Apache Kafka Amdocs - IN July 2013 to March 2015 • Involved in different software lifecycle stages like Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of the project.  • Worked closely with the Middleware and System Administrators in providing technical expertise from the development and implementation perspectives, especially with NodeJS Web and Tomcat servers.  • Developed REST APIs using Scala and Play framework to retrieve processed data from Cassandra database.  • Designed and developed the DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC template, using Spring Boot.  • Developed responsive UI layer utilizing Semantic HTML, REST API architecture. Developed front end for the entire website using HTML5, CSS3, and JAVASCRIPT.  • Involved in designing user screens and validations using HTML 5, jQuery and JSF as per user requirements.  • Extensively used Java features such as Lambda Expressions, Parallel operations on collections for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Used Spark streaming with Scala to consume real-time data from the Kafka cluster and run arbitrations  • Built microservices with Spring Boot to serve multiple applications across the organization. The data is provided & consumed in JSON.  • Created RFP microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Micro Services.  • Developed the application using Angular 4.0 and implemented Angular services to connect the web application to back-end APIs.  • Involved in Designed and implemented a stream filtering system on top of Apache Kafka to reduce stream size.  • Authored REST based Web API wrappers to integrate with conventional Web Services. Developed.  • Creating & establishing of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Used Spring Core annotations for Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC for Rest API's and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Implemented Angular services to connect the web application to back-end APIs.  • SPRING Controllers were used with Angular JS to route the control to desired Java services.  • Used GITHUB as the configuration management tool to manage the code repository.  • Wrote Client Side and Server-Side validations by using Java Script along with inbuilt Angular validations.  • Mapped business objects to database using Hibernate.  • Refactored and enhanced an existing Angular JS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance which resulted in significant percentage of code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer to spin up and enhanced performance.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services.  • Maintained Docker containers where microservices are deployed.  • Used Web services (SOAP, REST) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Deployed applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing. Node Package Manager Accenture - IN August 2012 to July 2013 India Aug 2012 to July 2013  • Implemented SOAP based web services using Apache Axis with JAX-WS support. Used SoapUI to test the web services.  • Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud.  • Designed and implemented a low-latency, high-availability, and performant applications by using Node.js.  • Used a Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot framework and was also involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.  • Developed the date layer for the applications using Spring Hibernate ORM and developed various business logic and services using HQL and Hibernate Criteria.  • Developed entity classes and mapped to the relational tables in database using JPA and hibernate mapping files.  • Worked on Oracle as the backend database and used hibernate to automate the mapping between the SQL Databases and the Java Objects.  • Built spring-based Java and Scala micro services to support enterprise web application.  • Designed and developed REST APIs using Spring Boot and Microservices for exposing the services utilized for risk assessment by various other applications.  • Configured WebLogic Application Server for deployments and participated in structured code reviews /walkthroughs.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Wrote unit test scripts using TestNG framework for testing functionalities in a Test-Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Wrote scripts for automated web application testing using Selenium Web driver as well as played a vital role in Scala framework for web-based applications  • Used JIRA for tracking bugs. Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration Builds and deployments (CI/CD).  • Mapped tables in database using Hibernate and Scala Education Master's in Information System in Information System Illinious state University 2017 to 2019 Bachelor's in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering Christ University Bengaluru - Bengaluru, Karnataka 2012 to 2016 Skills J2EE, Cucumber, DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, OBJECT ORIENTED, Java, Hibernate, Java J2Ee, Spring