Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Deloitte Consulting LLP & QUALIFICATIONS    • 6 years of professional experience in Software Development Methodology such as SDLC, Agile, Waterfall, Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing of Object Oriented applications and Web based Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE on UNIX and Windows platforms.  • Proficient in OOAD Technologies developing use cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using case tools like Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose.  • Experience in web technologies like Angular JS, AJAX, jQuery, JSP, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JSON and JavaScript.  • Proficient with Web Page Development using Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node.js, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, XML, AJAX and JSON.  • Experienced in developing MVC framework-based websites using JSF, Struts and spring.  • Developed web-based enterprise applications using core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), MVC framework (Struts, Spring MVC), SQL and Object-Oriented Programming techniques. Expertise XML technologies like DTD, XSD, XSLT and various parsers like DOM, SAX and JAXB.  • Experience in development of REST and SOAP based web services using AXIS, WSDL, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, AJAX technologies  • Designed, configured and managed public/private cloud infrastructures utilizing Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience using the various applications Servers Web Sphere, JBoss, Web Logic, and Tomcat.  • Experience in SQL, PL/SQL programming, stored procedures, triggers with Oracle, MySQL and DB2 databases.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit, integration and deployment of applications done using tools Ant and Maven &debugging through log4j  • Experience in building applications using ANT, Maven and Gradle.  • Experience in using source code management tools like - Tortoise SVN, CVS, GitHub  • Experience of working with several platforms like Windows/NT/XP/Vista, UNIX and LINUX.  • Excellent communication, analytical and interpersonal skills and highly motivated team player with ability to work independently Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Deloitte Consulting LLP May 2019 to Present Project Description: KHIE project is all about maintaining and storing the hospital electronic information of various providers of Kentucky State. The system which we develop in this project will transform and maintain the health care data using HL7 (Health level seven) standards according to their requirements, the transformed health data will be consumed by the clients.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Agile Methodology that includes daily scrum meetings with the team.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like AngularJS.  • Designed dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, for single page applications.  • Worked on AJAX implementation to retrieve the content and for displaying it without reloading the existing page.  • Used Micro services architecture to break down the monolithic application to independent components.  • Developed and Designed Application using Spring Boot to Develop Microservices.  • Developed Microservices components using Docker, Apache Camel and ActiveMQ.  • Developed Microservices to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Involved in development of REST Web Services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from databases and implementing the Microservices to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Involved in the implementation of Data Access Layer using Spring Data JPA.  • Customized RESTful Web Service layer to interface with DB2 system for sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Worked on application to automated content extraction using Documentum Process Builder email content and file system extract.  • Improved the performance of the backend batch processes using Multithreading and concurrent package API.  • Used JBPM to control some of the workflows in a different module of the application providing the interface documents for approval.  • Implementing Swagger Configuration in Java Spring boot for auto generating swagger JSON files for REST API call.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the various mappings in hibernate files and created DAO layer.  • Developed Hibernate and Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Experienced with XML related technologies such as XSL, XSLT, DOM, and SAX.  • Implemented XML Schema as part of XQuery query language  • Experience working on Application Servers like JBoss Application Server and Apache Tomcat.  • Extensively used the Tomcat Server for application development and production.  • Worked with JAXB, SAXP and XML Schema for exporting data into XML format and importing data from XML format to database.  • Used Maven as build automation tool for deploying the project on WebSphere Application Server.  • Use Jenkins in alongside with Maven to Compile & Build Microservices code and configure the Build Triggers.  • Hands on experience in automated JUnit testing tool as well as Mockito framework.  • Worked on JIRA for User requirements and used Jira as bug tracking tools.  • Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Used Log4j for logging and debugging the application.  Environment: Java 1.8 Spring 4.1.1, Spring Boot, Oracle 12c, Microservices, AngularJS, Tomcat, Web Services (REST), Sl4j, Maven, GIT, Jira, XML, DOM, XSLT, MySQL, Docker, JSON, XML Schema, Agile and SDLC. Java/J2EE Developer Deloitte Consulting LLP - New York, NY November 2018 to April 2019 Project Description: NYDFS regulation. All of these banks and financial services companies must secure their assets and customer accounts against cyberattacks in compliance with the NYDFS Cybersecurity Requirements for Financial Services Companies Under the regulation, banks and financial services providers must secure their own systems as well as implement third-party risk management programs.IT systems. Developed a mobile application for Store Operators to perform services to customers which involve Placing an Order, Review Order, Make an Online Payment and Cancel Orders. The analyst interacts with the business stakeholders. gathers, documents, and analyzes business needs and requirement staying up-to-date on the latest process and to automate and modernize systems.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in an Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design.  • Implemented Business Delegate, Design, Facade, Service locator, Singleton, Factory method, Template method, Observer, Data Access Objects, Transfer Objects JEE design patterns.  • Implemented the service layer based on a Spring container and exploited Spring's IOC features for bean management.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM. Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  • Implemented jQuery based accordion styles and handled complete jQuery in showing Rich Internet Application.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Developed application on spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web flow with Spring MVC. Used spring's dependency injection for injecting entity manager and managed beans into spring beans.  • Working extensively with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from oracle database. Developed Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB 3.0) for implementing application's business rules and policies.  • Familiarity with Service oriented architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming Restful web services based on JAX-RS and Jersey. Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client side validations and to achieve other client-side event handling.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, Java Server Faces 2.0 (JSF 2.0), JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX. Coded in AngularJS MVC Framework to make single page app (spa) and complex price configurations pages.  • Used Spring Security framework for login authentication, password hashing. Worked on Java Message Service (JMS) API for developing message-oriented middleware (MOM) layer for handling various asynchronous requests. Worked with topic for creating publish/subscribe-messaging model.  • Used D3.js and Angular to construct data visualization. Developed persistence layer based on JPA framework for providing POJO persistence model for object-relational mapping.  • Used Concurrent Version System (CVS) as source control tool. Developed unit test cases and suits on Junit framework for unit testing. Used Maven for building, deploying application, creating JPA based entity objects and compiling GWT application.  • Used Business Process and Decision Management Design using JBoss JBPM and JBoss Drools Rules Engine.  • Developed the web applications even under pressure when time line occurs.  • Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, and JavaScript.  • Tested each and every application with using validators and handled multiple modules simultaneously to achieve the application.  Environment: Spring 3.1, J2EE 1.7, Spring JDBC Templet, Spring Batch, AJAX, XML, CSS, CSS 3, HTML 5, JavaScript, Oracle 10g/11i, Maven 3.0.3, MYSQL 6.1, jQuery, JUnit, REST, AngularJS. STS 3.5.1 (eclipse), Core Java, JSP's, Action Components, Tomcat Web Server. Java/J2EE Developer Deloitte Consulting LLP May 2018 to October 2018 Eligibility), PA May 2018 - Oct 2018  Industry: Public Sector Service Area: Technology  Service Line: System Integration  Role: Java/J2EE Developer    Project Description: Developed a web-based Java application used by Warehouse Managers to support the day-to-day operations performed within a warehouse. It enables a centralized management of various functionalities which involves Tracking Inventory details, Verify Stock locations, Order Picking, Track Delivery and Receive Shipment operations.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM', developed and tested the application during various iterations.  • Involved in programming, testing, debugging, implementing and maintaining of J2EE client server distributed application.  • Involved in using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSP and Struts Tag Libraries to develop view pages.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS and JSON.  • Used AngularJS for fetching Data from the Server by giving URL to get JSON data for model and to populate model from the server.  • Implemented Spring MVC Controller module for better handling of client request, consume, RESTful data service and sending response back to client.  • Used Java API for XML Web Services (JAX-WS) to convert Java Objects to XML conversions. Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Implemented Rest Services using Spring MVC/Rest and Spring Security.  • Used various features of spring framework like dependency injection, integration with Hibernate.  • Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Query criteria to interact with data base (MYSQL).  • Experience in SQL, PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views and strong experience in RDBMS using Oracle (11G) Server and MySQL.  • Developed customized SQL for retrieving the data from the database worked with business and client to reach the performance parameters.  • Configured development environment using JBOSS application server for developer's integration testing.  • Involved in creating test case classes for business functions using Junit as a part of Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Created UML diagrams (use case, class, sequence, and collaboration) based on the business.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  • Used log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions, debugging and request/response/error logging.  Environment: Java 7, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.0, AJAX, JMS, XML, REST, WSDL, JDBC, JAX-WS, JavaScript, Angular JS, UML, HTML5, CSS, SVN, Log4J, Junit, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, MySQL, Maven, Jira, JSON, jQuery, JSP. Java/J2EE Developer Deloitte Consulting LLP - St of Rhode Island June 2017 to May 2018 Worker INBOX), PA Jun 2017 - May 2018  Industry: Public Sector Service Area: Technology  Service Line: software developer in java  Role: Java/J2EE Developer    Project Description: The Worker Inbox Dashboard provides an organized, high-level view of tasks in the task management solution. The dashboard provides both worker and supervisor views so that workers and supervisors can understand their workload and manage office-level work respectively. The purpose of the Worker Inbox Dashboard is as follows. Allow workers to view and prioritize tasks assigned to a worker or supervisor, allow workers to retrieve new tasks when necessary Allow supervisors to review aging tasks. It provides the user with valuable data regarding the series of requests made at the website. The product also analyses the data and identifies the bottlenecks involved in the request/response process of the monitored web sites. Web Monitor consists of a set of distributed components, which collaborates with each other, to monitor a web site.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design, development and testing  • Designed User Interface using HTML, XHTML, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP and AngularJS and XML in a responsive grid layout. Implemented responsive design template to get a new interface in Bootstrap, HTML5.  • Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML and DHTML  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS.  • Used various features in AngularJS like data binding, routing, custom filters, custom directives to meet various customized requirements  • AngularJS Ajax module is used to handle RESTful calls to enable communication between view components and server.  • Developed the application Involved in multi-tier J2EE design utilizing Spring MVC, Jakarta Struts Framework, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch and Spring ORM frameworks  • Involved developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations  • System built using Spring Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as DTO, Intercepting Filters, Singleton and Data Access Object (DAO)  • Primary focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver. Designed various types of controllers needed for services, utilities, helpers and other classes and packages including business logic handlers  • Involved in Writing Object Relation Mapping implementation using hibernate and hibernate mapping and used Hibernate for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a traditional relational database.  • Improved Insecure Direct Object References by mitigating the exposure of reference to an internal implementation object.  • Created Collections and documents and performed CRUD operations with Mongo repositories and developed ORM mappings using Hibernate and wrote Criteria, Named and HQL queries for data retrievals in the DAO layer  • Developed XML Web Services for data transfer from client to server and SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI and tested the web services with SOAP UI  • Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC  • Used Jenkins to load JAR files from Database required for running the application  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML  • Used Maven building tool for creating EAR file to be deployed in application servers. It is also used for dependency management of code in application.  Environment: Java1.6, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, AngularJS, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring boot, spring security, XML, GIT, JSP, JUnit, Maven, Apache AXIS, JAX-WS, Restful, Microservices, Log4J, Oracle 10g, JIRA JAVA Developer Deutsche Bank, FL March 2016 to May 2017 Project Description: This is a web application based on J2EE architecture. It provides web-based access to inpatient and outpatient data from the Data Repository. Users can review as well as update or enter new data through data repository. Many uses Data Repository daily for accessing patient data, which aids in making important decisions. Data Repository is mainly composed of various modules running inside of the application. The project aims to provide the company with data to develop evidence-based health policy decisions as well. The client programs are used for issuing or retrieving data from the database depending on the query for finding health policy premium.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in design and implementation of front-end controller using Struts MVC framework, JSP, JavaScript, DWR, dojo.  • Created XML schema documents based on the requirements and used JAXB for marshalling and marshalling of the XML documents.  • Followed agile methodology for development process.  • Implemented test cases for struts and java using cactus and Junit.  • Back-end access to Oracle, which used to query/update the database for enhanced reporting and advanced search of the data using Hibernate.  • Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Developed web services using JAX-WS utility  • Developed and used JMS queues to for asynchronous communication.  • Used WebLogic Server for deploying the application.  • Involved in migration from WebLogic Server 8.2 to WebLogic Server 10.3.  • Used TOAD for database and application development.  • Implemented Camel a rule-based routing and mediation engine to configure different mediation rules, for different client bases.  • Involved in Improvement of the application Performance (Query fine tunings & Code reviews).  • Provided Production Support and involved in defect fixing in QA testing.  • Monitoring the SLA's (Service Level Agreements) as per ML's policy.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Struts, JavaScript, DWR, dojo, JSP, Web services, XML, XSD, JMS, JAXB, JPA, JTA, JAX-WS, UML, Hibernate, WS (Soap). Oracle10g, WebLogic 10, ANT, PL/SQL, Eclipse 3.2, Log4j, SoapUI, cactus and Junit. JAVA Developer PG&E, CA October 2015 to February 2016 Project Description: The objective of this project was to implement a web-based frontend system which can be used by the employees, managers and higher-level management having specific role permissions for effective processing of day to day business activities in the company like leave management, project management and resource management etc.    Responsibilities:  • Technical responsibilities included high level architecture and rapid development  • Design architecture following J2EE MVC framework  • Developed interfaces using HTML, JSP pages and Struts -Presentation View  • Developed and implemented Servlets running under JBoss  • Designed the user interfaces using JSPs, developed custom tags, and used JSTL Tag Libs  • Developed various java business classes for handling different functions  • Developed controller classes using Struts and tiles API  • Used J2EE design patterns and Data Access Object (DAO) for the business tier and integration Tier layer of the project  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue  • Implemented CMP entity beans for persistence of business logic implementation  • Development of database interaction code to JDBC API making extensive use of SQL Query Statements and advanced prepared statement  • Inspection/Review of quality deliverables such as Design Documents  • Wrote SQL Scripts, Stored procedures and SQL Loader to load reference data  Environment: Java, J2EE ( Java Servlets, JSP, Struts), MVC Framework, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Oracle, SQL, HTML, JDBC, EJB. JAVA/Web Developer and Tester Broadridge Financial Solutions - IN April 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding and Development of custom Interfaces. Involved in developing static pages using HTML. Created custom tags for better navigation of the JSP pages.  • Developed JSP's for dynamic content generation and a script file which contains generalized script functions.  • Wrote server-side programs by using Servlets and JSP's to handle various requests from the client browser and send responses.  • Provided utility classes for the application using Core Java and extensively used Collection package.  • JDBC were used in retrieving data. Involved coding SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers. Worked with Oracle8i  • Wrote a controller Servlet that dispatched requests to appropriate classes.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax.  • Designed the website and created/developed web interfaces.  • Created graphics including Icons, Images and logos using Adobe Flash Catalyst.  • Implemented in Spring as part of MVC Architecture.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions  • Developed Model and DAO classes using Hibernate Reverse Engineering.  • Developed Struts action classes and Struts action form beans for the information flow between database and Model. Interpreted and manipulated Struts and hibernate configure files.  • Prepared backend procedures, triggers and functions using native SQL.  Environment: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Java, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, JDBC, Eclipse, Multithreading, Core Java, MySQL, Oracle. dev and Tester Bharati AirTel - IN July 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Performed the design and coding of project using MVC Design pattern.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing of J2EE components like Java Beans, Java, XML, Collection Framework, JSP, Servlets, JMS, JDBC, and JNDI and deployments in WebLogic Server.  • Used Spring MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different design patterns with J2EE. Developed the web pages using JSP, JSTL  • Implemented Spring Beans using IOC and Transaction management features to handle the transactions and business logic.  • Coded Controller components to talk to service layer in Spring MVC framework.  • Wrote persistent Hibernate mapping classes using annotations approach.  • Wrote DAO classes using Hibernate to interact with the database.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP. Developed Web Services for Payment Transaction and Payment Release.  • Involved in modifying Hibernate configuration file for mapping resources.  • Performed unit testing using Junit and developed test cases. Used Maven for building and deployment purpose.  • Responsible for delivering the changes to different Development, Integration and User Acceptance Testing regions, supporting User Acceptance testing and addressing User Acceptance Testing defects and supporting the system in  • Used SOAP-UI for testing the Web-Services.  Environment: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Java, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Rational Rose, IBATIS, JDBC, Eclipse, Multithreading, Core Java, MySQL, Oracle. Education Bachelor's in Computer in science & Engineering Abdul Kalam Institute of Technology &Science Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Cumberland University Skills Awt, Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jaxp, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi, Servlets, Struts Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Java Technologies  Core Java, Collections, JDBC, Multi-threading, AWT, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JNDI, Ajax, EJB, JMS, Java Beans, Custom Tags, RMI, JCAPS, Design Patterns, Spring    Web Technologies JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, HTML, HTML5, XML (SAX, DOM), XSL/XSLT, XPATH  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic  Web Services SOAP, APACHE CXF, AXIS, JAXP, JAXB, JMS, WSDL(JAX-WS), UDDI, REST(JAX-RS)  Framework Spring, JPA, Hibernate, Struts  Database MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Oracle, DB2.  Scripting Language Linux/Unix Shell Scripting, JavaScript  Version Control GitHub, Bitbucket, Git  Web Frameworks AngularJS, NodeJS, ReactJS  Designing Tools Balsamiq (Wireframing), InVision, Adobe In-design, Photoshop, Illustrator, Muse, Dreamweaver, Bootstrap, WordPress  IDEs Spring Tool Suite, Maven, Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, RAD, WSAD, JBuilder, JDeveloper, Visual Studio.NET, Toad, Putty, JUnit, Log4j.  Other Tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Cruise Control