Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Commerce Energy Costa Mesa, CA • Over 8+ years of experience in software development using Java and J2EE technologies, this includes all phases of software development life cycles like User Interaction, Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, Deployment, Builds, Configuration and Code Management.  • Strong background in Java/J2EE environments. Well experienced in MVC architecture of spring framework.  • Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, and Spring2.5/3.0.  • Experienced in developing front-end systems with HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Bootstrap and AngularJS, JSON, JQuery and Ajax.  • Responsible for creating a new application used by Customer Service to manage e-Commerce orders, customers, gift card processing, loyalty information using AngularJS, Html, Java and Spring REST Web Services.  • Strong Experience in object oriented design and programming.  • Develop the micro-service in spring cloud framework to support Next generation cloud framework.  • Working experience in agile development methodology and SOAP Web Services, WSDL.  • Worked in IDEs such as Eclipse, WSAD and Net Beans, spring tool suite.  • Good working knowledge of version control systems like CVS, SVN.  • Experienced in working with databases, such as Oracle, SQL Server, My SQL.  • Development and deployment experience with Apache Tomcat, J Boss, WebLogic and IBM Web sphere servers and experience working with UNIX.  • Expertise in analyzing business requirements and providing technical solutions, design and Coding.  • Good experience on Oracle DB, Jenkins, Hub, and Restful Web services.  • Expertise in Web Page development using JavaScript (libraries such as Prototype and JQuery), Ajax, XML, HTML5, JSON, and CSS3.  • Developed large-scale, real-time, live blogging server and UI.  • Expert in developing applications using all J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, JMS.  • Expert in using most of the Java IDEs like RAD, Eclipse, Net Beans and IntelliJ.  • Proficient in Swing, EJB, Core Java and XML (XSLT and Schema)  • Extensive experience in Application servers likes Web logic, Web Sphere, Jboss, Glassfish and Web Servers like Apache Tomcat.  • Good experience with Multithreading, Collections and Exceptions.  • Expertise in Selenium automation using Selenium Web Driver, Selenium Grid, JAVA, J Unit & Maven.  • Experience in client side designing and validations using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, and AngularJS.  • Hands on working Experience in Cloud technologies like Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Cloud computing infrastructure such as Amazon Dynamo DB, Amazon SQS.  • Building backend services and Restful APIs.  • Providing production support for the application and Bug fixing within production environment.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, JSF and JSP.  • Experience in building micro services and deploying to AWS Cloud.  • Well versed and hands on experience in Version control tools like GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Experience in developing Ant scripts for building and deploying applications. Used Log4j for logging and Junit4 for unit testing and good understanding of Test-Driven development (TDD)  • Expertise with User Interface Design using JSP, JSF and HTML.  • Experience with Core Java component Collection, Generics, Inheritance, Exception Handling and Multi-threading.  • Expertise in developing applications using Web Services (SOAP, RESTFUL), Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, HTML, Java Scripts and develop Jasper Reports, Birt, Reports.  • Good experience in unit and system testing of developed modules.  • Design and implementation of business logic using Entity and Session Beans to handle transactions and updating of data into the Oracle database. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Commerce Energy - Costa Mesa, CA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements analysis, design, and development and testing.  • Application was based on the MVC architecture using Spring MVC framework.  • Integrated the application with Spring Framework for dependency injection using the IOC feature.  • Developed and deployed Spring AOP module to implement the crosscutting concerns like logging, security, Declarative Transaction Management.  • Used Hibernate ORM as java persistence API. Extensively used Annotations, Mappings and querying the database using Hibernate. Integrating spring with Hibernate.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Hibernate Template support.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML and AJAX.  • Achieved reliable and asynchronous exchange messages using Java Messaging Services (JMS).  • Developed SOAP Web Services by using JAX-WS, WSDL, SOAP, AXIS, JAXP and JAXB.  • Adopted J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Session Façade, Value Object and Singleton.  • Implemented data model using JPA as the persistence layer that uses Oracle as the backend databases.  • Used WebLogic Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • Developed the application Using Eclipse IDE.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration Testing, and fixing defects.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit.  • Deployed and moved all configurations to UAT Environment.  • Used CVS for version and source control and Maven to build the application and Hudson Build are used to compare the versions.  • Involved in application deployment support and production support    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, JSP, Angular JS, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML, JPA,Hibernate, Web Services, XML, Log4J, Maven, Hudson, Oracle, WebLogic, Eclipse, CVS, Quality Center, Windows. Java/ J2EE Developer W W Norton - New York, NY September 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Integrated spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Worked on migrating Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.  • Developed PL/SQL as per the requirement in the Data Access Layer.  • Wrote complex SQL queries.  • Designed and Developed application using Spring MVC, Webservices and Hibernate DAO layer and used various design patterns like Factory pattern, Singleton and DAO effectively.  • Involved in maintenance and enhancement of the application.  • Developed Struts Action Forms and Action Classes to control the application flow and used Struts andJavaScript Validation framework to validate the values entered in the forms.  • Worked on creating a test harness using POJOs which would come along with the installer and test the services every time the installer would be run.  • Developed a new NodeJS middleware by integrating AngularJS into the new API micro-services through the EAN (Express JS, AngularJS, and Node.JS.) stack. These NodeJS apps will be within Docker containers.  • Worked with systems engineering team to plan and deploy new Hadoop environments and expand existing Hadoop clusters with agile methodology.  • Designed and developed the UI using Swing.  • Involved in the Code Review Team that suggests the best way so that the product is stable and is implemented with the best performance and efficiency.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases, unit and integration testing of the application.  • Configured the project on WebSphere application server  • Deployed projects in UNIX/Linux environment.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture using spring, JSP & Java beans to migrate from Struts Framework.  • Implemented AJAX calls using JQUERY for dynamic and interactive, data retrieval and Messaging in JSON.  • Implemented CSS Manipulation, HTML Event functions, Java script Effects and animations using JQUERY.  • Responsible for developing GUI client software using Java 2 and Swing/JFC  • Designed and developed of REST based Web Services using JAX-WS.  • Developing Web Services that included developing WSDL that included document/literal as well as literal styles, and SOAP Bindings.  • Involved in development of services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORMand Spring MVC Framework.  • Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Pivotal Cloud Foundry, also Managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry  • Designing and coding of Controller classes and Business Layer and DAO Classes and wired them using Spring Framework.  • Integrated stored procedure with DAO layer.  • Developed web layer using Struts framework to manage the project in MVC pattern.  • Implemented integration of Struts Action classes in Presentation Tier  • Used Struts Tiles Framework for designing the layout of the application  • Extensively Used JavaScript to provide the users with interactive, Speedy, functional and more usable user interfaces.    Environment: Java7/8, J2EE, SOAP Web Services, spring, Hibernate, JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Web Sphere, Tomcat, XML, XSD, Linux, UML, Eclipse IDE, JDBC, PL/SQL JNDI. Java/J2EE Developer Charter Communication - St. Louis, MO March 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in design and development of Line Level Bill Credits (LLBC), and Handset.  • Developed handlers which should handle Web Services calls using Axis 2.0 and http requests to process the data. Used Sax parser to parse the XML response from Hosts.  • Used Struts, play framework to write Presentation Layer, Business Layers and Controller servlets.  • Used Oracle 10g as backend databases and actively involved in writing PL/SQL functions and packages.  • Developed XML configuration files, properties files used in struts Validate framework for validating Form inputs on server side.  • Used Restful Web services which is light weight, maintainable and scalable.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) framework for object relational mapping which is based on POJO Classes.  • Used Struts which is an open source MVC framework for creating elegant, modern java web applications.  • Extensively used AJAX technology to add interactivity to the web pages.  • Used spring data JPA which focuses on JPA to store data in relational data base, by which simple Queries are written.  • Used Angular Js to address many of the challenges encountered in developing single page applications and created custom general modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Angular Js.  • Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Used SOA for web-based applications.  • Developed web service client based on WSDL's provided by middleware team for retrieving bill credits and customer agreement data from backend systems.  • Involved in deployment of application on WebLogic Application Server in Development & QA environment.    Environment: Java 1.7, Spring, SQL, Eclipse, JSP, Servlets, JMS, XML, Ant, XSLT, JSON, SVN, Oracle 11g, JPA, RESTful, Spring MVC, Struts, Spring Data JPA, Jenkins, AngularJS, WebLogic 7.0, SOA, JavaScript, MyBatis, Maven, PL/SQL J unit, Web Sphere. JAVA/J2EE Developer Gap Inc - San Francisco, CA October 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Rational Unified Process throughout the lifecycle of the project.  • Applied Object Oriented concepts (inheritance, composition, interface, etc.) and design patterns (singleton, strategy etc.)  • Responsible for designing and reviewing web services WSDL, their structure, data types and operations with Application architect team.  • Responsible for Web Services consuming and packaging using Axis.  • Applied Spring IOC Container to facilitate Dependency Injection.  • Used Spring AOP to implement security, where cross cutting concerns were identified.  • Involved in designing and developing architectural structure for Hibernate Interceptors and Web Filters  • Developed Web service's using REST.  • Involved in design and decision making for Hibernate OR Mapping.  • Developed Hibernate Mapping file (hbm.xml) files for mapping declaration  • Responsible for designing front end system using JSP technology, HTML and JQuery.  • Re-factored large code base to conform to best practices to spring design patterns.  • Integrated Drools Business Rules Engines implementing business rules.  • Involved in Managing Web Services and operations.  • Effectively implemented server-side REST APIs, such as fitness location simulator and fitness status updating handler using Spring MVC, Spring Boot and spring.  • Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Reduced development cycle time about 20% by using Spring Boot, Spring Data and Spring Cloud to develop micro-services of Location REST service.  • Involved in developing the core base Classes and designed the packaging needed for the project.  • Implemented Stored Procedures for the tables in the database DB2.  • Involved in designing reporting generating system from XML files using XML technology, JAXP.  • Involved in Developing and performing Mock Testing and Unit Testing using JUNIT and Easy Mock. Also used JIRA for bug tracking and project management.  • Involved in implementing APIs using Spring Restful web services  • Built project using Apache Maven build scripts.  • Used Git for Version Control.    Environment: J2EE, Microsoft Visio, Web Sphere Application Server 8.0, Spring MVC, IOC, Spring AOP, Apache Axis, Hibernate, REST Web service, RAD 7.0, JQuery, Maven 2.0, Stored Procedure, DB2, ClearCase, GIT JUnit 4, JIRA, Easy Mock, Agile, RUP. Java/J2EE Developer Renekta Solutions Private Limited May 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Prepared Requirement Specification Document by analyzing the business requirements.  • Contribution in Requirement gathering, designing, coding, release management.  • Involved in project initiation, estimation activities, requirements gathering sessions, communicated directly with the Site merchandising team to get the appropriate requirements  • Involved in the Design phase of the application.  • Worked on application center screens and developed user interfaces using JSP.  • Used Java Script for client-side validations.  • Have written browser specific AJAX call code to invoke the services & update the UI controls.  • Code written in Java with features like Collections, Exception Handling, Serialization, IO and multithreading.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that uses JSP, Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Used Struts tallies to develop UI pages.  • Integrated application with Validation framework for server-side validations.  • Involved in the implementation of Web Services using Restful APIs.  • Developed ANT scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT.  • Used Rational Clear case as Version control and configuration management tool.  • Involved in the Unit Testing of the application using JUnit.  • Implemented logging mechanism using Log4j framework.  • Written code to do xml parsing using JAXP & Marshalling and Un-Marshalling using JAXB.  • Used WebSphere Application Server for deployment.  • Have written SQL queries & PL-SQL - Stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursors, and object types.  • Involved in integrating different modules in the project. Involved in doing JUnit.    Environments: Eclipse, JSP, Struts, Validation Framework, JDBC, Restful Web Services, Log4j, ANT, JUnit, Oracle10g, XML, CVS, WebSphere, Java Script, MVC Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Pokhara University 2013 Skills Bea, Eclipse, Ejb, Enterprise java beans, J2ee Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:    Languages: C, C++, Java, PHP and ASP  J2EE Technologies:  J2EE, Servlets, Java Server Pages (JSP), Applets, Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), JNDI, SOAP, SOA, BPEL, Webservice, Struts, JDBC, JavaMail, ANT, XML, XSL, JMS, Java Script., JMS    Web/Application Server: Apache-Tomcat 5.1, IBM Websphere 6.1, BEA Web Logic Server 8.1, Java WebServer 2.0, Jboss,  DBMS/RDBMS: Oracle Server, MS-SQL Server, My SQL, MS-ACCESS, IBM DB2  Operating Systems: Windows Vista/XP/2000/NT, Win 2k Server, Sun Solaris, UNIX, LINUX, Power shell Scripting  Tools: MS Project 98, Application Diagrams using Visio, Version control using Visual Source Safe, CVS and MKS  Testing Tools: JUnit, Apache JMeter  Database: Oracle,SQL-Server, MySQL server, PostgreSQL MongoDB, DB2  Development Tools: Eclipse,My Eclipse, IBM RAD,Spring Tool Suite (STS), Intelli J  Issue Tracking Tools: Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, Ant JIRA, Pivotal Tracker, FireBug, Rally  Web services: SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS, JAX-B, Apache Axis2,Apache CFX