Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Eclat Global Systems Charlotte, NC • Over 5 years of extensive experience as a Full Stack Developer.  • Experience in Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), application design, functional and technical specs, and use case development using UML.  • Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front -end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON.  • Extensive Java/J2EE experience in software development and excellent working experience including various technologies such as Java EE, J2EE, Spring 2.0 Frameworks, Hibernate, Web Services.  • Experienced in working in AGILE based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  • Extensive experiences in UI Development, Web UI analysis, Web design, coding, testing, implementation and Support working with various projects.  • Highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies. Work Experience Java Developer Eclat Global Systems February 2016 to Present Project: MyFinance e2 (RMSE2)    RMSE2/MyFinance is an enterprise edition system designed to act as multiple Organizational Complexes and an in-Units system that facilitates/track all daily, weekly and monthly financial/accounting related activities within the Complex and in Unit system.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in all phases of SDLC, from requirement gathering through the development process to production support.  • Designed and developed multi-threaded application based on J2EE architecture and using java, Spring (MVC, IOC, ORM, DAO), REST web service, JDBC, JPA, Hibernate, JSP, JSON, XML, JAXB etc.  • Involved in client side development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed a comprehensive unit test and integration test using Junit, DBUnit and Mockito.  • Scripted complex queries for reporting and optimized performance using Sql Developer execution plan.    • Derived best practice using OO Design patterns, TDD methodology, PMD Code analyzer, Jacoco Code Coverage etc.  • Involved in troubleshooting application issues in both production and non-production.  • Involved in Framework enhancement, code refactoring, created APIs, controllers, tools and utilities.  • Identified user needs and business requirements and communicated design deliverables, such as specifications, templates, storyboards, wireframes, and mock-ups.  • Liaised with product development team to help develop user research and usability tests.  • Operated in a fast paced Agile environment interacting with a number of cross functional and global teams. Environment: Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, JSP, Junit, DBUnit, Mockito, HTML, CSS JSON/XML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, Ajax, Sublime Text, GIT, Grunt, Eclipse, Editplus, Excel, Windows OS. UI Developer January 2015 to December 2015 Worked in a healthcare organization, that has a legacy system, where clinicians and researchers needed access to the data. The data types include EMR generated data, genomic data, financial data, patient and caregiver data, incremental physiological monitoring, ventilator data, temperature and humidity data.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of application development from design to testing and production support.  • Involved in client side application development using JS, HTML, CSS, JQUERY, JSON, Angular JS.  • Developed server side application using java, j2ee, Spring, hibernate, JDBC, JPA, JSP, Servlet, REST, JSON, xml, JAXB, Junit etc.  • Develop HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  • Implemented rich gallery of interactive charts and data tools using Google tools and libraries.  • Assist with walk-throughs and usability testing. Update UI per changing needs and requirements.  • Maintain company's Wiki for user-interface best practices, procedures, and style guide.  • Eclipse IDE, STS, Jet brains, Adobe, firebug, Chrome developer etc are used for development and debugging.  • Worked on tools like Microsoft VISIO, Jenkins, Sonar and JIRA for bug tracking.  • Planned and executed usability testing, incorporated user feedback into final product design.  Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, DTHML, JQuery, JSON, Adobe Photoshop, SVN, AJAX, MS Excel, UML, WebStrom, Eclipse, EditPlus, Apache Tomcat and Windows. Java Developer British Telecom May 2011 to July 2012 Description:  BTGS Portal application development project undertakes enhancement development for the BTGS internet portal for all enterprise customers of major BTGS' contracts. Portal also has support for many other GS applications which are not part of Portal. Responsible for Transition of Portal from other Vendor to TechM, Migration of another tactical Portal's applications into BTGS main internet portal, Defect Fixing, Enhancement of various portlets and maintenance of Portal.  Responsibilities:  • Developed application using Java, Spring, Hibernate, SQL/PL JSP, Maven, Junit, JS, CSS, JQuery, HTML, Unix etc.  • As key developer involved in researching, analysing, coding, and testing all changes, drawing on user and technical resources to successfully complete the request.  • Implemented typical messaging service using JMS and JAXB to support EDI between different systems on job scheduler.  • Involved in iiFramework enhancement, code refactoring, created APIs, controllers, tools and utilities.  • Derived best practice using OO Design patterns, TDD methodology, PMD Code analyzer, Cubartura Code Coverage etc.  • Involved in troubleshooting an application issues in both production and non-production.  • Always been resource for functional and technical to other developing programmers and teams.  • Worked directly with customers to gather detailed task list and provided solutions.  • Worked within a distributed team environment applying agile methodologies.  • Involved in various client constraints to provide development consulting services as part of engaged teams.  • Support production implementation & post-production issues.  Environment: JAVA EE5, J2EE, XML, HTML, Struts2, Servlets, Java Script, JSP, CSS, JDBC, Sql Server, Web Sphere 8, Windows Java Developer British Telecom May 2010 to May 2011 Description:  Worked as Java Consultant on web-based application accessed by potential customers. Detailed information about their billing, services, new features, company information was provided to each customer. Involved in the design and development of the web application software suite.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design & development  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Involved in creating and maintaining web applications and web services that interact with complex databases.  • Collaborated with developers and clients to develop precise business logic.  • Developed new complex computer applications and enhance existing systems according to assigned project requests, in accordance with established departmental standards and guidelines.  • Responsible for researching, analysing, coding, and testing all changes, drawing on user and technical resources to successfully complete the request.  • Identified, recommended and developed code modifications and applications to support the business requirements.  • Knowledge shared with other developers and many a times represented team on large scale projects.  Environment: JDK1.5, J2EE, Spring2, Eclipse 4.1, Servlets, Hibernate3.2, JSON, XML, XSD, JAXB, PMD, Maven2, Jetty3, JUnit, Quartz. Java Developer July 2008 to November 2009 Description:  The project involved ecommerce web service multi-vendor functionality allowing different vendors to sell and manage their products in a common storefront.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating and maintaining web applications that interact with complex databases.  • Created Cron jobs using Shell Scripting to execute and send reports to management.  • Responsible for researching, analysing, coding, and testing all changes, drawing on user and technical resources to successfully complete the request.  • Developed web services and integrated multiple web applications using web services.  • Developed custom tag libraries to simplify applications and to give multiple applications a consistent look and feel  • Providing technical support and consultation for application and infrastructure questions  • Also designed and implemented different portions of the website functionality.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, DAO, JSP, Servlets, XML, HTML, JUnit. Skills HTML (4 years), Java (5 years), JAXB (4 years), Junit (5 years), XML (5 years) Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS:  Languages Java, SQL, PL/SQL  IDE Tools Eclipse 3.x, 4.x, Netbean6.x  Java Technologies J2SE, JDBC, Web services (JAX-WS, REST, WSDL, XML, SOAP)  Framework Spring 3.x, Hibernate, Quartz  Application/web Servers Jetty, Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere  Database DB2, Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server 2005, MySQL  Operating systems Windows XP/7, Unix  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, AngularJS  XML Technologies JSON, XML, JAXB, SAX, DOM, XSD, DTD  Database Tools TOAD, SQL Developer, DB Visualizer  Version Control Git, Teamprise, TFS, VS Studio, SVN  Protocols HTTP, SOAP  Testing/Others JUnit, Javamail, SLF4j, Log4j, Ant, Maven, Dream viewer