Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - TCF Financial Corporation Plymouth, MN • 8 years of experience in Requirements gathering, Designing, Development, implementation and maintenance of software applications using JAVA/J2EE Technologies.  • Good working experience in Design, Development and implementation of several J2EE frameworks like (Model View Controller) Struts, spring, hibernate.  • Excellent in designing the front-end pages using scripting languages like Angular JS, JSP, HTML, Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and its libraries.  • Hands on experience in developing applications using JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, SQL Server 2008/2005 and Oracle 8i/9i/10g in Banking and Financial business domains.  • Experience in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like Spring, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, and Spring MVC.  • Experience in developing Web Services using JAX-WS.  • Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Micro Services and Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and NetFlix Eureka.  • Having experience in Cloud Computing environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Expertise in Back-end/server side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), RabitMQ, Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JND).  • Experience in development of REST and SOAP based web services using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AJAX technologies and Jersey frameworks.  • Experience in Spring-Boot micro services and Hibernate ORM.  • Strong Knowledge of Restful API Web services  • Expertise in implementation of J2EE Technologies: JSP, JTS, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation, JMS, Struts, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Swing, Serialization and Externalization.  • Experience in AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, 0Dynamo DB and Auto Scaling Groups.  • Strong database designing skills using SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 and experience in creating tables, views, developing T-SQL queries, stored procedures, functions and triggers.  • Excellent background in developing applications using Java/J2EE Technologies on BEA WebLogic Application Server, WebSphere Application Server (WAS) and Tomcat.  • Expertise in Oracle PL/SQL Procedures, Functions, Packages, Views, Indexes, Sequences, Functions, Triggers.  • Strong experience on various development environments like IRAD, Eclipse, and WSAD.  • Experience in open frameworks like Struts and reusable Business component design and development (EJB).  • Excellent skills in problem solving and delivering realistic and practical solutions.  • Experienced in Web Analytics implementation, custom report creation, data collection, report analysis and process improvement.  • Self-starter, independent, motivated, and enthusiastic team player with excellent analytical, written, communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer TCF Financial Corporation - Plymouth, MN February 2018 to Present AML provides a comprehensive Reporting and query capabilities. It capture's customer Details Store compliance rules monitor transactions and flags any violation of transactions against customer profile and compliance rules. The system generates all statutory Reports and provides for generation of Suspicious Activity Reports. The primary objective of any anti-money laundering solution is to Monitor Customers & Transactions for Money Laundering activities, Scan Customers and transactions against the various blacklists.    Responsibilities  • Developed the application using Spring MVC framework based on Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • RESTful Web services written in Groovy wrapped by Jersey JAX-RS.  • POJO based domain model integrated with Hibernate ORM for persistence Aggregation of data based on the summarized data of Supply Chain.  • Designed user interface screens using JSP, and HTML. Used JavaScript for client side validation, CSS for further support.  • Designed REST APIs supporting JSON that allow sophisticated, effective and low-cost application integration.  • Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Used Spring's characteristic features like Dependency Injection/Inversion of Control, Transaction Management and Aspect Oriented Programming for various modules functions.  • Deployed the web application in AWS Beanstalk as a part of testing functionality and compatibility with cloud architecture.  • Create service for pipeline UI interface to determine which UI to navigate to on loans in inquiry stage under sales consultation tools.  • Implemented PL/SQL queries and used Oracle stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.  • Involved in creation of REST WebServices, WSDL and Web-methods with Annotation in Hibernate.  • Uploaded and maintained resources for the web application in S3 bucket using AWS.  • Implement several core design patterns like MVC, Singleton and Data Access Object (DAO) etc.  • Interfaced with the Oracle back-end using Hibernate Framework and XML config files.  • Implemented functional enhancements and bug fixes to the sale consultation web pages in the UI front, java model side and database end using J2EE.  • Used Generics to make the code type safe, remove type casting and use compile time checking.  • Creating micro plans, effort estimations and traceability matrix documents. Identifying and escalating any issues in the development. Preparing the technical specifications based on analysis.  • Designed use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as part of the design.  • Written Maven Scripts for building, packaging and deploying the application.  • Setting up Linux servers with Apache Tomcat, Maven, and MySQL.  • Integrated Spring with Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Implemented unit testing using JUnit framework.  • Used Test driven development (TDD), continuous builds, and frequent development iterations  • Reviewed functional and technical specifications by revising application functionality  • Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application and JavaScript for Data Validations  • Performed root cause and impact analysis of the defects and fix the defects.  • Used Apache Maven as the software build tool and Log4J for logging errors and messages and Subversion for version control.  • Improve performance of several layers by optimizing Code and writing stored procedures.  • Performed production support of the application in production and managed production issues.    Environment: Java 7/8, Spring, Hibernate, Angular5, Apache Tomcat, HTML5, CSS3, XML, Oracle, Log4J, JUnit JavaScript, JSP, RESTful Web Services, Eclipse 3.3, Maven. Java/J2EE Developer Walmart Inc - Bentonville, AR April 2017 to January 2018 Walmart Inc operates a chain of hypermarkets, discount department stores, and grocery stores. Walmart health and wellness team provides health care plans with access to affordable, comprehensive medical coverage and offers health insurance benefits to the domestic partners of its U.S. workers.    Responsibilities  • Gathered business and functional requirements that must be incorporated as a part of the application  • Developed following Agile methodology (Stand up meetings, Sprint development, retrospective meetings)  • Created different bean configuration XML files and implemented Dependency injection for different bean classes  • Worked with Spring framework, JSF, web flow framework and Struts  • Enabling SSL Security in Web Environments for IBMHTTPServer & WebSphere application Server.  • Used SpringCore Annotations forDependencyInjectionSpringDI and SpringMVC forRESTAPIs and SpringBoot for micro-services  • Developed user interface using JSP, Spring Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application  • Developed DAO API to manage the payment information using Hibernate ORM.  • Developed SOAPandRESTwebservice clients to communicate with third party vendors.  • Implemented generics and auto boxing features of Java  • Used SOAP Web Services using WSDL to connect with remote data and external clients  • Implemented the application in MVC Architecture  • Build and deployed enterprise Java EE applications using WebLogic server  • Involved in writing tables in Universal Database and integrated with database developers for using stores procedures in this application.  • Worked with NoSQLCassandra to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details of migrated applications.  • Developed single page application with AngularJS.  • Involved in developing Java web-based interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, XMLandJSON.  • Worked on JavaScript framework (Backbone, NodeJS) to augment browserbased applicationswith MVC capability.  • Participated in code review and acceptance process in order to enhance methodology and delivery.  • Integrating various Version control tools, build tools and deployment methodologies into Jenkins to create an end to end orchestration build cycles.  • Used Jenkins to execute the maven project as well to build the version system tool  • Maintained and managed cloud & test environments and automation for QA, Product Management and Product Support  • Developed JUnit test cases for Persistence layer and Business layer to perform the unit level testing.  • Designed, Debugged and Developed applications using Integrated Development Environment (IDE) Eclipse IDE.  • Involved in functional testing for the developed application.  • Utilized GIT for software configuration management and version control.  • Configured Log4j for adding the debugging information in the code base.  • Documented all phases of the project and implemented system changes in accordance with the objectives and requirements and developed user documentation.  • JIRA is used for task management and SVN for version control.    Environment: Java 1.8, DB2, Cassandra, Spring, log4j, Hibernate, Maven, Tortoise SVN, Rest web services, HTML5, CSS3, NodeJS, AngularJS, Azure, Eclipse Kepler JIRA, XML, MYSQL, Jenkins, Looper, Kafka, CCM, lucid chart Java Developer CNA - Chicago, IL January 2016 to March 2017 CNA is an insurance organization offering broad range of insurance products and insurance-related services. This project provides insurance to small businesses in an unpredictable business environment. The project offers online insurance quote forms to the costumer. This helps register customers to buy insurance online. It allows customers to check policy information, direct bill status, and also to report a claim online.    Responsibilities  • Created user-friendly GUI interfaces and Web pages using HTML and DHTML embedded in JSP, JSF.  • JavaScript was used for the client side validations.  • Used the JNDI for Naming and directory services.  • Designed and developed Model Components - Action Form Bean, Controller Components - Action Classes, Action Mapping.  • Used Hibernate framework for backend development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Managed Object Persistence, Data retrieval using Hibernate, Spring Framework with Oracle 10g.  • Implemented Web services using SOAP protocol over HTTP.  • Used Web sphere application server to deliver a new class of enterprise applications that enhance business interactions and transactions.  • JPA is used to manage relational data in application.  • Written database objects like Triggers, Stored Procedures in SQL.  • Interacted with the users and documented the System  • Tested Web services using SOAP UI.  • Created interactive web applications for the client side using SOA.    Environment: JDK 1.4, J2EE, JSP 2.0, JDBC 4.0, HTML, EJB 3.1, Servlets, Rational Rose, UML, Hibernate 3.1, JDBC, Spring 2.0, CVS, Oracle 10g. Java Developer Molina Healthcare - Long Beach, CA October 2013 to December 2015 Molina Healthcare offers Medicare Advantage plans designed to meet the needs of individuals with Medicare or both Medicaid and Medicare coverage. Molina Medicare plans offer comprehensive, quality benefits and programs including access to a large selection of doctors, hospitals and other health care providers at little or no out-of-pocket cost.    Responsibilities  • Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern to this project.  • Developed user interface by creating at least one webpage for each component using Struts web MVC and Action Servlet as front controller for this application.  • Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file.  • Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML like one form for each functionality user interface, standard validations using the JavaScript, Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc. using MVC.  • Developed SingleSignOn (SSO) functionality, through which we can run SCM from Oracle Applications.  • Involved in developing the Routings and configured Routing Program as scheduled the concurrent request.  • Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute.  • Involved in raising the Notifications to Oracle Users through Mailing Concept for intimating to start the next process using workflow.  • Extensively worked on Oracle for writing complex queries in the business logic layer. Used joins, debugging the SCM related packages and customization.  • Extensively worked on creating the setups for Organizations, Templates, Concurrent Requests, Cross Reference Types, User Creations, Assigning responsibilities, creating value sets, Descriptive Flex Fields etc. in Oracle Applications.    Environment: Java, JDBC, Servlets, Struts, JSP, Hibernate, Java Mail API, AJAX, HTML, XML, ANT, Log4J, CVS, RAD, Putty, Oracle 9i/10g, Web Sphere. Java Developer Foursoft July 2011 to August 2013 Involved in product development for logistics workflow systems for several groups in National Network Systems. It is an ERP system involving logistics.    Responsibilities  • Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and used Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IoC).  • Involved in development of Debit Memo module using JSPs and Servlets.  • Developed Object -- Relational (O/R) mapping using Hibernate 3.0 .Developed Data Access Object (DAO) persistence layer using Hibernate 3.0.  • Involved in development of WebServices using JAX-WS 2.1 to get data from the SAP System.  • Used Tomcat Application Server 5.5 for development purpose.  • Used Oracle SQL Developer 1.2.0 for Oracle 10g for running queries to confirm the results from the application.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures for the application in Oracle.  • Worked on code-merge, code integration and module integration. Involved in monitoring the defects and assigning it to the concerned.  • Used JUnit for Unit Testing and Clover for code coverage.  • Used CVS as Version Control System for the application.  • Provided support to the testing team and also involved in the Bug Fixing.  • Deployed the application on to IBM WebSphere 6.1 in UNIX environment IBM AIX 5.1.0.3. Tested the application after making the necessary configuration.    Environment: EJB, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 2.0, JSP 1.2, Java Swing, Servlets 2.1, MQ Series, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JavaScript, UML, HTML, CVS, Log4j, Junit, WebSphere App server 6.1, WSAD 5.1.2, SQL Server 2008. Education Master's Skills AJAX (3 years), application Server. (4 years), CVS (5 years), J2EE (3 years), Java (7 years), JavaScript (7 years), JDBC (3 years), JSP (7 years), JUnit (4 years), Model View Controller (4 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (4 years), MVC (4 years), Oracle (6 years), Servlets (5 years), SOAP (4 years), SQL (4 years), testing (4 years), user interface (5 years), version control. (4 years), XML (6 years)