Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Honeywell Phoenix, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Honeywell - Phoenix, AZ July 2018 to Present Description: Honeywell is a Fortune 100 company that invents and manufactures technologies to address tough challenges linked to global macrotrends such as safety, security, and energy. With approximately 129,000 employees worldwide, including more than 19,000 engineers and scientists, we have an unrelenting focus on quality, delivery, value, and technology in everything we make and do    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software development life cycle starting from design phase to the implementation phase.  • Created UI with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and AngularJS used REST service to link with Mongo DB to update/delete policy agreements. Developed the REST services for Business logic and consumed in AngularJS.  • Coding and testing the REST services with Business logic and Database connectivity. Designed, developed and implemented end to end.  • Created UI with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap & performed client-side validations in AngularJS for fast querying and update auto policy data. Developed the REST services for Business logic & DB2 connectivity for AngularJS consumption. Coding and testing the REST services with Business logic and Database connectivity.  • Involved in major Enhancement of the existing AngularJS application to add forced Renewals functionality.  • Designed and developed web services, tested and hosted, performed change in UI and regression testing.  • Performed end to end testing and supported integration testing.  • Defect fixing, handling post implementation defects and wiki documentation.  • Created reusable directives, factories and services in AngularJS.  • Using AWS EC2 to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems to handle unexpected load bursts.  • Designed and developed the Employee Option web service (SOAP) involving complex joins from multiple DB2 tables for campaign management to help Business users. Tested using SOAPUI and provided the end point to Business.  • Involved in design and major development to create AngularJS application for QBE Business users of Liberty.  • Involved in defect fixing and supporting integration testing with quick turnaround.  • Involved in rolling out the application to other states after piloting is success.  • Involved in impact analysis, detailed technical specification preparation for each change in QBE application.  • Designed and developed core Java Batch to read excel file, perform validations and load the policy data into DB2tables.Policy Bulk upload automation saved time and faster processing of policy data from Business users.  • Created handful of SOAP web services and used Gradle for application dependencies management and Apache Camel for routing. Used SOAPUI for testing the web services created for the application.  • Created IBM Java Batch to read from DB2 tables, perform complex business logic and write to UNIX server. Used staging DB2 table and fired multiple jobs using ESP scheduler.  • Created python script to create the local data source, write location, access to RACF Ids to run Java Batch in DEV.  • Integrated spring with Hibernate as the ORM technology as the persistence layer and created entities mimicking the tables and used mapping annotation to persist and edit the data in DB2.  • Created UI tool with HTML/CSS and used Struts1.2 MVC to do Business logic for automating the request processing.  • Involved in building and maintaining cloud based infrastructure on AWS.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration, Maven for building the application in the cloud leveraging AWS API'S.  • Designed and developed User interface screens using Angular JS and followed Agile Scrum for application development.  • Designed, developed and integrated Spring DAO layer with Hibernate. Generated Hibernate XML files for the configured beans.  • Used Robo Mongo as GUI front end to quick edit/view the MongoDB that helped the performance tuning.  • Participated in daily SCRUM meeting for updating and task distributing as a part of the agile methodology.  • Utilized JIRA for both issue reporting, solutions testing and bug analysis. Used JUnit for debugging the application. Interacted with users in case of technical problems and mentored the business users.  • Involved in functional requirement discussions with business team and converted the functional requirements to technical requirements.  • Responsible for development of the application using Spring MVC framework, Java Web Services (REST) as Business layer, SQL and Hibernate ORM tool in the data access layer.  • Used Blue Print tool to create UML diagrams for the documentation in Liberty wiki web page.  • Involved in code review and documentation review of technical artifacts.  • Developed, Tested and debugged various components in WebSphere Application Server Liberty profile  • Installed Gradle for IBM Java Batch to manage the applications.    Technology Stack: Angular.js, MongoDB, DB2, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Java Script, J2EE, spring, Hibernate, SOAP, REST, JSON, Modern Java Batch, Robo Mongo, NPM, PCF, AWS. Senior Java/J2EE Developer Micron, Boise, MD May 2016 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed various Java beans for performance of business processes and effectively involved in Impact analysis.  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Designed and developed User Interface of application modules using HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript (client side validations), JQuery and AJAX.  • Configured servlets, java classes, Spring Framework, Hibernate, database drivers, data sources related to project.  • Worked on Integration of Spring and Hibernate Frameworks using Spring ORM Module.  • Worked on Atlassian products like Jira, Bamboo, Bitbucket, and Confluence for Issue tracking, release management, Code review and documentation.  • Integrated subsystems using SOAP based Web services and Apache Axis2.  • Involved in architecture, design, development of projects in AJAX based Java Script with Dojo toolkit and JSON API with JSP  • Designed and developed a RESTful hub application which resolved the Single-Sign-On authentication of the target secured REST services.  • Wrote RESTful services on the server in NodeJS to listen to requests from devices.  • Used J2EE SOA based JAX-WS web services to develop reusable web service components.  • Configured Hibernate-ORM to map java objects such as clients and claims with database tables.  • Developed web interface for Users Modules using JSP, HTML, XML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, and Action Servlets with Struts Framework, spring frame work.  • Worked in client-side validation using AJAX, Java Script, HTML, and CSS.  • Worked with AWS to implement the client-side encryption as Dynamo DB does not support at REST encryption at this time.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages. Creating a responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with Angular JS and media queries.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using ReactJS, JQuery and CSS/LESS and HTML5.  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module.  • Designed and developed UI screens using Struts 2, DOJO, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, DOM, CSS, and AJAX.  • Implemented Dojo and JQuery JavaScript frame work in UI Layer.  • Developed business logic using session beans using IBM WebSphere Application Developer and deployed them using IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Used svn for version control and used IBM RAD 6.0 for implementing the application.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework to develop and configure the views and controller of Spring MVC implemented database persistence, and integrated the web application with the persistence layer.  • Involved in developing and maintaining services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and spring MVC Framework.  • Working with springs, Spring MVC and Struts and also developed WEB Application using these frameworks.  • Created Hive External tables and loaded the data into tables and query data using HQL.    Environment: Java, J2EE, RESTful, CSS3, DHTML, HTML5, JSON, Node.js, Backbone.js, JavaScript, Angular JS, Restful WebServices, Multithreading, API's, spring boot, spring MVC, Mongo DB, Struts, Hibernate, Ant, black box, MicroServices, JSP, Xml, oracle 12c, JQuery, JVM, AWS, IBM Websphere 8.1, Java/J2EE Developer Centreville Bank - West Warwick, RI July 2014 to April 2016 Description: Centreville Bank. Is a $132 billion commercial bank holding company. It is headquartered in Providence, R.I., and through its subsidiaries has more than 1,400 branches, approximately 3,600 ATMs and approximately 18,950 colleagues. It operates its branch network in 12 states and has non-branch retail and commercial offices in more than 30 states.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in back end Core Java programing. Used Core Java concepts such as Collections, Generics, Multi-Threading and actively coded most of the Core Java implementations.  • Developed and published server side business logic in a simple POJO for various account portfolios, equities, asset/equities ratios, by using core java collection, generics.  • Developed the web application using spring, JSP, HTML. Implemented the application using J2EE design patterns like spring, Singleton, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object).  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring Framework, Coding involves writing Action Classes/Custom Tag Libraries, JSP. Template development for a Java based search platform using JSP/JSTL.  • Developed Messaging component using JMS message driven bean to handle FIXML messages.  • Worked on various SOAP and RESTful services used in various internal applications.  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Developed front end web application using AngularJS along with cutting edge HTML5, React JS and CSS. Used SAX/DOM XML Parser for parsing the XML file.  • Used Spring Boot to collecting the data from users and packaged the data as JSON distributed to applications.  • Created instances in AWSas well as worked on migration to AWS.  • Used connection pooling for optimization using JDBC interface. Developed processing component to retrieve customer information from MySQL database, developed DAO layer using Hibernate. Wrote prepared statement and called stored Procedures using callable statements in MySQL.  • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC. Used JSON as response type in REST services.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider this feature was implemented using REST.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software.  • Developed JSP and Java classes for various transactional/ non-transactional reports of the system using extensive SQL queries.  • Worked with Oracle PL/SQL, MongoDB development and DBAs to create new database schema and porting data from other databases.  • Used MAVEN for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Involved in configuring builds using Jenkins with Git and used Jenkins to deploy the applications onto Dev, QA environments  • Involved in unit testing, system integration testing and enterprise user testing using JUnit.    Environment: J2EE, Java, Spring, JSP, JSTL, Hibernate, SVN, Java Mail, XML, XSLT, Java Beans, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, JQuery, SOAP, Restful Web Services, JMS,Jenkins, Spring Boot, Angular JS, AWS, JDBC, STS, MySQL, Tomcat, Apache Ant, J2EE design patterns, Junit, Linux. Java developer Valero Energy Corp - San Antonio, TX November 2012 to June 2014 Description: Valero Energy Corp is a Fortune 100 company that invents and manufactures technologies to address tough challenges linked to global macrotrends such as safety, security, and energy. With approximately 129,000 employees worldwide, including more than 19,000 engineers and scientists, we have an unrelenting focus on quality, delivery, value, and technology in everything we make and do.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and development applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML and OOAD.  • Created Use cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose. Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern.  • Developed user management screens using JSF framework, business components using spring framework and DAO classes using Hibernate framework for persistence management and involved in integrating the frameworks for the project.  • Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using JSF, JSP's, Prime Faces, Ajax4JSF framework (Ajax), JavaScript and Backing Beans.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO, DTO, and MVC.  • Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework.  • Hibernate used as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Wrote Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Developed the presentation n-Tier using JSP, Java Script and HTML.  • Worked on advanced Hibernate associations with multiple levels of Caching, lazy loading.  • Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validations.  • Implemented Ajax using Ajax4JSF Framework and nested taglibs API along with other standard taglibs in the application, as a better approach for screen development and reusability of visual components in the JSP pages.  • Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized xml documents using spring framework.  • Consumed restful web services using apache HttpClient for the data coming from external systems.  • Involved in designing data schema and development of SOAPweb services with Axis implementation and REST web services with JAX-RS.  • Consumed SOAP/ JAX-WS based web services using spring framework and used SOAP UI for testing these services.  • Created Logging aspects for auditing and logging purposes using Spring AOP and implemented security for the application using Spring Security.  • Consumed SOAP and REST web services to get the persisted data from different databases.  • REST (JAX-RS) web serviceshave been developed to be consumed by middleware module to push the communication center messages into web module. Was responsible for deployments using IBM WebSphere application server.  • Involved in UI testing using Cucumber and Selenium.  • Rational Clear Quest used for defects, change tracking across the application.  • Designed and developed direct live interfaces to handle multiple systems within the bank to subscribe the data in real-time.  • Involved in the performance tuning of PL/SQL statements.  • Developed database triggers and procedures to update the real-time cash balances.  • Worked closely with the testing team in creating new test cases and also created the use cases for the module before the testing phase.  • Involved in writing JUNIT test cases and day to day builds and deployments using GRADLE.  • Implemented web services API using HTTP.  • Coordinated work with DB team, QA team, Business Analysts and Client Reps to complete the client requirements efficiently.    Environment: Java 6/J2EE, JMS, JNDI, JSP, JSF, My Faces, Prime Faces, spring, Tiles, Hibernate, HTML, DHTML, IBM MQ Series, CSS, Web Sphere 5.1.2, Gradle, Clear Quest, Oracle9i, AJAX, JSTL, Eclipse, Junit, JavaScript, VSS. Java Developer Etag Software Solutions - IN June 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using, JSP and JavaScript, Middleware layer using Servlet and Controllers, Business objects developed using Page Beans and data access layer using IBatis and Hibernate framework.  • Used NodeJS for doing non-blocking design operation for server-side code and Angular.js framework in developing various UI components.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from the database.  • Developed the responsive UI web pages using XHTML, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS 2, JavaScript, node JS and has worked with Angular JS filters in expressions and directives to filter data in the UI.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate, and Singleton design patterns.  • Used spring framework including spring core/IoC, Spring Web, Spring Security and implement the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) for injecting the beans and reduced the coupling between the classes and implemented the Model View Controller using Spring MVC.  • Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Microservices have been built using spring boot, Netflix OSS, spring and deploying to AWS Cloud.  • Implemented code according to create AngularJS Controller, which isolate scopes perform operations.  • Wrote custom JavaScript utilizing JQuery to enhance theme, setup server to handle several page requests.  • Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider and consumed using HTTP services from angular JS modules.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular JS, React.js, and Node.js in effective web design.  • Used Angular2.0 HTTP Module to make API calls and worked with the observables.  • Developed Single page applications and Custom Directives using Angular 2.0.  • Implemented Routing, Imperative Routing, and guards with the help of Angular2.0 route module.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.    Environment: Java: JDK 1.5, JSP, JSP Custom Tag libraries, JavaScript, AJAX, XSLT, XML, DOM4J 1.6, DHTML, Web Services, SOA, WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, IBM RAD, IBM WebSphere Application server, IBM DB2 8.1, UNIX, UML, IBM Rational Clear case, JMS, Spring Framework, PL/SQL, JUNIT 3.8, log4j 1.2, Ant 2.7. Education Bachelor's Skills Awt, Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, Ejb Additional Information Technical Skills:    Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking  Programming Languages Java JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6/1.8 , C++, C, SQL, PL/SQL  Application/Web Servers Oracle/BEA WebLogic 8.1/9.1/10.3 , IBM WebSphere 5.1/6.0/6.1/7.0 , Jboss, Tomcat 5.0.28/6.0, Bug tracking, Jenkins  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x/ 2.x, Hibernate 3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0, iBatis, Flex  UI Frameworks JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap  IDEs Eclipse 3.x, IBM WSAD, IntelliJ, Web Storm  Web technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON, Angular 2  Design Tools Adobe Photoshop, Adobe After Effect  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, REST, SOAP UI  XML Tools JAXB, Apache Axis  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, OOAD, SDLC  Modeling Tools UML, Rational Rose, Visio  Testing technologies/tools JUnit, Jmeter, HTML Unit, selenium  Database Servers Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11G, DB2, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 , MySQL, Mongo DB  Version Control CVS, SVN, Git, GITHUB, GITLAB  Build Tools ANT, Maven  Messaging Tools JMS, Rabbit MQ  Platforms Windows 2000/98/95/NT4.0, UNIX, Windows 7