Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer Pittsburgh, PA Over 7 years of experience in Java development, Front end development, and Rich user interface design, development, documentation, standards, media (screen, mobile, touch interface) compatibilities, application architecture, wireframes, Project and team management.  • Expertise in developing and updating a web page quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, JavaScript and jQuery Mobile with the webpage cross browser compatibility and Responsive design.  • Complete knowledge of Web protocols and standards (HTTP, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Web Forms, XML, XML parsers).  • Expertise is creating table free (div based) hand written HTML/HTML5 pages using CSS/CSS3  • Well-versed using JavaScript and jQuery for manipulating the mark-up and data operations using jQuery AJAX.  • Good understanding in implementing web application using Angular JS framework.  • Worked extensively with IDE's like Microsoft Visual Studio, Adobe Dreamweaver, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Expertise in using debugging tools like Firebug and built in IDE debuggers for troubleshooting existing code.  • Experience in developing applications using waterfall, RAD and Test-Driven methodologies.  • Hands on experience using the version controls like SVN and TFS and project management tools like JIRA and ASANA.  • Extensive experience with UML design  • In depth experience at one time or another with AngularJS, ReactJS, jQuery, jQuery UI, Backbone.js, Node.js.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Java Script, Object Oriented Design, Implementation and successfully implemented the concepts in Android.  • Expertise with D3 & Highcharts for Data Visualization.  • Strong working experience in various IDE's, Dreamweaver, Visual studio, Notepad++, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Adobe Photoshop and JBoss developer studio.  • Experienced in debugging web applications in different browsers and tools using Firebug, and testing applications using Protractor, Jasmine, Mocha, and karma, Firefox, Chrome developer's tool and Firebug.  • Responsible for writing automatic runnable tasks using Grunt and Gulp to improve development efficiency.  • Expert in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Worked with various DevOps tools Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software GIT and SVN.  • Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic and callback functions. Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance.  • Strong communication, collaboration & team building skills with proficiency in grasping new technical concepts quickly.  • Self-starter always inclined to learn new technologies and Team Player with very good communication, organizational and interpersonal skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Service Link November 2018 to Present ·        Gathered requirements and communicating effectively with business users and Detail Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing and successfully followed agile methodology throughout the project.  ·        Designed and developed the front-end with Jakarta Struts framework, Tag libraries and Custom Tag Libraries and development of Presentation Tier using JSP pages integrating AJAX, Custom Tag’s, JSP TagLibs, Tiles, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript and developed Strut Extended Base framework to develop base groundwork for struts.  ·        Designed and Implemented Exception handling by developing custom Exceptions.  ·        Developed DAOs by extensively using Statement, Prepared Statement and Result Set interfaces. Developed Service layers (POJOs) and Value objects.  ·        Developed Customs tags for displaying menus based on the User role, for displaying Bread crumbs and tags for string formatting.  ·        Created web front end using JSP pages integrating AJAX and JavaScript coding that provide a rich browser-based user interface and used Json objects to for Transfer object front end to backend.  ·        Used Spring framework to implement MVC architecture. Implemented various J2EE design patterns like Front Controller.  ·        Using Tiles Frame work Developed Main Layout, Header, Footer, Content JSP pages to reduce redundancy.  ·        Expert in unix shell script programming – shell, wlst, and Unix utilities.  ·        Implemented a Shell Script for start servers. Maintained and enhanced tens of thousands of lines shared between the MS Windows and Linux, Windows versions of the application.     Environment: Java, J2EE, OOA, OOD, Struts, JSP, AJAX, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, XSLT, Spring, Hibernate 3.0, Tomcat, XML, Log4j, BEA Web Logic, My Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), Citrix, JUnit, JTest, Oracle, Unix/Linux, Windows XP and Solaris. Java Developer FastModel Sports - Chicago, IL January 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  ·        Established a JSON contract to make a communication between the JS pages and  java classes.  ·        Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, spring, JSF frameworks and SOAP/REST web services, Web Sphere Integration  Developer (WID) Tool to develop WPS components.  ·        Developed Interactive GUI screens using HTML and JSP and data validation using  Java Script.   ·        Developed UI using JSP and AJAX Call in JSP pages, business implementation in Servlets and Struts action class.  ·        Developed Python scripts to automate the deployments to the WebSphere application server.  ·        Deployed the application on to Apache Tomcat application server.   ·        Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.   ·        Used Spring Beans to encapsulate business logic and Implemented Application MVC Architecture using Spring MVC framework.  ·        Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains object declarations and dependencies.  ·         Used AngularJS as a JavaScript library to bind data on html elements and integrated with REST based services returning JSON data.  ·        Used MySQL database for data persistence.  ·        Worked on JAX-WS, JAXB Web Services using SOAP and JAX-RS, Jersey for Restful Webservices.   ·        Worked on Agile, SCRUM development methodology and built the application with Test Driven Development (TDD).  ·        Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and used Struts Test Cases for testing Action Classes.   ·        Used Maven as the build tool for the application.  ·        Used Rational Clear Case and Clear Quest for version control and change management.  ·        Extensively used Log4J for logging.  ·        Worked on UNIX Shell Scripting tasks.   ·        Implemented business layer using Core  java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, Collections Multithreading, spring annotations, and Spring MVC components.  ·        Implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment.     Java developer Fitch Ratings - Wyomissing, PA December 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ·        In order to handle the exceptions in the application we designed and implemented customized exception handling.  ·        Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project using Agile methodology.  ·        Worked extensively on struts framework in order to insert the panel data into the panel container.  ·        Used panel container to organize the panels.  ·        Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  ·        Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  ·        Utilized Hibernate’s Polymorphic many-to-one associations for the purpose of referring instances of subclasses and participated in design of data base and created tables in ORACLE.  ·        Implemented Singleton, Service Locator design patterns in MVC framework and developed command, delegate, model action script classes to interact with the backend.  ·        Implemented log4j for debugging and logging purposes.  ·        Updated Spring.xml files to integrate all the components in the Spring framework.  ·        Designed and developed the application presentation layer using JSTL.  ·        Used Ant to deploy the Services in Jboss. Involved in the deployment of the application on Jboss.   ·        Created and Consumed Web Services using Restful web services.  ·        Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test-driven development approach.  ·        Involved in conversion of several paper documents to online documents.  ·        Involved in putting the entries to external XML files which are read by doc-builder.  ·        Involved in taking the clients requirements up-to-date and worked on them accordingly.  ·        Worked on various technologies like HTML, JSP, Servlets. Responsible for change requests and maintenance during development of the project.  ·        Had to insert various data into the document. Giving demos and status updates of the application.  ·        Involved in finding as well as fixing the bugs and making modifications to already existing code.  ·        Developed Junit test cases for regression testing and integrated with ANT build. Java/J2EE Developer Evision Techno serve - Evision Techno serve November 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:    ?    Developed User Interface using JSP, HTML and jQuery plug-ins for easy user interactions.  ?    Used JavaScript, AJAX & JSON technologies for front end user input validations and RESTful web service calls using Apache CXF.  ?    Implemented exception handling in Java Spring boot for REST API, by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  ?    Used Firebug to debug the front-end implementations.  ?    Designed and developed the communication tier to exchange data to Xpress Services through JMS and XML over HTTP.  ?    Designed stored procedures, triggers and functions in MySQL and DB2 for business-critical requirements.  ?     Created E-R graphs and relationships among different database and creation tables with low coupling.  ?    Executed unit test cases using JUnit and Mock Objects.  ?    Implemented Hibernate to persist the data into database and written HQL to access/update the data from/to the database.  ?    Configure the Services to communicate to the controller and fetch required user data.  ?    Applied JMS to send the notifications and Emails to the concerned people.  ?    Performed code updates and releases using Git and Jenkins Deploy tools to send out updates to various pieces of software.  ?    Developed Maven scripts to build the application.  ?    Configured, packaged, and deployed the application in WebSphere server in different environments.  ?    Used CVS as version control system for the source code and project documents.    Environment: WebSphere, JSP, HTML, JSON, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, REST, Firebug, XML, JMS, CVS, JUnit, Log4j, Maven, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring Validator, GIT, Jenkins, Hibernate, Linux, Oracle, PL/SQL, TOAD, MyEclipse IDE, Scrum Agile methodology.    JAVA DEVELOPER PIXELSUTRA - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to October 2013 • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using Agile methodology.  • Used Waterfall Model for designing, implementing and developing the Application.  • Involved in developing web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and JSF  • Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  • Developed policy owner business logic using Stateless Enterprise Java Beans (EJBs).   • Participated in designing and development of DAO (Data Access Objects) for policy owner module.  • Developed application components using Apache Struts Framework.  • Performed server-side validations using Struts validations.  • Used Hibernate as ORM framework to persist data onto MS SQL database by implement persistence layer.  • Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  • Involved in Unit testing and System testing of the application.  • Developed and maintained ANT Scripts as a build Tool.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Performed production support of the application in production.  • Involved in enhancement/modification of the product as per the client requirements.   • Involved in prototyping, proof of concept, design, Interface Implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Created use case diagrams, sequence diagrams, and preliminary class diagrams for the system using UML/Rational Rose. Designed and developed front view components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  • Implemented Core Java concepts like Polymorphism, Inheritance, Multithreading etc.  • Involved in developing various reusable Helper and Utility classes using Java, which are being used across all the modules of the application.  • Developed Java classes for implementing Business logics using EJB (Stateless session, entity, message driven beans).  • Deployed and tested the application with web server Tomcat.   • Configured and tested the application with database server Oracle 10g.  • Helped in database design and tuning. Created stored procedures, Views in the     Database.  • Used SVN for version control and developed Scripts by using Ant.  • Involved in communicating with clients daily to ensure their requirements are being met.     Education Master's in Information Systems Campbellsville university - Campbellsville, KY Bachelor's in Computer Science Acharya Nagarjuna university - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh Skills Visual studio, Api, Application server, Coding, Design patterns, Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, Java Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages C, Java 1.5 - 1.8, J2EE, PL/SQL. Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS 2/4, NodeJS.  Frame Works Struts 2.0, JSF 1.2, Spring 2.0 - 4.0, Hibernate 3.0 - 4.3 and JUnit 4.5. Microservices Spring Boot, Spring Rest  Databases Oracle 10g/11g, MYSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere and JBoss.  Testing JUnit, Mockito, Selenium Development Tools Eclipse, Net Beans, IntelliJ.  Version control GitHub, Tortoise SVN, Apache Subversion and CVS. Bug tracking JIRA, Visual studio.  Tools & Utilities Apache Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, ANT and Postman, SonarQube, spot bugs.    Service Link, Pittsburg, PA Nov 2018 - Present    Role: Sr. Java Developer    Description: Service Link is a mortgage services company that provides transaction services to the mortgage and finance industries. It also offers a broad range of quality assurance services that are used to ensure the quality of managed products and technology solutions.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered requirements and communicating effectively with business users and Detail Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing and successfully followed agile methodology throughout the project.  • Designed and developed the front-end with Jakarta Struts framework, Tag libraries and Custom Tag Libraries and development of Presentation Tier using JSP pages integrating AJAX, Custom Tag's, JSP TagLibs, Tiles, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript and developed Strut Extended Base framework to develop base groundwork for struts.  • Designed and Implemented Exception handling by developing custom Exceptions.  • Developed DAOs by extensively using Statement, Prepared Statement and Result Set interfaces. Developed Service layers (POJOs) and Value objects.  • Developed Customs tags for displaying menus based on the User role, for displaying Bread crumbs and tags for string formatting.  • Created web front end using JSP pages integrating AJAX and JavaScript coding that provide a rich browser-based user interface and used Json objects to for Transfer object front end to backend.  • Used Spring framework to implement MVC architecture. Implemented various J2EE design patterns like Front Controller.  • Using Tiles Frame work Developed Main Layout, Header, Footer, Content JSP pages to reduce redundancy.  • Expert in unix shell script programming - shell, wlst, and Unix utilities.  • Implemented a Shell Script for start servers. Maintained and enhanced tens of thousands of lines shared between the MS Windows and Linux, Windows versions of the application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, OOA, OOD, Struts, JSP, AJAX, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, XSLT, Spring, Hibernate 3.0, Tomcat, XML, Log4j, BEA Web Logic, My Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), Citrix, JUnit, JTest, Oracle, Unix/Linux, Windows XP and Solaris.    FastModel Sports, Chicago, IL Jan 2018 - Oct 2018    Role: Java Developer    Description: Fast Model develops the industry's best coaching software products and created incredible brand loyalty. They create basketball coaching software, apps and content for all levels. Their clients include all 30 NBA franchises, more than 90% of NCAA Division I basketball programs and over 5000 coaches from over 75 countries.    Responsibilities:  • Established a JSON contract to make a communication between the JS pages and java classes.  • Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, spring, JSF frameworks and SOAP/REST web services, Web Sphere Integration Developer (WID) Tool to develop WPS components.  • Developed Interactive GUI screens using HTML and JSP and data validation using Java Script.  • Developed UI using JSP and AJAX Call in JSP pages, business implementation in Servlets and Struts action class.  • Developed Python scripts to automate the deployments to the WebSphere application server.  • Deployed the application on to Apache Tomcat application server.  • Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Used Spring Beans to encapsulate business logic and Implemented Application MVC Architecture using Spring MVC framework.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains object declarations and dependencies.  • Used AngularJS as a JavaScript library to bind data on html elements and integrated with REST based services returning JSON data.  • Used MySQL database for data persistence.  • Worked on JAX-WS, JAXB Web Services using SOAP and JAX-RS, Jersey for Restful Webservices.  • Worked on Agile, SCRUM development methodology and built the application with Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and used Struts Test Cases for testing Action Classes.  • Used Maven as the build tool for the application.  • Used Rational Clear Case and Clear Quest for version control and change management.  • Extensively used Log4J for logging.  • Worked on UNIX Shell Scripting tasks.  • Implemented business layer using Core java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, Collections Multithreading, spring annotations, and Spring MVC components.  • Implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring MVC, JVM, Hibernate, JSON, JAX-WS, JAXB, Web Services, MySQL, JSF, AngularJS, SOAP, Rest, log4j, JUnit, Java7, JMS, JAXB, XML, Ajax, JQuery8, JavaScript8, Maven, Unix, Shell, Rest, Jenkins.    Fitch Ratings, Wyomissing, PA Dec 2016 - Dec 2017    Role: Java developer    Involved in developing Risk Connect project. Risk connect project is mainly used to connect the end users with the research analysis, portfolios, alerts and reports of various companies with customized filters.  Responsibilities:  • In order to handle the exceptions in the application we designed and implemented customized exception handling.  • Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project using Agile methodology.  • Worked extensively on struts framework in order to insert the panel data into the panel container.  • Used panel container to organize the panels.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  • Utilized Hibernate's Polymorphic many-to-one associations for the purpose of referring instances of subclasses and participated in design of data base and created tables in ORACLE.  • Implemented Singleton, Service Locator design patterns in MVC framework and developed command, delegate, model action script classes to interact with the backend.  • Implemented log4j for debugging and logging purposes.  • Updated Spring.xml files to integrate all the components in the Spring framework.  • Designed and developed the application presentation layer using JSTL.  • Used Ant to deploy the Services in Jboss. Involved in the deployment of the application on Jboss.  • Created and Consumed Web Services using Restful web services.  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test-driven development approach.  • Involved in conversion of several paper documents to online documents.  • Involved in putting the entries to external XML files which are read by doc-builder.  • Involved in taking the clients requirements up-to-date and worked on them accordingly.  • Worked on various technologies like HTML, JSP, Servlets. Responsible for change requests and maintenance during development of the project.  • Had to insert various data into the document. Giving demos and status updates of the application.  • Involved in finding as well as fixing the bugs and making modifications to already existing code.  • Developed Junit test cases for regression testing and integrated with ANT build.  Environment: Jdk, JBoss, Spring framework, JSP, Web API, Hibernate, Servlets, CVS, Agile, REST, SOAP UI, HTML, JSP, Servlets, TOAD, UNIX, Ant, Junit, Oracle.  Evision Techno serve, India Nov 13 - Oct 15    Role: Java/J2EE Developer    Description: This project deals with Medicare Solutions in Patient administration functions for Well-point. The major functions of this project include Allocating Registrations, Recording Personal Details, Handling Hospital Admissions, Assigning Insurance Details, and Recording Transfers within the hospital and Creation of Discharge Summary.    Responsibilities:    • Developed User Interface using JSP, HTML and jQuery plug-ins for easy user interactions.  • Used JavaScript, AJAX & JSON technologies for front end user input validations and RESTful web service calls using Apache CXF.  • Implemented exception handling in Java Spring boot for REST API, by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  • Used Firebug to debug the front-end implementations.  • Designed and developed the communication tier to exchange data to Xpress Services through JMS and XML over HTTP.  • Designed stored procedures, triggers and functions in MySQL and DB2 for business-critical requirements.  • Created E-R graphs and relationships among different database and creation tables with low coupling.  • Executed unit test cases using JUnit and Mock Objects.  • Implemented Hibernate to persist the data into database and written HQL to access/update the data from/to the database.  • Configure the Services to communicate to the controller and fetch required user data.  • Applied JMS to send the notifications and Emails to the concerned people.  • Performed code updates and releases using Git and Jenkins Deploy tools to send out updates to various pieces of software.  • Developed Maven scripts to build the application.  • Configured, packaged, and deployed the application in WebSphere server in different environments.  • Used CVS as version control system for the source code and project documents.    Environment: WebSphere, JSP, HTML, JSON, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, REST, Firebug, XML, JMS, CVS, JUnit, Log4j, Maven, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring Validator, GIT, Jenkins, Hibernate, Linux, Oracle, PL/SQL, TOAD, MyEclipse IDE, Scrum Agile methodology.    PIXELSUTRA, HYDERABAD, INDIA JUN 2011 - OCT 2013    Role: Java Developer  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using Agile methodology.  • Used Waterfall Model for designing, implementing and developing the Application.  • Involved in developing web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and JSF  • Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  • Developed policy owner business logic using Stateless Enterprise Java Beans (EJBs).  • Participated in designing and development of DAO (Data Access Objects) for policy owner module.  • Developed application components using Apache Struts Framework.  • Performed server-side validations using Struts validations.  • Used Hibernate as ORM framework to persist data onto MS SQL database by implement persistence layer.  • Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  • Involved in Unit testing and System testing of the application.  • Developed and maintained ANT Scripts as a build Tool.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Performed production support of the application in production.  • Involved in enhancement/modification of the product as per the client requirements.  • Involved in prototyping, proof of concept, design, Interface Implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Created use case diagrams, sequence diagrams, and preliminary class diagrams for the system using UML/Rational Rose. Designed and developed front view components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  • Implemented Core Java concepts like Polymorphism, Inheritance, Multithreading etc.  • Involved in developing various reusable Helper and Utility classes using Java, which are being used across all the modules of the application.  • Developed Java classes for implementing Business logics using EJB (Stateless session, entity, message driven beans).  • Deployed and tested the application with web server Tomcat.  • Configured and tested the application with database server Oracle 10g.  • Helped in database design and tuning. Created stored procedures, Views in the Database.  • Used SVN for version control and developed Scripts by using Ant.  • Involved in communicating with clients daily to ensure their requirements are being met.    Environment: JDK, CORE JAVA (MULTITHREADING, COLLECTIONS), JSP, SERVLETS, XML, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, EJB 3.0, UML, RAIONAL ROSE, JDBC, APACHE TOMCAT, ORACLE 10G, SVN, ANT, WINDOWS, UNIX/ LINUX. Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JDBC, Hibernate, JSP, HTML, CSS, IBM WSAD (WebSphere Studio Application Developer), IBM WebSphere Application Server, CSS, IBM Rational Rose, DB2, Jira, ANT