Senior Java Full Stack Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Full Stack Developer - One Main Financial Baltimore, MD • Around 7+ years of experience in developing and maintaining software systems. Was involved in requirement specification, design, analysis, development, deployment and maintenance of enterprise applications.  • Expertise in object-oriented JAVA, J2EE and client server technologies. Working experience of developing applications using Java, JSP, Java Script, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Servlets and RESTFUL Webservices.  • Strong understanding of object-oriented programming principles and expertise in MVC architecture.  • Experienced in deploying applications using IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat and Microsoft WAMP server.  • Expertise in working on various spring modules (Spring MVC, DAO) along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Good knowledge on client-side JavaScript framework Angular 2.x with NGRX to achieve MVVM design flow using directives, observables, promises, dependency injection from component to services, pipes, shadow DOM (to render DOM tree).  • Strong experience in developing Dynamic Single Page Application (SPA) using MEAN (Mongo,  • Express Angular and Node) full stack development tool kit.  • Experience in using various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Backbone.js, React JS, Ember JS, Require.js, Knockout, Angular JS, bootstrap and Google Web Toolkit.  • Good amount of hands-on experience in developing server-side JavaScript frameworks using Node JS (Hapi JS, Express JS) to build event-driven, non-blocking i/o model web applications.  • Expertise in using of Java Script build tools and task runners like Web Pack for React and Angular 2.0 /4.0, Grunt, Gulp for Angular 1.0, Browserify for packaging Node JS modules for browsers.  • Extensive work experience in usage of bundle package and task runner tools like NPM, Bower on UI testing with Karma, Jasmine, Protractor for Angular JS, M ocha and Chai for React JS and Backbone JS.  • Experience working on presentation layer frameworks like JSP, Java Script, HTML, CSS and XML.Knowledge of using Apache Maven for build automation.  • Experience in developing J2EE applications on different IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, IBM Web Sphere Studio Application Developer WSAD, Rational Application Developer (RAD), JBuilder.  • Strong Understanding of J2EE design Patterns like Session facade, Singleton, Front Controller, Business delegate, Service Locator, DTO, DAO.  • Good exposure and experience with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, WSDL, JMS ( Java Messaging Service), AJAX and tools like ANT, Junit.  • Good knowledge in advanced Java language concepts like Multithreading and Serialization used in distributed systems.  • Expertise in Relational Database management systems and experience developing SQL queries and creating, editing and maintaining database objects.  • Experience working with versioning tools like CVS, SVN, GIT and Clear Case and build tools like ANT, Maven.  • Experience analyzing huge datasets and coming up with insights and creating effective visualizations to convey findings.  • Worked on Java reporting tool Jasper reports to create effective reports with print, save functionalities.  • Expertise in project management and experience working on various projects in agile development environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Full Stack Developer One Main Financial 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing of the application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Expertise on Java Portal &Portlets Development and Maintenance.  • Expertise in developing the user interface (UI) using JSP, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Designed and developed MicroServices using node.js, Mongo DB, Neo4J, Elastic search on Cisco Private Cloud OpenStack Platform.  • Followed Agile methodology throughout the project, involve in Scrum meetings with the team members on day-to-day basis for the update on project status..  • Implemented reactive Angular 2 components using RXJS.  • Validated forms using Angular 2 and regular expressions there by providing client side validation and server validation.  • Implemented java 8 features like Lambda expression, Streaming API and functional interface.  • Used standard J2EE design patterns and Model View Controller in application design.  • Implemented presentation layer using Spring Boot, J-Query and Bootstrap.  • Implemented Java 8 features such as Streams, Lambda expressions, method reference and Optional Class to reduce the code size and simplify the operations.  • Extremely used plain JavaScript and J-Query, JavaScript Library to do the client-side validations.  • Used Multi-threading to overcome the errors in the process of transactions, to handle all the threads by the main thread process.  • Lambda function to index the data dump in DynamoDB and store the indexes in Elastic Search domain.  • Used Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, and AWS Identity).  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon Web Services focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Developed the view-controller components using JavaScript(J-Query), CSS3, HTML5 and DHTML.  • Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project UI's and used Angular JS framework to associate HTML elements to models.  • Used BAMBOO for simultaneous integration and deployment for both web application and mobile application server.  • Involved in Maven based build process and continuous integration of the project using Bamboo and Jenkins.  • Excellent understanding of Java concepts like Multithreading, String handling and implemented with JDK 1.8 features.  • Experienced in Developed Java API to connect with AWS S3 Services for storing and retrieving data stored in the S3 buckets.  • Used Hibernate framework for interacting with the Oracle data base for performing CURD operations.  • Implemented Docker container service, build pipe line like Jenkins, Bamboo and GoCD for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment that can run on the cloud or on-premises  • Designed and developed a project that reads messages from Kafka topic and applied conversation from JSON to pipe delimited String data format to be saved in OracleDBandNoSQLDB.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using RESTful services.  • Development of Spring Boot applications with micro services.  • Implemented with XML, XSLT, XPath and Web services (REST & Soap).  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into WebLogic application Server.  • Designed and developed database objects like Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, User Functions using PL/SQL, SQL Developer and used them in WEB components.  • Developed PL/SQL triggers and master tables for automatic creation of primary keys.  • Utilized Spring core, Spring Boot, JPA, EJB3, Hibernate 3, JMS framework.  • Running Tests and writing Swagger specifications for few micro services.  • Used JSON objects, ECMAScript6, TypeScript,JavaScript and Bootstrap intensively to create interactive web pages Worked on Jira for User requirements and used Jira as bug tracking tools.  • Maven was used to manage dependencies in the application and deploy it on JBoss Application server.  • Installed and configured Cassandra cluster and CQL on the cluster.  • Imported data from various resources to the Cassandra cluster using Java APIs.  • Good Experience performing End to End Automation using RESTAssured for backend applications and Protractor and Selenium for front Applications.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SAAS, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, React JS, Angular 2, Maven, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Node JS, Docker, AWS, Apache Kafka, RESTful, JAX-RS, Swagger2, GIT, Jenkins, MySQL, NoSQL, Cassandra DB. Java/J2EE Developer NBC Universal 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements specification and understanding existing business logic.  • Designed and developed XML configuration-based Spring REST web services using Spring REST framework.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3 and JavaScript.  • Used Agile software development technique to manage software development and weekly scrum strategy is used for project management.  • Test Driven Development method is used to achieve better understanding of the project andto achieve high quality in minimum time, flexibility, best functionality, productivity and error free code.  • Used HTML, CSS, Jquery and AngularJS to implement applicationweb pages for user friendly interface.  • Utilized Restful web services to enhance performance, scalability and JSON format to display and change the response object in UI.  • AngularJS framework is used to keep server-side separate form client side and DOM manipulation from application logic.  • Spring security is used for authentication, authorization and other security features for service layer methods and used LOG4j logging framework for logging errors.  • Multithreading, collection framework, generics, externalization and core java techniques are used.  • JSON objects are used for response in web page and to build client-side restful web services and OOAD Design patterns like Factory pattern, DTO are used.  • Sequence diagrams, class diagrams are used for better understanding of architecture.  • Actively involved in spring components form object, command object, Dispatcher Servlets, controllers etc.  • Used tools like ANT and Mavenfor build, Jenkins and PCF for deployments and GIT for version control.  • Implemented Unit Testing using resolved bugs, JUnit, Eclipse debugging tools.  • Spring Configuration files containedHibernate Session Factory, DAOs, Hibernate controller classes, mapping files, validation classes, dependencies between delegate classes, and the domain Objects.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring framework, Struts, Tomcat, SVN, HTML5, CSS, Junit, MAVEN, DB2, JQuery, GIT, Easy Mock, SOAP, Log4j, Jenkins and PCF. Senior Java Developer Becton Dickinson - San Jose, CA February 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and prototyping.  • Designed, implemented, and coded Restful Web Services with JSON formatted messages running on a J-Boss Web Server to create, modify, delete.  • Used Spring MVC Model View Controller to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Worked in an Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design.  • Implemented the service layer based on a Spring container and exploited Spring's IOC features for bean management.  • Worked with Groovy to support both static and dynamic typing as well as for operator overloading.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using AngularJS (2.0), React.js, and JQuery.  • Worked throughout the full stack (Node.js, Angular.js) to see software extensions through to completion.  • Good knowledge in Implementing the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM 4.3.0. Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  • To meet scale and availability requirements, we selected Apache Cassandra for Cassandra's master less architecture, ability to easily and quickly scale horizontally to meet their growing data store needs.  • Implemented and administered Data center Cassandra Clusters based on the knowledge of architecture and data modeling for Cassandra applications. Developed DAO classes with JUnit using Spring DAO package for data access and data manipulation.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML, CSS, bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, Service Locator, DAO, and Session Façade.  • Developing the UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Ajax.  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, SOA, WSDL Spring MVC and developed DTDs, XSD schemas for XML (parsing, processing, and design) to communicate with Active Directory application using Restful API.  • Development of EJBs 2.1 (Stateless Session and Message Driven Beans), JMS, JavaScript, JDOM and  • Used Business Process and Decision Management Design using JBoss JBPM and JBoss Drools Rules Engine.  • Used IntelliJ Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Created SOAP/XML and REST/JSON Java Clients to test the Web Services developed and sent the payload data from a property file.  • Implemented Web Applications using JSF, EJB3, Hibernate 3, JSP, Servlets, and client side validations using Java Script.  • Involved in software development life cycle including analysis, design, development, Spock testing, refactoring and documentation of the application using Groovy.  • Created test harness and automated them using Java, Selenium, ant for data reporting consoles.  • Used UNIX/LINUX command level, and Shell Scripting  • Used Node js to develop the back-end components, connect the application with the other web services.  • Used Maven to automate the build and deployment process.  • Developed test cases using JUNIT, and followed test first development.  • Assisted QA team in Test cases preparation and fixed bugs.    Environment:JDK 1.7, Spring 4.1(DI, MVC, Tran Management, Integration, AOP, Boot), Hibernate 4.0, JAX-RS Webservices, JAX-WS Webservices, Apache CXF, Apache Camel, Groovy ,JQuery 1.9, AJAX, UML, JSTL, Oracle 11g, WebLogic 12.1, Eclipse 4.2, Junit, , Log4j, Maven 3.1, PMD, AWS EC2, IAM, NodeJS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Toad, Hudson, JIRA, Rally. Java/J2EE Developer J&B Medical Group - Wixom, MI February 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, HTML5, CSS and JavaScript, AJAX, JSON.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, JDBC.  • Worked on various use cases in development using Struts and testing the functionalities.  • Involved in preparing the High Level and Detail level design of the system using J2EE.  • Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Developed SOAP based XML web services.  • Worked with high volume and complex PL/SQLstored procedures and packages using TOAD.  • Used different patterns like SOA, MVC pattern, DAO pattern, and singleton.  • Directly worked with Business Analysts and SMEs to gather requirements from the customer  • Developed Stored Procedures, triggered stored procedures using Hibernate in secondary project, involved in developing Programmatic transactions using Hibernate.  • Worked on integration modules, BPEL business objects, Business Rules, Invoking Human tasks, deploying into WebSphere Process Server and tested using Business Process Choreographer.  • Experience with eclipse plug-ins like Find Bugs, Check Style  • Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and JUnit for unit testing.  • Configured JBOSS Application server and deployed the web components.  • Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects.    Environment:Struts, Hibernate, Spring, EJB, JSP, Servlets, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, UML, HTML, JNDI, CVS, Log4J, RAD 7, Windows XP, Web Sphere App server, WebLogic, Rational Rose, Oracle. Java Developer Deloitte Consulting - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked as software developer for client's healthcare program and developed a web-based reporting application system.  • Used Spring MVC Framework to develop Action classes and Controllers along with validation framework and annotations.  • Involved in development of presentation layer using Spring framework, and MVC design paradigm.  • Worked in implementation of MVC design paradigm of Spring framework, Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) using Hibernate and Oracle database at the back end.  • Configured Spring ORM that provides simplified templates for accessing databases through ORM technologies, such as Hibernate in our case to access the database.  • Developed SQL queries and views for handling database activities in Oracle/MS SQL Server.  • Project coordination with other Development teams, System managers, and developed good working environment.  • Used TOMCAT Server and WebSphere application server for deploying the application.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, Ext JS and Java Script components.  • Worked on complete life cycle, Design, improvement and testing utilizing OOA and OOD.  • Developed and integrated the application with Jasper reports a java-based report generating application to enable the users to print/save the webpage on to their local systems.  • Used ClearCase and ClearQuest for version control and workflow automation.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, JUnit, SQL, DB2, HTML, Ext JS, JavaScript, Log4j, XML, DOM, Edit Plus, JBoss, ClearCase, ClearQuest. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SAAS, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, React JS, Angular 2, Maven, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Node JS, Docker, AWS, Apache Kafka, RESTful, JAX-RS, Swagger2, GIT, Jenkins, MySQL, NoSQL, Cassandra DB. Additional Information SKILLSET:    Platforms Windows 2000/NT/ XP/Vista and Sun Solaris 2.8/2.9, UNIX  Programming JDK 1.5, 1.6, 1.7,1.8, C, C++  Server Scripting JSP1.2,2.1, JSP-EL, JSTL, Custom Tags  Client Scripting JQuery 1.8,1.9, JQueryUI, Dojo, ExtJS, AngularJS, Javascript, CSS2, CSS3, HTML4, HTML5, NodeJS  Java Frameworks Struts 1.2, Struts 2.1, Spring MVC,DI, AOP, JSF 1.1, JSF 2.1, GWT, Vaadin  Database Tools Toad for Oracle, Toad for MySQL, Toad for DB2, Toad for MS-SQL, ERWin, Altova Database Spy, MySQL Workbench,  Databases DB2, MS-SQL Server, HSQLDB, PostgresSQL, MySQL  Middleware Specifications EJB 2.1, EJB 3.0, CORBA, RMI, JMS  Version Control Tortoise SVN, Rational Clearcase, Accurev, GitHub, CVS  IDEs Eclipse 3.0, 3.1, MyEclipse 4.1, IntelliJ, Netbeans, JBuilder 2007, JDeveloper.  Build Tools ANT 1.7,1.8,1.9, Maven, Gradle  Continuous Integration Jenkins, Hudson  XML Tools Altova XML Spy 2005,2008  XML Technologies XSLT, JAXP, JDOM, SAX, DOM, XPATH, XPOINTER, XML, XSD,DTD  Webservice Specifications JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Webservice Tools SoapUI 4.0,5.1, TcpMon  Webservice Implementations Axis 1.0,2.1, JWSDP2.1, Sun Metro, Sun Jersey, Apache XFire, Apache CXF  Whitebox Testing Junit 3, Junit 4, DBUnit, JUnitPerf, HttpUnit, LoadTest, TimedTest, Selenium, Fitnesse, EasyMock, PowerMock  Blackbox Testing JMeter, LoadUI, LoadRunner, HP Quality Center, WinRunner,  Application Servers Weblogic 8.1, 10.0, Websphere 6.1, JBoss 4.0, Glassfish 4.0  Web Servers Tomcat 5.0,6.0,7.1, Joans  UML Tools Altova UML Model, Rational Enterprise, MS Visio  ORM FraORM Frameworks Hibernate 3.0,3.1,4.1, TopLink, OpenJPA, iBatis  Defect Tracking JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational ClearQuest  Methodologies Agile (XP, Scrum), Rational Unified Process(RUP), Waterfall, Kanban  Reporting iReports, JReports  Batch Jobs Quartz Scheduler, Cron, Spring Batch  HTML Editors MS-Frontpage 2003, Adobe Dreamweaver, Coffee Cup HTML  Templating Velocity, Freemarker  Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Dynamo DB  Micro Services Spring Micro Services, Springboot