Co-Founder Co-Founder Co-Founder - Minnesota Youth Association Minneapolis, MN Work Experience Co-Founder Minnesota Youth Association January 2016 to Present Co-founded a non-profit organization to bring brotherhood, teamwork and forward thinking to the youth through various programs such as seminars, trips, and weekly competition.  ? Primary logistical contact for basketball leagues including managing 300 youth members in two leagues and two traveling teams.    Girl Scouts river valley, Desk Side Support September 2018- January 2019    ? Reimaged PCs, Desktops, laptops and tablets via SCCM.  ? Utilized Spiceworks to document tickets.  ? Reset password via Active Directory. Java Developer RNXT December 2018 to March 2019 Assisted in maintaining and updating existing applications and modules.  ? Helped design form validation programs using HTML and JavaScript.  ? Contributed to development of client side and server side codes for external and internal web applications.  ? Provided assistance and support to programming team members as required.  ? Contributed to servlet based application development. Java Apprentice The Software Guild August 2018 to August 2018 November 2019  ? The Software Guild is an intensive, fast-paced apprenticeship program that produces Java full-stack software developers.  ? Used Java and the Spring MVC framework to create a business application for a flooring company that enabled users to add, delete, & edit  clients and orders. The program was also capable of reading and writing to files to allow for product and state tax updates.  ? Created a business application for a Vending Machine project that enabled customer to enter money, Vend an Item, and were able to return  change.  ? Utilized Tools (JIRA, Crucible, BitBucket) for version control, workflow management, and team communication. Minnesota Youth Association April 2018 to August 2018 Desk Side Support April 2018- August 2018  ? Responsible for Imaging Desktop, Laptops and tablets via SCCM.  ? Added and deleted computer assets on Active Directory.  ? Utilized HP service manager to document tickets.. Level 2 Help Desk Best Buy HQ June 2017 to October 2017 Logged incidents using ServiceNow ticketing software.  ? TroubleShot POS, handheld devices, Registers.  ? Assisted 50 customers per day, Software Support Analyst Sovos Compliance December 2016 to May 2017 Logged incidents using Salesforce ticketing software.  ? Windows 10 troubleshooting.  ? Resolved over 200 Excel issues. Consistently stacking boxes. Education Bachelors in Management Information System in Management Information System Metropolitan State University January 2016 to May 2019 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/abdiaziz-ali