Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - Early Warning Scottsdale, AZ • 7+ years of experience as a Sr. Java Full stack developer in full software development life cycle including requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance.  • Experience in Test Driven Development(TDD),Waterfall model and Agile methodologies like SCRUM  • Expertise experience in estimations, analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance, performance tuning and deployment of internet, e-commerce and client-server applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, AJAX, JavaScript.  • Experience in working with the presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JSTL, Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Experienced in SOA and Web Services technologies, including RESTful, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, Axis, Soap, XML, WSDL, SAX and SAAS based design.  • Extensive experience in developing Web interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular-JS and Backbone-JS.  • Experienced in performing automation using Selenium, Java and performing Behavioral driven testing using Cucumber and Jbehive.  • Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST web services.  • Experience in developing User Interface (UI) Applications and professional web applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JavaScript, RxJS, JQuery, AJAX, RWD, JSON, XHTML and XML.  • Expertise in various open source frameworks like NodeJS, Struts 2.0/1.2, Spring 2.5/3.0, Spring MVC, IoC, Web and ORM Technology like Hibernate 3.0, JPA, EJB3.0, IBatis, Mybatis, JQuery.  • Experience with different IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, Intellij.  • Good knowledge and experience in Core and J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Abstract Factory, Builder, MVC2, Business Delegate, DAO etc.  • Expertise building SOAP Web services based on AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Experienced in other front-end technologies such as SASS, LESS, Typescript, BOOTSTRAP, Angular1, Angular1.5, Angular 2, Ajax, JSON, NodeJS etc.  • Expertise in Distributed and Web environments, focused in JAVA Technologies - Java collections, Threads, J2SE, JDBC, Struts, Spring products (core, boot, integrations, security), Hibernate Framework.  • Expertise in Spring Security Modules and Authentication.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, JSON, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, JQuery.  • Proficient in programming with Java/J2EE and strong experience in technologies such as JSP Servlets, Struts, Spring (IOC&AOP), Spring Boot, Hibernate, ATG Commerce, EJBs, MDBs, Session Beans, JDBC and JNDI.  • Good OOAD skills and data modeling using UML (Use-cases, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc.)  • Created POC's using NodeJS, MongoDB, Express-JS and Body-Parser to create REST services.  • Experienced in build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle and using them with continous integration tools like Jenkins to create and publish application artifacts.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Database and hands on work experience in writing application on No SQL database which is MongoDB.  • Experience in using the Docker container system with the Kubernetes integration.  • Experience in working with the Columnar NoSQL Database like HBase, Cassandra to manage extremely large data sets.  • Extensively experienced in Middle Tier Development using Servlets, JSPs, and EJB (3.0).  • Experience in using DOM4J, JAXB, JAXP parsing and XML Bean to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  • In depth knowledge on ELK Stack like Elasticsearch  • Experience to maintain the source using version controlling tools Visual Source safe, and Rational Clear Case.  • Experience in working with Web/Application Servers like Web logic, JBoss and Tomcat Servers and databases such as Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server 6.5/7.0. Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Early Warning - Scottsdale, AZ June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyze requirements with team, write High Level design documents, System Use Case, analyze risk factors.  • Technical design, review and implementation across the project. Developed UML diagrams like Use case, class and sequence diagrams.  • Used spring framework and J2EE components, Utilized Spring MVC, IOC, AOP and DAO modules. Developed controller classes, backend processes, complex services and database interaction.  • Extensively involved in the integration of the Front End web interface with the Spring MVC, Angular JS, JSP, HTML, CSS and JQuery.  • Involved in developing Web interface using JSP, JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) using spring Framework.  • Implemented and developed the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  • Developed pages using Angular.JS directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and Angular UI components such as grid, buttons, carousels, date pickers, modal dialogs and other input components.  • Used GIT as version control system to keep track of all the works and all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was also involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.  • Creating Angular JS controllers, directives, models for different modules of the application.  • Working on creating new modules for application and responsible for working on full stack development of it including designing Angular JS Controllers, routes.  • Developed JMS message listeners using Spring JMS Template to consume messages from queue.  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering EJBs, Servlets, and JSP components to be deployed on a Web Logic application server.  • Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, Generics and Collections whenever necessary using JSE.  • Developed REST API for test server for Express Router middleware based API's with MongoDB.  • Migrated application to micro-services architecture.  • Developed a cross-device/cross browser web application utilizing Angular JS , JavaScript API in conjunction with Bootstrap.  • Worked on Mongo DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication, schema design etc.  • Used Micro-services to ensure the scalability of application on cloud infrastructure.  • Refactored existing monolithic application by identifying components that needs to be transformed to Micro-services architecture, with Spring Boot based service, interacting through a combination of REST and AWS API-Gateway.  • Involved in building and maintaining cloud based infrastructure on AWS.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration, Maven for building the application in the cloud leveraging AWS API'S.  • Designed and developed User interface screens using Angular JS and followed Agile Scrum for application development.  • Designed, developed and integrated Spring DAO layer with Hibernate. Generated Hibernate XML files for the configured beans.  • Orderly logged the whole process using log4j for auditing, debugging and error logging purposes.  • Used Jenkins for Build process and continuous integration.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integrationas the data abstraction to interact with the database and used dependency injection (DI) using spring framework and annotations.  • Performed build management for the development and testing environment. Worked with release management to develop technical release notes for every code release.  • AWS Health Monitoring Service was used to profile the applications deployed in these environments.  • Involved in technical mentoring, production system support and customizing solutions.    Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, J2EE, Agile, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, Spring, Spring MVC, JMS, Hibernate, RESTful web services, Eclipse, UML, Log4j, Junit, AWS, GIT Mongo DB, Maven Spring boot, Micro services. Full stack Java Developer Celgene Corporation - Summit, NJ April 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:-  • Experience with using tools such as Eclipse IDE, Net Beans, Git, and Jira.  • Designed, implemented, and coded Restful Web Services with JSON formatted messages running on a J-Boss Web Server to create, modify, delete.  • Used Spring MVC Model View Controller to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Created many reports using Perl, Mod_Perl, CGI and shell scripts  • Worked in an Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design.  • Designed the class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Visio.  • Implemented the service layer based on a Spring container and exploited Spring's IOC features for bean management.  • Good knowledge in implementing the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM 4.3.0. Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  • To meet scale and availability requirements, we selected Apache Cassandra for Cassandra's master less architecture, ability to easily and quickly scale horizontally to meet their growing data store needs.  • Involved in designing, capacity planning and implementing multi-rack Cassandra cluster.  • Implemented and administered Data center Cassandra Clusters based on the knowledge of architecture and data modeling for Cassandra applications. Developed DAO classes with JUnit using Spring DAO package for data access and data manipulation.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, Service Locator, DAO, and Session Façade.  • Developing the UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Ajax.  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, SOA, WSDL Spring MVC and developed DTDs, XSD schemas for XML (parsing, processing, and design) to communicate with Active Directory application using Restful API.  • Development of EJBs 2.1 (Stateless Session and Message Driven Beans), JMS, JavaScript, JDOM and configuring CMR relationships (Container-Managed Relationships).  • Used Business Process and Decision Management Design using JBoss JBPM and JBoss Drools Rules Engine.  • Used IntelliJ Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Created SOAP/XML and REST/JSON Java Clients to test the Web Services developed and sent the payload data from a property file.  • Implemented Web Applications using JSF, EJB3, Hibernate 3, JSP, Servlets, and client side validations using Java Script.  • Created test harness and automated them using Java, Selenium, ant for data reporting consoles.  • Used UNIX/LINUX command level, and Shell Scripting  • Used Node.js to develop the back-end components, connect the application with the other web services.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using AngularJS (2.0), React.js, and J-Query.    Environment: UNIX, LINUX, J-Boss, JSON, SVN, JSF, EJB, SOAP, SOA, Hibernate 3, REST API, Servlets, Oracle, Maven, IntelliJ, HTML 5, CSS 3, Web Logic, Ajax, REST/JSON, AWS, RESTEASY, Cassandra, SQL, PL/SQL, Visio, Node.js AngularJS (2.0), React.js, and J-Query. Full Stack Java Developer British Telecom, VA January 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP. Developed Web Services for Payment Transaction and Payment Release.  • Extensively implemented the framework with multi-threading to implement batch Jobs with JDK 1.5 features.  • Configured development environment using Weblogic application server for developer's integration testing.  • Created WSDL and the SOAP envelope.  • Generated Model layer of MVC using EJB.  • Created Rest web services using JAX-RS, Hibernate framework.  • Developed application using Spring MVC and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from SQL Server.  • Worked with NPM commands and using package. JSON for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node.js applications.  • Developed a cross-device/cross browser web application utilizing Angular JS , JavaScript API in conjunction with Bootstrap.  • Validated Customer, Account, Address and Order entities with Drools rules engine.  • Used Node.js for server-side code and Express.js as the framework. Written callback functions for the Restful API.  • Identified and fixed various production issues related to IBM MQ server on Linux, UNIX, and Windows system.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma and performed end to end testing using Protractor and Selenium.  • Used Structs Model-View-Controller approach to help design new features and fix Jira bugs and request.  • Developed Rest Web services for IOS and Android mobile websites and apps.  • Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application.  • Implemented Micro Services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Micro Services and enabled discovery using Netflix Eureka Server.  • Added the required jars to the drools files, build the package and deployed it on the JBoss server.  • User level support for multiple applications including web-based, iOS, and Android mobile apps.  • Worked throughout the full stack (Node.js, Angular.js) to see software extensions through to completion.  • Deployed application in Web Sphere Application Server and developed using RAD.  • Wrote huge JavaScript to do client-side validation like login, address, email, Tel No. validation.  • Improved performance for interactive components through use of AJAX.  • Developed Custom Tags to represent data in a desired unique table format and to implement paging logic.  • Used Kafka in a POC to send data and persist on Cassandra Database.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access.  • Business logic is implemented using Spring Core and Hibernate.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  • Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.    Environment: Java/ J2EE, JEE7 JSP, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring MVC, XML, EJB, Web Services, SOAP, Eclipse, Rational Rose, HTML, XPATH, XSLT, DOM and JDBC. Full Stack Java Developer Barnes & Noble, NY September 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using agile methodology.  • Designed and development applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML and OOAD.  • Created Use cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose. Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern.  • Developed user management screens using JSF framework, business components using Spring framework and DAO classes using Hibernate framework for persistence management and involved in integrating the frameworks for the project.  • Application and developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Deployed the application onto Web Logic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.  • Developed DAOs using JPA, Hibernate persistence API for the database operations to interact with Oracle Database.  • Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using JSF, JSP's, Prime Faces, Ajax4JSF framework (Ajax), JavaScript and Backing Beans.  • Testing and production support of core java based multi-threading ETL tool for distributed loading XML data into Oracle database using JPA/Hibernate.  • Used Multi-threading concept to post data from files to tables involving transformation of file from one format to another.  • Used Grunt for build tool for configuring tasks, Karma Jasmine for Unit Testing and deployed the application on to JBoss application server.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO, DTO, and MVC.  • Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework.  • Hibernate used as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Wrote Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Developed the presentation n-Tier using JSP, Java Script and HTML.  • Worked on advanced Hibernate associations with multiple levels of Caching, lazy loading.  • Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validations.  • Implemented Ajax using Ajax4JSF Framework and nested taglibs API along with other standard taglibs in the application, as a better approach for screen development and reusability of visual components in the JSP pages.  • Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized xml documents using Spring framework.  • Consumed restful web services using apache Http Client for the data coming from external systems.  • Involved in designing data schema and development of SOAP web services with Axis implementation and REST web services with JAX-RS.  • Developed Dashboards and UI pages with JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, and used Bootstrap to create Responsive Web pages.  • Consumed SOAP/ JAX-WS based web services using Spring framework and used SOAP UI for testing these services.  • Created Logging aspects for auditing and logging purposes using Spring AOP and implemented security for the application using Spring Security.  • Consumed SOAP and REST web services to get the persisted data from different databases.  • REST (JAX-RS) web services have been developed to be consumed by middleware module to push the communication center messages into web module.  • Was responsible for deployments using IBM Web Sphere application server.  • Configured and Integrated JSF, Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Responsible for writing Java code to convert HTML files to PDF file using Apache FOP.  • Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from IBM MQ Series using JMS.  • Involved in UI testing using Cucumber and Selenium.  • Rational Clear Quest used for defects, change tracking across the application.  • Designed and developed direct live interfaces to handle multiple systems within the bank to subscribe the data in real-time.    Environment: Java, Hibernate, spring (AOP, Dependency Injection), XML, Tortoise SVN, JSP, Spring MVC, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, Web Sphere, UML, SOA, SOAP, Log4J, Oracle, JavaScript, Jasmine, AJAX, JIRA and RAD. Java Developer Hindustan Unilever - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Spring integration with JSF.  • Worked on Spring application framework features IOC container and AOP.  • Worked on JSPs using JSF UI tags, injecting backing beans through spring.  • Configured faces-config.xml and Spring IOC.  • Developed screens which consist of jsf validators, jQuery, AJAX and JavaScript, CSS, HTML.  • Developed applications using Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping files .hbm.xml file, used hibernate query language.  • Worked on the Webservices classes and WSDL generation.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with ORM framework Hibernate.  • Developed and Deployed Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit score information from third party.  • Used xstream for java xml binding.  • Used CVS, Perforce as configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  • Deployment on Web Sphere Application Server 6.0.  • Designed and developed reporting module using Jasper Reports.  • Used Log4J to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting related to production and environment issues.  • Created Test cases, Junit test cases and tested the application thoroughly.  • Performed E2E Testing.    Environment: Java1.5, JSP2.0, Servlets2.4, EJB2.0, Struts1.2, Spring 2.0.3, JDBC3.0, Design patterns, Html, XML, CSS, Log4j, Ant, Web services, RAD6.0, IBM Web Sphere server6.1, IBM DB29.0, VSS. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxp, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jdk, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi, Struts, Dtd, Gradle Additional Information Technical Skills:    Platforms Windows 2000/NT/ XP/Vista and Sun Solaris 2.8/2.9, UNIX  Programming JDK 1.5, 1.6, 1.7,1.8, C  Server Scripting JSP1.2,2.1, JSP-EL, JSTL, Custom Tags, NodeJS  Client Scripting JQuery 1.8,1.9, JQueryUI, Dojo, ExtJS, AngularJS, Angular 2, JavaScript, CSS2, CSS3, HTML4, HTML5, Coffee script, Typescript  Java Frameworks Struts 1.2, Struts 2.1, Spring MVC,DI, JSF 1.1, JSF 2.1, GWT, Vaadin  Database Tools Toad for Oracle, Toad for MySQL, Toad for DB2, Toad for MS-SQL, Altova Database Spy, MySQL Workbench,  Databases DB2, MS-SQL Server, HSQLDB, PostgresSQL, MySQL  Middleware Specifications EJB 2.1, EJB 3.0, CORBA, RMI  Security Spring Security  Integration Spring Integration  Interceptors Spring AOP, AspectJ  Version Control Tortoise SVN, Rational Clearcase, GitHub, CVS  IDEs Eclipse 3.0, 3.1, MyEclipse 4.1, IntelliJ, Netbeans, JBuilder 2007, JDeveloper.  Server Build Tools ANT 1.7,1.8,1.9, Maven, Gradle  Client Build Tools Grunt  Continuous Integration Jenkins  XML Tools Altova XML Spy 2005,2008  XML Technologies XSLT, JAXP, JDOM, SAX, DOM, XPATH, XPOINTER, XML, XSD,DTD  Webservice Specifications JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Webservice Tools SoapUI 4.0,5.1, TcpMon  Webservice Implementations Axis 1.0,2.1, JWSDP2.1, Sun Jersey, Apache XFire, Apache CXF  Whitebox Testing Junit 3, Junit 4, DBUnit, JUnitPerf, HttpUnit, LoadTest, TimedTest, Selenium, Fitnesse, EasyMock, PowerMock  Blackbox Testing JMeter, LoadUI, LoadRunner, HP Quality Center, WinRunner,  Client Testing Jasmine  Application Servers Weblogic 8.1, 10.0, Websphere 6.1, JBoss 4.0, Glassfish 4.0  Web Servers Tomcat 5.0,6.0,7.1, Joans  ORM Frameworks Hibernate 3.0,3.1,4.1,Openmu, iBatis, ICEFaces  Defect Tracking JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational ClearQuest  Methodologies Agile (XP, Scrum), Rational Unified Process(RUP), Waterfall, Kanban  Reporting iReports, JReports  Batch Jobs Quartz Scheduler, Cron, Spring Batch  HTML Editors MS-Frontpage 2003, Adobe Dreamweaver  Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, S3  Micro Services Swagger, Spring Micro Services, Springboot