Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Matson Navigation Co Inc CA • Full-stack developer with over 8+ years of experience with all stages of the development cycle, for projects in AGILE and SDLC models.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Extensive experience in designing and developing Enterprise Applications for J2EE platform using Core Java, Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JSTL, JAXB, Struts, EJB, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring DATA, Spring JDBC, Groovy-Grails, Hibernate, XML, Web services, JMS, Eclipse, RAD, Ant, Maven.  • Expertise in implementing Web services and JMS for the synchronous and asynchronous communications between two applications running in different servers.  • Proficient in creating Web Services using Spring Boot.  • Expertise in application development using Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.0/3.0, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL.  • Knowledge in implementing a Microservices with Spring Boot based services.  • Expertise in Web Services architecture in SOAP and WSDL using JAX-RPC.  • Experience in developing Web based GUI's using JSP, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Node JS, AngularJS, React JS, JQuery, EXTJS and Ajax.  • Experience in Bootstrap (Responsive Web Design), Backbone, and AngularJS frameworks.  • Strong working experience Object Relational mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate (Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Hibernate Caching, Transactions).  • Expertise in design patterns including Front Controller, Data Access Object, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, MVC, Data Transfer Object and Singleton.  • Proficient in OOAD Technologies developing Use Cases, Activity diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class diagrams using case tools like Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose.  • Experienced in the functional usage and deployment of applications in JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming.  • Involved in building and deploying Apache ANT/ MAVEN scripts for deployment and customizing WAR/ JAR file management for web applications.  • Well experienced in using JUnit for performing unit-testing framework.  • Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development (TDD), Incremental and Iteration methodology and Pair Programming as well as implementing Waterfall model.  • Worked using IDE like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Netbeans  • A very good understanding of Groovy and Grails.  • Expertise in using configuration management tool like SVN and GIT for version controlling.  • Highly motivated team player with strong communication, analytical, documentation and organizational skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Matson Navigation Co Inc - Oakland, CA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant Java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB, etc.  • Involved in the development of a portal called Microsite using Spring boot framework.  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module.  • Upgraded the UI screens in the application to single page UI using React JS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Used Postman with JSON to test the request and response of the application.  • Design and Development of Objects using Object Oriented Design in Java.  • Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, usecases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  • Preparing the migration document for migrating application from Struts to spring and Responsive Web Designing (RWD) of the application.  • Worked on XML Technologies like XML Parsers, JAXB for binding data to Java objects.  • Developed the Spring AOP Programming to configure logging for the application.  • Implemented JMS for notifications and testing with JUnit, Mock cases.  • Developed the application using React JS, spring, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created and Implemented MicroServices using spring boot, REST, JSON.  • Extensively used Maven to build the application and deploy on Embedded Tomcat Server.  • Configured session timeout with Spring Boot in server side and implemented auto logout Functionality.  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and Micro Services in Java J2EEE using Spring Boot.  • Node.js is used to develop server side applications.  • Used React JS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Involved in SPA (Single Page Web Applications) using RESTFUL web services plus Ajax and React JS.  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using React JS framework, JavaScript, and jQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team.  • Involved in creating a reusable component using React JS for DOM manipulation  • Worked extensively on Web Services (SOAP&REST), XML, JMS and Spring Controller.  • Used Spring framework for the MVC implementation with spring for DI and Hibernate as ORM tool for database communication.  • Extensively used Maven to build the application and deploy on Embedded Tomcat Server.  • Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  • Used Log4j for logging to trace the application log messages which is used for debugging.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle database.  • Prepared JUnit and Integration test cases and integrated with Jenkins.  • Reviewed the code for ensuring adherence to Java coding standards.  • Used JIRA for writing user stories and raising defects in a defined sprint.  • Develop the changes using JSTL, JQuery, JCP, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Web services Configure beans in spring configuration file with Spring IOC, Spring AOP concepts.    Environment: Java 1.8, JSP, JQuery, JSON, Elastic, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, React JS, Node.JS, Microservices, XML, SOAP Web Services, JMS, Agile, XPATH, Hibernate, Maven, GIT, Oracle, Tomcat, Log4j, GIT, JIRA, Oracle, Windows/Linux. Full Stack Developer Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA October 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design and Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the application.  • Created new workflows for Enterprise business Markets (EBM) workflow Engine to sell enterprise products.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Modified the existing workflows to reduce execution time and improved the throughput.  • Thorough knowledge of Motive Workflow builder enabling debugging and analyzing workflow executions  • Analyzed and resolved themes and themeskin issues during the migration of UCP project.  • Played the role of configuration controller to validate and maintain the project as per the company and Tl9k standards.  • Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements.  • Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology.  • Used ng2-pdf-viewer from Angular2 npm package to preview the pdf files  • Created many components with Angular2 for each single page application.  • Used Angular2 camelCase syntax for built in directives.  • Used router module from Angular2.0.  • Used Angular2 npm packages like ng2-datepicker, ng2-pdf-viewer, ng2-auto-complete etc., to meet the requirements of the project.  • Developed and delivered SOAP based Web Services and used Apache-CXF and SOAP UI to test the services  • Developed Web Applications with rich UI using CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery plugins and Struts 2 framework.  • Implemented Single Page Design and customized directive and filter criteria by using Angular.JS.  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and MicroServices in Java J2EEE using Spring Boot.  • Implementation of authentication for Restful web services using Spring Boot Security Starter.  • Developing the application for incident creation and retrieving the events using restful web services with spring Boot.  • Worked extensively on spring boot for building web service.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections.  • Designed the system based on Spring MVC Model architecture. Developed a business logic layer using Spring Dependency Injection and client side Java-beans for DAO Design Patterns.  • Used Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Used STS for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  • Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  • Involved in the day to day sprint development activities and delivered per sprint timeline.  • Written unit test cases using JUnit and Integration test cases and integrated with Jenkin jobs.  • Coordinated with the onsite and offshore developer's w.r.t ongoing issues and follow up.  • Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.  • Responsible for the overall layout design that meet cross-device compatibility using Bootstrap, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle10g database.  • Proficient in using GIT for Version Control.  • Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing.    Environment: Java, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Angular2, Maven, Spring Boot, POS, DOJO, Spring, Microservices, Backbone, HTML5, CSS3, Rest API, Log4J, GIT, Agile, Jenkins, XML, Windows. Java/JEE Developer Old National Bank - Evansville, IN January 2017 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for system analysis, design and development in JEE using MVC based architecture.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design & development and the project was developed using Agile Methodologies.  • End-to-end Project Management, including customization of product based on the customer's requirement, meeting delivery deadlines on development, testing, implementation phases of the system and customer relationship consulting.  • Developed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Implemented the design patterns like DAO Factory, Singleton, Service Locator and Business Delegate.  • Developed Object Model from Hibernate mapping files.  • Developed JSP and pages HTML using CSS as part of the presentation layer  • Used ADF Framework with strong Object Oriented background  • Developed Web Services to implement SOA using SOAP, WSDL and UDDI with HTTP.  • Data access layer is implemented using Hibernate.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Test automation for web application using Cucumber.  • Worked extensively in the backend Oracle database  • Used Spring Batch for scheduling and maintenance of batch jobs.  • Using spring validation framework for server side validation.  • Used various design patterns to direct best solutions.  • Helped to finish assignments using several frameworks such as: Java applet, Spring MVC, Hibernate.  • The several technologies were used to create and deploy web pages such as JSP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into the Oracle database.  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML.    Environment: Java, JEE, JavaScript, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JSP, Spring, Oracle, Windows, Apache Tomcat, MVC. Java/J2EE Developer Magyar Bank - New Brunswick, NJ January 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Developed various product applications using Java, J2EE and related technologies  • Involved in development of middle layer business methods, which incorporated the core business functionality using Singleton Beans.  • Used JSF1.2, JSP, JSF 2.2(My faces) framework for building the application based on MVC design paradigm.  • Handled events and runtime errors using JSF event listeners and validations.  • Created user interface with the help JSF for standardized display technology which was formalized in a specification through the Java Community Process.  • Spring framework is used to implement Inversion of Control (IOC) and Aspect Oriented programming (AOP).  • REST (JAX-RS) web services have been developed to be consumed by middleware module to push the communication center messages into web module.  • Involved in configuring and integrating spring and Hibernate frameworks as the ORM tool develop the persistence layer.  • Used Spring MVC and restful web services such as jersey, axis frameworks.  • Responsible in testing the classes and methods using Junit test case for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the logs.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view.  • Involved in creating the EAR files and deployed in the QA/UAT environments, deployed applications on Jboss.  • Developed back end interfaces using PL/SQL Stored Packages, Procedures, Functions, Collections and Triggers.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Maven, Spring, CXF, Hibernate, WebServices, SOAP UI, XML, Javascript, AJAX, Angular-JS, Grunt, Bootstrap, SASS, JSP, WSDL, SOAP, Log4j, JUNIT, JMockit, SPRING-IOC, JDBC Template, GIT, MVC, JBoss, eclipse, LINUX. Java Developer Cigniti Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating use Cases and Class Diagrams. Applied OOAD principles for building applications.  • Interacted coordinated with the Design team, Business analyst and end users of the system.  • Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, usecases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  • Developed front end using Struts framework, business components using EJB's.  • Implementing Tiles based framework to present the layouts to the user. Created the web UI using Struts, JSP, Servlets and Custom tags.  • Deployment of Application in the JBoss Server environment using ANT tool using Struts architecture with the JSP Client.  • Configured Struts DynaActionForms, Message Resources, Action Messages, Action Errors, Validation.xml, and Validator-rules.xml.  • Designed and developed Caching and Logging service using Singleton pattern, Log4j.  • Coded different action classes in struts responsible for maintaining deployment descriptors like struts-config, ejb-jar and web.xml using XML.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles and Validations provided by struts framework.  • Wrote authentication and authorizationclasses and manage it in the frontcontroller for all the users according to their entitlments.  • Developed and deployed Session Beans and Entity Beans for database updates.  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using EJB.  • Developed stored procedures and complex packages extensively using PL/SQL and shell programs.  • Used Struts-Validator frame-work for all front-end Validations for all the form entries.  • Developed SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier.  • Design and development of JAXB components for transfer objects.  • Prepared EJB deployment descriptors using XML.  • Involved in Configuration and Usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes.  • Wrote Action Classesto service the requests from the UI, populate business objects & invoke EJBs.  • Used JAXP (DOM, XSLT), XSD for XML data generation and presentation  • Wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.    Environment: JSP, Servlets, Struts, JAXB, XSLT, DOM, XML, EJB, WebServices, JNDI, J2EE, RSA, JBOSS6.0, RATIONAL ROSE, CVS, ORACLE 9i, JUnit, Rational Rose, Javascript, DHTML. Software Engineer Virtusa - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC management - Requirements gathering, Design, Analysis, Development and Testing.  • Developed UML diagrams to develop use cases for University's Financial Services web application.  • Implementing the Struts 1.3 framework for Model View Controller (MVC) pattern.  • Used Struts framework along with JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript to construct dynamic web pages.  • Performed validation for client side as well as server side with the help of Struts Validation Frame Work.  • Involved in the implementation of Stateless session beans (EJB) for business logic layer and Entity beans for persistence.  • Supported existing applications developed using Spring MVC, AOP framework.  • Used JPA mapping techniques such as One to One, Many to One and Many to Many mappings to represent relation between various entities in the project.  • Worked Oracle database to create databases of student and faculty login information and their desired areas of study.  • Worked on Eclipse as IDE tools to build up applications.  • Developed codes for ActionServlet, Request Processor and Action classes by extending Struts package.  • Used EJB Message Drive Beans to initiate daily process.  • Executed quality and assurance testing in developed application, reduced performance errors on average by 95%.  • Resolved Blackboard problem tickets and made 100% follow ups maximizing the customer satisfaction.  • Installed SSL certificates on the developed application.  • Provided weekly status reports to the manager with the latest information of all ongoing activities.  • Followed the Java coding standards for scalability, reusability and ease of maintenance.  • Created XML Schema, XML template and XSL. Developed Web Services Application using SOAP and WS-Security.    Environment: Java 1.5, TDD, Struts 1.3, EJB, JQuery, JSP, HTML, CSS, Servlets, SOAP, WS-Security, JMS, MQ, Eclipse, SVN, Ajax, JNDI, JBoss, Junit. Education Bachelor's Skills J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Javabeans, Jaxp, Jboss, Jndi, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Jta, Servlets, Struts, Design patterns, Git, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Orm Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java SE 6/7/8, Java 1.6/1.7/1.8/J2EE  Java/J2EE Technologies  Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JSF, JavaBeans, MVC, ANT, MAVEN, Log4j, XML, JAXP, DOM, JNDI, JUNIT, Web services (REST/SOAP), Executor Framework, JTA    Design Patterns Singleton, Factory, Facade, Builder, Observer, Command Patterns, Value/Data Transfer  Design Tools Rational Rose, Star UML, Enterprise Architect  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, Angular, Node  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Spring-Data, Spring JDBC, Hibernate, JPA, Spring Core, Spring ORM, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Angular JS, React JS  Web/Application Servers Web Logic, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS  Testing Junit, SOAP UI, POSTMAN  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN, CVS  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Gradle  Methodologies Agile (Scrum), Iterative  Database Environments Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL  Operating Systems Windows, Mac, Linux and UNIX