Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer • 4+ years of IT experience, entailing 3+ years in Android based mobile applications Analysis, Design & Development for multiple screen sizes for both android phones & tablets  • Practical implementation of Android Life Cycle, Fragments, Intents, Threads on Android, Binding services, Implicit and Explicit Intents.  • Deep understanding of Android frameworks.  • Experienced with front-end technologies HTML/CSS, HTML 5 and JavaScript.  • Expertise in developing applications using Java, J2EE, Struts, Hibernate and JSP.  • Expertise in computer science fundamentals - data structures, algorithms, multi-threaded programming and networking concepts.  • Understanding of testing tools and unit test and integration test scripting, and testing methodologies.  • Hands on experience using Location based services and Google Maps API in Android app development.  • Got fluent in constructing different types of layouts like linear, relative and constraint. And hands on experience with customized layouts and views.  • Extensive experience in complex user interface design using default as well as custom layouts following mobile design standards  • Experience with RESTful web services.  • Experience in using different storage options in Android like Shared Preferences, Internal Storage, External Storage, SQLite Database, Network Connection.  • Architected applications that follow Google best practices included: design, battery consumption, network usage, memory management.  • Skillful in using a variety of libraries for asynchronous http request such as Volley and Retrofit.  • Design patterns enthusiast and familiar with MVC.  • Implemented asynchronous services to update local storage and notify updates in the UI (Content Providers, Services, Sync Adapters, Loaders)  • Experience in using Gradle, Jenkins.  • Self-learner who adapts to new technologies such as Smart Watches.  • Used Android NDK toolset to implement functionality using native code languages like C and C++.  • Coordinated efforts with different background professionals such as system analyst, graphic designers, developers and technical writers.  • Experience working with teams in source code-controlled environments using Git.  • Experience with formal software delivery methodologies and understanding of the Principles & Patterns of Agile and Scrum Software.  • Hands on experience developing stable, reliable and backwards compatible mobile applications.  • Worked on Application framework API's like Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, Camera, Runtime permissions.  • Worked on ZXing Library for barcode scanning. Work Experience Android Developer FedEx - Pittsburgh, PA February 2019 to July 2019 App Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fedex.ida.android&hl=en_US  Description: This app helps you to track all the incoming or outgoing packages, create a shipment label and request a pickup, scan a barcode for easy tracking, find a FedEx location near you and search your list of shipments by tracking number, references, vendors and more.  Responsibilities:    • Participated in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for proper analysis, development, testing, deployment and enhancement of the code.  • Used Google Maps and Google Places API to find nearby FedEx location based on current user location.  • Involved in requirement gathering, UI design and development.  • Worked on Signing/Signup and Authentication functionality.  • Worked on an Android Service to implement the Push Notification.  • Integrated ZXing Library to scan barcode for tracking.  • Created search bar using UI Search Display Controller and the respected delegates to search items.  • Experiences in web service using markup languages like XML, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, Java.  • Contributed to the full mobile application development lifecycle using Agile processes.  • Used Android Studio to develop the screens for the application using MVC design pattern.  • Wrote custom views based on the design requirements.  • Used to attend Scrum, Bug scrub meetings, and be part of the team to reach the goals.  • Used GIT version control system.  • Used ADB logcat, DDMS for Debugging.  • Debugged and tested the application on different android devices.  • Enabled synchronization of the user documents to the secure cloud. Android Developer Nationwide Insurance - Chicago, IL February 2018 to December 2018 App Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.nationwide.mobile.android.nwmobile&hl=en_US  Description: Nationwide mobile app is for the Nationwide Insurance customers. This is the easiest way for the customers to manage their accounts and pay their bills. Using this application, users can also contact the near-by agents, get an auto policy quote, and start the claims process.    Responsibilities  • Used MVC pattern for developing application with Android Studio IDE.  • Used Android NDK to create the library files to be used by Services.  • Worked with Recycler Views for displaying the list.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Designed the SQLite database to store the user information to provide the offline functionality.  • Implemented the Push Notification system for users receiving the alerts.  • Developed the app to adapt to different orientations (Landscape/Portrait) and various resolutions based on the device.  • Involved in the maintenance of the app and fixing the bugs in various modules.  • Used Git as project version controller.  • Followed the Agile methodology for implementing the project.  • Tested the app across different versions of Android and different android phones to assure quality and performance. Junior Android Developer Uber - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2016 to June 2017 Description: Uber is a transportation network company. Uber offers services including peer-to-peer ridesharing, ride service hailing etc.  App: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ubercab    Responsibilities  • Designed the Layouts according to the requirements using Activity, Fragments.  • Implemented a real-time location architecture using the GPS and Cellular network providers.  • Worked with graphic designers and cross-functional teams for improvement of the app.  • Efficient use of external libraries like Retrofit.  • Architected a synchronization logic in the app using the Content Providers and Loaders.  • Implemented a navigation drawer and Action Bar for quick access to different activities and for the better experience of the user.  • Integrated Google Cloud Messaging for sending notifications to registered users about driver details, announcements.  • Responsible for design and development of various components such as tab bars, map view, image picker, document picker, push notifications.  • Involved in designing the interface along with the Design and UX team for better usability and handling across Android.  • Used Dalvik Debugging Monitoring Service (DDMS) for monitoring log activity, threads, network connectivity, errors, and memory allocation.  • Created the unit test cases using Mockito JUNIT framework.  • Worked on code review, code fixes and bug fixes Java Developer Genpact - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to December 2015 Description: Genpact is a global professional services firm focused on delivering digital transformation for clients, putting digital and data to work to create competitive advantage.  Responsibilities    • Involved in System Analysis and Designing, participated in user requirements gathering.  • Involved in design and development of Servlets and JSPs.  • Designed application using technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in Deployment, Application support/maintenance and documentation.  • Fixing the bugs identified in test phase.  • Developed Unit test scripts for every module in the application.  • Used Spring framework to handle some of the requests to the application.  • Involved in Database design on MySQL environments and writing DDL Scripts for creating Database objects.  • Created Tables, Views and Indexes on the Database, Roles and maintained Database Users.  • Followed and maintained standards and best practices in database development.  • Created and modified Queries whenever required for change requests/enhancements  • Developed actions and form beans for modules like User and Super User.  • Involved in preparing the Documentation of the project to understand the system efficiently.    Applications Published on Play Store:  Funny Facts App: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.yts.funfacts Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Illinois Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Sreenidhi Institute of Science & Technology Skills ANDROID (2 years), CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), JAVA (2 years), MYSQL (1 year) Links https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fedex.ida.android&hl=en_US Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: Java, C, C++ Mobile: Android SDK  Tools: Eclipse, Mat Lab, RStudio Operating Systems: Windows 7/XP, Linux  DBMS: MySQL, Oracle, SQL, MongoDB Frameworks: AngularJS, Node.js, jQuery, D3.js  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX Networking Protocols: TCP/IP, DNS, SNMP, DHCP.  Web Services: REST, SOAP    PROJECTS:  Neighborhood App (PHP, HTML, CSS)  • Developed a Social Network for Neighborhood Communities in PHP (similar to nextdoor.com)  • Design a relational backend for a website that allows people to communicate with others.  • This application enables people to be able to sign up for the service and specify where they live.  • Users can then send and receive messages, send friend and neighbor request to other users living close by, and participate in discussions with those users.  Twitter Trends (Information visualization with D3.js)  • Developed an application that lets users analyze sentiments using Alchemy API and also locate trending tweet topics in a particular area on Google maps API.  • Used Twitter API to fetch live tweets and store it Amazon RDS.  • Stored tweets were forwarded to AWS SQS and AWS SNS and then Alchemy API was used to perform sentiment analysis. Live tweets were displayed on the map based on sentiment score & trending topics.  Chat Messenger ( Java Project)  • Implemented a chat server that creates a Server Sockets and a Client Sockets in Java.  • Implemented a chat client that sends messages to the chat server.  • Used Swing objects for the User Interface.