Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Opportune Union City, NJ • Having 6+ years competitive work experience in Software Design, Development and Implementation of Enterprise applications using Java, J2EE technologies with strong Object-Oriented Programming skills.  • Strong Core Java experience including Multithreading, JVM Memory model, Collection frameworks, struts, etc.  • Have strong knowledge and experience with Java 8 (Lambda expressions, Functional interfaces).  • Strong experience in various technologies, frameworks like Servlets, JSP, EJB, Struts, Web Services, Java Beans, Spring & Hibernate.  • Extensive knowledge in using jQuery and JSON.  • Understanding and implementation of Front-End technologies like HTML5, JSP, JavaScript and CSS, Angular 2/4/5/6.  • Built Spring Boot microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  • Experience in open Source Frameworks: Struts Framework, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Spring Batch Framework and Hibernate.  • Providing service discovery for all Microservices using Spring Cloud Kubernetes project.  • Strong knowledge of SOAP Web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML and REST API.  • Expert in developing core Java concepts such as Collections, Multithreading, Serialization, Exception handling etc.  • Good experience in publishing and consuming Secured Web Services over SSL.  • Experience using Spring MVC, Hibernate, Spring Boot and Microservices.  • Experience in using Spring framework and Hibernate O/R Mapping tool.  • Experience in working with Rational Clear Case and Subversion version control systems.  • Hands on experience with App/Web servers like Web logic and Tomcat.  • Strong NoSQL database experience with MongoDB & Cassandra.  • Hands-on experience in Unit Testing, Integration Testing and Regression Testing and testing API such as Junit and Mockito.  • Proficient in using various design patterns like MVC, Data Access Object, Factory, Singleton etc. in the development of Multi-tier distributed Enterprise Applications and Architectural Design patterns.  • Good experience with Apache Kafka for transaction management. Used Azure proximity gateway API for routing and OAuth2 for authentication purposes.  • Used Eureka for registration and communication between microservices.  • Experience in working with version control systems like Subversion, Clear Case, Perforce, GIT and used source code management tools like Tortoise SVN, GitHub and Bit Bucket.  • Experience with Agile software development methodology.  • Strong experience in Object Oriented Programming Analysis, design using Core Java/J2EE, Multithreading, Data structures, algorithms, JDBC, SQL, Oracle, MongoDB, DB2 and JMS.  • Experienced in writing ANT scripts to build and deploy Java applications.  • Good knowledge on Core Java in OOPs, Collections, Exception Handling, Generic Programming and Annotations.  • Expert in Query writing using SQL, Procedures, Functions and Packages using PL/SQL.  • Proficient in using RDBMS concepts with Oracle, DB2, MySQL and SQL Server.  • Strong experience on UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Excellent skills in problem solving, collaboration, communication and a great team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer Opportune - Union City, NJ June 2018 to Present Description: The scope of this project was to build a new payment service for loans in Java 8 and spring boot. Application developed to perform the loan origination. It helps to perform the tasks starting from origination of loan till funding, and post-closing. The said page makes a host of service calls VISA, PAYPAL, etc. to offer the end user with a myriad of payment options. Writing Junit test was an important milestone to achieve before production code.    Responsibilities:  • Contributed to all stages of the Software Development Life Cycle, starting from requirements gathering, Architecture, Design, Development, Testing and deployment.  • Implementing MVC Architecture using Spring framework, customized user interfaces.  Used Core Java, and security, error handling mechanism, Spring Data with JPA.  • Implemented REST Microservices using spring boot. Deployed, Scaled, Configured, various Microservices. Used Hibernate.  • Developed mid-tier java components like DAO and Service components.  • Designed and Developed components for a REST based web service.  • Developed business services with JAX-WS as per High Level design.  • FE application developed utilizing HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and Angular 2.0 as its core framework.  • Used Docker containers to quickly deploy Linux based applications.  • Successfully integrated web, service and other layers.  • Successfully implemented continuous integration (CI) and CD with Jenkins.  • Resolved client queries and bug fixing.  • Used JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs such as JDO ( Java Data Objects) and Hibernate in the application.  • Involved in Test driven development using Junit.  • Experience with Messaging protocols (JMS/AMQP) and products such as Rabbit MQ and Apache ActiveMQ.  • Refactored code and test suites to promote code-reusable infrastructure.  • Managed offshore resources collaborating weekly with the resources and developers.  • Worked on creating documents in Mongo database. (NoSQL).  Environment: Java 8, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, J2EE, Web Services, XML, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular 2, Spring, JDBC, AJAX, Oracle , Eclipse, WAS, Rational ClearCase, PL/SQL, EJB, XSD, Maven, Jenkins, security, Node.js, Git, NoSQL. Senior Java Developer AARP - Washington, DC July 2017 to May 2018 Description: Translate basic, low-risk solution designs into working code with direct oversight from team members. Perform unit and integration testing. Evaluate simple interrelationships between programs such as whether a change in one part of a program will cause an unwanted result in another part. Develop and document test cases, test data requirements and expected results. Assist with maintaining and updating documentation of project code and technical processes following standards that are set by the team. Participate in technical walkthroughs and code reviews. Migrate basic, low-risk solutions into the production environment. Collaborate with analysts and IT teams to develop solutions that meet the requirements given by the business.    Responsibilities:  • Study the business process flow and existing system.  • Developed various Servlets and Java Interfaces as part of the integration and process flow required for the system.  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Created a loosely coupled component model to give the better flexibility to handle frequent business changes.  • Participated in design discussions and object model development workshop sessions for different lines of business.  • Configured Hibernate second level cache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.  • Developed application using J2EE technologies like Hibernate, Servlets, and JSP.  • Created Hibernate mapping files, sessions, transactions, Query & Criteria's to fetch the data from the database.  • Developed RESTful web services for customers' info retrieval, bank transactions.  • Participated in developing view pages using HTML5, CCS3, JavaScript, JSP.  • Involved in creating JUnit test cases.  • Involved in doing build & deployment using Maven  • Extensively used various J2EE design patterns like Factory, Singleton, Data Access Objects, Data Transfer Objects, Business Delegate and Session Façade in the project, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Used Log4J components for logging. Perform daily monitoring of log files and resolve issues.  • Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse IDE, Ant, WebLogic and Maven for development.  • Actively involved in getting the QA, UAT and production issues resolved.  • Used Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plug-in to deploy to AWS  • Conceptualized the design of custom Ubuntu Server installation method and Linux server architecture.  • Setup High Availability Cloud architectures in AWS.  • Created S3 buckets and managed policies using IAM roles for S3 buckets and configured AWS Glacier to move old data to archives for storing historical data, based on the retention policy of database/applications.  • Launched Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web services and configured the launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Created VPC for Application server and Database server.  Environment: Spring IOC, Spring DAO, J2EE, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, RESTful web services, Junit, Maven, Log4J, Ant, WebLogic, Maven, AWS, AWS IAM, S3, Glacier, Amazon EC2, Amazon VPC Java/J2EE Developer Incomm - Atlanta, GA June 2016 to June 2017 Description: Supporting critical applications, reports, and data used by the Commercial business as well as many other groups across the corporation. support Commercial application systems used by Traders, Schedulers, Confirmation, Contracts, Pricing, Risk, Compliance, Credit, F&PA, Accounting and all levels of Management to manage the business.    Responsibilities:  • Designed user interfaces, object model, application server logic and schema by analyzing requirements.  • Used J2EE patterns for designing applications.  • Designed UI pages using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSP and Struts tag libraries.  • Monitored the performance of application using JProbe, also coded Struts Action Classes and Model Classes.  • Using Model View Controller (MVC) architecture of Struts developed client User Interface.  • Used Struts Validation framework for client/server validations.  • Extensively used design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory etc.  • JMS is used for exchanging the information like Author publication status report between the author and company.  • Used EJB Session beans and entity beans to develop business services and the persistence.  • Implemented business logic using Java Beans for front end and storage/retrieval from the backend Oracle DB using SQL queries and PL SQL-Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors etc.  • Followed coding guidelines while implementing the code.  • Extensively involved in Unit testing and coordinated with the testing team and fixing Bugs at various stages of the application development.  • Develop Message Driven Beans (MDB) & involved in building and accessing a Web Services using SOAP over JMS.  • Developing a mechanism for sending and receiving SOAP messages over JMS by MQ Series Engine  • Developed Web Services using Apache AXIS2 tool Framework.  • Generated WSDL files using AXIS2 tool.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service oriented Architecture (SOA) Concept.  • Ran check styles, find bugs and configured EMMA tool for test coverage.  Environment: J2EE, UI, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JSP, Jprobe, MVC, JMS, EJB session beans, Oracle DB, SQL, PL SQL, MDB, SOAP, Apache AXIS2 tool, WSDL, UDDI, WSDL, SOA, EMMA. Java/J2EE Developer Hewlett Packard - IN March 2013 to April 2015 Description: Hewlett Packard Global soft PVT Ltd develops software and provides contact center services in the United States. HP provides personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions, and services in the United States and internationally. The company operates through three segments: Personal Systems, Printing, and Corporate Investments. The Personal Systems segment offers commercial and consumer desktop and notebook personal computers, workstations, thin clients, commercial mobility devices, retail point-of-sale systems, displays and other related accessories, software, support, and services. The Printing segment provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, solutions, and services, as well as scanning devices.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and implementation of the project using UML Design Patterns.  • Responsible for providing high level systems design; this includes specifying the component packaged and custom applications, class diagrams, E-R diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, activity diagrams etc.  • Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns - DAO Pattern, Transfer Object, and MVC at various levels of the application and J2EE Frameworks - spring, JPA, and Hibernate.  • Involved in design and development Java Transfer Objects (JTO).  • Used Hibernate as an ORM for application development.  • Implemented validation of client-side data with jQuery and JavaScript.  • Involved in the design, development and maintenance of the Front-end for the application using JSP, JSTL, HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript and CSS.  • Developed Unit test cases in the integration layer using Mockito framework.  • Involved in writing stored procedures for Backend database.  • Mapping Java Classes to Database tables and leverage data query, retrieval and storage features of Hibernate.  Environment: J2EE 1.6, Eclipse Galileo, WAS 8.5, spring 3.5, Hibernate 3.0, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Mockito, Log4J, JUNIT and MySQL. Jr. Java/J2EE Developer BR Raysoft Tech - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2012 to March 2013 Description: Retail banking application that provide the facility to bank associate to manage customer account data, bank by appointments, streamline account opening, consumer lending, credit card fulfilment process, offers/opportunities and send email notifications to end customer.  Responsibilities:  • Performed designing and coding of business classes using Spring IOC and Spring AOP features.  • Used Spring ORM support and Dependency Integration (DI), Hibernate for development of DAO layer.  • Written Hibernate annotated POJO classes and used Hibernate criteria to build pagination.  • Configured web.xml for security constraints. Used J2EE security framework security to configure data security, application security and access control.  • Validated all structures utilizing Struts approval systems and actualized Tiles structure in the Presentation layer.  • Created collections and performed CRUD operations on MongoDB using Mongo Driver and mongo Repository.  • Familiar with MongoDB Clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  • Used Spring structure for Dependency infusion and coordinated it with the Struts Framework.  • Queried the database using Hibernate and Hibernate query language (HQL).  • Implemented RESTful Web services to push data to downstream systems.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Used Spring Boot to create stand-alone spring applications.  • Developed generic servlet to receive user requests.  • Created and maintained API and data integration processes between Service Now and other services.  • Primitive client-side validations are handled using java scripts.  • Worked on UNIX shell scripting for setting up and running the application and even for daily maintenance and backups.  • Used WebLogic Data sources instead of JDBC database connections.  • Implemented unit testing by using JUnit.  • Created build scripts for building the application using ANT.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring ORM, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, POJO, Data Sources, Struts, REST, WSDL, Hibernate, Mongo dB, HQL, XML, MySQL, JBOSS, ANT, CVS, Eclipse IDE, JUnit, UNIX. Education Bachelor in Computer Science in Mechanical Engineering Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Masters in Computer Science in Mechanical Engineering University of Washington Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, J2se, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jaxp, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Jta, Rmi, AWS, Core Java, Angular, Java J2Ee, Javascript, Rest, Restful, Soap