Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - CommScope Beaverton, OR • 6+ years of experience as developer in Information Technology involving Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Implementation and Production Support.  • Hands on Experience in writing code using Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge on Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Inheritance and Polymorphism.  • Primary areas of skill sets are working in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based projects, middleware integrations and web applications development.  • Experience of working as a Java/J2EE programmer developing applications using Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, Ajax, CSS, JSTL, RMI, EJB, Struts, Spring, JSF, Java Beans, JDBC, JMS, Hibernate and MVC architecture.  • Experience in working with Web Services Both Producing and Consuming services using SOAP and REST specifications. Used Apache CXF Framework as runtime engine for SOAP and REST services with spring combination.  • Experience in developing Enterprise applications using Spring Core, DI, AOP, MVC and Other Spring Modules and writing JSP's using spring custom tag libraries.  • Experience in working in AGILE SCRUM and TDD Process and has good understanding about SPRINT PLANNINGS, STANDUPS, SPRINTS and other AGILE processes.  • Experience in writing JUnit test cases using Junit4.  • Proficient in J2EE components such as Java 1.6/1.7/1.8, JSP, Tomcat, EJB, JDBC, XML, Hibernate, Struts Framework, Springs, Spring Framework, Spring Boot Web Services, Garbage collections, Multithreading.  • Experience in writing SQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Packages in Oracle 11g/MySQL.  • Proficient in writing robust code and applying best practices using various IDEs such as Eclipse LUNA, Net Beans, JBuilder, IBM RAD.  • Strong front-end GUI wire-framing/prototyping skills using scripting languages such as JSP, HTML5, Ajax, JQuery, Java script, AngularJS 1.0, DOM, Bootstrap and Cascading Style sheets, DHTML, XHTML.  • Experience in Web Application Development using AngularJS, Express, Node JS and Mongo DB (NoSQL database).  • Good knowledge in usage of version controls such as CVS, SVN and Clear Case, Clear Quest and working knowledge on GIT.  • Experience in creating Unified Modelling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and Class Diagrams using Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio.  • Experience in working in Continuous Integration (CI) environment with Maven as build tool with Jenkins as CI tool.  • Proficient in using XML Suite of Technologies (XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX, DOM). Used JAXB for parsing XML's.  • Good knowledge of database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access. Experience in using Spring JDBC Template and Hibernate as DAO Layer.  • Have experience in software Development Processes like SDLC, Waterfall, Test Driven Development (TDD), Iterative and Agile Methodologies.  • Participation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding and testing with JUnit, good knowledge in integration using J2EE Architecture. Experience of onsite user training.  • Good Working knowledge of using Protractor and karma for e2e testing with Selenium Web Driver  • Very good understanding of Design Patterns and Experience in applying patterns like Singleton, Factory, Adaptor, MVC, SOA Principles.  • Team Player and Good verbal and communication skills. Ability to quickly adapt to new environments and enthusiastic to learn new technologies/processes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer CommScope - Beaverton, OR December 2017 to Present Description: This project was Designed and Developed for Deliver the Video on Demand (VOD) allows subscribing viewers to order video in interactive sessions from menus displayed on their television screens. Application also involved using JAVA/J2EE architecture.    Responsibilities:  • Analyse Business Requirements, Technical Designing, Implementation and Documentation using Agile Methodologies.  • Involved in Daily Scrum meetings, planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using AngularJS frame work.  • Used Web Services for communication between the different internal applications.  • Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework for creating and deploying Web Services clients using SOAP and WSDL.  • Created Rest service for authentication using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat server on Docker Container.  • Involved in producing necessary WSDL to deploy as a Web Service.  • Developed the XML schema and Web Services for the data maintenance and structures.  • Developed classes to interface with underlying web services layer.  • Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC).  • Developed and consumed RESTFUL web services.  • Using AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML and XSL Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity.  • Worked within SOA based enterprise framework to build web services.  • Implemented FTP and SFTP protocols Using java to Transfer the Content.  • Designed the application using the core J2EE design patterns Singleton and Façade.  • Used Spring JDBC to communicate underlying database stored procedures.  • WebLogic and Tomcat Servers were used as the application server for deploying the application.  • Designed and developed Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations.  • Design and developed template based User Interface using Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Involved in Unit Testing and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using JUNIT test cases.  • Used JIRA to keep track of bugs and issues and Confluence for tracking project progress.  • Used Maven for building the application and integrated to Jenkins to schedule automation jobs to run on application testing servers.  Environment: Java 1.7 and 1.8, J2EE, XML, JavaScript, Spring, SOAP, REST, JIRA, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Confluence, SQL, Servlet, JSP Log4j, JSON, Jenkins, Oracle 11g and Eclipse, Unix, Junit, Oracle WebLogic, Tomcat, GIT, Spring Boot, Source Tree, and Maven Full stack Developer ARRIS Group Inc - Austin, TX June 2017 to December 2017 Description: To refactor Internal web-portal to be customer friendly and based on ARRIS structure/framework for generating Reports. It also involves moving the site to new HW approved by ARRIS.    Responsibilities:  • Generated Entity tables using JHipster Framework.  • Involved in Integrating the Angular Data Tables with JHipster framework.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve data using a remote server in Java using Spring Boot.  • Experienced in developing Client-Server/ N-tier/ Web-Application Development using Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Node.JS, JSTL, JNDI, EJB, Swing, Hibernate and Apache Kafka.  • Created and modified the CSS classes to change look and feel.  • Responsible for implementing the business requirements using Spring Boot, Spring Data and Spring Security.  • Used jQuery Selectors to show and hide the content.  • Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using JSP, AngularJS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Extensively used the LOG4j to log regular Debug and Exception statements.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Postgres Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Custom Queries to querying data from Postgres Database into DAO.  • Developed JUnit, Mockito, Protractor test cases for unit testing in Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with AngularJS.  • Used Maven to build WAR and JAR files to deploy on Production Server and used Jenkins for continuous integration and Continues Deployment (CI/CD).  • Implemented the application using Spring boot and handled the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Used GIT for version control and participated in deploying applications using CI/CD-Jenkins.  • Developed project in Spring Suite and IntelliJ and Used Postgres as backend Database.  • Used Agile software development methodology which helps to develop project plans.  Environment: Core Java, Java 1.8, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services (REST), YML, JNDI, JDBC, POSTGRES, pgAdmin-3, Spring Boot, IntelliJ IDE, JHipster framework, Angular data tables, HTML 5, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Spring Boot, jQuery, Yarn, npm, Maven, JUnit, Mockito and Protractor. Java/J2EE Developer MetLife - Cary, NC November 2016 to May 2017 Description: MetLife, Inc. is the holding corporation for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MLIC), better known as MetLife, and its affiliates. MetLife is among the largest global providers of insurance, annuities, and employee benefit programs, with 90 million customers in over 60 countries.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Hibernate framework to persist the operations data to the database.  • Wrote complex SQL and HQL queries to retrieve data from the Oracle database.  • Used SOAP based Web Services for communication between the different internal applications.  • Used Apache Axis as the Web Services framework for creating and deploying Web Services clients using SOAP and WSDL.  • Redesign the existing web application with new technologies like Bootstrap, AngularJS.  • Scaled the component interactions and generalized the interfaces using RESTFUL.  • Involved in producing necessary WSDL to deploy as a Web Service.  • Used Spring Boot for building cloud Micro services quickly and develop spring-based applications with very less configuration.  • Developed the XML schema and Web Services for the data maintenance and structures.  • Developed classes to interface with underlying web services layer.  • Designed and developed JSP pages using Spring MVC framework.  • Developed single page applications using ng-route module in AngularJS  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and authorization extensively.  • Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC).  • Developed the Controller Servlet to handle the request and responses.  • Designed rich user interface screens using AJAX, Java Script, CSS, and HTML.  • Involved in the design of the Referential Data Service module to interface with the various internal databases using JDBC.  • Developed ANT scripts for building, testing and deploying the application on WebLogic server.  • Developed and deployed the applications on Oracle WebLogic Application Server.  • Worked on database interaction layer for insertions, updating and retrieval of operations data of internal applications from oracle database by writing stored procedures.  • Involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall Unit testing of the system.  • Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML include development of class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and state diagrams and implemented these diagrams in Microsoft Visio.  • Implemented MVC, DAO J2EE design patterns as a part of application development.  • Developed controllers and actions encapsulating the business logic.  • Prepared documentation and participated in preparing user's manual for the application.  Environment: Core Java, Java 1.8/1.7, JSP 2.2, Servlets 3.0, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, REST), Apache Axis, XML, JNDI, JDBC, Spring, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Oracle WebLogic Application Server 11g, Oracle 10g, UML, Eclipse 3.5, HTML 5, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Ant, JUnit, Microsoft Visio. Java/J2EE Developer Level 3 Communications - Broomfield, CO September 2015 to October 2016 Description: Level 3 Communications is an American multinational telecommunications and Internet service Provider Company headquartered in Broomfield, Colorado. It operates a Tier 1 network.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed various screens using JSP, JavaScript, XHTML, and CSS.  • Experience in working with Liferay6.1.2 CE hooks, themes, service builder, web services.  • Experience in deploying Liferay6.1.2 CE on Tomcat and JBoss Servers.  • Implemented the Web Services functionality in the application to allow external applications to access the data.  • Used Apache Axis as the Web Service framework for creating and deploying Web Service clients using SOAP and WSDL.  • Developed screens using AngularJS, CSS3 and html.  • Consumed web services which were written using SOAP over XML.  • Developed service class interfaces which interact with the database to retrieve the transaction data.  • Responsible for gathering business and functional requirements from the users.  • Analysed Use Case diagrams and created various UML Diagrams like Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams.  • Played key role in the design and development of application using J2EE frameworks for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Node.JS, and Bootstrap.  • Leveraged the AOP features of spring framework to handle exceptions.  • Developed the complete infrastructure for messaging using JMS.  • Wrote Action classes, Request Processor, Business Delegate, Business Objects and Service classes.  • Played a key role in designing the presentation tier components by customizing the Struts framework components  • Developed the components for parsing XML documents using SAX and DOM parsers.  • Consumed Rest based services from AngularJS using $HTTP services.  • Implemented design patterns like Singleton, Factory, DAO, Session Façade and Value Objects.  • Developed and implemented several test cases using JUnit framework.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool and defined the mapping and relationship of each table in database.  • Participate in switch from JDBC to Hibernate (JPA annotations).  • Coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application.  • Implemented SQL Queries stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL and oracle database.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Web Services, JSTL, XHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, JBoss, Log4J, SQL/PLSQL, JPA/Hibernate, JUNIT, Windows, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Sonar Cube, Filezilla, third party API consumption, JAX-WS. Java/J2EE Developer Premier Inc - Charlotte, NC May 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • As a Java developer involved in back-end and front-end developing team. Took part in developing, maintaining, reviewing and supporting quality code and services.  • Involved in Daily SCRUM meetings and weekly SPRINT Meetings.  • Participated in code review sessions and system design discussions. Interacted with Product Managers to fine tune user stories and with testing team to approve Functional Specification and test cases.  • Responsible for building the service from ground up using Jersey & React.  • Created the responsive UI components using React/Redux and to dispatch events to the store.  • Used Node JS & NPM with grunt for UI package management.  • Involved in the development of the UI using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS.  • Used CSS3 for describing the presentation of Web pages, including colours, layout, and fonts. Validations for the Client Side were done using JavaScript.  • Responsible for spring configuration, Restful (Jersey) Configurations and web.xml.  • Used glassfish Jersey libraries to configure Restful Services  • Created the restful endpoints, service & data access layers for end to end communication.  • Created iBATIS ORM files for database interactions.  • Developed Rest Web services for IOS and android mobile web sites and apps.  • Developed the Spring AOP Programming to configure logging for the application  • Used Hibernate and JPA ORM frameworks for database connectivity.  • Developed reusable components using Custom Directives in AngularJS.  • Designed OAUTH framework for authorization flow for web services.  • Configured database with hibernate.cfg.xml & database mapping with hbm.xml  • Wrote Jasmine Unit tests extensively using Karma for verifying JavaScript utility routines.  • Involved in requirements gathering and design of application workflows.  • Involved in design and development of a workflow using CAMUNDA BPM.  Environment: Core Java (React.js, HTML5/CSS3, JMS, Jersey RESTful framework, Spring MVC, mybatis, Hibernate, Log4J, JUnit, Mockito, Ant, Gradle, Emma, Sonar, Jenkins, MySQL, Aqua Studio, Intellij IDE, CRUD and XML. Java/J2EE Developer ICICI Bank Limited June 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in Requirements Analysis, and Design and Development phases of the project with major emphasis on Development of the modules.  • Designed the application using the core J2EE design patterns Singleton, Session Façade, Business Delegate, and Service Locator.  • Used Object oriented JavaScript for developing rich client page.  • Developed the interactive web page using Struts, Hibernate, Ajax, XML, Object oriented JavaScript.  • Used JIRA issue tracker to file the bugs.  • Mapped (one-to-many, one-to-one, many-to-one relations) DTOs to Oracle Database tables and Java data types to SQL data types by creating Hibernate mapping XML files  • Oracle database was used, wrote stored procedures for common SQL queries  • Developed various Database interaction objects by implementing the DAO Patterns and used JDBC as Model Component.  • Used SAX Parser for parsing the xml document.  • JBoss Server was used as the application server for deploying the application.  • Implemented Log4j by enabling logging at runtime without modifying the application binary.  • Involved in Unit Testing and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using JUNIT test cases.  • Used ANT Script for building and deploying the application.  Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, XML, JavaScript, JIRA, HTML, Selenium, SQL, Servlet 2.3, Jsp 1.2, Struts 1.2, Hibernate, Log4j, JUnit, Ant, Oracle 10g, and Eclipse, JBoss. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, J2se, Java, Hibernate, Spring, MVC, Java J2Ee, JSP, Javascript