Sr.Android Developer Sr.Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Android Developer - Trac Inter Modal Princeton, NJ • Around9+years of experience in IT industry application development and extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), application design, development, testing, debugging, documentation, deployment and integration of different software applications.  • Good Understanding in Core Java concepts and Advanced Java too.  • Good understanding of Android Framework, Android Native and Web-Based Application Development.  • Experience in developing Android application using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite Database, Java, JSP, XML, JSON, Audio, Video, Wi-Fi/Bluetooth and Android SDK, NDK, Kotlin.  • Worked with Activities, Fragments, Intent, Services, Broadcast Receiver, Content Provider, and Location Manager.  • Good programming skills and hands on experience in developing Android enterprise.  • Expertise in web services technologies such as SOAP, Restful.  • Excellent debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse and Android Studio.  • Successfully deployed the app on the Android Marketplace and supported the app for different releases of Android OS.  • Experience in Android device support, publishing apps to Google Play Store, Memory Management, Google Ad Mob, Picasso library.  • Proficient with common Android framework APIs (Web View, Google Maps, Telephony API, Camera, contact Manager).  • Used Kotlin for few UI components and simple business logic.  • Experience in using various databases, such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL  • Strong skill in Backend Testing using SQL queries on Oracle and SQL Server.  • Expertise in running Test Scripts from Quality Center/ Test Director on different hosts.  • Experience in Bug Tracking and Reporting using Test Director/ HP Quality Center.  • Extensive working experience in Finance, Banking and Healthcare domains.  • Experience in various version controls like Clear Case, GIT and SVN.  • Ability to perform at a high level, meet deadlines with quality delivery, adaptable to ever changing priorities.  • Have great motivation to learn new skills/technologies, excellent analytical/problem-solving skills, fast-learner, resourceful, committed, hard-worker, and self-initiative. ] Work Experience Sr.Android Developer Trac Inter Modal - Princeton, NJ March 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Involved in writing test cases for the System Testing  • Collaborated with offshore teams.  • Implemented VOIP functionality using native Android and VoCal VoIP SDK which uses standard  algorithms for VOIP processing in a modular design.  • Implemented functionality with Google Cloud Messaging and Android Push Notifications.  • Worked on secure authorization using Authorization and Authentication tokens to restrict access.  • Worked on business logic using discrete modules and using different design patterns based on the needs of the module (singleton, builder, proxy, visitor, etc.)  • Developed modular workflows in the Android app using Activities and Fragments.  • Implemented Dexguard to protect the Android app from reverse engineering and hacking.  • Used GitHub private repositories with standard workflows as a version control software.  • The team followed daily Scrums and bi-weekly Sprints. Assisted project manager with Sprint  Planning.  • Supported quality efforts and best practices through code reviews and refactoring as needed to proactively troubleshoot.  • Supported the design, development, testing and implementation of application.  • Extensively utilized AsyncTask, Thread, Handler, Services to provide smooth UI experience.  • Consumed back-end services for communications through RxJava and Retrofit.  • Worked in different phases of the project cycle like design, development and testing.    Environment: Android SDK6.0, Android Studio 2.0, Eclipse, VBScript, Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring Batch, Hibernate, Junit, Soap Web services, SQLite, Agile, Kotlin. Android Developer Credit Suisse - New York, NY July 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities  • Implemented Full life cycle development and modification of existing applications to add new features emphasizing reliability, scalability and performance.  • Used SCRUM-Agile software development method for managing application developments and software design.  • Created Widgets using Google material design.  • Developed Custom controls for UI such as Button, Text Field, Views, Text View.  • Designed and developed the user interfaces, Designed Dynamic UI with Fragments using Google Material design.  • Used Retrofit and GSON for network calls and parsing the JSON response.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, calls etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  • Worked on Continuous Integration and code version using GIT  • Developed modular workflows in the Android app using Activities and Fragments.  • Used RESTful Web Services to fetch data asynchronously and render an appropriate view.  • Made Restful Service Calls using Google's Volley Library at various stages in application development cycle and parsed responses back from the web servers as per the application requirement.  • Used logcat, DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server) and Trace view for debugging and detecting memory leaks.  • Managed certain tasks within Agile framework, cleared Sprinted tasks, and controlled JIRA workflows.  • Performed various test functions such as Black Box, User Acceptance Testing, Functional, and Regression, End to End testing for mobile devices / websites and mobile apps.  • Performed regression and smoke testing around hot fixes.  • Identified defects and monitored resolution via defect tracking tool QC/ALM  • Participated in design walkthrough and review meetings while interacting with customers.    Environment: Android SDK6.0, Android Studio 3.1, Eclipse, VBScript, Java/J2EE, JSP, Junit, GitHub, Rest Web services, SQLite, Agile. Android Developer NBCUniversal - New York, NY May 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities  • Gathered all requirements from client, design application and understand depth knowledge of domain.  • Involved in designing the architecture and user interface using client requirement and use cases.  • Involved in designing the logical flow for the application for different components.  • Worked hardly in developing complex and custom Views.  • Writing application logic and business logic for the application.  • Implemented screen navigation using dialog boxes, action bar navigation control and designed menus based on user context.  • Implemented chatting between users.  • Integrated camera api to access video and picture of job.  • Developed app screen and its workflow using Activities and Fragments which has views such as list view, Grid View, Grid layouts scroll view.  • Analyzing the application with Trace view tool to improve the performance.  • Implementing Broadcast receiver for android.  • Implemented GCM push notifications.  • Test and error logging on different version and devices of Android.  • Implemented and error reporting system for future development support.  • Provided the K.T. to the testing team on android framework.  • Provided the support as part of post implementation support.    Environment: Android SDK, Google API's, Web view, GPS service, JSON, Broadcast receivers, Git-Hub, SQLite. Java Developer Konviere Corporation - Kansas City, MO March 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities  • Utilized object-oriented programming and Java for creating business logic.  • Developed various Java Bean components for implementing business logic.  • Developed web pages using JSP and Servlets.  • Involved in connecting database with Servlets and JDBC.  • Involved in writing complex multi-table joins and conditional queries in Database.  • Participated in resolving technical issues that arise during development.  • Developed API with all the CURD capabilities using SOAP.  • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validations and JavaScript  • Designed and developed REST web service for validating address.  • Provided the support as part of post implementation support.  • Worked on Stored procedures, functions, triggers etc. using SQL and PL/SQL.    Environment: Eclipse, Java, J2EE, HTML, MVC, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, Spring Frameworks, CSS, UML, XML, HTTP, MVC, AJAX, Apache Ant, JavaFX, Applets. Java Developer J.Crew Group, Inc - New York, NY August 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities  • Architect and design software through all development life cycles  • Analyze, design, develop, maintain, and unit test new and existing software applications.  • Able to switch between projects to provide assistance where needed.  • Work with company managers and executives to obtain requirements.  • Assist customer service representatives with escalated service calls.  • Participate in daily standup meetings.  • Participate as needed in paired programming efforts.  • Participate in team problem solving discussions  • Other duties and projects as assigned. Java Developer Mackson Consulting LLC - Reston, VA September 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities  • Experience with ICEfaces or PrimeFaces  • Experience with the WebLogic configuration, application deployment  • Experience creating Design documentation, Target State Diagrams, and other development-related documentation  • Experience with version control tools such as Subversion  • Ability to quickly learn new applications  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills - must be able to communicate fluently in English both verbally and in writing  • Strong verbal and written communication skills  • Ability to work independently and in teams Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, INTELLIJ IDEA, ANDROID, HTML5, SOAP, ANDROID STUDIO, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, XML, UI, RATIONAL, MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, JIRA, JUNIT