AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - Verizon Wireless Irving, TX • Around 8 years of experience in IT industry with all periods of Analysis, Design, Development, testing, and documentation of Web Based Applications utilizing Java, J2EE, Database Management systems. Had some expertise in creating end-to-end sites utilizing Adobe CQ 5.6 and AEM 6.1, 6.2, 6.3.  • 4 years of involvement in working with AEM/CQ5, and 4+ years of experience in Java UI & Java/J2EE.  • Developed custom AEM components on top of OSGI, Sling, and Apache Jackrabbit.  • Experience in AEM Component development, Workflow development and integrating AEM with third party applications.  • Strong experience with setting up AEM using Maven and standard Eclipse tools.  • Have a solid understanding of CQ5 building blocks, CRX repository, leveraging web content management components for customization and porting of websites.  • Experience in implementing different search implementations Solr and Cludo.  • Extensive experience in AEM, HTL, JSP, and Display Tag for User Interface Development. Have a good understanding of Social Collaboration and Campaign Management with AEM.  • Good experience in developing Custom bundles and Servlets on Felix.  • Good experience in AEM DAM, developed custom code to create assets, renditions, creating custom metadata for assets and assign Tags to assets.  • Experience in developing custom Event Handler that responds to an event occurring and related components in CQ5.  • Assist in application deployment to dev, QA and prod environments, and migrations.  • Expertise in developing Java applications using technologies such as JSP, Servlets, JAVA Beans, RESTful API, SOAP EJB, JMS, JNDI, JDBC, XML, and CSS.  • Good understanding of integration patterns and content-centric application development patterns using Adobe Enterprise Manager.  • Competence in using Java IDE tools of Rational Application Developer (RAD), WebSphere Application Developer (WSAD), Eclipse and WebLogic Workshop to develop dynamic web applications.  • Involved in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs.  • Experience in designing and developing websites using JavaScript frameworks such as Angular JS.  • Experience in designing and developing Responsive Web Designs (RWD) using CSS Media Queries and Bootstrap. Work Experience AEM Developer Verizon Wireless - Irving, TX October 2017 to Present Project Description: Verizon is one of the leading broadband and digital marketing providers in America. I am part of Verizon's digital content management team to build Robust e-commerce cum promotion site for Verizon. We are helping in getting Verizon Online site for marketing themselves and attracting customers from more than 30 states and in different languages with more than 10Lac pages on the server.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of reusable components of the mobile website.  • Writing components using slightly and sligh models.  • Worked on developing custom workflows and schedulers to handle different type of request and third party  interaction.  • Developed API's using RESTful like call button, chat-bot services, customer services etc.  • Worked with UI team to develop mock-up pages.  • Create and integrate content-driven applications on top of the AEM core platform.  • Customizing DAM rendition to meet client requirement.  • Implemented server-side service components using Apache Felix framework and Apache Sling.  • Client Interaction and requirement analysis. Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system, Adobe CQ5.  • Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  • Involved in Developing Modal and Solr integration. Implemented the internationalization (I18N) for the custom components in the CQ  • Involved in supporting the application post-production and maintenance.  • Developed a Rest Based web service connectivity and Soap Based web services to communicate to the third party.  Environment: AEM 6.2, CRXDE, WCM, JCR, Apache Sling, Slightly, Eclipse Neon, Maven, GitHub, RESTful, JDK 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS 1.5, JSP, Servlets, Toad. Developer AEM - Salt Lake City, UT August 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Formulated the Technical requirements by conducting detailed analysis on user requirements.  • Developed custom component development, templates and workflows in AEM 6.2 & 6.3.  • Worked on OSGI services, creating config nodes for workflows, solr-search.  • Created multi-field components, drag and drop for image field in a slide show component.  • Involved in the front-end development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and, JQuery.  • Worked on Image Transform servlet using ACS Commons to create Image renditions.  • Worked on Solr Search Integration into AEM.  ? Worked on Setting up Solr server in OneOps Environments.  ? Worked on Custom service, servlets for search Implementation.  ? Worked on the Suggestive search implementation.  ? Created the ConfigSet required for the search implementation in solr(schema.xml, solrconfig.xml, and web.xml).  • Customized Apache-Nutch Crawler to crawl the site and Index the data into Solr.  ? Created Custom-Plugin in Apache-Nutch for indexing the meta-tags into Solr for the multivalued fields to be able to sort.  • Worked on creating User-groups and users in prod environment.  • Created test-content for components, templates which are required for regression testing.  • Collaborate with other functional area experts to design complete solutions.  • Worked on resolving code bugs, code reviews, and project Documentation.  • Involved in the Production deployment of the project.  • Participated in all the phases of development within the team.  • Involved in supporting the application post production and maintenance.  Environment: AEM 6.2, 6.3, Workflows, HTL, Apache Sling, CRX, JAVA 8, HTML, CSS, SASS, Angular 2, Solr, Apache-Nutch, Servlets, JavaScript, jQuery, Eclipse IDE, Apache Maven, Confluence, JIRA, Apache HTTP Server, SOAP and REST Web Services, Linux, Windows. Java Developer 3D Systems - Rock Hill, SC December 2014 to July 2016 Project Description: The project was designed to implement a web-based front-end system which can be used by the employees, managers and higher-level management having specific role permissions for effective processing of day to day business activities, improvement of the device and applications important to permit the designers to rapidly and effectively make 3D designs using CQ5. Digital Image processing help to capture depths and heights if an object which results in the end design accuracy.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for executing clean and progressively enhanced code for complex designs that reflect the architectural direction provided within the established technical framework.  • Used J2EE Design Patterns and Eclipse Framework for Development.  • Used Maven for setup and managing dependent software libraries (jars) required to build and deploy the application.  • Used spring JDBC template for persistence with the database.  • Built application interface and web scraping scripts using OO designing.  • Documented CR impact analysis and prepared implementation documents.  • Implemented Swagger API to generate Restful based APIs for java classes.  • Implemented test cases using JUnit.  • Responsible for writing SQL queries and stored procedures for data manipulation.  • Designed user interface layout using JavaScript, CSS, and HTML and implement client-side validations.  • Maintained the Content Management System and provided support for the application in the authoring environment.  • Worked on MSM, OSGi Bundles and Sling Models.  • Worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and timely builds.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Used GIT for the version control management.  • Also learned CQ5.6 basics which a part of our project.  Environment: Java (jdk1.6), JSP, Eclipse Framework, Servlets, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, GitHub, log4j, RESTful, Junit, Adobe CQ5.6, OSGi. Java /J2EE Support and Developer Global Logic - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to November 2014 India  Responsibilities:  • Develop GUI related changes using JSP, HTML and client validations using JavaScript.  • Implemented the modules using Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Developed Java beans, helper classes and Servlets for interacting with UI written in JSP.  • Wrote a controller Servlet that dispatched requests to appropriate classes.  • Developed Dispatch Action classes to define several business methods.  • Developed various EJBs for handling business logic and data manipulations from the database.  • Created XML unit test cases for testing the Web Services functions.  • Involved in fixing the production defects and coordinating the monthly releases.  • Involved coding SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers.  • Created Java classes to communicate with the database using JDBC.  • Used SVN as Version Control System for the application  • Provided support to the testing team and involved in the Bug Fixing.  Environment: J2EE, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Spring MVC framework, Eclipse, ANT, JUnit, CSS, AJAX, Apache Tomcat, Log4j, Subversion (SVN). Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Visual studio, Application server, Content management, Git, Html, Javascript, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Content management systems Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Web/Application Servers: JBoss Application Server 4.x, WebLogic 10.x/9.x/8.x, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x  • Programming languages: Java, SQL  • J2EE Technologies: Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JMS  • IDE Tools: Eclipse, Net Beans, Visual Studio  • Operating systems: Windows, LINUX, UNIX  • Databases: Oracle, SQL, DB2, MYSQL, MS ACCESS  • Content Management Systems: AEM 6.2, 6.1, AEM 6.0, AEM 5.6.1, CQ 5.5, CQ5 DAM, CQ Tagging  • Version Control Tools: CVS, VSS, Clear Case, SVN, Git  • Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, JSP, AJAX.  • Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall.