Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Lincoln financial Group Radnor, PA • Around 7+ years of IT experience in Systems Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Web and Client/Server and Enterprise Application development using J2EE Framework.  • Experience in Designed &developed several Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications  • Developed applications using Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, and EJB, Struts, spring, Java Beans node.js, Hibernate, API, JPA and MVC architecture.  • Expertise in design and development of various web- and enterprise-level applications using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle.  • Experienced in MVC Architecture Web Frameworks include Struts, JSF, and Spring 3.0 (Dependency Injection, Data Access Objects, and MVC Framework).  • Experienced in developing UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, Exception handling, Multi-Threading, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO, Garbage Collection and Serialization.  • Expert with spring modules like Spring Core, Spring DAO and Spring AOP, Spring MVC.  • Expertise in Spring Framework using components like MVC, Transactions, ORM and JDBC. Also used Hibernate ORM, JSF and Struts MVC frameworks.  • Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Security and Spring Boot.  • Implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts  • Experience in Web Services, Java/J2EE Design Patterns including singleton, Factory, MVC.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, and worked on AWS Toolkit for Eclipse to develop, deploy, and debug Java applications using Amazon Web Services.  • Used AWS SDK for connecting it to amazon S3 buckets, were it is used to store object service and retrieve the media files.  • Experience in development of microservices and deploying in Docker  • Good understanding of all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in large scale enterprise software using Object Oriented Analysis and Design.  • Experience in SOAP based Web Services, REST Web Services, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, SOA, AJAX, RMI, JNDI, MVC Custom development.  • Deployed Services in Jenkins, Meson Marathon, Docker Swarm.  • Good Experience in designing Front End pages using scripting languages like HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery, JSF, AJAX, External JS and Angular JS, BOOTSTRAP, Prime Faces.  • Expertise in applying JMS ( Java Messaging Service) for reliable information exchange across Java applications  • Implemented Microservices Registration and Discovery with Spring Cloud and Netflix's Eureka  • Experience with RDBMS concepts like writing Queries, Functions, Stored Procedures, Cursors and PL/SQL Packages.  • Expert knowledge on SOA architecture and SOAP & REST Web Services  • Experience in persistence frameworks, Hibernate and JDO to map POJOs to a relational database.  • Extensive of server-side development experience using the technologies EJB, Web Services, XML, JAXB, Oracle, MySQL Server, SQL, PL/SQL also have  • Expertise at using frameworks and tools like spring, Hibernate, JSF, ANT, Junit.  • Research and development on scalable Linux deployments on AWS via Docker  • Good experience in working with Spring Boot, Spring MicroService, discovery service like Netflix Eureka Server.  • Experience in developing applications using WebSphere Application Server with J2EE and integration with MQ Series/WebSphere MQ.  • Experience with Netflix OSS stack, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Docker, and Github.  • Experience in configuring and deploying web applications in Tomcat Server, Web Logic, and Web Sphere.  • Good Work experience on various IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, WebSphere Studio Application Developer, RAD.  • Experience in development methodologies such as Test Driven Development (TDD) and Waterfall model.  • Expert in using version control tools such as such as SVN, CVS and GIT. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Lincoln financial Group - Radnor, PA April 2018 to Present Headquartered in the Philadelphia region, Lincoln Financial Group is a Fortune 500 company offering a diverse range of financial services and solutions. With a strong focus on four core business areas life insurance, annuities, retirement plan services, and group protection our business is built around supporting, preserving, and enhancing our customer's lifestyles and providing better retirement outcomes. Led by over 9,000 employees, Lincoln Financial provides the tools and advice to help individuals take charge of their futures.    Responsibilities:  • Utilized Spring MVC and Hibernate JPA framework for development  • Involved in Design Development and Implementation of business Applications using Java/J2EE Technologies.  • Web application to manage Unix build stations using MVC 4, javascript, jQuery, Bootstrap, plink.exe for sending remote commands , bash, SQL Server  • Proficient in Java/J2EE technologies like JSP, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Java Servlets,AJAX, JavaBeans, JNDI, JMS, XML, web service using IDEs like Eclipse 3.1/3.5.  • Migrated external DNS from Server 2003 to BIND running on Linux.  • Developing Spring Boot based Micro Services using the annotation & implementing architecture patterns, Used Spring Rest/Json to expose Micro Services APIs.  • Front-end development using HTML5, SASS, and JavaScript best practices  • Working on Unix Migration and upgrade process.  • Developed product and client workflows using Drools, creating work Item Handlers, split Nodes, Join nodes and connecting them to execute Compliance rules  • Update and reface corporate intranet website with Bootstrap framework for a more modern and responsive design  • Worked on Dockers container snapshots, attaching to a running container, removing images, managing director  • Structures, managing containers and clustering with Kubernetes. Leveraged Dockers Engine to run Multiple Tomcat.  • Adobe Flex Builder, Flex Pro - developing websites phone Apps.  • Deployed code in Apache Tomcat and Web logic server  • Experience in front end development including extensive experience using Bootstrap framework for responsive site  • Worked on development of UI of various modules mostly based on Adobe Flex.  • I worked on a task to decrease database load for search and moved some part of search to Elastic Search engine.  • Worked closely with Oracle database in backend to interconnect with user interfaces using native complex SQL queries  • Analyzed audience behavior to identify content opportunities and increase engagement  • Responsible for initiative status updates, initiative/program delivery schedules to larger stakeholder group, which includes LOB executives in a timely manner. The initiatives had projects with complex Oracle/Informatica/Teradata based data warehouse with ETL and Micro strategy/SAS for multidimensional reporting.  • Developing test scripts using AngularJS Protractor testing tools for current release of the project  • Developed HQl queries to develop the finder methods in Data Service.  • Installed, configured, deployed, Monitored and troubleshoot JBOSS 4.2.1/5.0 GA and EAP domains  • Involved in writing packages, stored procedures to access database.  • Created both stand-alone and clustered environments for JBOSS domains  • Extensively worked with Servlets and Struts based multi-tier applications in developing J2EE Components.  • Designed, developed maintain a dating site using JavaScript/jQuery, CSS3, Responsive Design, HTML5, MYSQL  • Developed MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session facade, and Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns  • Develop strategies for UNIX client/server implementations architect the infra-structuer require to support those strategies.  • Involved in writing all client side validations using Java Script, JSON.  • Good experience in XML technologies such as XSLT, XSD, JAXB and its parsing techniques to build Web Services for the enterprise applications using SOAP and writing DTD, Schema, Namespaces, XSL, Xpath, Xlink, XQuery, XHTML and SAX, DOM and JDOM parsers  • Utilized Log4j logging API for debugging and monitoring purposes.    Environment: Java 7.0/6.0, UML ,Spring MVC, JavaScript, Struts, API, SOAP Web Services, Linux, CSS, CMS, Hibernate, SQL Server, WSDL, Angular2, Tomcat, Oracle 10g, Maven, JSF, JMS, EJB, IBM MQ, XQuery, XSD, AEM, WSDL, XPath, JUnit, JBOSS, Tomcat, JDBC. Java Developer Capital One - McLean, VA December 2015 to March 2018 Capital One EASE (Enterprise Account Servicing Experience) team was driven by our core design tenets: simplicity, humanity and ingenuity. Capital One is building a Single Sign-On (SSO) credit card portal where accountholders can see all their accounts in a single page. EASE brings the Capital One family of products together in a unified experience across platforms and devices.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Spring Controllers, Service Components, DAOs, Web Services and UI Integration for processing the Estimated Shipping and Delivery dates (ESD and EDD)  • Developed the DAO layer using the hibernate for real time performance used the caching system for hibernate  • Used Spring MVC Framework Dependency Injection for integrating various Java Components  • Experience in working with Spring MVC Controllers and Spring Hibernate templates  • Worked on Web Services using REST. Worked on both Service and Client Side  • Hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework  • Written stored procedures and inner joins using RDMS Oracle.  • Configured the Spring, Hibernate, Log4j configuration files.  • Helped UI to integrate the java beans data using JSTL, Spring tags, JSP, jQuery, JSON, Taglibs  • Involved in testing and deployment of application to Tomcat Application Server.  • Designing the application with reusable J2EE design patterns like Singleton Class, Front Controller, Session Facade, Session Factory etc.  • Used ANT, Maven to build & deploy applications, helped to deployment for CI usingJenkins and Maven  • Wrote SQL queries & Stored Procedures for interacting with the database for promo code and offers  • Used Agile/ Scrum Development methodology with JIRA  • Was part of production support team to resolve the production incidents.    Environment: Java 7/8, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, Restful, WSDL, Jersey, Axis, SOAP UI, RAD, Selenium, Apache HTTP Client, REST,Oracle, TOAD, TestNG, SQL, PL/SQL, JSTL, Spring Tags, HTML, Java Script, CSS, ANT,Maven, Jenkins, MongoDB, UML, TOAD, WebSphere, Agile, JIRA, Linux Java Developer Hotel Marriott Maryland April 2012 to November 2015 The main objectives of our application is to issue the implement the real time Content Management, based on the Content Retrieval, and Testing the content. Also, another primary objective of this application is to issue the Financial Application involving the Budget analysis and to issue the budget to whomsoever eligible, based on some discounts on some particular products.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application development using Agile methodology  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Used REST Template and IBM MQ for Messaging  • Design Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Spring Web Flows.  • Development of test cases for unit and integration testing and end to end testing of the system as part of Integration testing.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into the DB2 database.  • Fixing defects identified during Testing and resolving testing environment issues.  • Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate & Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  • Developed many JSP pages, used JSON plug in for asynchronous communication.  • Worked on Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.  • Developed UI navigation using JSP and Spring MVC architecture.  • Developed and deployed various Sessions beans.  • Experience with SSL communication.  • Participated in Functional Document reviews and create Technical documents.  • Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  • Worked with SSL communication and involved in PKI certification management.  • To create customer certificates worked with Key management tools  • Create Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Database Server.  • Used Junit Testing and Ant Scripts.  • Worked with JIRA for tracking the Stories in Agile Methodology.    Environment: Java SE 7, J2EE, JPA/Hibernate, Web Services (REST and SOAP), , JSP, XML, JIRA, JavaScript, Jenkins, AngularJS, SoapUI, Oracle 11g, SQL, SQL Developer, Eclipse, Log4j, Spring, Spring Boot, Micro Services, Windows XP. Education Masters in Information Systems in Virginia George Mason University 2001 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY:    Languages: Java (J2SDK 1.4/1.5/1.6 & J2EE 1.4/1.5/1.6), C, C++, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies: EJB, Servlets, JSP, Maven, JDBC, JSF, RMI, Web Services. JIRA, JSON.  Frameworks & Tools: Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Rabbit MQ, JUNIT  IDE Tools: IBM WSAD, RAD, Eclipse, Net Beans  Application/Webserver& Services: IBM Web Sphere, JBoss, Tomcat, Web logic, EUREKA  OS & Environment: Windows, UNIX, Linux, OSX  Databases: Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, Mongo DB  Methodologies: Waterfall.  Version Control: Tortoise SVN, GIT  Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, AJAX, XSD, AngularJS  Design Patterns: MVC, Factory Pattern, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns  Cloud Platform: AWS, EC2, RDS, ELB  Unit Testing Tools: JUnit, Mock objects in spring.  Front-end Technologies: HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, jQuery, DOJO, GWT