Senior Java / J2EE Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> / J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java / J2EE Developer - PROFFESIONAL EXPEREIENCE Dallas, TX • Highly motivated, creative & versatile IT professional with 8+ years of experience in design and development of client/server applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Extensive experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, deployment and support of applications.  • Strong database connectivity skills which include Oracle, MYSQL, and DB2 and in programming with SQL, PL/SQL.  • Participates in Agile and Scrum Methodology with daily stand-ups, weekly planning games and retrospectives.  • Insight into Java/J2EE technologies such as Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, spring, Hibernate.  • Broad knowledge and hands on experience in Web development using HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node.JS.  • Expertise in frame works like spring,Hibernate, Struts and JSF.  • Executes Restful Web services using Spring MVC Rest frameworks.  • Involved in creating and consuming SOAP based and Restful web services using WSDL, JAX-WS, SOAP UI,JAX-RS and JERSEY framework.  • Experienced in working with Jenkins for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD).  • Involved in automated testing using Selenium, JUnit, TestNg frameworks.  • Experience in using application servers like Tomcat, Web sphere and Glass Fish.  • Experience in implementing persistence layer using JDBC, Spring Dao and Hibernate.  • Implemented MVC Frameworks such as spring MVC.  • Extensively working on XML, DTD, XML Schema, XSL, XPath, DOM, and SOAP.  • Exposure to different IDE's like Eclipse, IntelliJ and Net Beans.  • Supported Testers with Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing.  • Familiar with JBoss Web Application server.  • Significant knowledge of Google Web Toolkit.  • Highly organized with the ability to prioritize workload, manage multiple tasks and meet project deadlines by following project standards and routines as per customer specs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java / J2EE Developer PROFFESIONAL EXPEREIENCE - Dallas, TX June 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Developed spring daemons for different modules involved in the process of publishing documents.  • Participated in Scrum Meetings.  • Developed High level and detailed level design documents based on business requirements provided.  • Designed interactive static HTML using HTML5 and CSS3 as screen level prototype, JavaScript for client side validation.  • Used core JAVA to implement data Structures including linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, hash tables and different sorting and searching algorithms.  • Used RESTFUL in conjunction with Ajax calls using JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Designed and developed the Application using spring and hibernate frame work.  • Enable DSAuthentication for the web Service APIs' to make it accessible only for valid users by using spring Interceptors.  • Implement Spring AOP for logging to avoid code redundancy  • Developed DAO and service layers using the Spring Dao support and hibernate ORM mappings.  • Created interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and Jquery/Jquery UI.  • Wrote Page level code using JavaScript with Angular.js framework along with JQUERY and other JavaScript libraries, Node.JS.  • Develop JUnit test cases for all the functional flows in the application, Passes all test cases successfully.  • Developed and implemented Spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller).  • Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using XML, JSON andJqueryto update UI Interacted with java controllers (Jquery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Used Eclipse IDE for development, configured and deployed the application using ANT, and tested using JUnit.  • Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks such as remote thermostat and demand-response management. Restful web services leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  • Created Jenkins jobs and running the jobs to check for any build issues.  • Environment: Java 1.7, JavaScript, Spring 4.0.5.x, Hibernate3.x, JUnit, Eclipse, Tomcat, UNIX, Oracle, JSF , HTML, XML, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.0, Log4j, Web Sphere 6.1, REST Services, Angular JS, Jquery, Jenkins, JAX-RS,JAX-WS. Senior Java / J2EE Developer May 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements and built technical specifications from the requirements.  • Involved and participated in Code reviews.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture.  • Using Hibernate as a part of application development  • Developed user interfaces using JavaScript, Jquery, HTML, XHTML, CSS custom tags, Node.JS.  • Involved in design and development of the application using SOA(Service Oriented Architecture) with Java Web Services / J2EE technologies.  • Designed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams using Visual Paradigm to model the detail design of the application.  • Application was built on Spring-MVC framework and Hibernate as business layer.  • Designed and developed the GUI using JavaScript and JSP.  • Involved in development of Servlets/JSP and documenting all the components clearly.  • Extensively used XML Web Services for transferring/retrieving data between different providers and implemented them using CXF Framework.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Involved working with Oracle 11g database.  • Written queries, stored procedures and functions using SQL, PL/SQL in Oracle.  • Extensively used JUnit for unit testing, integration testing and production testing.  • Created Daily Rolling Log using Log4j and Used PVCS as Version Control System.  • Used groovy and spring boot to collecting the data from users and packaged the data as json.  • Using Web logic application server for deploying the web content and all code was written using the Eclipse IDE.  • Environment: Java 1.7, JavaScript, Jquery,JBoss EAP 6.2,Oracle 11g, Spring Rest, Unix, HTML3, CSS, Junit, Tamper data, Log4j, Spring MVC. Java Developer Towne Bank - Portsmouth, VA November 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities  • Involved in analysis, design and development of e-bill payment system as well as account transfer system and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs.  • Designed front end using HTML, CSS3 and Java Script.  • Used the functionalities to write code in HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Angular.js, JavaScript, Jquery, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • Implemented queries using Oracle 10g, PL/SQL and SQL Server 2008.  • Involved in the design, development and maintenance of the Front-end for the application using JSP, JSTL, Custom Tags and have strong HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript and CSS skills.  • Developed and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience and used DOJO JavaScript libraries.  • Extensively worked with Linux as the primary Operating System.  • Involved in Creating CRUD operations for MongoDB.  • Involved in writing stored procedures for Backend database.  • Used JDBC to interact with the database layer of the Application.  • Implemented Struts Validation Framework for Action Form Validations and Tiles framework in designing different layouts for the JSP's in the presentation layer.  • Involved in Design documentation and implementation.  • Experience in UNIX Shell Scripting with Java Development.  • Resolved technical issues reported by Client.  • Responsible for Documenting Status Reports in Payment Transaction Module.  • Implemented Payment transaction module for the customers by developing all the components using JAVA, JSP.  • Environment: Java 1.6, JavaScript, Jquery,JBoss5.1,Oracle 11g, Restful webservices, Unix, HTML, CSS, Junit, Mockito, Power mockito,Postman. Java Developer 21st Century Insurance November 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and implementation of the architecture for the project using OOAD, UML Design Patterns  • Responsible for providing high level systems design; this includes specifying the component packaged and custom applications, class diagrams, E-R diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, activity diagrams, etc.  • Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns - DAO Pattern, Transfer Object, and MVC at various levels of the application and J2EE Frameworks - JSF, spring, Rich faces, JPA, and Hibernate.  • Expertise in developing JSP's, Servlets and EJB's and has in-depth knowledge in content management.  • Involved in design and development Java Transfer Objects (JTO).  • Implemented validation of client side data with Jquery and JavaScript.  • Involved in the design, development and maintenance of the Front-end for the application using JSP, JSTL, Custom Tags and have strong HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript and CSS skills.  • Developed and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience and used DOJO JavaScript libraries.  • Involved in writing stored procedures for Backend database.  • Used JDBC to interact with the database layer of the Application.  • Involved in setting up the Web Services (SOA) using XML, SOAP, WSDL and Apache Axis2 and created Consumers and Stubs to get the required information for policies using RAD 6.5  • Developed the Business logic using spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, and JTA.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Implemented Grails TagLibsto avoid groovy code in GSP pages.  • Mapping Java Classes to Database tables and leverage data query, retrieval and storage features of Hibernate.  • Environment: Java 1.6, JavaScript, JUnit, Eclipse, Tomcat, UNIX, Oracle 9g, Java, J2EE, WCS 6.0, DB2, UNIX Shell Scripting, Service Now, HPSD, Control-M, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, UNIX, Windows XP, Web Sphere Application Server. Java Developer Anabko Developers - IN August 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed User interfaces using Ext.Js.  • Extensively involved in the integration of the Front End web interface with the controller using Spring MVC.  • Involved in creating JUnit based unit test cases using Easy Mock as the mocking framework for the objects under test.  • Analyzed code coverage report from Hudson to improve code coverage.  • Obtained experience in using Hibernate 3.0 framework to interact with Oracle database.  • Created POJO's and DAOs for the database entities using Hibernate Annotation mapping.  • Extensively used Spring MVC for servlet configurations both during application Development and Test.  • Implementing systems components or systems using relevant technologies and methodologies  • Used Subversion (SVN) for change management and used Maven based POMto facilitate build management.  • Reviewed existing code and recommended effective coding standards for code reuse and performance by making effective use of various designs patterns.  • Involved in working with the QA to assist in writing test code and debugging the defects in the application  • Extensively worked with Linux as the primary Operating System.  • Created documentation for the Application to assist QA and Business.  • Obtained extensive experience of the Agile development methodology  • Developed agile processes using Groovy, JUnit to use continuous integration tools.  • Environment: Java 1.5, Servlets, Oracle 11g, Groovy, Grail, Hibernate, Tomcat server, Apache Tomcat, Maven, SVN Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (3 years), Css (4 years), Eclipse (4 years), Html (5 years), Java (7 years), Jdbc (2 years), Jquery (5 years), Jsp. (4 years), Junit (7 years), Maven (2 years), Oracle (7 years), Rest (3 years), Servlets (5 years), Soap (3 years), Sql (3 years), Subversion (2 years), Tomcat (4 years), Unix (5 years), web services (4 years), Xml (5 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, J2Ee, Javascript, Java 1.7, JavaScript, Spring 4.0.5.x, Hibernate3.x, JUnit, Eclipse, Tomcat, UNIX, Oracle, JSF , HTML, XML, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.0, Log4j, Web Sphere 6.1, REST Services, Angular JS, Jquery, Jenkins, JAX-RS,JAX-WS. (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java.  Java Technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Spring, JPA, Hibernate, JAXB, JUnit  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, XML, Ajax, Jquery, Boots, Trap REST full Web Services  Databases Oracle, SQL Server, My SQL Server ,SQL/PLSQL, MongoDB  Application Servers Web Sphere, Tomcat, JBoss  IDE tools Eclipse, Net Beans, Eclipse, IntelliJ  Version Control CVS, SVN, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, TFS    Methodologies Agile/Scrum, Waterfall, TDD  Build Tools Maven, Ant, Jenkins  Testing & Performance JUnit, Mockito, power mock, TestNg, JMeter and Selenium    Operating Systems Windows XP/Windows 7, Unix  Other utilities Edit Plus, Toad, Putty, WinScp, Microsoft Visio, Soap UI, XML Spy, Visual Studio