Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Broadridge Financial Edgewood, NY • 9+ years of experience in IT asa Full stack Java/J2EE Developerand worked in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Production Support and Deployment of Web based applications.  • Experience in building enterprise applications using technologies such as Core Java 1.5/1.61.7/1.8, J2EE (Servlets, JSP), Spring 3.0/4.0, Spring Boot, Hibernate 4.0, SOAP & RESTful WebServices.  • Experience working on deployment, installation, configuration and issues with Web and Application Servers like Apache Tomcat 6/7/8, Weblogic 9/10/11/12, WebSphere and JBOSS.  • Experience in build automation and project management tools like Maven to manage project builds, release and documentations.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in SQL queries, PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and triggers to interact with SQL, MySQL, Oracle databases.  • Experience in building the UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS 2.0  • Experience in using testing frameworks like Junit, TestNG, JMockito and Selenium.  • Experienced in developing Test Plans and Test Cases for diverse types of software testing.  • Experienced in Testing Methodologies, Designing Test Plans and Test Cases, Verifying and Validating various applications and Documentationbased on standards for Software Development and effective QA implementation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration, Github for version management &Maven for building the application. Work Experience Java Developer Broadridge Financial - Edgewood, NY April 2017 to Present PNA is a digital content delivery platform which delivers digital content to consumers. PNA is responsible for registering consumers who wish to receive their digital content using one or more digital delivery channels, managing the consumer's delivery instructions and delivery consents, ingesting digital content destined for consumers from various brands, matching content to correct consumers, distributing consumer content to the appropriate channel, and offering a federated content retrieval system.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysing Software Requirements, Specification, Design and implementation of application using Agile (Scrum) methodology.  • Extensively worked on both consumption & producing of RESTful based Webservices using JAX-RS & jersey parsers.  • Used REST API, HTTP requests and implemented JSON format for data exchange for communication of microservices with one another and pushed it to Docker Container.  • Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC, Spring boot, Microservices & used core Spring concepts like MVC, AOP, IOC.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Concurrency framework.  • Developed applications using the latest Java/ J2EE technologies and worked with the latest features of Java 8 and Java 7.  • Used Agile Methodology for the project.  • Developed several SOAP Webservice stubs using AXIS 2.0 engine, SOAP UI, JAX-RPC, WSDL, Document literal.  • Used JMS to place the import run requests into JMS Queue.  • Developed the UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery, Angular 2.0 and was involved in resolving cross browser JavaScript issues.  • Implemented many Restful API webservices using Spring REST API and Jersey Jars.  • Implemented design patterns like DAO, singleton, factory, proxy, adaptor to achieve design principles.  • Developed the application implementing Spring MVC Architecture with Hibernate as ORM framework.  • Used Hibernate 4.0 ORM framework for persistence to database by integrating it with Spring framework using Spring Hibernate template.  • Used GitHub for efficiently managing the source code versions with the development team.  • Designed and developed Junit/JMockito test cases during the development phase.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for building the EAR file.  • Served as POC for on call support in the production team on a rotation basis.    Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, Spring 4.0, Spring Boot, Microservices, Hibernate 4.0, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Docker, JQuery, Angular JS 2.0,Maven, XML, XPATH, Linux/Unix, Junit, JMockito, Test NG, Apache Tomcat 8, Jenkins,GitHub,Spring Boot, Angular 2.0. Java/J2EE Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA September 2015 to March 2017 T-Mobile Universe 2.0/ Rebellion has three channels Retail, Care and Web. Retail Application is in store system, Care Application is used by Customer Care Representatives and Web Application is direct customer interactive system. All three systems interact with Façade API and have almost similar set of flows. Enterprise architecture has all three layers Façade, Core and Ericsson (backed system).    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in requirements gathering, Analysis, Conceptual Design.  • Used Maven for adding the external dependencies and for project management.  • Involved in Database design and developing SQL Queries, stored procedures on MySQL.  • Used browser debugging tools such as Firebug for resolving the defects.  • Implemented the middle tier using Spring3 framework, including Spring, AOP, Spring MVC.  • Developed the web services by using the services provided by the IBM WebSphere like BPM.  • Designed the database schema and configured Hibernate ORM files to map Java classes to database tables.  • Involved in the development of project back-end logic layer by using most of the core java features such as Collection Framework, Interfaces, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling programming.  • Implemented message communications using Java mail for notify user changing profile or payment process.  • Used Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Collaboration Diagrams and Activity Diagrams to describe the relationship that exists among system's components in accordance with the business requirements.  • Experience working in Agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings.  • Maintained the code using CVS. Actively participated in the code review.  • Played a very important role in resolving the defects.    • Coordinated with the team to resolve the production issues. Involved in designing the database tables to hold the new set of opportunities in ORACLE database.  • Involved in creation of high level and low level detailed design documents.  • Involved in enhancing the build procedures using Maven and Hudson jobs.  • Involved heavily in the development of REST and SOAP based web services using spring 3.0 Jersey Framework, Spring Boot.    Environment: Java 1.6, Spring Framework, Hibernate 4, Apache Tomcat 7, Maven, JUnit, TestNG, JIRA, Jenkins, Cucumber, ORACLE, Agile/ Scrum, Spring Boot, MYSQL. Java developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Chicago, IL November 2012 to August 2015 Billing and payments is the application which provides Billing information that is retrieved from Facets and payments service is a utility that consumers will used to change payment preferences. This service has also the feature to perform submit Payment and review pending/Reject payments. The payment service also includes reinstatement of user account. This service will provide functional and data services required by all the Backend applications of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements review, design, development, Unit testing and Bug fixing of thesystem and used Agile Development methodology.  • Actively participated in the daily scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within timeinformation and helped clearing ambiguity in requirements document.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery, HTML & CSS for UI interface design.  • Used Java Script to perform validation on the client side.  • Used AJAX to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Developed Java POJO's to capture the UI data and communicate with Spring MVC.  • Written Controller and DAO classes to interact with hibernate.  • Data Operations are performed using Spring wiring with Hibernate and Implemented HibernateTemplate and criteria API for querying database.  • Developed RESTful microservices using Spring REST and MVC, and Consumed REST basedwith Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Wrote SQL Queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers, and packages on Oracle database.  • Performed unit testing using Junit and wrote Test Cases on every new version.  • ANT for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files and deployed the application  • Used Log4J for debugging the application.  • Used Eclipse for coding the application and used SVN for change control.  • Coordinated with the QA and off-shore teams for resolving defects and deployment relatedissues.  • Involved in post-production activities which includes resolving application specific issues and pushing the fixes in deployments after each production release.    Environment: Java 1.5, Spring MVC, HTML 4, jQuery 1.7,Spring Core 3.1, Hibernate 3.5, JDBC, IBM WebLogic, ANT, SVN, JUnit, JIRA, Jenkins, Cucumber, ORACLE 11g, Agile/ Scrum. Java/J2EE Developer Vanadic IT Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2009 to October 2012 This application is developed for our employee recruitment system. This Recruitment System is a web-based tool used to make the job of recruiters i.e., the recruiting process of an organization simple. This allows Job applicants to register their details such as skills, experience, education details and accomplishments into the system. It also allows employers to post their requirements on the net which helped to announce requirements without any medium in between. It also sends automatic email updates with new requirements links to the registered candidates.    Responsibilities:  • Employed Scrum concepts of Agile Development Methodology for software development.  • Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  • Developed the modules independently.  • Business logic was implemented in Servlets.  • Designed, implemented and deployed J2EE web application using JSF MVC and Spring IOC.  • Participatedin business meetings with Business Analysts & different Application teams to analyze  the requirements.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database  • Developed web services using SOAP, XML.  • Developed the application using Singleton Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  • Created Use Cases, Sequence, Object Model and Component UML diagrams using UML tool.  • Developed custom reports using Crystal Reports and wrote test cases using JUNIT tool.  • Facilitated the designing and testing of application using PUTTY.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, Tomcat, SQL, Oracle database, Spring MVC and Spring IOC. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE