Java Software Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Software Developer Tampa, FL • Around 8+ years of experience in developing Web based Applications and expertise in implementing Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) with Java, J2EE.  • Experience in System Development Life Cycle (Process Engineering, Design, Development, Deployment Support and Testing) using Agile and waterfall methodologies.  • Experience in working with Java J2EE technologies, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, SPRING, and JMS ActiveMQ.  • Good Experience in Developing with Apache Camel and Mule ESB.  • Good expertise in working with various spring modules: Spring IOC, spring boot, Spring Batch, Spring MVC, Spring Data JPA and Spring JDBC modules.  • Proficient in XML technologies like XSL/XSLT, SAX, DOM, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, XSD, SOA, JAXB, JAXP.  • Proficient in implementing various Java/J2EE design patterns including Singleton, Factory, and MVC.  • Extensive experience in the areas of Service-oriented architecture (SOA), Patterns, Iterative design methodologies. Highly skilled in Logical Analysis and Quality Assurance.  • Experience in java developer with Amazon Web Services.  • Experience in using JSON and JQUERY for the persistence of data and exchanging data.  • Developed web services using SOA Architecture and implemented RESTFUL web services.  • Experience in working with Oracle SQL and NO SQL databases.  • Writing scripts, front end configuration and code in JavaScript, Python, PHP, SASS and CSS.  • Experience working on different application servers like Apache Camel, JBOSS, WebLogic, and Apache Tomcat including configuring, deploying, fine-tuning and monitoring.  • Experience in handling Version Control Systems like SVN and Git Hub.  • Experience on writing build scripts using ANT and Maven.  • Experience on SONAR and PMD Tools to ensure Product Quality and Process Improvement.  • Experience in working with Unit Testing Frameworks and Continuous Integration tools. Work Experience Java Software Developer Fidelity Investments - Tampa, FL March 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in business requirements gathering and Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and testing of application modules.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development for the project  • Designed and developed the portal using Angular 4/5 along with HTML5, CSS3, and Typescript and Bootstrap.  • Built custom Angular Components and Services for single-page web application and Dependency Injection to add the functionality of components at run-time.  • Developed and enhanced API proxies, which supports CORS, checking the authenticity of a request using Entitlement Server, including all the array list elements, displaying.  • Developed API proxies to retrieve and reschedule appointments, retrieve appointment  slots, retrieve pay-per-view, cancel order, retrieve pay-per-view listings and retrieve  service profiles.  • Migrating existing application into rest based Microservices to provide all the CRUD capabilities using spring boot.  • Wrote the entire admin from scratch (PHP), rewrote the main API (PHP), and fixed issues in our slot API (Coffeescript).  • Developed and designed the rest based Microservices using spring boot.  • Migrated the existing SOAP JAX-WS web service to REST API for better performance.  • Developed SQL and PL/SQL scripts to transfer tables across the schemas and databases.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Functions and created database tables.  • Used Spring IOC, spring Boot & Spring Batch frame work for processing DB records.  • Consumed and developed Restful Services with JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Designed, developed and implemented PHP based Web Services online billing application.  • Used Hibernate as persistence layer - using the database and configuration data to provide persistence service (and persistent objects) to the application.  • Used Oracle 11g as relational database backend.  • Developed and deployed web application using WebLogic.  Environment:JDK1.7&1.8, Hibernate, Spring, RestfulServices, microservices, PHP, Angular4/5, HTML/HTML5, CSCSS3.JavaScript, NodeJS, Bootstrap, Git, Jira, Bitbucket, WebLogicserver, Stored Procedures. Java/J2ee Developer Charles Schwab - Austin, TX August 2016 to February 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in business requirements gathering and Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and testing of application modules.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development for the project.  • Experienced in Linux software application development  • Used Hibernate as the persistence layer to interact with Oracle DB.  • Implemented agile methodology throughout the project development lifecycles.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS for UI development. Developed html views with HTML, CSS3 and AngularJS.  • Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling.  • Developed and designed the rest based Microservices using spring boot.  • Migrating existing application into rest based Microservices to provide all the CRUD capabilities using spring boot.  • Developed WordPress plugins and modules to embed into the active pages using PHP.  • Configured and managed AWS Glacier, to move old data to archives based on retention policy of databases/applications.  • Created Aws S3 buckets performed folder management in each bucket managed cloud trail logs and objects within each bucket.  • Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services  • Design and developed various view and partial view using Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax Helpers and Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for Client-Side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Hands on experience in writing Spring Restful Web services using JSON / XML.  Environment: JDK1.8, Hibernate, Spring, Web services, Microservices, spring boot, JSP, HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, PHP, jQuery, Angular2.0, Node.js, python, Backbone.js, Jenkins, SVN, AWS. Java/J2ee developer Mangstor LLC - Austin, TX June 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete software development life cycle management using UML (Unified Modeling Language) - Requirements gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detailed design, and Development.  • Used Spring IOC, spring Boot&Spring Batch frameworkfor processing DB records  • Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests.  • Responsible to resolve design issues and develop strategies to make ongoing improvements that support system flexibility and performance.  • Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  • Developed SQL queries with PHP Doctrine and Propel to create, retrieve and update data and programming SQL sentences based on CRUD.  • SONAR is used to ensure Quality and Process Improvement of a product.  • Responsible to approve "Test Cases" created by Testing Team. Provide technical support to testing team to fix any issues in Functional Testing.  • Maintained, structured, and surveyed documents within the NOSQL MongoDB database.  • Worked on JBOSS application Server to deploy application.  • Consumed and developed Restful Services with JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Functions and created database tables.  • Deployed Mule ESB applications into MMC (Mule Management Console).  • Used MMC mule management console to monitor the request and response payload.  • Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests.  Environment: Spring Framework, JDK 1.6&1.7, Hibernate, SQL, PHP, Mule Soft (Mule ESB), JavaScript, Restful Services, Angular2.0&4.0, NodeJS, ActiveMQ. Junior Java developer VISA Inc - Austin, TX September 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed web tire using Servlets, JSP, Struts, Tiles, JavaScript, HTML and XML.  • Responsible for Design & Implementation of Online Survey module  • Used Front Controller design pattern for Domain blocking module. Also, extensively used Singleton, DAO design patterns for enhancements to other modules.  • Implemented Client Side and Server-Side validations using Java Script and Struts Validation Framework on Login and Registration forms.  • Involved in creation of Use Cases and Test Cases. And, involved in execution of Unit Test cases and Integration test cases.  • Development of PL/SQL Stored Procedures to be used by the Java DAO layer  • Development of UI Mock Prototype using HTML and Java Script for Domain Blocking module.  • Configured Word Press publishing software for non-profit firm. Created weblog layout in HTML, CSS and PHP based on an original design according to client's branding needs.  • Involved in framing and documenting the Coding standards and best practices for the team, which improved the code quality and performance of the application.  • Used CVS as version control.  Environment: Java, JSP, Struts, Tiles Servlet, JavaScript, HTML, Struts, Eclipse, IBM UDB, XML and XSL, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat, Oracle Developer, PHP, Toad and CVS Java Developer Mastek - IN June 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Implemented Struts Framework and Hibernate in the new version of the Application.  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts and JavaScript.  • Developed Action classes, Dyna Action Forms and used Validation framework.  • Used EJB Stateless/Stateful session beans to implement business logic, session handling, and transaction and deployed Enterprise Java Beans both Session and Entity on WebSphere Application Server.  • Implement modules into NodeJs to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Taken care of java Multi-Threading in common java classes/library.  • Extensively used Java Scripts to enforce client side validations and also used JQuery for Ajax processing.  • Involved in development/ maintenance of various web services using IBM WebSphere to interact with other Applications.  • Involved in unit testing, troubleshooting and debugging. Modifying existing programs with enhancements.  • Worked on Linux environment for deploying the application, running scripts for jobs.  • Involved in fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application.  • Worked as the part of a core team to monitor and enhance the performance of the application.    • Environment: Core Java, Jakarta Struts Framework, Hibernate, EJB, Web Services, CSS, NodeJs, Eclipse, CVS, Boot, WebSphere Application Server 6.5, JUnit, UNIX, JavaScript, SOA, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JQuery, DB2. Education Bachelors in Computer Science JNTU Skills JAVA (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), PHP (5 years), SQL (5 years), JSP (4 years), Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, Rest, Soap, Core Java, Angular, JEE, AWS, MVC, Angularjs Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Java/J2EE, JavaScript, XML, HTML,PL/SQL, NOSQL  Web Technologies  JSP, Servlets, Swing, JDBC, JNDI, J2EE, XML, HTML, SOAP, JMS, EJB 2.1/3.0, RMI, WSDL, UDDI, DOM, SAX, XSL, X Path, HTML, AXIS, and Web Services.ASPX    Development Tools Eclipse 3.1, Ant, Maven.  Scripting Language Pyhton,PHP  Frameworks Struts 1.2, JSF, Spring, Hibernate.  Designing Tools Rational Rose, Together, Agile Methodology.  Web/App Servers JBOSS, WebLogic 8.1/10.x, Glassfish, Sybase, WebSphere 6, Tomcat.  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server, DB2, MySQL.  Distributed Tech J2EE, Springs, Web Services.  Configuration Tools GIT, SVN,CVS,  Design Patterns Composite View, MVC, DAO, Singleton, Business Delegate Design Pattern.  Operating Systems Windows XP/NT/2000, Linux.    PROJECTS: