Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Sam's Club Sterling, VA • JAVA developer with 8 years of experience in implementing Java/J2EE projects, working through Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation in Client/Server and web based n-tier architecture systems.  • Expertise in development and deployment of multi-tiered web based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets 2.3/2.4, JSP 1.1/2.0, Struts 2.0, JMS, Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Spring 3.0/4.0, JDBC, JNDI, IBM MQ Series, JSF, Python, MongoDB, angular.JS, Java Beans and Web services (SOAP, Rest).  • Extensive experience using Spring Framework in business layer for Dependency Injection, AOP, Spring MVC, transaction management and using Hibernate as a persistence layer.  • Experience Front end part of the application using Angular.JS, Ext.JS, Backbone.JS, JQuery, Node.JS, React JS Html5 and CSS.  • Strong knowledge and experience in creating web based presentation for the client using HTML5, JSP, Servlets, Ajax, JQuery, EXT.JS, JSTL and JavaScript.  • Experience in XML related technologies like XML, DTD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, JAXB, JAXP, SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Knowledge of J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Factory, Abstract Factory, Command Pattern, Singleton, Session Facade, Transfer Object, Business Delegate and Data Access Object etc.  • Extensive hands on experience in consuming as well as developing API for SOAP and REST based web services to integrate third party functional modules into the core application.  • Experience with several design patterns like Singleton, Factory Method, Prototype, etc. and architectures like Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and MVC.  • Proficient in several frameworks like Struts 2.0, Java Server Faces, and Hibernate 3.0/4.0 ORM, Spring Framework 3.0, spring MVC with GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, validation plug-ins like Validator Framework.  • Proficient in using XML Suite of Technologies like XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Have deep understanding of both Relational Database and also experience in non-relational database like MongoDB, Elastic Search.  • Experience with GWT (Google Web Toolkit).  • Extensive experience in SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, IBM DB2 and MS SQL Server.  • Experienced in using WSDL, SOAP, and Apache AXIS for Web Services.  • Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JSP, XML, JSF and Swing.  • Extensive experienced in implementing single page applications using AngularJS directives, routing modules.  • Expertise in advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as JQuery, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Prototype, Dojo, Node.js, Ember.js, Knockout.js, Ext.js and Underscore.js.  • Experience in using Maven and Ant for build automation.  • Have Strong experience in Database Design, Normalization, Data Flow Diagrams, Coding, Testing, Implementation, code migrations and good understanding of the complex systems.  • Good Experience in developing test cases with Junit and logging with Log4j.  • Hands on exposure to multiple Application Servers like BEA Web Logic Application Server, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere and JBoss.  • Experience in writing the scripting language Groovy which can run on Java virtual machine. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Sam's Club - Bentonville, AR June 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working with Agile Technologies, analyzing user requirements; envisioning system features and functionality using propriety tools such as Version One and SmartCloud to share documentation.  • Involved in writing AFS for assigned stories and sharing across other team members for review via Microsoft Teams.  • Developed modules in an OSGi based service infrastructure with support for SSL communication with external clients and services.  • Use Core java and Spring MVC Framework for application development within Nationwide established framework  • Develop service layer using spring MVC.  • Use Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application. Full Stack Developer Toshiba GCS - Raleigh, NC October 2018 to April 2019 Toshiba Global Commerce Solutions is retail's first choice for integrated in-store solutions. The leading supplier of point-of-sale systems with a worldwide install base larger than any three major competitors combined, Toshiba is committed to delivering innovative commerce solutions that transform checkout, provide seamless consumer interactions and optimize retail operations. Toshiba, along with our global team of dedicated business partners, provides end-to-end solutions, service and support that help clients meet virtually any retail technology need.  Project: Stateless POS  To meet future objectives, the client needed a solution that would meet their scalability and performance objectives, has a simplified stack and allows them to migrate to a new hardware.  Responsibilities:  • Working with Agile Technologies, analyzing user requirements; envisioning system features and functionality using propriety tools such as Version One and SmartCloud to share documentation.  • Involved in writing AFS for assigned stories and sharing across other team members for review via Microsoft Teams.  • Developed modules in an OSGi based service infrastructure with support for SSL communication with external clients and services.  • For server and client side socket implementation, researched and applied principles used by Apache MINA framework.  • Researched and implemented methods from JCA arichitecture to manage SSL configuration across client and server sockets.  • Extensive documentation using Markdown for internal usage among other developers.  • Documented and published T3 material for making high level information available for non-technical executives.  • Perfomed Continuous Integration using AccuRev.  • Implemented server side logic for socket communication.  • Tested and enhanced Apache Karaf commands for specific operations to manage items in a cart like get, set, add etc.  • Used Linux based systems for testing POS applications via Virtual Machines. Managed configuration changes and used basic commands and scripts to test encryption and software based tools for obfuscation purposes. Full Stack Developer CACI - Chantilly, VA February 2016 to October 2018 Project: MSC  CACI provides information solutions and services in support of national security missions and government transformation for Intelligence, Defense, and Federal Civilian customers. CACI's sustained commitment to ethics and integrity defines its corporate culture and drives its success. With approximately 18,600 employees worldwide, CACI provides dynamic career opportunities for military veterans and industry professionals to support the nation's most critical missions.  Responsibilities:  • Working with Agile Technologies, analyzing user requirements; envisioning system features and functionality  • Involved in gathering requirements, deriving functional requirements and system requirements  • from the Business Requirements.  • Attended regular AGILE/SCRUM, meetings/ retrospective and story pointer based iteration meetings  • Attended implementation meetings for the scheduled production releases immediately after the defects were fixed for the existing applications  • Supported the weekly calls and resolving the incident tickets in Servicenow.  • Designed the front end applications, User Interactive (UI) website pages using HTML5, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, GSP, JSP, Angular.JS and Bootstrap.  • The Designs and develops applications and user interfaces by setting expectations and features priorities throughout development life cycle within Nationwide established framework.  • The webpages were designed and supported in accordance with the NVDA (Non-Visual Desktop Access) screen readers for visual impaired policy holders to access their Nationwide accounts.  • Use Core java and Spring MVC Framework for application development within Nationwide established framework  • Develop service layer using spring MVC.  • Use Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.  • Use WB common framework and DAO layers to offer abstraction for the business from the database related code (CRUD).  • Responsible for developing the full stack (front-end development, application logic, services, data persistence).  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, Hibernate cache concepts.  • Use tag libraries in JSP to embed business logic.  • Building RESTful APIs in front of different types of storage engines allowing other groups to quickly meet their Big Data needs.  • Develop CSS3 based web pages which are cross-browser compatible.  • Implemented custom validation controls for various forms with help of JavaScript validation controls.  • Work with JavaScript for client/browser statistics reporting, click tracking, form validation, Ajax, and pop ups like date picker etc.  • Create conditional logics in pages using JSP tags and JSTL.  • Developed the administrative UI using Angular forms and directives  • Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using JQuery plug-in  • Customize the Data Access Module using DAO patterns, to handle the entire transaction with the database.  • Wrote various SQL, PL/SQL queries and stored procedures for data retrieval.  • Wrote UNIX Shell scripts and used UNIX environment to deploy the EAR and read the logs.  • Created Junit test cases to test the codes and validate the release.  • Junit, log4j were used for unit testing and as logging frameworks Involve in developing Unit test framework using JUnit. Write JUnit test cases for every java class.  • Used Eclipse as IDE  • Deploying application on SAP NetWeaver Application Server.  • Code staging in GitHub and building in Jenkins for release night regressions  • Fixing the batch logs using shell script and retrieving the data from database.  • Comparing the application logs in different test environments of Java Hosting and Splunk by getting the logs in PUTTY using Shell script.  Environment: Spring 3.1, J2EE 1.7, WB Common framework, AJAX, XML, CSS, HTML 5, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, SAP DB (All system), Hibernate 4, JSON, JUnit, REST, JSP, JSTL, Sap NetWeaver  Application Server 7.31, Sap NetWeaver Developer Studio 7.3, UNIX, Shell script, GitHub, Jenkins, Service Now. Java Developer TW Metals, PA February 2015 to May 2016 TW Metals is a company that has proven experience, certified quality and dependable service providing specialty metals leadership and supply chain innovation. It is through those strengths that we have expanded our abilities and supported our customers for over 100 years. Our customers depend on TW Metals for the very best in specialty metals, complete processing services, timely delivery and expert service. We are also the best source for providing innovative supply chain solutions worldwide.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in study of User Requirement Specification.  • Scrum Agile Areas of expertise include Agile Principles, Tasking Meetings/Retrospectives, Communication Relative Estimation, Story-Based Development, Iteration/Sprint Planning Meetings and Conflict Resolution.  • Developed in Agile/Scrum methodology and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Followed techniques and principles provided by test driven design paradigm for developing quality code.  • Provided Data modeling design standards, solutions to various data marts and product teams.  • Ensure data governance, standards and compliance in Data modeling deliverable managed Data modeling deliverables on Share Point Server  • Data Import and Export from different flat files and databases and do the data cleansing.  • Configured Autosys scheduler jobs which runs Unix shell scripts.  • Extensive experience in developing Unix shell scripts.  • Set up Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) communication between iPlanet and the weblogic Application Server.  • Created Autosys and hell scripting to the get the vendor files from the mount and process the file data.  • Installed and Configured Wily Introscope and to monitor web logic servers.  • Developed Windows and Linux Scripts that will call the backend Rest Micro services through CURL calls in getting the JSON Format to integrate with User Interface Application.  • Used Spring MVC to consume web services and JavaScript, CSS, AngularJS to display data in front end.  • Functionality is implemented by developing RESTful web services using spring Boot, JPA, Cloud foundry and Oracle Responsibilities.  • Developing Ant and Maven scripts to automate the compilation, deployment, and testing of Web and J2EE applications.  • Configured and built Spring MVC application on Tomcat web server.  • Implemented Life Quote POC using Spring, core, Spring MVC, SOAP, AJAX, and JQuery.  • Implemented and tested the enterprise application with jQuery, Angular.js and Spring, MVC.  • Developed the application implementing MVC Architecture, integrating JSF with Hibernate and spring frameworks.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • Utilized the latest front end Technologies such as HTML5 and CSS3 for layouts.  • Responsible for implementation of the presentation layer for the application using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, AngularJS.  • Experience working on Data validation/inline edits and error handling for the application.  • Developed Single Container Applications by writing the code in Angular JS.  • Prepared Design document with all the coding standards for HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  • Worked in modern, mobile ready responsive front end development with CSS3 media queries, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS and jQuery.  • Developed web services Soap, WSDL and web services clients using JAXB and XML,  • API Identification and Resource Definition based on REST principles for various APIs.  • RESTful services and API database web interface development.  • Website design and webpage hosting.  • Developed JMS (MDB) solutions to transmit data over XML in Order to save data  • asynchronous way through WebSphere MQ messaging.  • Used Struts framework to implement the MVC architecture.  • Developed various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, SAX, XSLT, JAXP, JNDI, LDAP, JMS, and MQ Series by using RAD. Integrated Spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Designed the application by implementing JSF Framework based on MVC Architecture, simple JavaBeans as a Model, JSP and JSF UI Components as View and Faces Servlet as a Controller.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection, transaction management.  • Used Spring MVC framework controllers for Controllers part of the MVC Implemented Business Logic using POJO's and used WebSphere to deploy the applications.  • Used JMS (Asynchronous/Synchronous) for sending and getting messages from the MQ Series.  • Configured hot folder configurations, customized checkout process for client requirement.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate.  • Used Spring with ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate and JPA.  • Used Eclipse as IDE for development of the application.  • Assisted Oracle DB development team in developing stored procedures and designing the database. Used SVN for version control  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Data, Restful Services, Hibernate, Micro Services, Oracle, Mongo DB, Mockito, Log4j, JIRA, GIT, Jenkins, Intellij and Web Sphere Application Server. Java Developer The Gilbertson Group, PA March 2014 to January 2015 The Mission of The Gilbertson Group is to provide a complete range of electronic and physical security solutions that meet the needs of financial and commercial institutions throughout the Delaware Valley and beyond, in accordance with the highest standards of quality, together with fair and equitable pricing.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet customer expectation, timelines with quality deliverables.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS and NodeJS.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using Angular JS and developed responsive Web pages using Bootstrap.  • Designed and developed application using Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Batch and Spring Data.  • Implemented logging and transaction manager using Spring AOP concept.  • Used Spring JPA and Spring Repository pattern extensively.  • Used Spring Security to provide authentication, authorization and access-control features for Application.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot with Spring MVC flow.  • Developed Restful Services using JAX-RS with Spring Boot and Micro Service Architecture to enable Micro Services deploy on cloud.  • Analyze business requirements and develop various business delegates to integrate with middleware services like JAX-WS, JAX-RS using SOAP and REST.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture(SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Implemented Spring Boot application with embedded jetty server to run the application on instance.  • Provided portable APIs for developing, exposing and accessing Web applications designed and implemented in compliance with principles of REST architectural style using JAX-RS and Apache jersey.  • Extensively used Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions, Parallel operations on collections for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  • Automated application deployment in the cloud using Docker technology using Elastic Container Service scheduler.  • Worked on designing specific programs efficiently through knowledge of Multithreading using the API with the goal of increasing performance on a wide variety of applications.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations.  • Used Apache camel integration for routing and transforming the data between two Applications using HTTP protocol.  • Used Rabbit MQ as Java Messaging Service for producing and consuming data between applications.  • Connected to Data sources and performed operations using Spring Data Framework features like Spring JDBC and Spring ORM.  • Developed test cases for Unit Testing using JUnit and Mockito.  • Built No SQL schemas and maintaining sessions by Mongo DB.  • Written SQL Queries and stored procedures to interact with Oracle DB.  • Used Gradle build automation tool to build and deploy the application in the WebSphere Application Server.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking for monitoring of work assignment in the system and Log4J was used to monitor the error logs.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  • Used Git for version control and Intellij IDE for development of the application.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Data, Restful Services, SOAP, Micro Services Architecture, JMS, Hibernate, Apache Camel, JDBC, Oracle, Mongo DB, JUnit, Mockito, Gradle, JIRA, Jenkins, Unix, GIT, Web Sphere Application Server and Intellij. Java Developer Sovereign Bank - Boston, MA July 2013 to February 2014 Created an access checking functionality to the existing banking application. The application is based on the MVC architecture. My Access checking module will be displayed in Accounts Overview along with the various other accounts held by the user in the bank. User can pay bills, transfer funds, check transaction detail and access reports in various formats for the account as well.  Responsibilities  • Involved in XML Builders, JMS Sand, JMWR Handlers, and SAX parsers and passing to JMS  • Developed the front controller logic using Servlets.  • Used Stackdriver and AWS cloud monitoring extensively to monitor and debug the cloud based AWSEC2 services.  • Installed, configured multiple operating systems onsite and provisioned similar instances on AWScloud.  • Used Servlets as initial point of authentication as a front controller and handling the requests.  • Created SQL and PL/SQL scripts for transformations.  • Created UI screens using JSF Framework  • Used Struts for authentication applications using MVC pattern.  • Involved in analyzing the existing System and developed spring framework web flow for different modules.  • Integrated in Spring Technologies with hibernate and ibatis and deploying in the Weblogic server.  • Implemented the business logic in the POJO's and implemented the View Helper-J2ee design pattern.  • Created session beans and generated the Deployment descriptors using the XDockets.  • Implemented new methods within the business delegate for the flow of the application  • Data modeling and detailed schema design (database design) using ER-Win.  • Managed the transactions and security in a centralized manner with the help of the session facade.  • Involved in integration of external systems by means of Web Services using Apache, Axis, SOAP, and WSDL.  • Responsible for creating JSF applications and providing JDeveloper,  • Used to get WSDL location from these external systems.  • Created client to access external services based in the WSDL location.  • Integrated Log4j into the application for logging debug information..  • Worked on SQL queries for database operations.  • Implemented JUnit testing.  Environment: Java, J2SE, Java Beans, Servlets, JavaScript, Struts, Axis, EJB3.0, JDBC, Oracle 10g, XML, DOM, XSD, XSL, XSLT, DHTML, Unix, Ant, Hibernate, Spring2.0, Log4J, SOAP, AJAX, JMS, Tomcat, Webservices, JUnit, MyEclipse5.1, WebLogic 8.1 Java Developer AMD - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities  • Designed and Developed the application using the MVC architecture  • Developed the connectivity to the DB using JDBC.  • Developed the application using JMS for asynchronous messaging.  • Developed the front end using swing, DHTML, AJAX, and JSP pages.  • Deployed the JSF Framework on IBM Websphere Application Server  • Developed the Action classes for handling the requests from the JSP pages.  • Developed Java Bean components to communicate with Data Base.  • Used MVC, Value Objects, Service Locator, and Session Façade Design Patterns.  • Developed XML Schemas and DOM parser for all the XML documents used for data transfer and also developed XSLT code for them.  • Developed back end communication using JDBC.  • Developed and Deployed the EJB'S in Web Logic application server.  • Performed the Unit testing of the application.  • Resolved bugs coming from the System and Integration Testing.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object persistency.  • Worked on the design documentation and functional specification documentation.  • Implemented JUnit testing.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Java Beans, struts, EJB, JSF, JMS, Servlets, Javascript, CSS, AJAX, DHTML, JSP, Unix, XML, XSLT, Hibernate, Web sphere, CVS, JUnit, Oracle, Eclipse Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU University India 2013 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Spring, Jndi