Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Andriod Developer Raleigh, NC • 7+ years of experience as Software Developer, combining around 4 years in Designing & Development of Android Applications for Smart Phone & Tablet and around 3 years on Java based Applications.    • Extensive experience in Android application development.    • Good understanding in Android OS, interactive application development and memory management.    • Proficient with common Android Framework API's (Location, Camera, Notifications, Maps).    • Developed elegant user interfaces with rich features.    • Expertise building Native Android Applications using (ANDROID SDK, NDK) as well as Hybrid applications using (Apache Cordova, Phone Gap) Platforms.    • Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications.    • Experience in working with the latest API's Android Version 5.0 (Lollipop), Android Version 6.0 (Marshmallow), Android Version 7.0 (NOUGAT).  • Experience in using Fragments, Activity Framework, Flow and Motor Framework, Accelerator Framework, Action Bar Navigation, Menu designs and view controls, Loaders, Scroll View, List View and Recycler Views.  • Experience working with MVC (Model View Controller) and MVP (Model view Presenter) frameworks patterns.    • Validated JSON response as per the given REST API'S.    • Used GSON Library, RETROFIT 2.0 Library for parsing the JSON.    • Experience in Web services using markup languages like JSON and REST.    • Also worked with Gradle wrapper and dependencies for gradle configuration.    • Experience in using Storage options in Android like Shared Preferences.    • Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications, Asynchronous Programming in Android (such as Thread pool, AsyncTasks and Services). Implemented the monetization of apps, which has capabilities to do in-app purchases.    • Good mobile and web design skills using Activities (android), HTML 5, Java Script, AJAX and XML.    • Experience in using Java Native Interface (JNI).    • Experience with source code control management like subversion (SVN) and GIT, SOURCE TREE, Smart GIT.    • Expert in writing client side validations using validation framework, Java Script.    • Undertook full life cycle of Android Application Development which includes testing on device and simulator as well and writing JUNIT test cases using Mokito, Robotium for android applications.    • Working on implementation of OMA-DM device management protocol for android devices.    • Good Experience with ProGuard and DexGuard files.    • Knowledge in designing and developing adaptive UI components, widgets for android phones, tablets using Notifications, Adapters, Content Provider, Services, XML Parsing, SQLite.    • Experience in using Storage options in Android like Shared Preferences.    • Knowledge in working with audio and video codec's like .3GPP, MPEG-4.    • Excellent debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, IntelliJIDEA IDEA and RAD.    • Experience in various methodologies like of SDLC like Agile development and Waterfall development.    • Extensive experience in requirement analysis, functional analysis, excellent conceptual and logical thinking.    • Excellent working experience with variety of operating systems like Windows and (Linux) Ubuntu.    • Ability to grasp and master new technologies, excellent analytical and problem solving skills.    • Able to take initiative work independently and also as a team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer AT&T Service Inc.- Mercer County - Android Developer June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Involved in requirement gathering, UI design and development.    • Written application logic using Android Studio.    • Handling JSON data using efficient parsing techniques such as GSON and Parcebale.    • Constructing http requests, fetching server response and parsing feeds wherever required.    • Involved in development and enhancements of features to restrict the usage based on Authorization and Authentication tokens.  • Used sliding side menu library for easy navigation through the app.    • Responsible for design of user interface using custom layouts and different form of widgets.    • Used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.    • Used services, Async tasks and Alert Notification API to implement parking status reminder into the mobile app.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sharing using Facebook, Email, Twitter, SMS, etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  • Worked extensively on local data storage using Shared Preferences, SQLite databases, and File system.    • Used Parceler for passing Parcelable objects between various components of the app.    • Embedded Google Maps API, GPS Location Data into app with zooming controls for finding out the store and navigation details to the store.  • Integrating RESTful API services with Basic Authentication process    • Involved in working with Location Manager and Restful Web service with JSON.    • Integrated Push Notifications (GCM) to notify user about new in-stock apparels.    • Used ProGuard for code shrinking, optimizing, and obfuscating the remaining classes, fields, and methods with short names. This helped in preventing the APK from reverse engineering.  • Worked on memory leaks using DDMS and Leak Canary.    • Used GIT for version control and followed Agile with JIRA for implementing this project    Environment: Android SDK, SQLite, Android studio IDE, Android API's, ADT plug-in, Location Manager, JDK 1.6, JNI, XML, JSON, REST services, GPS service, Log cat. Android Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC November 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:    • Involved in full life cycle of the application including design, development and testing.    • Designed and Developed App screens and its workflow using Activity and Fragments.    • Written application logic using Android SDK and Android Studio.    • Implemented Model-View-Presenter design pattern.    • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Manage task with within Agile framework, and controlled JIRA workflows.    • Worked on Designing, Enhancements, Bug-fixing, KT Sessions, and Maintenance of the Application.    • Used ACRA-4.3.0 library to send crash reports to the developer.    • Performed on device debugging using ADB and tested application in device using Logcat, DDMS.    • Utilized Async Task, Thread, Handler, Services to provide smooth UI experience.    • Developed rich UI for the applications modules using ListView, Scroll View, View Pager & Navigation Drawer and developed Custom View.  • Customized different widgets that include Buttons, Toast's and Dialog's.    • Worked in Agile environment and handled daily standup meetings.    • Utilized GPS to get one-touch access and directions to ATM / location information.    Environment: Java, Android SDK 4.x, Android Studio, GIT, XML, JSON, RESTful Web Services, GPS, SQLite, Gradle, Maven.    Android Developer Java Developer InfiCare Technologies - Dallas, TX July 2013 to October 2015 Dallas, TX- July 2013 to October 2015    Responsibilities:    • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails from the app.    • Handled XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.    • Used Java Mail API using Gmail authentication to send email without using the default/built-in app.    • Fixed suitable code to capture buttons, text field events & implemented desired action for each of the widgets.    • Used Log Cat, DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server) and trace view for debugging and detecting memory leaks.  • Driven services, Async task and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  • Operated on Webview, ListView & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.    • Designed UI using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes and different form of widgets.    • Designed & coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach.  • Embedding Google Maps, GPS Location Data into app with zooming controls.    • Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the XML files.    • Implemented functionality based on the business requirements for major releases.    • Deployed the app to the Android Marketplace and supported the app for different releases of Android OS.    • Saved data module such as personal healthcare facilities, doctors, diseases, medications, insurance information, and health plans in the SQLite database.  Environment: Android SDK 4.1, 4.3, SQLite 3.7.13-3.8, Eclipse IDE 3.8, 4.2, JDK 7.0, XML 1.0, GPS, ADT Plug-in, Logcat, DDMS console.    Java Developer Java Developer Sovereign Bank - Hartford, CT November 2011 to June 2013 Hartford, CT - November 2011 to June 2013    Responsibilities:    • Involved in Development, Integration and Testing of application module  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, Java Script, JQuery, CSS    • Have developed stateless session enterprise java beans.    • Implemented the project using IDE Eclipse.    • Used JSP, HTML, Java Script, Angular JS and CSS for content layout and presentation.    • Created data access layer using SQL and PL/SQL.    • Used JMS for Point-to-Point asynchronous messaging for high transactional Banking  operation.    • Worked on JQuery, AJAX, JASON and JSF for designing highly user interactive web pages.    • Implemented AJAX for better user experience by dynamically providing Asynchronous  request and response communication between the client and the server.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object persistency.    • Implemented the integration with the back end system with web services using SOAP    • Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database.    • Implemented logger for debugging and testing purposes using Log4j.    • Developed JSF components, implemented event handling using Java, JSF and JavaScript for various modules.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers with PL/SQL.    • Involved in the bug tracking and Unit Testing using JUnit framework.    • Developed ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in an application server.    • Involved in peer to peer code reviews and cross checked whether coding standards are being followed.  Environment: Core java, Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Angular JS, Hibernate, SQL, HTML, Springs, JQuery, JNDI, JMS, PL/SQL, JBOSS, ANT, XML, Java Script, CSS, Windows, Eclipse, Log4j    Java Developer Java Developer Park Hudson International - New York, NY May 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:    • Involved in various SDLC phases such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Used Rational Rose for Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class & Object diagrams in design phase.    • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP code. Designed UI screens using JSF, JSP, Struts tags & HTML.    • Used JavaScript and JQuery for client side validation.    • Used Struts with Spring Framework in the application, which is based on MVC, design pattern.    • Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.    • Actively involved in designing and implementing Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Session Façade, Service Locator and Data Transfer Object design patterns.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information, such as trading status report, between the Brokers.  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.  • Used DAO pattern to retrieve the data from database.    • Used Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using REST.    • Used Maven to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.    • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.    • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.    • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using WebSphere Studio    • Application Developer and used CVS for version control.    Environment: Struts 1.1, Hibernate 2.0, Spring 1.0, JSP1.2, Servlets 2.3, JMS, XML, REST, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, JQuery, UML, HTML, JNDI, CVS, Log4J, JUnit, WebSphere Application Server 5.1, WSAD 5.1.2, Rational Rose, IBM DB2 UDB. Education Bachelor's Skills XML (7 years), JAVA (7 years), DATABASE (6 years), TESTING (4 years), WEB SERVICES (4 years) Additional Information IT SKILLS / TECHNICAL COMPETENCE    • Technology: Android 2.3-5.0, Android SDK, Java, JNI, C, J2EE (JSP1.2/2.0, Servlets, EJB2.0/2.1, ANT), JSF    • 1.2, Struts1.3, JavaBeans, Web Services, Spring2.0.x/2.5.x, Hibernate, JMS1.1, JDBC3.0, JavaScript 1.8.x, JUnit 4.0    • Markup Languages: HTML 5, XML, CSS 3, XHTML    • Database: SQLite, db4o, Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL    • Servers: Web Logic 8.1/9.2, Apache Tomcat 6.0/7.0, JBoss    • IDEs: Android Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans    • Web Services: SOAP, REST & XML (SOAP API), JSON (RESTful API), DOM, SAX    • Debugging & Testing Tools: JUnit, DDMS and Logcat    • Version Controls: Subversion, Git    • Operating System: Windows (2000/XP Professional, Windows 7/8), UNIX, Linux