Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - RCCL • Over 7+ years of experience in analysis, design, implementation and testing of Object-Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  • Experienced in Java Application Development, Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Well versed with complete systems life cycle development processes of design, development, testing and implementation.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies like Spring, Spring data JPA, Spring boot, Hibernate, UML, XML, Struts framework, JSF, JQuery, JavaScript, ReactJs, Ajax, JDBC, Java Beans, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere Application Server 5.x/6.x, Web Logic Server, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle.  • Strong experience in implementing Service oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Experience in using frameworks and tools like Struts, Spring, Hibernate.  • Developed web applications by implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using JSP pages that interact with Servlets.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as DTD/Schemas and XSL.  • Experienced in frameworks: Jakarta struts framework, JSF, Spring and Hibernate.  • Experience working with persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Worked on developing UNIX shell scripts for data migration & batch processing.  • Experience working with various methodologies like waterfall (SDLC) Agile, RUP.  • Experienced in writing PL SQL procedures, Triggers in Oracle and Stored Procedures in DB2 and MySQL.  • Experience in using Java IDE tools like Net beans and familiarity with other IDEs such as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD) 6.0/7.0 and STS.  • Experienced in working with multiple databases like Oracle 10/11g, SQL Server 2008, MySQL, DB2, and Sybase.  • Experience in using MySQL databases to write complex SQL queries, and familiarity with databases like SQL.  • Document preparation including Requirement Specification, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  • Experienced in working with Health Insurance, Health Science and Investment Banking software systems.  • Experienced in writing design document and business, functional, technical and testing requirement documentation.  • Excellent verbal, written communication and presentation skills, problem solving and conflict resolution skills. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer RCCL - Miami, FL March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes requirement gathering, design, coding and testing.  • Participated in impact analysis for the requirements and modified components by using Java & J2EE technology to implement the business rules.  • Implementing Sprint framework, Hibernate/JPA, CXF throughout the project development lifecycle.  • Strong understanding of micro service architecture.  • Contribute to the Design and develop high quality software for large scale Java/Spring Batch/Micro-service Applications  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Business Delegate and Data Access Object in the project.  • Designed and developed the application using ReactJS using framework ReactNative.  • Designed and developed Business Services using Spring Framework and DAO Design Patterns.  • Designed Data Access Object to process the database operations and developed XML configuration, data description by using Hibernate (Spring data JPA) to retrieve the data from database.  • Implemented and designed REST web services for the different operations provided in the design document.  • Used different CXF technology to create web services by consuming existing services.  • Involved in build and deployment of multiple modules of web-based applications using Jenkins on WAS.  • Created JMS messages to pass as payload to track different Statuses.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Used Log4j for logging logs for the applications  • Used Accura used for version control.  • Experience creating CI/CD Pipelines using Jenkins tool  • Experience creating Test Automation suites with applications like Cucumber or Selenium  • Experience in programming concepts such as Paired Programming, Test Driven Development, etc.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Servlets, REST, JSON, WAS, Eclipse, Oracle11g, WinScp, Jenkins, Accura, Log4j, Spring, SQL, CXF, Junit, JMS, Spring boot, Spring data JPA(Hibernate), Spring, Cucumber, MS SQL Server, IBM DB2, Gradle, Microservices Java/J2EE Developer KLA Tencor - Milpitas, CA December 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design and Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the application.  • Used the J2EE design patterns like Value Object Pattern, Business Delegate, Service Locator and Session Façade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  • Developed the application under J2EE architecture using JSP, spring, Java Beans.  • Developed the application using ReactJS.  • Integrated Hibernate ORM framework with spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Implemented Java Message Services (JMS) using JMS API.  • Created and implemented stored procedures, functions and triggers using SQL in Oracle database.  • Participated in verification and validation.  • Involved in testing the application different tools and fixed the bottlenecks.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP. Developed Web Services for Payment Transaction and Payment Release.  • Errors were logged using Log4j.  • Used Junit for debugging the application.  • Used Subversion for version control and source code management.  • Prepared technical reports and documentation manuals during the program development.  • Interacted with users in case of technical problems and mentored the business users.    Environment: Java, UML, Hibernate, spring, AJAX, XML, DOM, JDBC, CSS, Eclipse, ANT, Log4j, Junit, Oracle, TOAD for Oracle, BEA, SVN, Windows. Java/J2EE Developer Perficient - Boston, MA September 2013 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development and the project was developed using Agile based SCRUM Methodology.  • Implemented Struts Framework and Hibernate in the new version of the Application.  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts and JavaScript.  • Developed Action classes, Dyna Action Forms and used Validation framework.  • Extensively used Java Scripts to enforce client-side validations and also used JQuery for Ajax processing.  • Involved in development/ maintenance of various web services using IBM Websphere to interact with other Applications.  • Wrote various select/update/insert SQL queries and stored procedures for Sql Server.  • Successfully executing offshore modeling by effective and on time knowledge sharing with offshore project groups through weekly team meetings and daily status update calls.  • Involved in unit testing, troubleshooting and debugging. Modifying existing programs with enhancements.  • Involved in fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application.  • Developed the UNIX shell scripts to automate jobs.  • Worked as the part of a core team to monitor and enhance the performance of the application.  • Provide guidance and direction to team members in their day-to-day activities.    Environment: Jakarta Struts Framework 2.0, Core Java, Hibernate 3.0, Java 1.5, Web Services, CSS, eclipse Helios, CVS, Web Sphere Application Server 5.0, JUnit, UNIX, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JQuery, PL/SQL. Java Developer Bridgesoft Solutions - IN June 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Identify a potential vision for how to develop application, as an Agile Model Driven Development.  • Maintained constant communication with Business Analyst and Business Users to identify information needs as per business requirements.  • Used Spring as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate and declarative transaction management.  • All logic exposed via interfaces and practices of Test-Driven Development followed consistently.  • Implemented the Model View Controller (MVC) framework and Spring.  • Worked on Web Services for transferring XML data between two interfaces.  • Designed and developed the UI using spring view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JQuery.  • Used spring validator framework for client side and server-side validation. Also implemented dynamic loading of JSP's using AJAX.  • Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC), and integrated frameworks like Struts and Hibernate.  • Worked on developing Web Service Client using SOAP, WSDL to verify the payment history of the customer.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence onto the DB2 database.  • Responsible for writing Hibernate Criteria and HQL queries.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous communication  • Tested Service and data access tier using JUnit in TDD methodology.  • Used RAD as IDE for the application development and integration of the frameworks.  • Deployed the applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Used Clear Case for version management between various integration and development streams.  • Used Maven as a build framework.  • Worked with production support team in debugging and fixing various production issues.  • Prepared high- and low-level design documents for the business modules for future references and updates.    Environment: JDK 1.6, STS 3.1, Core Java, Spring, Struts, JQuery, Junit 4.x, JMS, XML, JSP, HTML CSS, AJAX, HQL, JQuery, RAD, Hibernate 3.0, JPA, RestFul Web Services, Clear Case, Spring MVC, Maven, DB2 and IBM WebSphere. Education Master's in computer science in computer science University of Massachusetts Boston - Boston, MA Skills Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee