Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - JP Morgan St. Louis, MO ? Having 5+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Enterprise Applications in the Client/Server environment as a developer using Java/J2ee in Client-Server, 3-tier and n-tier applications.  ? Experience in all aspects of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements analysis, design specifications, code development, code integration, testing, and deployment using Object Oriented Analysis and Design with Core Java/J2EE.  ? Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets and frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Mail, spring validation, Spring JDBC, Hibernate.  ? Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets and frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring WS, Spring Data, Spring Mail, Spring validation, Spring JDBC, Hibernate.  ? Experience with and solid understanding of Microservices.  ? Extensive experience in Design, Development and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) (spring, Struts, ORM Frameworks).  ? Well experienced in Core Java - asynchronous programming, multithreading, collections and a few design patterns.  ? Experience in integration tools like Spring Integration, Mule ESB, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka and Apache Camel to integrate the enterprise application technologies with existing JVM environment.  ? Used Swagger framework and WADL for documentation of REST API'S.  ? Experience in using frameworks like Struts, Struts validator framework, Hibernate and OR-mapping, spring, build tools like ANT, MAVEN and logging framework Log4J.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using Unified Modeling Language (UML).  ? Proficient experience in using the databases such as MS SQL Server, Oracle and able to write stored procedures, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries.  ? Good knowledge and experience with multiple Servers like IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic server, Apache Tomcat, Jboss.  ? Experience with Continuous Integration/Continous Deployment using Maven, Jenkins.  ? Expertise in using version control systems such as CVS, SVN and GIT.  ? Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, EJB transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), Java Beans, JDBC, XML, RMI, Web Services, Multi-Threading etc.  ? Expertise in JAVA/J2EE technologies like Struts, Spring, Hibernate, HTML/HTML5, CSS, JSP, EJB, JDBC, Servlets, MVC, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Subversion, Clear case and AngularJS.  ? Extensive knowledge & good experience on Java Application Development, Distributed Applications, Object Oriented Applications, and Internet/Intranet based Database Applications.  ? Having extensive GUI design development capabilities for different applications using HTML5, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, XML and AngularJS.  ? Good experience in writing SQL Queries, PL/SQL Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Cursors.  ? Good experience with Operating Systems like Windows XP/ Vista/7 and partially on UNIX.  ? Excellent team player, very dynamic, flexible with a positive attitude and excellent learning skills. Work Experience Senior Java Developer JP Morgan - Columbus, OH June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Gather and prepare the requirements from clients for product design and enhancements.  ? Work on Agile Methodology (Scrum Framework) to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  ? Ensure standard agile practices through regular Sprint Planning, Story Sizing, Task Breakdown, Sprint Retrospective Meeting and Sprint Review sessions.  ? Participate in user requirement sessions to gather business requirements.  ? Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.  ? Work on Standalone Applications and Web Applications.  ? Developed Micro services using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  ? Deployed Spring Boot based micro services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services.  ? Worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers.  ? Implemented Pre Authentication and database security with SiteMinder and spring security.  ? Built search feature based on open source tool ElasticSearch. Implemented system logging solution using ElasticSearch, Kibana and Logstash.  ? Use Team Collaboration Software JIRA and Confluence.  ? Perform Test Driven Development (TDD): NUnit Testing and Load Testing.  ? Design and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA.  ? Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve agent information in Java using Spring MVC, Apache CXF and JAX-RS  ? Developed the user interface with JQuery, JSP, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  ? Implement the Angular MVC and two-way data binding.  ? Use HTML5 and JQuery for the Uninstall Survey Page Application.  ? Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  ? Work on AngularJS for one of the single page application and cross browser functionality.  ? Use SoapUI for testing Web Service Apache POI API to generate Output files  ? Use REST API with JAX-RS for consuming web services to handle two interfaces XML and JSON.  ? Work on Single Sign in survey page application.  ? Use Spring boot for Single Sign on page application to access more quickly.  ? Use Eclipse IDE for coding, debugging and testing the application modules  ? Design the Cascaded Style Sheets for designing the styles, skinning and layouts  ? Involved in designing the page layouts using WireFrames templates  ? Use Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table persistency  ? Implement Batch Updates using Spring and configured beans in Application Context file  ? Use the features of Spring Core layer (IOC), Spring AOP, Spring ORM layer and Spring DAO support layer in order to develop the application  ? Involved in the configuration of Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool.  ? Extensively worked on JDBC Prepared statements and callable statements to access database  ? Work on Java Messaging Services (JMS) for developing messaging services  ? Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database  ? Use Oracle 10g Server as the backend database storage  ? Create database tables according to the application requirements  ? Develop stored procedures and triggers with PL/SQL  ? Implement the application using Agile development methodology  ? Involved in report generation and printing of the reports  ? Develop Maven and ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in Application server  ? Use Jenkins as an Integration Built tool.    Environment: Java8/J2ee, Servlets, Spring, Spring Boot, Jenkins, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, Eclipse, Jenkins, Maven, Ant, Tomcat, Oracle 10g, JUnit, UML, Unix, Shell Scripting, Spring boot, SQL, PL/SQL, Struts, JSP, JSTL, Apache CXF, Agile, Unix, SOA, Apache Axis, JMS, JIRA, Confluence. Java Developer Fidelity Investments - Boston, MA August 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from Requirement gathering, design, development, testing and documentation.  ? Worked in Agile, CMMI Development Environment. Participated in the daily SCRUM meeting and paired programming to produce quality delivery within time.  ? Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring based application with very less configuration.  ? Design common framework for REST API consumption using Spring Rest Templates.  ? Developed spring boot application for writing web services.  ? Developed RESTFUL Web Services which are consumed by several clients like Mobile, Tablet, as well Web.  ? Design application using Spring ses Hibernate.  ? Extensively used Spring IOC, configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using Hibernate annotations.  ? Implemented AJAX functionality using jQuery, JSON and XML.  ? Conveyed messages using SOAP technology to the client programs for the project development.  ? Utilized Angular.JS framework to bind HTML5 template (views) to JavaScript object (models).  ? Also worked on several angularjs built in directives on DOM elements to create the HTML tags.  ? Worked with Angular.JS applications for customer facing software using modern JavaScript development techniques and responsive design methodology.  ? Construction of UIs using jQuery, Backbone.js, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  ? Design and develop common utilities for JSON to Java object and vice versa using Jackson libraries.  ? Used Core Spring framework for Annotation based Dependency injection.  ? Developed application using Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and RESTFUL).  ? Used Spring AOP to handle transactions session aspects and to implement security.  ? Achieved transaction using Spring AOP and stored procedures  ? Consuming both Restful and SOAP web services depending on the design need of the project  ? Used Spring MVC Spring Security Spring ORM modules to integrate with MongoDB to implement the persistence layer with JPA/Hibernate.  ? Development back-end with Spring MVC framework on underlying Hybris platform.  ? Wrote spring configuration file to define beans define data source and hibernate properties.  ? Performed data loading based on multi-consumers using Spring, Hibernate framework  ? Configured the web.xml file for REST server injection to enable the REST web services by using JAXB API.  ? Responsible for designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Bootstrap to build this SPA Single Page Application.  ? Highly used Angular 2 router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals.  ? Worked on AWS, High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.  ? Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  ? Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker and Maven.  ? Cooperated with testing team in regression testing to fix the defects during the QA phase.  ? Worked with the business analysts to gather requirements, create the JIRAS and plan the sprints.    Environment: Java 8.0, Java 1.8, J2EE Servlet, jQuery, Struts, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Microservices, Hibernate, RESTful API, Web Services, SOAP, JAX-RS, JSON, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, XML, Angular.JS, MongoDB, SQL, PL/SQL, Maven, Jenkins, JUnit, JIRA. Java Developer Charter Communications - Louisville, KY May 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application, developed using AGILE/Scrum methodology.  ? Used Spring MVC Design Pattern to hold the UI data and serve the request and to send the response.  ? Connected to Data sources and performed operations using Spring Data Framework features like Spring JDBC and Spring ORM.  ? Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  ? Implemented RESTful Web services in a Service Oriented Architecture(SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth2 authentication protocol respectively.  ? Configured AWS Cloud watch to monitor AWS resources and application.  ? Troubleshoot AWS EC2 Status check including System Status checks and Instance Status check alerts.  ? Experienced first-hand the best/worst practices for integrating Microservices into existing system architecture.  ? Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate to fetch data from database and avoid redundant database access statements.  ? To lookup queues, used Spring JMS module and MDBs for listeners.  ? Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  ? Created Stored Procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  ? Built NoSQL schemas and maintaining sessions by MongoDB.  ? To get AJAX functionality for the website wrote JavaScript and JQuery programming.  ? Using HTML, AngularJS, JQuery and JavaScript created GUI interface of the web page.  ? Created AngularJS controllers, services and used Angular filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? To identify user login information written UNIX shell scripts.  ? Developed and executing unit test cases using JUnit.  ? Packaged and deployed the application in IBM WebSphere.  ? Integrated Spring & Hibernate frameworks to develop end to end application.  ? Used Maven building tool for creating EAR file deployed in application servers and used for dependency management of code in application.  ? Resolved bugs/defects in application by coordinating with team members of the project to assure a positive outcome.  ? For application logging and notification, tracing mechanisms used Log4J.  ? To keep track of issues and tasks on individuals used JIRA ticketing system.  ? As a version control tool used Tortoise SVN.  ? Used Eclipse integrated IDE to build the application.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular JS, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Data, JSP, Hibernate, Servlet, JDBC, Restful, OAuth2, JAX-RS, Jersey, XML, AWS, Microservices, Oracle, MongoDB, Eclipse 1.8, WebSphere, Tortoise SVN, GIT, JUnit, Maven, JIRA, Agile/Scrum Methodology. Java Developer Bajaj Allianz - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to December 2015 Description: Directory & Profile is logically centralized trusted store for users' personal information, contacts directory and communications services preferences (e.g. by what method a user prefers to be contacted). Directory information ties together information about the users' various identities and network names and addresses and relates this to a unique network-centric persona that is not specific to a single service or application.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Spring Boot, Spring Cloud Configuration management, Service discovery, Circuit breakers, and Distributed sessions.  ? Also developed and implemented search feature using Ajax.  ? Hibernate framework is deployed for persisting data. It maps between Object Oriented Java classes and Oracle 10g Relational Database tables. Configured Apigee deployment environments to make them publicly available to the production environment.  ? Experience working with Reflected XSS and Persistent XSS attacks handling by Client/Server and Context user inputs.  ? Involved in the analysis and implementation of IBM Identity Manager and IBM Access Manager.  ? Developed various Database interaction objects by implementing the DAO patterns and used JDBC as Model Component and Designed DTO, Business Delegate, Factory and Singleton design patterns.  ? Implemented cross cutting concerns as aspects at Service layer using Spring AOP and of DAO objects using Spring-ORM.  ? Involved in setting up of JMS Connection factory and Queues in Web logic Application server along with appropriate JNDI names.  ? Responsible for configuring successful authentication objects by SAMLA provider with assertions and log in SSO process. Created REST based controllers to handle the incoming request and output the response  ? Oracle database was used, wrote stored procedures for common queries  ? Responsible to create an API product with developer services involving debugging as well testing. Developed the presentation layer using Ajax, JavaScript, Asynchronous requests, CSS and HTML taken from Bootstrap to develop for multiple browsers including mobiles and tablets.  ? Developed Maven Script for the build and dependency process.  ? Involved in Server Side and Front-End validation using Spring MVC Annotation and JavaScript.  ? Involved in Unit Testing and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using Junit test cases.    Environment: JSP, Struts, Hibernate, spring, EJB, Apigee Edge, JMS, Ajax, JQuery, Jenkins Maven. Education Master's Skills EJB, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES, SPRING, JBOSS, jQuery, JSP, RMI, SERVLETS, STRUTS, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, SCRIPTING, XML, XSL, XSLT, JDBC