Junior Software Developer Junior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior Software Developer Ashburn, VA Work Experience Junior Software Developer IBM - IN September 2017 to January 2019 Responsibilities:    ? Involved in all phases of Design and Development of application.  ? Developed the application using Agile/Scrum methodology which involves daily stand ups.  ? Actively participated in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the application.  ? Utilized Java, Eclipse/ J2EE, tested programing code & Applications, collaborated with team and management.  ? Involved in Front end web development code using JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Worked in Waterfall & Agile Methodology and involved in the project discussions.  ? Tomcat and JBOSS Application Server was used for deploying the application.  ? Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Functions.  ? Used SVN for version control.  ? Extensively used the JDBC Prepared Statement to embed the SQL queries into the java code.  ? Configured the data mapping between Oracle and SQL Server and tested performance accuracy related queries under SQL Server.  ? Implemented logging using log4j.  ? Created Analysis for migration from Solaris to Linux as per business requirement.  ? Environment: Citrix, Oracle/SQL Server and PL/SQL, Spring, Ant, Apache, Tomcat, JBOSS, UNIX, RDBMS, Eclipse, Jira.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, quick learner, self-motivated, ability to work individually and as well as in a team environment with good team spirit. Database Developer, Corporate Forms, India January 2017 to August 2017 Used HTML, CSS, PHP, Java, JQuery and JS to develop a web application to integrate REST APIs - Facebook & Google for User signup and login.  ? Used hibernate framework to interact with the database using hibernate and also performed various operations on database like Insert, Update, Delete and Select Operations.  ? Designed databases using ER and UML diagrams on IBM's Rational Rose.  ? Used Oracle Server for database storage and management - generated reports and views by analyzing data using SQL.  ? Frequent technical reviews and development life cycle analysis using the SOA Architecture standards.  ? Gathered requirements gathering using agile methodology and documented business processes. Java Web Application Developer Intern Tacky Root Global Solutions May 2016 to July 2016 Designed and developed a website for a Chinese restaurant by replacing expensive advertising and provide services like placing orders online.  ? Environment: Used HTML, JavaScript, Java, CSS and XML and JQUERY to develop the website. Also, used BOOTSTRAP CSS framework to make the website visually more effective.  ? Wrote XML files and parsed XML files using DOM and SAX in Java.  ? Also, used spring framework components like Dependency Injection, Transaction Management Operations Commit and Rollback operations on database. Interacting with server using Ajax framework and J2EE design patterns. Team Leader AIESEC March 2015 to March 2016 Worked as a Team Leader (team of 6+ individuals) for the corporate sector in the world's largest student run, non-profitable organization: AIESEC which helped me build international corporate network and client relation management skills.  ? SWALE - a floating food forest: Volunteered at SWALE NYC for a month in summer 2016.  ? Make a difference (MAD), India: Taught basic computer skills for 6th to 8th grade orphans. IT Intern HBL Power Systems ltd May 2015 to July 2015 Learnt about developing a network interface to send and receive messages with acknowledgements using virtual ports and deploying it with network security protocols like SFTP and SSL. Tools: QT software MICROSOFT STUDENT PARTNER Being a MSP I 2014 to 2014 got the opportunity to volunteer for the Windows Azure camp held at my college. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Malla Reddy Engineering College - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2018 Skills J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jsp, HTML5, JavaScript, React, Git, Software Development, Test Automation, OOP Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Java Frameworks: Hibernate, JSP, Spring, Spring Boot.  Configuration Management: Git, SVN.  Core Languages: Java - 1.7, J2EE/JDBC, XML, JavaScript, C  UI Frontend Languages: ANGULAR 6, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP 4, HTML 5, React.js  Database Procedural Languages: MySQL  Devops: Jenkins, Confluence  Test Automation: Cucumber, Selenium using Gherkins, Junit testing, Jmockit.  Agile Project Management: Jira  Cloud: AWS