Sr. Full Stack Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Fremont, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Developer Commonwealth of Virginia - Richmond, VA January 2017 to Present Description: I am working on multiple components of the web application, Consolidated Applicants Tracking System (CATS). CATS is designed to collect, process, track, and report on Applicant Requests (Criminal Background Check using applicant name, race, sex, and date of birth) received through the mail, entered via the internet (web) or entered via Live Scan devices at agencies and businesses across the state. System is providing a way to perform an automatic background check and Billing process for accepted requests against the different data sources.    ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Participated in all stages of the development life cycle discussions including requirement analysis, algorithm design and analysis, development, implementation, and maintenance.  • Prepared Technical Design documents with use case, sequence and class diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Developed the CATS Background Check and Billing module's functionality using spring web-MVC framework with Spring ORM module.  • Used Microsoft Visio for a better algorithm analysis and to supplement the continuous improvement process of the algorithm.  • Consumed the data fetched from Web services via JSON/XML response using SOAP & RESTful services web API.  • Generated WSDL to exchange the information in Distributed environment with functionality of elements such as messages, port type and binding.  • Used Http Response Exception to handle the exceptions in Web API and also customized the Exceptions using Exception Mapper and send to the client as the json object.  • Used Postman API to build, design and test the SOAP and RESTful-jersey API web services.  • Responsible for developing UI pages using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Supported Single Page Applications when client changed his query condition using AngularJS which includes Routing, Directives, and Templates.  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory tested all application controllers extensively with AngularJS built-in testing facilities.  • Asynchronous messaging is executed by utilizing JMS API for point-to-point messaging.  • Deployed the application by using the WebSphere application server. Built the code using Apache Maven Comprehension tool and maintained continuous integration using Jenkins  • Used SVN for Version control, Team Build and Reporting.  • Used agile methodology for implementing the features & participated in scrum meetings, backlog grooming sessions, scrum of scrums & in effort estimations & designs.    ENVIRONMENT: Java 8/J2EE, Spring Framework, Hibernate, XML, JAXB, Restful Web Services, SOAP, Maven, SVN, WebSphere, AngularJS, JQuery, JDK8, AJAX, HTML5, CSS, Oracle 12c, EJB, Microsoft Visio, Eclipse, Rational Rose, Bamboo, Jenkins, Confluence Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC April 2015 to December 2016 Description: I worked on multiple components of the BOFA online application such as Fraud Activity: If the Bank suspected any fraudulent transaction on the card then it will put hold on the card, send mail or message communication to the customer verifying the transaction.  Help and Support: Customer can get Help and support on different topics in different categories and the customer will be navigated to desired topics based on the selection.  UCI (Update Customer Information): Here the customer can update their address, Email Id and contact numbers.    ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in creation of Low Level Design including sequence diagrams and class diagrams to comprehend the existing architecture.  • Focused primarily on the MVC components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Used Spring (MVC) architecture to implement the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Increased the reusability of the class by defining the object dependencies methodology such as Constructor injection and Setter Injection of the Dependency Injection (DI)  • Spring IOC used to instantiate the application class and to configure & assemble the objects  • Used Hibernate ORM framework to move Object oriented programming to relational database.  • Created Hibernate POJOs to map attributes with the corresponding columns of the relational database. Utilize Hibernate Annotations functionality to provide the metadata for object and relational table mapping.  • Involved in development of RESTful Web Services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from database.  • Experience in working with JavaScript Frameworks like Angular JS which simplifies JavaScript object bindings with HTML Elements and client server communications.  • Implement data grid/tables using Bootstrap and Angular JS for front-end client facing of the Single Page Application (SPA).  • Used Log4j logging API to capture, formatting and publishing logging information to preferred destination.  • Used WebLogic Application server to deploy and restart web applications.  • Involved in the creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases for java classes.  • Simulated with the principles of Agile Software Development to be able to respond to unpredictability through incremental feedback.  Environment: JDK 7, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), Java mail, JMS, JNDI, JavaScript, AngularJS, XML, XSD, XSLT, PL/SQL, ANT, JUnit, JQuery, HTML, CSS, SVN Version Control, Oracle 10g, WebSphere, Eclipse IDE, Design patterns, Selenium. JAVA/J2EE Developer Grand Bank of Texas - Grand Prairie, TX November 2014 to March 2015 Description: Grand Bank of Texas's Web Application implements advanced Internet banking and transaction functionalities. The current application is a part of online banking that allows a customer to pay bills securely as well as enroll in monthly automatic recurring bill payment. The functionalities involved in e-bill payment are Add a Payee, Make a Payment, Setup Automatic Payments, Receive Bills Electronically, Request E-mail Notifications and Review Payments. The application also supports intra and interbank transfer of funds for a given customer.    ROLES &RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Used spring framework 3.2 with the help of Spring Configuration files to create the beans needed and injected dependency using Dependency Injection.  • Extensively worked with Hibernate for Object/Relational mapping, transparent persistence onto the PostgreSQL database which was annotation based.  • Created complex Queries, Stored Procedures, Constraints, Indexes, Views and Triggers against PostgreSQL.  • Scaled the component interactions and generalized the interfaces using SOAP web service.  • Performed building and deployment of EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage systems in WebLogic Application Server.  • Used SOAPUI to test the protocols/technologies like Simple object Access Protocol web service.  • Built the project using Maven by writing into POM.xml file to solve dependencies.  • Developed a web-based reporting for financial monitoring system with HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, JSTL, JQuery and JSP.  • Secure the software application with the help of comprehensive security provided by the spring  • Used AJAX Framework for Dynamic Search of the Consumer Information.  • Used Test-Driven Development with SCRUM Agile methodology and involved in all the business meetings and status update meetings as a part of SCRUM.  • Managed project milestone, deliverables, resources and keep track of project health & standards using Quality Center.    ENVIRONMENT: Java, J2EE, Eclipse, POSTUI, PL/SQL, UNIX, AJAX, PostgreSQL, JQuery, Hibernate, Spring MVC 3.0, SOAP, JAX-RPC, Apache Solr, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SOA, JSP, Maven, WebSphere, GIT, JIRA, HTML, CSS JAVA/J2EE Developer Home Bridge Mortgage Bankers - Jacksonville, FL January 2013 to September 2014 Description: Lodestar Real-time System  Home Bridge mortgage banker is the largest financial mortgage company to provide a full range of competitively priced reliable loan products for the acquisition, refinance or moderate rehabilitation to clients.  This project is developed to use to manage their cost models, calculate the cost factors and Return on Equity (ROE) based on the Costing Models and Capital Procedures, and make cost adjustments by Advisory group for costing processes for loans and bonds. Lodestar real-time system helps advisory group for background check of the clients to approve the loan.    ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in Analysis/Designing technical documents, updating Architectural Design Documents, UAT deployment & testing Production deployment using agile methodology.  • Streamline the full development cycle from building to deploying, to maintaining applications on time by using Struts 2 Framework  • Involved Designing/Developing sending Email functionality to the customer with the help of Struts 2 mailing functionality, validated user inputs as per business logics with strut2 validation.  • Integrated Struts 2 with Hibernate and RESTful web service to fetch the data from the back-end.  • Used Java Server Faces (JSF) and AJAX to simplify the development integration of UI components, connect UI widgets with data sources and server side event handlers.  • Used HTML, CSS and JQuery design techniques to eliminate table-based layouts, and speed page loading.  • Wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views and queries optimization.  • Mentoring team in technical issues and maintaining code versions in SVN.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSF, Web service (Soap/Restful), HTML, CSS, Struts2.0, JavaScript, Hibernate, JSP, json, MySQL, Tomcat, UNIX. Software Engineer Nettchno - Gujarat, IN September 2011 to December 2012 ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Actively participated in requirements gathering, analysis, design, and testing phases.  • Designed use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase.  • Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integrating JSF with Hibernate and spring frameworks.  • Designed User Interface using Java Server Faces (JSF), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), and XML.  • Used JNDI to perform lookup services for the various components of the system.  • Developed the Enterprise Java Beans (Stateless Session beans) to handle different transactions such as online funds transfer, bill payments to the service providers.  • Developed deployment descriptors for the EJB have to deploy on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI.  • Developed XML documents and generated XSL files for Payment Transaction and Reserve Transaction systems.  • Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate, DAO, Transfer Object, and SOA.    Environment: Java, Struts, JSF, AJAX, SOAP, jQuery, Ant, EJB, Log4J, Junit, Tomcat Education Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology in Technology Charotar University of Science and Technology Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Javabeans, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Css, Tomcat, Web sphere, Weblogic, C/c++, C++ Additional Information • 7+ years of extensive IT experience in designing and developing web-based applications.  • Thorough knowledge in developing applications with Core Java concepts like OOP, JDBC, Multithreading and advanced java concepts like Web Services, JSP, JMS, JMX, Servlets, EJB, Log4j.  • Proficiency in J2EE Frameworks such as spring MVC, Struts and Hibernate (ORM).  • Hands on experience in developing Client/Server applications with SOAP and RESTful Web Services, used WSDL to describe web services on Distributed Systems.  • Highly motivated team player with zeal to learn new technologies and believes in giving the best of efforts in extensively used the J2EE design patterns like Session Façade, Business Object (BO), Service Locator, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton, Factory Method, SPRING MVC.  • Stronghold in creating/writing complex Queries, Stored Procedures, Constraints, Indexes, Views and Triggers against PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g, MySQL  • Experience with developing enterprise applications using IDEs like Rational Application Developer (RAD), WSAD (WebSphere Application Developer), Eclipse.  • Involved in deploying, configuring, maintaining applications on application servers such as Jboss, Web sphere, Web logic and Tomcat.  • Equipped with client-side development such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, D3.js, XML, XSLT, XSD.  • Experience on working with Custom Directives, Controllers, Services and filters modules of AngularJS  • Hands-on experience in creating Angular factories for using angular services like $http and $resource to make RESTful API calls to the Java based backend.  • Experience in JMS and Message Queue listeners for Message Queue Service as well as the knowledge of mobile application platform such as Android and IOS.  • Well versed with working in Software development methodologies like Agile (Scrum), Waterfall and TDD (Test Driven Development).  • Implemented OOAD fundamentals to create modeling and design artifacts such as class diagram use case diagram, sequence and state diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Deep understanding of Python, Data Structures, Algorithms & Complexity and Object Oriented & Design (OOD) concepts  • Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) and SVN for the purpose of version Control and source code maintenance needs.  • Written JUnit Test Cases to accelerate programming speed& increase the quality of code  • Exceptional, well-practiced public speaking abilities, matchless presentation and negotiation skills, Strong problem analysis and resolution skills.  • Strong commitment to team environment dynamics with the ability to contribute expertise and follow leadership directives at appropriate times    Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Java, C/C++, SQL/PL-SQL, Python  JEE/J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JMS, JavaBeans, Java Mail  Web Service: RESTful, SOAP  Web Application Servers: WebLogic, Web Sphere, Tomcat, JBOSS  Enterprise Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF  Database: Oracle 11g, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  IDE's & Tools: Eclipse, Net Beans, JIRA, Microsoft Visio  Version Control & Build Tools: GIT, TFS, SVN, CVS, Clear case, Maven, ANT  Web Development Technologies: HTML, CSS, XML, XSD, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS, node JS, D3 JS  Testing Tools: Log4j, Junit  Operating Systems: Mac, Windows, Linux, Ubuntu