Full Stack UI Developer Full Stack UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack UI Developer - Delta Airlines Atlanta, GA • Around 7+ years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with nice blend of expertise and leadership, be it requirements gathering, analysis (OOA), prototyping, design (OOD), development (OOP) or maintenance and testing of client-server applications.  • Good experience in developing applications using Java and J2EE technologies with Servlets, JSP's, SOAP and REST Web Services, JSTL, Spring libraries, Struts, JDK 1.7, Java Beans, Applets, JDBC, XML, HTML, Java Scripting, MYSQL, RDBMS, ORM tools like Hibernate, HQL, Apache-Tomcat, JBoss, Oracle Web Logic Server, Glassfish Application Server.  • Experience with Linux, VMware, AIX, RHEL6.X/7.X, ESXI 5.X, 6.0 and above Windows [ ] Administration  • Strong experience in designing and developing component based reusable GUI based applications.  • Experience with Messaging Queue Technologies such as JMS and RabbitMQ  • Experience in web application design using open source Spring, JSF & Struts Frameworks and  Java & J2EE Design Patterns.  • Involved in the design and development of the Rest API's using Mule soft any point studio.  • Experience in implementing open source frameworks like Struts, Spring MVC, Spring Web flow 2.0, Hibernate, iBatis ORM (Object relational Mapping) and AJAX.  • Highly proficient in developing n-tier Enterprise application with J2EEdesign patterns like MVC, Business Delegate, Session Façade, DTO, DAO, Front Controller, Factory and Singleton  • Solid experience in lightweight POJO based frameworks like Spring 2.5 (Dependency Injection, IOC, Remoting, ORM, DAO, AOP, JMS and Business Integration).  • Extensively worked on Java, JSP, Servlets, Swings, MVC Architecture (Struts and Spring), Spring, Spring Web flow 2.0 Hibernate, EJB, JMS, AJAX, JSF, Web services, Java Script, HTML, Bootstrap JS, DHTML, JSTL, CSS, and Custom Tag Libraries to develop JSPs.  • Analyzed and built Administration module for a website.  • Represent the company at conferences across the nation, including connecting with and marketing to potential customers at liferay.  • As a team worked on Building serverless applications using AWS: Launching EC2, RDS, S3, IAM, Route53, VPC, Code Deploy, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined Virtual Private Cloud connection.  • Install and configure Splunk Enterprise and Security Applications on Windows and UNIX platforms.  • Have Continuous learning Approach, learned and practices newer tools like Kibana, Elastic search.  • Hands on experience using IDEs like Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD), Web Sphere Studio Application Developer 5.0Rational Software Architect (RSA).  • Involved in creating AWS Cloud Formation templates using JSON to create custom sized Cloud watch, Route 53, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of custom Web applications templates.  • Extensively worked on relational databases like Sybase, DB2, MS SQL Server, Oracle 9i and MySQL.  • Strong in object-oriented design/analysis, UML modeling, classic design patterns and J2EE patterns.  • Designing and implementing scalable, RESTful and micro services-based back-end. The back-end is being written in Java using Spring boot for simplicity and scalability.  • Developed RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • End to end application design and development using RESTful APIs, Micro-services, Spring boot, Spring Cloud, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3.0 and JQuery.  • Proficiency in using Amazon Web Services API's, advanced AWS Services and worked on AWS compute services such as Elastic Computer Cloud (EC2), Rational Database Service (RDS), Lambda  • Subversion SVN, CVS, GIT and Visual Source Safe as versioning software tools.  • Experience in developing applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Highly experience with Java complaint IDE's like STS, Eclipse, IntelliJ and RAD.  • Resourceful and skilled in analyzing and solving problems. Work Experience Full Stack UI Developer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA July 2018 to Present Description: SVOC (Single View of Customer) project will enable one, end to end cohesive view and understanding of the Delta customer, as well as connect customer data to operational events; leverage this information to improve customer experience, customer relationships and servicing the customer real time when travel issue arise (E.g., overbookings, IROPs etc.).    Responsibilities:  • Develop application using Spring Boot and Web Services like RESTful Webservices.  • Worked on swagger documentation for creating REST API application.  • Developed Responsive Web Application using HTML5, SASS, Angular 4/6, AEM, jQuery, Node JS, Webpack, Grunt, JSON, RXJs.  • Working in projects of Logistics and Retail clients among Fortune 150.  • Involved in developing various web based and client server applications for Telecom and Class I railroads in United States.  • Good command over Relational Databases like Oracle, SQL.  • Taken an active role in all stages of software development life cycle.  • Onsite experience (USA) at client site with technical exposure with good client relationship.  • Extensive server-side Java programming experience with technologies like Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Xml, JavaScript, HTML, EJB, JSON,JPA, Oracle 10g, SQL Server, Version Management Tool, Report Creation Tool.  • Good Exposure of full System Development Life Cycle(SDLC), business process, development, and testing client /server applications  • Involved in configuring queues and topics & bridges for DEV, TEST, PRODTEST, SIT, UAT, PRODLIKE and PROD environments  • Experience working in fast-paced, deadline-oriented environments  • Outstanding technical skills; able to quickly learn new concepts and technologies.  • Great understanding of distributed systems such as Hadoop/BigData.  • Have extremely good knowledge on SDLC processes  • Possess sound knowledge on IT Application architecture, Design methodologies across multiple platforms  • Have good grip on non-functional areas like performance, scalability studies, human interaction, software ergonomics  • Have clarity on what business wants and ability to transform wants to results  • Thought provocative leader  • Critical reasoning skills, Decision making skills  • Analyzed, designed, coded, tested, and documented software utilizing Java, swing,c++,Spring, hibernate ,wicket,EXTJS ,angualr JS , Java Server Pages, SQL, PL/SQL and Oracle databases.  • Analyzed business requirements, developed design analysis documents and provided high-level engineering design for Application which simulate and test the Locomotive Command and Control Module (LCCM),  • Working along with team in analyzing business requirements and divide them into small workable items.  • Used AWS Storage Gateway as a hybrid storage service that enabled on-premises applications to seamlessly use AWS cloud storage.  • Used Amazon Kinesis Firehose for migration to the cloud and used Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration for backing up data in the different location.  • Designed an Auto Scale Solution to eliminate pets - utilizing AWS ECS (Docker).  • Using Microservices architecture, Implementing Spring Boot based services to interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Used TDD approach for the development and make sure there will be 100% coverage.  • Using Cucumber framework, performing application acceptance testing (BDD).  • Utilize HBase and Hive to persist the data and writing queries to implement CRUD operations on the data.  • Writing the unit test cases using Junit, Mockito and Power Mockito frameworks to test the end to end functionality of the application.  • Integrated circuit breaker pattern with API's.  • Coordinating on Deployment of applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing.  • Performing code optimization to improve the performance of the Application (SonarQube, Find bugs, Jacoco and PIT)  • Performing Application API service request and response testing using Postman.  • Used Maven as a build tool to download the Dependencies and to generate Artifacts for the project.  • Used VersionOne tool for issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignments in the system.  • Used GIT version controller to maintain the version of the files and took responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Analyzed the production issues using the Sumo Logic logs and coordinate with the appropriate teams  • Monitored the jobs and suggested the alerts mechanism to reduce the manual interactions.  • Worked with SQL to query all existing data in hive and data validation purposes    Environment: Amazon Web Services, Java, Spring, Spring boot, Junit, Mockito, Docker, API gateway, Postman, Putty, Jenkins, log4j, GIT, JACOCO and Angular 6 Full Stack Java Developer McDonalds - Chicago, IL May 2016 to June 2018 Description: McDonalds is a Food Chain Company. The objective of the project was to migrate their standalone application to web-based system and add more functionality to existing system. The dashboard application was developed to monitor the recent transaction history and also to alert sections. The project is divided into two Phases. All the phases are designed using MVC architecture with Restful web services.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Designed Java Components and integrated using spring framework with Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism.  • Used Structs Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, and Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Worked on developing web service calls using SOAP and WSDL.  • Involved in installing, upgrading, configuring and Troubleshooting IBM Web Sphere Application Server and IBM MQ on AIX.  • Ingest various log sources including firewall, VPN concentrator, UNIX, Windows, web server and others into Splunk.  • Utilized Amazon Route53 to manage DNS zones and assign public DNS names to elastic load balancers IPs. Have done Provisioning, operating and maintaining systems running on AWS and Configuration management using Ansible.  • Hands on experience with Serverless Framework, API Gateway, IOT Devices in AWS Cloud environment and building rapid applications on wem.io modeller.  • Created Integration test for additional regression testing for API services using Java8, Junit and SaopUI through maven.  • Analyzed Restful Web API documents and consumed Web API with service in AngularJS to achieve CRUD operations.  • Worked on Angular 5 by consuming RESTful web services and used Angular 5 forms like Auth0, Template Driven forms and Modern Driven forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Tuning configuration files for optimized Splunk performance.  • Involved in working with Hibernate 3.x integrating legacy databases, integration of stored procedures, writing custom CRUD statements, functions by performing polymorphic associations.  • Used Web Services for transmission of large blocks of XML data using SOAP.  • Tested the application functionality with JUnit Structs Test Cases.  • Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application.  • Implemented Micro Services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Micro Services and enabled.  • Implemented Restful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture.  • Performed AngularJS form validation and Angular JS form properties and created a custom directive for date picker.  • Generate Splunk dashboards and reports visualizing various performance metrics of applications in production.  • Handling integration of add-ons for Splunk  • Created multiple view using layout template and AngularJS ngRoute  • Created web services using spring @Rest Controller to return JSON to the frontend.  • Sending requests and responses in Micro services through REST/HTTP.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Implemented service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the forms.  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  • Used MAVEN to define the dependencies and build the application and used JUnit for suite execution and Assertions.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management.  Environment: Java, Java EE, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, IBM Rational Application Developer , IBM WebSphere Application Server, AWS, Splunk, AngularJS, Angular 5, Win SQL , Atlassian Stash, Git, JAXP, multithreading, Sublime, Beyond Compare, Notepad++, SourceTree Sr. Java/J2EE Developer State Farm - Bloomington, IL July 2014 to May 2016 Description: State Farm is a insurance company. It is web based application that stores all information and Account information used by the Money Transfer High Value Payment Processing Systems. Customer data is held and utilized by Money Transfer Components for the purpose of enriching or completing transactions and facilitating straight through processing.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, analysis, and development and testing phases of the Software Development lifecycle.  • Followed Agile (Scrum) methodology for project development. Involved in Sprint planning, estimation of tasks for User Stories, daily scrum meetings, and end of the sprint demos and sprint retrospective.  • Developed the application using Core Java, JSP, HTML, AJAX and JQuery.  • Created REST web services to send data in JSON format to different systems using Apache CXF.  • Used Soap UI to setup mock services to invoke soap endpoints of client locally and to test the soap input and response requests of the applications.  • Worked with JBoss Business Rules Management System (BRMS) to write the rules for the validation of transactions.  • Developed Front-end components using HTML5/CSS, AngularJS and Bootstrap based on MVC pattern.  • Involved in using framework API's like Spring 3.x, Hibernate 3.x and Web Services for Integration.  • Used Spring MVC to implement the MVC architecture design and facilitates user interface designed by use of JSP's 2.3 and tag libraries.  • Design, develop (backend) and test the modules using Java8 and integrate the same with existing application.  • Implemented AngularJS Authentication for log-in/log-out, and storing the generated token-in.  • Responsible for Developing Hibernate DAO using Spring JDBC Template, also worked on Hibernate ORM and connection management.  • Responsible for designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap to build this SPA Single Page Application.  • Writing conversion scripts using SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and packages to migrate data from SQL server database to Oracle database.  • Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Used Struts Framework to deal with functionalities like credit issues, invoice details. Used Spring DAO Module along with Struts Framework to deal with Database.  • Developed the REST based Microservices using spring Boot.  • Experience in design and developing Application leveraging MongoDB.  • Involved in preparing Java /J2EE development using IDE's like Eclipse and Maven.  • Involved in working with Hibernate 3.x integrating legacy databases, integration of stored procedures, writing custom CRUD statements, functions by performing polymorphic associations.  • Used JIRA issue tracker to file the bugs.  • Involved in using Eclipse/STS as IDE, configuring and deploying the application onto WebLogic application server by using Maven build commands in automating the build process and deployment process.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML5 and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamic data to the web pages at the client side.  • Involved in the developing unit test cases using Junit and Mockito. Worked on developing automation test scripts using TestNG framework.  Environment: Java8, J2EE Spring, Mongo DB 3.0.2, Rest Web Services, SOAP, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, DAO, Mockito Hibernate3.x, Spring3.x, TestNG, JSON, Bootstrap, JBoss Developer Studio, Struts, GIT, JIRA. Java Developer Techsoware - IN April 2012 to June 2014 Description: Techsoware is a pioneer in providing tax automation products, solutions for both direct and indirect taxes. The application developed offers various computation & filing services for account payable, account receivable and payroll transactions and is a preferred tax solution partner for various ERP vendors and implementers.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets and JDBC.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Proficient in Java programming competency  • Good exposure to Retail and Logistics industry.  • Working in projects of Logistics and Retail clients among Fortune 150.  • Involved in developing various web based and client server applications for Telecom and Class I railroads in United States.  • Good command over Relational Databases like Oracle, SQL.  • Taken an active role in all stages of software development life cycle.  • Onsite experience (USA) at client site with technical exposure with good client relationship.  • Extensive server-side Java programming experience with technologies like Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Xml, JavaScript, HTML, EJB, JSON,JPA, Oracle 10g, SQL Server, Version Management Tool, Report Creation Tool.  • Good Exposure of full System Development Life Cycle(SDLC), business process, development, and testing client /server applications  • Involved in configuring queues and topics & bridges for DEV, TEST, PRODTEST, SIT, UAT, PRODLIKE and PROD environments  • Experience working in fast-paced, deadline-oriented environments  • Outstanding technical skills; able to quickly learn new concepts and technologies.  • Involved in Documentation and use case design using UML modeling include development of Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and use case Transaction diagrams.  • Developed activity, sequence and class diagrams using Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Rational Rose.  • Responsible for performance tuning of the product and eliminating memory leakages in the product.  • Used JDBC to connect to the MySQL database and written complex SQL queries to retrieve data from the database.  • Deployed the application in Apache Tomcat Server.  • Used JUnit to perform unit testing.  • Used Eclipse tool for application development.  • Used Configuration Management Tools for version control which is built on CVS.  • Participated in design and code review meetings with developers.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Servlets, JDBC, My SQL, UML, SQL, JUnit, Eclipse, Maven, CVS and Apache Tomcat Server. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Javabeans, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Api, C/c++, C++, Design patterns, Docker, Git, Bootstrap, Json, Oop Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java/J2EE, C/C++, SQL, PL/SQL  Technologies JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, Struts, JDBC, JSP Custom Tag Libraries  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Javascript1.x, XHTML, Angular JS, Angular 6, Bootstrap, XML 1.0, JQuery, Log4j, and JSON  Scripting Languages Java Script, Shell Scripts  GU/IDE RAD, Eclipse, IntelliJ, JavaBeans, Dreamweaver, OEPE.  Databases MS-SQL, DB2, MySQL, Oracle, RHEL, Mongo DB  Database Tools SQL Enterprise Manager 2000, Management Studio 2005/2008  Versioning Tools SVN, CVS, GIT  Web Servers WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss and Tomcat  Methodologies/Design Patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Facade, Singleton, Rational Unified Process (RUP), Test Driven Methodology  Frameworks/API's Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Log 4j, REST, AJAX, Junit, Elastic Search, Kibana  Testing Tools/others Junit, Mockito, Postman, SOAP UI  Cloud Technologies API Gateway, Docker