Java-AWS Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>-AWS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java AWS Developer - IHeartMedia San Antonio, TX • 8+ years of professional IT experience as a senior developer on various platforms with emphasis on Java application design, development, implementation and Cloud Engineering.  • 3+ years of professional experience in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route53, VPC, and Auto Scaling etc.), deployment services (Elastic Beanstalk and Cloud Formation) and security practices (IAM, Cloud Watch and Cloud Trail).  • Proficient with Core Java concepts such as Serialization, IO, Multithreading, Collections, Concurrency and Exception Handling.  • Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Highly skilled in developing and implementing enterprise web application using Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA and Cloud Foundry.  • Proficient in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route53, VPC, Auto scaling etc.) and deployment services (Elastic Beanstalk, Ops Works and Cloud Formation) and security practices (IAM, Cloud Watch and Cloud trail).  • Proficient in implementing AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, RDS, SES, ELB, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, Red Shift, Lambda, SNS, Dynamo DB.  • Proficient with Pivotal Cloud Foundry using to deploy, manage and scale applications.  • Proficient in creating JSON scripts for Cloud Formation based on requirements and launch stacks.  • Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and configuring AWS EC2 instances.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services.  • Hands on Experience with Agile Methodology and SCRUM meetings.  • Expertise in AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) such as creating users, groups, organizing IAM users to groups, assigning roles to groups.  • Experienced in migrating applications to AWS and application deployment in the cloud (AWS) with CI/CD tools like Jenkins, Chef.  • Knowledge on Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions and functional interfaces and Parallel Streams.  • Excellent hands on experience in developing Internet/Intranet Applications with web services using AJAX pack (XML, SOAP 1.1, UDDI, and WSDL) with XML like SAX and DOM parsers, XML Schema and Data Type Definition, XSL, Web 2.0, CSS, Extensible Style Sheet Language Transformation(XSLT).  • Hands on experience using Messaging Services like JM Sand MQ Series.  • Experience in working with databases like Oracle 10g/9i/8i, My SQL, SQL Server and MS Access.  • Strong experience in coding using SQL, PL/SQL involving Procedures/Functions, Triggers.  • Configured and used JIRA for bug tracking and functional testing.  • Having good knowledge in NOSQL data bases like Dynamo DB and Mongo DB.  • Hands-on experience in Source Code Management, Creating Branches, versioning, tagging and managing Repositories using GIT, SVN.  • Experience in installing and configuring Linux/Unix/Windows-based web/App servers like Tomcat, JBOSS, Web Logic and Web Sphere for Application deployments.  • Experienced in Software Analysis and Design using Unified Modeling Language and Rational Rose.  • Proven capacity to meet deadlines. Excellent communication and presentation skills. Ability as a good developer and effective interaction with end users.  • Good problem-solving skills, quick learner, effective individual and team player, excellent analytical skills. Work Experience Java-AWS Developer IHeartMedia - San Antonio, TX September 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Designed and implemented application using Spring Boot, Spring AOP and Spring JDBC.  • Analyzed, designed, implemented web-based application using Java8, JPA, JSP, Spring MVC, XML, and SQL.  • Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, and Spring Cloud, Spring Data.  • Used Microservices architecture with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Used annotations in the complete project development, webservices, MVC design.  • Diverse experience utilizing tools in Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Pivotal Cloud Fundry, AWS, Rabbit MQ, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  • Used JMS for consuming pin verification, device connect disconnect messages.  • Used JPA as data persistence API for all the DAO, database operations.  • Generated Hibernate Objects and used Hibernate ORM for SOTI Publisher application.  • Used Maven project management tool for build and deployment of the application.  • Developed Spring REST Web services for opening, closing the locker door webservice operations.  • Wrote lots of JSP's for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets, JSP and backend using Hibernate.  • Developed the presentation and controller logic for the screens related to my user stories using JSPs, HTML, bean and form tag libraries.  • Experience on various AWS services like S3, EC2, ECS, Cloud trail, VPC, RDS, Route 53, SNS, and Lambda.  • Building the AWS Infrastructure using VPC, EC2, S3, Route 53, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation.  • Configured S3 to host static web content, Elastic Load Balancers with EC2Autoscaling groups and deployed Cloud Stack using AWS OpsWorks.  • Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 instances using Cloud Watch. Developed the application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Dependency Injection Spring Annotations, Spring AOP and Hibernate.  • Helped in preparing the design documents like process flow, sequence, component diagram.  • Created computing and data resources on AWS using EC2. Installed Pivotal Cloud Foundry on EC2 to manage the containers created by PCF.  • Developed code for user stories (based on user requirements) and successfully approved it from QA • Developed rule modules using Rule Engines, Drools.  • Used GIT and Subversion (SVN as source controls.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Established continuous integration (CI) practices and standards for PSCU with Jenkins.  • Spring XML configuration for Camel Integration to messaging XML documents.  • Front end development utilizing HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework and a Java backend • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Parse XML documents like Device Connect, disconnect messages using JAXB.  • Used Servlets and JSP's in developing the web application on Apache Tomcat 8.  • Used Microsoft Visio to design the work flows and sequence diagrams, class diagrams.  • Writing unit and integration tests with Mockito framework.  • Involved in Testing in Agile Development Environment, Using TDD and ATDD approach.  • Involved in deployment of the application at various environments (Development, Testing, Staging, and Production).  • Used Agile methodology during the complete Software Development life cycle.    Environment: JDK 1.6, Eclipse 3.6, Agile, Spring FW 3.1.0, Cache Abstraction, REST Webservices, tomcat, Microservice , Spring Boot, Apache Camel, Oracle 11g,APIGEE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Drools, JPA, Maven, JUnit, Log4j, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript , JSON, JMS, DB Visualizer 7.1, WebLogic, UML, Mockito, JSP, XML, JAXB, Unix, Subversion(SVN), ClearCase, Jenkins. Full Stack Java Developer-Aws Developer VPC, RDS, Route - St. Louis, MO October 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates.  • Experience on various AWS services like S3, EC2, ECS, Cloud trail, VPC, RDS, Route 53, SNS, and Lambda.  • Building the AWS Infrastructure using VPC, EC2, S3, Route 53, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation.  • Configured S3 to host static web content, Elastic Load Balancers with EC2Autoscaling groups and deployed Cloud Stack using AWS OpsWorks.  • Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 instances using Cloud Watch.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Dependency Injection Spring Annotations, Spring AOP and Hibernate.  • Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, and Spring Cloud, Spring Data.  • Used Microservices architecture with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Built Microservices with the individual database with no dependencies.  • Worked on RESTful Web Services for transferring JSON data between two interfaces.  • Followed Spring MVC pattern and used View Resolver to map web page.  • Configured Dispatcher Servlet and View Resolver to intercept incoming requests.  • Managed Spring MVC flow and invoke view components with the help of Dispatcher Servlet.  • Used Spring AOP terminologies to handle transaction management.  • Used Bamboo, Jenkins as a continuous integration and delivery tool that ties automated builds and tests.  • Used Hibernate to extract and HQL to query the data from MYSQL database.  • Used Jenkins to perform continuous integration and continuous deployment.  • Implemented a Git mirror for SVN repository, which enables users to use both Git and SVN.  • Implemented Continuous Integration using Jenkins and GIT.  • Deployed JAVA/J2EE applications through Tomcat Application servers.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices in Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS.  • Worked with RabbitMQ for messaging with social application in the bank monitored it.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system.  • Re-design and implement CI build system using Jenkins.  • Worked with executed unit test cases by using JUNIT for accuracy of code and logging with log4j.    Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, Maven, JavaScript, GIT, Eclipse, Windows 10, MYSQL, Restful, EC2, S3, EBS, IAM, Cloud Watch, Web Sphere Application Server, Spring MVC, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, DOJO, SOAP, JDBC, DB2, Log4j, Agile. Java-AWS Developer Cisco - Cary, NC May 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities: • Worked on EC2, S3, ELB, Auto scaling Servers, Glacier, Storage Lifecycle rules, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Formation, Cloud Front, RDS, VPC, Route 53, Cloud Watch, IAM &Roles, SNS subscription service.  • Worked at optimizing volumes and EC2 instances and created multiple VPC instances.  • Migration of Existing Applications to AWS cloud.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load Balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Implementation of Auto Scaling for instances under ELB using ELB Health Checks.  • Worked with AWS CLI and AWS API to manage resources on AWS for many services such as EC2, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, ELB, Auto-scaling and SNS, created python script using AWS API Calls to manage all resources Deployed on AWS.  • Utilize Amazon Glacier for archiving data and Configured Elastic Load Balancers with EC2 Auto scaling groups.  • Developed the application using Agile methodology with daily scrum meetings, sprint planning sessions, and Sprint retrospective meetings.  • Developed spring controller, Service and DAO classes using Core JAVA, Spring-Core.  • Implemented Spring-Core for dependency injection in service and DAO classes.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for building REST APIs.  • Design and implementation of Spring-Security for the application for authentication process against LDAP, J2EE Pre-authentication, and Database.  • Implemented J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, etc.  • Used Oracle Database and SQL Developer as database tool, used JUnit for unit testing.  • Implemented TDD (Test Driven Development) for new enhancements to drive the application to minimum Defects zone.  • User interface of the application is built using Spring MVC, Html5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.    Environment: Java/J2EE, WebSphere Application Server, HTML, CSS, Java Script, AngularJS, Bean Stack, EC2, S3, ELB, IAM, Jenkins, Spring, RESTful, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Apache Axis, Hibernate, JMS, RAD, DB2, Clear Case, GIT, JUnit. Java Developer West Corporation - Omaha, NE July 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities: • Participated in all phases of development, analysis, design, program analysis, programming, debugging, testing, documentation, delivery, deployment, maintenance and implementation or coding.  • Developed Spring Application using Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring DAO.  • Extensively worked on Java server-side programming using Spring MVC, Servlets and JSP.  • We used Multithreading for thread safe blocks in this application to improve the performance.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features.  • Extensively used spring core by configuring and using Spring Beans Filters, servlets and server-side programming.  • Used Spring JDBC template to retrieve the data to connect and execute query and represented the data in the form of tree which has seven hierarchies and implemented drag and drop functionality to it.  • Created branding in the web UI front end using CSS classes for web pages, including the design and layout.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS and JQuery to display the data on the client side.  Built HTML templates for high traffic and complex data driven websites and building blocks of HTML pages.  • Designed and developed middleware application using spring core framework.  • Used jQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  Involved in the creation of interface to manage Attributes Using JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Developed SOAP web services using Apache CXF web services and spring framework and its core features.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL and stored procedures, packages as part of database interaction and involved in developing SQL queries, triggers, functions, DML and DDL statements.  • Developed and prepared test cases and performed unit testing with Junit and following Test-Driven Development.  • Design, Analysis and Unit testing documents related to every Module while developing each module.  • Used Jenkins for the automatic build process and used for integration testing and deploying software.  • Debugged all look and feel issues in the target browsers, in conjunction with quality assurance.  • Used Maven for compilation, documentation, reporting, distribution and building JAR, WAR and EAR files.    Environment: Java, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Batch Processing, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collection API, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JQuery, HTML, CSS, AJAX, SQL, PL/SQL, Jenkins, JUnit, J2EE, Apache CXF. Java/ J2EE Developer City of Yarra COMPANY, Melbourne - Melbourne VIC July 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities: • Proficient in programming with Java/J2EE and strong experience in technologies such as JSP Servlets, Struts, spring, Hibernate, JDBC.  • Designed and developed multiple J2EE(TM) Model 2 MVC based Web Application using J2EE(TM) Technologies, Patterns and popular open-source framework Struts, Spring MVC, spring, JPA and Hibernate.  • Expertise in distributed, secure and scalable application development using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Web Service Development (Using SOAP and REST) and Hibernate.  • Extensive programming experience in developing web-based applications using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, spring, Hibernate, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, Java Script Libraries, Web Services etc. on UNIX platform.  • Proficiency in developing web services (Soap, Restful) that include several components like SOAP, WSDL, XML, XSD, Axis2, JAXB, JAX-RS and JAX-WS, Apache CXF.  • Well versed with Core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Serialization, and Exception Handling.  • Experience in database design, data modeling and developing stored procedures, functions and triggers.  • Good work experience on RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL. Creating SQL statements & Sub queries.  • Experience in using XML based technologies and parsers DOM, SAX, JAXP, and JAXB.  • Experienced in implementing presentation layer using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON and Servlets.  • Expertise in implementation of MVC using frameworks such as spring and Struts.  • Hands on experience in deployment of J2EE applications on JBoss, Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere and WebLogic Application Servers.  • Review design documents with stake holders and collect approvals.  • Excellent Knowledge of Object-Oriented Analysis Design using UML.  • Good experience with SCRUM, Agile methodologies using TDD approach.  • Experience implementing SOA, Web Service applications.  • Strong Experience in developing the application using frameworks like Struts and Spring Frameworks.  • Worked on maintaining the persistence using Hibernate ORM.    Environment: Java, RAD, Struts, Spring, Spring AOP, Spring Security, EJB, Hibernate, Servlet, HTML, JSP, Web Services, JMS, SOAP, DB2, JavaScript, WSDL, UNIX, Rational Clear Case, Log4J and ANT. Jr. Software Developer Telstra - Melbourne VIC June 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities: • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Requirements gathering, Design, Code, Integrate, and Deployment and production phases.  • Creating Design Documents for requirements. Coding the requirements.  • Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans to transfer calls from presentation tier to data services tier.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript. Debugging and trace file analysis.  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Objects [DTO] and Data Access Objects [DAO] patterns.  • Used Web Services to communicate with different application.  • Designed EJB2.1 like Stateless Session Bean for the Session Facade design pattern.  • Worked with MYSQL database.  • Working with WSDL and SOAP messages.  • JMS was used to send/receive asynchronous data from various message brokers • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build the application.  • Involved in using Log4J to create log files to debug.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for Unit Level Testing.  • Deployed the application on Web Sphere Application Server.    Environment: Core Java, SQL, RCC, JavaScript, Web Services, Log4J, ANT, Junit, JMS Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Summary:    Java Technologies: Core Java, Java Server Pages, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, Multi-threading, Event Handling, Swing Web Services.  AWS Cloud Technologies: EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, IAM, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Cloud Formation, EBS, S3, Route53, VPC, Lambda, Auto Scaling, Dockers, SNS, SQS, SWS.    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Mac OS  Web Services: REST, SOAP  Web Technologies: JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, EJB, JMS, AJAX, JSTL, HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT, Angular JS, JQuery, Node JS, JavaScript, JAX-RPC.  Application Servers: Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere and JBoss, Jetty.  Build Tools: Maven, Ant, Gradle  Databases: MySQL PRO, MS SQL Server, SQL Plus, Oracle, MongoDB, DynamoDB  Frameworks: Hibernate, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, AngularJS, Struts  Design Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Rational Unified Process, Rapid Application Development, Test Driven Development, Behavior Driven Development  Version Control: Rational Clear Case, SVN, CVS, VSS, GitHub, Team Foundation Server and GIT  IDE: Eclipse, STS, IntelliJ