Senior Java Full Stack Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Full Stack Developer - CSL Plasma Boca Raton, FL • 6 Years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing and testing of web using Java & J2EE, Springs Framework, Struts Framework, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP, Restful), JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, AJAX and XML.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, JSON, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, J Query.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for Micro-Services.  • Strong experience with Application Servers - WebLogic, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, Java Web Server, CMS - Joomla, Drupal and FileNet. Workflow tools - Lombardi, jBPM, WebSphere Integration Server, Database - Oracle, Sybase, SQL Server, DB2.  • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON, POJO, Ext Js and J Query.  • Good knowledge and experience in Core and J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Abstract Factory, Builder, MVC2, Business Delegate, DAO etc.  • RIA applications using Flex, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, Dojo and Node JS.  • Expertise in open source frameworks like Struts 2.0, Spring 2.5 (IOC, JDBC, AOP, and LDAP), Web services, Hibernate 3.0, JAXB, AXIS-2, JAAS ( Java Authorization and Authentication System), JUNIT etc.  • Experienced in Object-Oriented analysis and design, with J2EE design patterns including Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Session Façade, Data Access Object, DAO, Service Locator, Data Transfer Object, and Business Delegate.  • In depth experience with PL/SQL, T-SQL DB development, Design Patterns, Agile- Scrum, XP, TDD (Test driven).  • Experience in writing test-cases in Java environment using JUnit.  • Experienced in the MVC Architecture using Struts & Spring Frameworks. JMS, JNDI and Hibernate.  • Knowledge and experience in XML and XML parsers, SOAP-based web services, RESTful Web Services, UML.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Methodologies (OOAD), Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), SOA, Java2 (JDK1.7), J2EE Design Patterns, Data Modelling and UML based system design.  • Excellent working experience with various framework like MVC, Struts.  • Good Experience in Implementing J2EE Design Patterns.  • Good Knowledge of UML and Together Soft/ Visio tools.  • Experienced in using IDEs such as Eclipse, My Eclipse, IntelliJ, and Net Beans.  • Developed Technical Design (TD), Test Plans (UTP), Test Cases (UTR), Test Scripts for UAT tests.  • Good knowledge of Open Source technologies and tools like Jira, Jenkins, databases (MySQL, MongoDB), VCS (GIT), etc.  • Experienced in developing the multi-tier Client-Server and Distributed Object Systems and Object-Oriented Technologies in an Internet/Intranet Environment.  • Expert in the conversion of legacy information systems to distributed and web-based architectures.  • Ability to learn and use new systems and paradigms in considerably less time, solid communicator with exceptional team-building skills.  • Always worked closely with system users and management personnel and gained reputation of loyalty, quick problem solving, and excellent teamwork and communication skills.  • Excellent analytical capabilities and good communication skills. Ability to quickly adapt to new environments and learn new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Full Stack Developer CSL Plasma - Boca Raton, FL March 2018 to Present Project Description: CSL Plasma is one of the world's largest collectors of human plasma. The CSL Group has a combined heritage of outstanding contribution to medicine and human health with more than 100 years' experience in the development and manufacture of vaccines and plasma protein biotherapies. With major facilities in Australia, Germany, Switzerland and the US, CSL has over 22,000 employees working in 27 countries.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was also involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.  • Developed Grid's used in the system using Slickgrid and created custom grid directive to make the component reusable.  • Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the rest-based services and used Junit and Mockito to test the middleware services.  • Took part in setting up the routing configuration using Angular UI router for various views and sub views.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma and performed end to end testing using Protractor and Selenium.  • Worked with Middleware using Message driven by POJO (MDP) after creating QCF, Queue on WebSphere server, and using JMS template for asynchronous functionality for multiple users.  • Used Hibernate in the persistence layer and implemented DAO's to access data from database.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Used GIT as version control system, to keep track of all the work & all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate and used Maven as build and configuration tool and Jenkins for continuous integration tool.  • Involved in configuration and usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes. Used RAD as IDE tool to develop the application.  • Prepared Documentation for Unit Test Plan and Unit Test Results for the QA purpose. Participated in the release night shakeouts/overnight deliveries and QA Support.  • Used Veracode for application security scanning and remediated the flaws that were identified in the code.  • Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring JMS, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch, SOAP Web Services, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, IBM Web sphere MQ, Web logic 12.1.1, XML, Apache JMeter, SQL Server 2012, Maven, Liquibase, SoapUI, TFS, PuTTy, WinSCP, Eclipse 3.8 and UNIX. Senior Java Full Stack Developer Ascension - St. Louis, MO August 2016 to February 2018 Project Description: This Project is to develop a web application that handles the operations of hospital easily. This application was developed to provide better service to the customers and helpful to the hospitals maintaining individual patient's life time medical record, doctor details, investigation. The records can be accessed anytime, anywhere, instantly, with recently updated information of all the patients particularly ICU patients.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project using Agile methodology.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as multi-threading, exception handling, collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Extensively worked on business, front end and persistence tier using the JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC, and JSON.  • Used design patterns like Front controller, DTO, Singleton, Facade, Factory design patterns.  • Developed Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring Dependency Injection for middle layer development.  • Utilized Angular dependency injection to inject different Services including inner Services and custom services and create some custom directives to do some reusable component.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Web Design using Twitter Bootstrap and custom media queries.  • Successfully handled JSON/XML data and carried out JSON/XML parsing for form submissions and DOM manipulation.  • Created REST web services & consumed it using Angular to communicate between apps.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms for sign in and inputting ticket rising information from Angular framework.  • Created tables and worked on SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures functions and packages for complex Inserts and updates in the database.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the  • database.  • Deployed allocations in the JBOSS application servers and written automation scripts on UNIX boxes.  • Installation and maintenance of GIT for users to check out project and maintain various versions of the project implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking.  • Generated JUnit framework for unit testing of application and implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.    Environment: Java, Java Beans, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Web Logic, Hibernate, RESTful Web Service, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, Angular, jQuery, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, SQL, JSON, JBOSS, XSD, Agile, MongoDB, JMS, JUnit, Log4J, Unix, Git, Maven, FileZilla, Sun Solaris (Unix), MyEclipse. Java Full Stack Developer Advanced Auto Parts - Roanoke, VA September 2015 to August 2016 Project Description: Advance Auto Parts, Inc. is a leading automotive aftermarket parts provider that serves both professional installer and do-it-yourself customers. The project deals with enhancements in company's current Auto parts management application which provides retailers and customers a complete point of sale solution, inventory, order and purchasing management.    Responsibilities:  • Used OOAD for building applications. Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating use Cases and Class Diagrams.  • Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, use cases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  • Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern and developed front end using Spring MVC framework, business components using Spring.  • Developed Spring MVC validators to perform server-side business object validations.  • Implemented Tiles based framework to present the layouts to the user and has and developed UI using view tags (HTML), JSP, JavaScript, CSS.  • Implemented Generic DAO using Spring JDBC to handle database operations on Similarly Constructed Tables.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Spring Tag libraries & Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed RESTful API with Spring Framework for benchmarking purposes.  • Implemented Spring framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC to build an application from scratch using Spring XML configurations, annotations.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles, Interceptors, and Validations provided by Spring framework.  • Wrote authentication and authorization classes and manage it in the front controller for all the users according to their entitlements using Spring security.  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Spring.  • Developed SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier.  • Worked Gradle build scripts to compile Java classes and create jar, performed unit testing and package them into ear files and SVN as version control.  • Involved in setting up Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous builds by polling the repositories.  • Developed unit test cases for the data access layer and business components using Junit and EasyMock.  • Design and development of JAXB components for transfer objects and Prepared EJB deployment descriptors using XML.  • Used JAXP (DOM, XSLT), XSD for XML data generation and presentation and Wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.    Environment: Java/J2SE 1.5, JSP, Servlets, JAXB, XSLT, DOM, XML, Spring 3.0, Web Services, JNDI, J2EE, RSA, JBoss6.0, Rational Rose, Spring, CVS, XML, Log4J, Oracle9i, gradle, Junit, Jenkins, Junit, Rational Rose, JavaScript, DHTML. Java Developer Miracle Software Systems - IN March 2014 to June 2015 Project Description: The Performance Management System is tool allows the end user to analyze the performance of the mobile network. The user can select a date and the system generates the network traffic report for a switch on a given date both in tabular and graphical form (Bar Graphs, Pie chart etc.). Using this report, the user can easily optimize the performance of the network.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Struts framework for the development.  • Prepared required mappings in Struts-Config.xml file.  • Developed Java classes to communicate with database using JDBC.  • Developed Java beans, helper classes and Servlets for interacting with UI written in JSP.  • Implemented Java Messaging Services (JMS) and Backend messaging for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Developed the Struts Controller Servlet for the application.  • Developed front-end using HTML, JSP, Struts Taglibs and Tiles.  • More involved in writing SQL Packages, Stored Procedures, and functions.  • Setup JDBC connectivity and databases.    Environment: J2EE5, Java 1.6, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.5, EJB 3.0, JDBC 2.0, JSP, WebLogic Server, Eclipse 3.6, Hibernate 3.0, Struts, Oracle, Maven, Log4J, JUnit, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript. Java Developer Deloitte Consulting - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to March 2014 Project Description: With over 150 years of hard work and commitment to making a real difference, our organization has grown in scale and diversity - approximately 263,900 people in 150 countries and territories, providing audit, tax, legal, financial advisory, risk advisory, and consulting services - yet our shared culture remains the same.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as software developer for client's healthcare program and developed a web-based reporting application system.  • Used Spring MVC Framework to develop Action classes and Controllers along with validation framework and annotations.  • Involved in development of presentation layer using Spring framework, and MVC design paradigm.  • Worked in implementation of MVC design paradigm of Spring framework, Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) using Hibernate and Oracle database at the back end.  • Configured Spring ORM that provides simplified templates for accessing databases through ORM technologies, such as Hibernate in our case to access the database.  • Developed SQL queries and views for handling database activities in Oracle/MS SQL Server.  • Project coordination with other Development teams, System managers, and developed good working environment.  • Used TOMCAT Server and WebSphere application server for deploying the application.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, Ext JS and Java Script components.  • Worked on complete life cycle, Design, improvement and testing utilizing OOA and OOD.  • Developed and integrated the application with Jasper reports a java-based report generating application to enable the users to print/save the webpage on to their local systems.  • Used ClearCase and ClearQuest for version control and workflow automation.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, JUnit, SQL, DB2, HTML, Ext JS, JavaScript, Log4j, XML, DOM, Edit Plus, JBoss, ClearCase, ClearQuest. Education Master's in computer science in computer science Silicon Valley University Bachelor in Electronics and communication Engineering in Electronics and communication Engineering Sri Mittapalli College of Engineering Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING