Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Stripe Florham Park, NJ Over 9+ years of experience in Design, Development, Planning, Configuration, Code Management, Integration and deployment of enterprise platforms. Track record of delivering quality Java based solutions in the Payment, E-commerce, Finance & Banking and Healthcare industries. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Stripe - San Francisco, CA, US August 2017 to Present Payment Platform: Fully integrated, global platform that can support online and in-person payments. Lead "Embeddable Checkout" and "In-person payment" modules.    Responsibilities:  • Upgrading the libraries used by checking its compatibility during compilation time and runtime with Java 8.  • Used Hibernate by creating its mapping file and coding for data access methods.  • Successfully implemented Servlet Filters for adding Security to application to restrict the access to unauthorized users.  • Perform code review and Unit testing of the modules by creating JUnit test cases.  • Redesigned the application modules using Spring Boot Rest API/Services, Spring, Spring-Data, which resulted in 30% decrease in response time, 25% less code and 15% increase in revenue.  • Followed Spring MVC pattern and used View Resolver to map web pages.  • Performed dependency injection of spring beans such as data source beans or Hibernate utility singleton bean to create one session factory for the entire application  • Used Hibernate framework for accessing oracle database and call stored procedures.  • Implemented Hibernate concept like Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions.  • Worked on JAVA Core coding to provide the Multithreading, Localization and Collections framework.  • Performed validations using Spring validation controls and regular expressions in Java.  • In this application CoreMedia Content Cloud used as a service or self-managed for flexible private cloud deployments.  • In this app, instead of relying on Excel files and manual processes to manage translations, used CoreMedia Content Cloud to automates the process to manage translations every step of the way.  • Used CoreMedia Content Cloud to manage assets in a single, convenient central repository and reuse them on any channel with headless APIs.  • Managed all digital assets and enrich product display through CoreMedia Content Cloud.  • Developed applications using Visual Studio, C#, and a combination of Windows Services, IBM MQ Series, and ASP.Net Ajax enabled web sites.  • Designing, developing, and maintaining websites using ASP.Net MVC  • Used Visual Studio to develop this mix program of both Classic ASP and ASP.NET.  • Worked SOAP attachment propagation through IBM WebSphere DataPower using Web service proxy.  • Installed, configured IBM WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere Portal Server, IBM HTTP Server on AIX, and Red hat Linux Environment  • Created IBM WebSphere MQ Web interface to assist with administration and monitoring MQSeries objects and processes.  • Development, IBM WebSphere Application Server, and WebSphere Content Management.  • Hands on experience in Architecting Portal Solution in IBM WebSphere Portal Server along with IBM Security Access Manager (ISAM).  • Built a JWT token based authentication portal for our customer to log in their Active Directory via LDAP Connection by using C#.  • Implemented batch processing for migrating user data from LDAP server to Oracle  • Configured authentication mechanisms including SAML-based single sign on (SSO) and LDAP.  • Establishing SSO between SAP Portal and Sharepoint using SAML  • Extensive knowledge in working with Java Development Environments like Eclipse and IntelliJ IDEA.  • Developed the application using Eclipse and Intellij idea as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging.  • Worked on IBM RAD and on operating system such as Linux and Windows  • Extensive experience with web/applications servers IBM Websphere, Oracle, JBOSS, and Apache Tomcat.  • Extensively used Java development framework, struts with tiles to build presentation layer and used struts validation framework for client side validations.  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Involved in migration of on-premise environments to AWS environment.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed object model classes and beans using Eclipse for Java.  • Analyzed Log files such as WebLogic/JBoss server logs, node manager logs, Plug-in logs and thread dumps for troubleshooting and Problem determination to resolve issues.  • Extensively worked with HTML 5, JSP's and Servlets to create dynamic web pages for new enhancements.  • Used JUnit, a test framework which uses annotations to identify methods that specify a test.  • Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database. Created new views, added new columns to the existing view in the database using SQL.  • Designed and Developed JavaScript frame work (Angular.js) which is wrapper on top of JQuery frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets  • Creating interactive prototypes using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript from a combination of wireframes, visual designs and design standards  • Configured NoSQL database and DynamoDB for providing single-digit millisecond latency, fast DB service for application.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  • Performed Angular.JS form validation and validation messages displaying with ng-show and created a custom validation directive for comparing fields.  • Experience in Importing data from various sources to the Cassandra cluster using Java API's.  • Developed Javascript API's for Ajax with Dojo Tool kit using the Dojo components and Dojo grid.  • Implemented servlets to handle HTTP requests for on-line requests, credit card payments, registration and bug tracking.  • Managed code repository with Subversion.  • Created Rest APIs and consuming it for application CRUD operations using Node.js.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, CoreMedia Content Cloud, CoreMedia LiveContext, Hibernate, SOAP, REST, .NET, IBM WebSphere Commerce, SAML, LDAP, Tomcat, IBM RAD, IntelliJ IDEA, Cassandra, Hadoop, MongoDB, NoSQL, IBatis, Eclipse, Weblogic, Oracle, SVN, Github, APACHE CXF, Agile, SOA, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Node.JS, JSP, SERVLET, ILOG, SCRUM, Junit Sr. Java Developer Walmart - Bentonville, Arkansas, US June 2015 to July 2017 Walmart MoneyCard: By using this app any user is able to almost instantly check balances and transfer money from the Vault to your main spending account, view transactions, check your progress.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring controllers using Spring MVC.  • Used Hibernate Template and Core Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Worked on PL/SQL to code for several Stored Procedures related to reports with the help of Toad.  • Incorporated JSTL tag library in JSP to communicate form parameters with controllers.  • Used Spring MVC to develop application architecture and JDBC to interact with Database.  • Responsible for design and developing persistence classes using Hibernate, and Spring Template frameworks to save data in database tables.  • Solved defects in the Java J2EE application running on a JBOSS J2EEweb server.  • Experience in implementing creational, structural and behavioural core java design patterns and JEE design patterns.  • Employed performance-tuning techniques in J2EE to improve performance in different tiers.  • Implemented page based specific values, message displays using Spring MVC interceptors, message sources and resource bundles.  • Configured SSO between Portal and Connections environment along with the deployment of IBM Connections portlets for IBM WebSphere Portal  • Worked on implementation of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and involved in installation and management of IBM SOA products like IBM WebSphere DataPower.  • Configured the IBM WebSphere environments, JMS Queues, JDBC connections properties, HTTP and FTP server.  • Authenticated the LDAP server using Java.  • In this application CoreMedia's LiveContext solutions provides pre-built, real-time integrations with IBM WebSphere Commerce.  • In this application, implemented CoreMedia that runs on Java plateform and by using it internet retailers can enhance their eCommerce platforms by providing a contextual digital experience for end users  • Used CoreMedia LiveContext for responsive templates, reusable content assets, and adaptive image handling.  • Used CoreMedia LiveContext to augments the capabilities of existing e-Commerce system.  • Used IBM Rational Application Developer as IDE to develop and test the code  • Used JMX ( java management extension) for Developed the application using Eclipse and Intellij idea as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging.  • Created Interface API called PassThruAuth to Parse SAML assertions from site minder federation to provide Single Sign on between two applications.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from SQL server database  • Designed and developed message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message.  • Developed SOAP Services to provide service to external systems.  • Implemented a RESTful interface for the search and Address services  • Involved in the design and development of Interfaces with upstream and downstream systems using web services, and EJB.  • Developed enhancements to MongoDB architecture to improve performance and scalability.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 5, XHTML, CSS 3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Incorporated JDBC API to create, retrieve and update data from the database.  • Use Subversion as the version control system (VCS) for code deployment  • Integrated Bootstrap.JS into several applications for speeding up Javascript development  • Leveraged Angular sources for data access and created custom directives, factories, services for the reusable components.  • Designed dynamic and cross-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Used Angular.JS controllers to update entity models and Tasks database.  • Developed RESTful Web services for client to consume JSON messages using Apache CXF.  • Configured clustering for Weblogic application server on client servers.  • Performed root cause analysis on DB2 databases, application and system related problems.  • Used Maven extensively for build management.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP, REST, CoreMedia, IBM WebSphere Commerce, SAML, LDAP, Tomcat, IBM RAD, IntelliJ IDEA, Hadoop, MongoDB, Struts, JSF, DOJO, SOA, EJB, Eclipse, Servlet, JQuery, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Junit, SVN, ITEXT, DB2, Scrum, .NET, MAVEN, UML, XML, JMS, CRUD, Linux, JSP, JDBC Sr. Full Stack Developer Sabre - Southlake, Texas, US September 2013 to May 2015 Online Commerce: This e-commerce expertise provides all the industry a robust, flexible platform so travel suppliers and buyers can personalize the travel shopping experience.    Responsibilities:  • Performed unit testing using Junit and Cactus for testing Struts Action classes  • Resolved critical bugs in application found during different phases by debugging the application modifying Java Script and CSS for UI related to issues  • Created various Stored Procedure, Sql Queries and Triggers required in the modules for the application.  • Experienced in developing within an Agile/SCRUM methodology.  • Responsible for integrating the backend service written on spring service with the front end using JSON model  • Created MVC classes for Cross Tab UI for drag and drop, Loading data from Cognos cubes to be displayed in tree  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and another dependent object declaration.  • Used SQL Queries in Java code to do select/update/delete depending upon the business requirement.  • Configured and developed web applications in Spring, employed spring MVC architecture and inversion of control.  • Generated Java/J2EE Program in sync with various diagrams such as class diagrams, sequence diagrams etc  • Designed and developed the Data access layer using Spring-Hibernate integration.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine, configure O/R mapping and wrote Hibernate ORM queries and native queries to boost performance.  • Developed back-end logic and data access logic to create the Object Relational Mapping using Hibernate with MySQL database.  • Responsible for Design and Development of Weblogic application deployment Scripts.  • Used Ajax for doing asynchronous calls to the Spring controller classes.  • Migrate MongoDB Sharded/Replica cluster for one datacenter to another without downtime  • Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client side validations and to achieve other client-side functionality.  • Used Angular.JS MVC Framework in the development of the fullstack application to bind the data/model that was retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Used Sencha Ext.JS for business-grade web application development and used built in themes, using Ext.JS necessary to build robust applications.  • Created new Portlets and updated many existing portlets for the projects using MyEclipse, Mercurial, Maven  • Performed application development following Waterfall model by taking part in analysis, design, coding, unit and integration testing of applications.  • Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe.  • Integrated JIRA and Confluence as trusted applications.  • Created Menus and Drawer component by using JavaScript.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular.js, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Set up Angular.JS controller data and created front end routing to respond to Node.js.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, MongoDB, Apache Tomcat, SQL, Angular.JS, Ext.JS, Node.JS, Selenium, Netbeans, JBoss, Mercurial, Water Fall Model, Swing, DB2, JSP, Servlet, ANT, XML, Linux, JIRA, Cognos, Ilog Java Developer CVS Caremark - Woonsocket, Rhode Island, US May 2011 to August 2013 Allows to manage members' pharmacy benefit program with CVS Caremark.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  Environment: Java, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, TOAD, Swing, Net Beans, Weblogic, JUnit, EJB, Ant Java Developer TD Bank - Cherry Hill, New Jersey, US October 2009 to August 2011 Digital Wallet: Choose your mobile device and add your TD Bank Visa cards to pay with a single tap. It facilitates "Pay with a single tap", and "Pay almost anywhere" options.    Responsibilities:  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs and web Service Framework to implement various features and enhancements.  Environment: Java, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, TOAD, Swing, Net Beans, Weblogic, JUnit, EJB, Ant, JDBC Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (5 years), database (5 years), Java (9 years), JavaScript (9 years), Linux (5 years) Additional Information AREA OF EXPERTISE    • Programming Languages: Java, Python, .Net  • Framework/APIs: Spring, Hibernate, JPA, IBM WebSphere Commerce, CoreMedia Content Cloud  • Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall  • Database: Oracle, MySQL  • Scripting/Mark-up Languages: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery, Ajax, XML  • Webservices: REST, SOAP  • Big-Data Tools: Hadoop, Hive, Cassandra  • OS: Windows, Unix, Linux  • Version Controlling Tools: SVN, Git