Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - CVS Chicago, IL • About 8+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Maintenance of applications using Java/J2EE Technologies like Servlets, JSPs, Hibernate, Spring DI, Struts and JPA with knowledge of SDLC concepts.  • Experience with front-end HTML5, CSS, JS, JSON, and XML development is desirable.  • Good working Experience in client-side development with HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Expertise in working with Cutting Edge Technologies like EJB, JMS, JTA, XML with good experience in Developing and Deploying Enterprise JavaBeans on Application Servers like Tomcat, Web Logic,Web Sphere and JBoss.  • Excellent knowledge of NOSQL on Mongo and CassandraDB  • Expertise in working with Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC and Spring AOP  • Excellent experience on J2EE design patterns such as Business Delegate, Service Locator, Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Session Facade, Singleton patterns.  • Expertise in front-end development using JSP, JSTL, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Experience in using and implementing design patterns such as Model-View-Control MVC , Data Access Object DAO , Factory, Singleton, and Business Delegate in the development of multi-tier distributed applications.  • Expertise in implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL.  • Developed User Interface in JSP, JavaScript and HTML with Backbone JS Framework  • Experience in spring module like MVC, AOP, JDBC, ORM, JMS, and Web Services using Eclipse and STS IDE.  • Involved in Design, development and testing of web application and integration projects using Object Oriented technologies such as Core Java, J2EE, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, Web Services REST/SOAP , XML,XSLT,XSL, and Ant.  • Experience in using various Web and Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM -Web Sphere process server.  • Good experience with a NoSQL database.  • Good experience with web stacks such as Apache, Nginx, Varnish, and Lighttpd  • Excellent programming experience in Java 1.5/1.6, JDBC, Servlets, JSP.  • Experience in using and implementing design patterns such as Model-View-Control MVC , Data Access Object DAO , Factory, Singleton, and Business Delegate in the development of multi-tier distributed applications.  • Expertise in implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL.  • Experience in working with application servers and web servers such as, IBM Web Sphere and Tomcat  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB, JMS, XML and Web Services.  • Experience in using frameworks and tools like Jakarta Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JPA  • Good exposure to Service Oriented Architectures SOA built on Web services WSDL using SOAP protocol.  • Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSD, XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP SAX, DOM and JAXB.  • Experience in developing applications using Map Reduce for analyzing with different file formats.  • Collected data from different sources like web servers and social media using flume for storing in HDFS.  • Ability to import and export data between HDFS and Relational Data Management Systems using Scoop.  • Utilized Log4j logging API framework for logging Java applications for debugging and monitoring purposes.  • Good Knowledge of full Software Development Life Cycle SDLC Work Experience Java Developer CVS - Chicago, IL August 2018 to Present Description: CVS Pharmacy is a subsidiary of the American retail and health care company CVS Health, headquartered in Woonsocket, Rhode Island. It was also known as, and originally named, the Consumer Value Store and was founded in Lowell, Massachusetts, in 1963.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC including the design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Used Hibernate framework in the persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database  • Implemented SpringMVC framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Developed code using Design Patterns like DAO, Factory Pattern, Singleton and Value Objects, Decorator, State, Strategy.  • Used Spring as the MVC model. Used Spring AOP for common cross-cutting concerns like security and interception.  • Used AngularJS and Backbone.JS for client-side validation.  • Develop various screens for the front end using AngularJS and used various predefined components from NPM.  • Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Handed Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.  • Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from the client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to the client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations and avoid redundant database access statements.  • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), SpringAOP and Spring Annotations.  • Developed reports include Invoice Printings and Patient profiles. Assigned as lead developer throughout the design, analysis and coding phase of a Claims Processing System.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed reaching one or more AWS EC2 instances. Experience in creating alarms and notifications for EC2 instances using Cloud Watch.  • Used a Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of SpringJDBC and SpringORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Spring Boot.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  • Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on RESTfulAPI utilizing Spring Boot with SpringMVC.  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Responsible for configuring Continuous Integration Server i.e. Jenkins and Sonar Qube.  • Used Mongo DB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, Sharding, and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWSCloudWatch.  • Used JIRA ticketing system to keep track of issues and tasks on individuals.    Environment: JAVA, J2SE, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Ajax, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node JS, JSON, J2EE, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data (Spring JDBC, Spring ORM), JSP, Hibernate, Garbage Collection, Web Sphere, Sonar Qube, JBoss, JUnit, TDD, Mongo DB, Micro services, GITHUB. Java Developer D&B - Center Valley, PA May 2017 to July 2018 Description: Dun & Bradstreet has helped customers and partners accelerate growth and improve their business performance through the power of data and analytics. Our nearly 5,000 employees around the world are dedicated to this unique purpose, and we are guided by important values that make us the established leader in commercial data and insight.    Responsibilities:  • Utilized Struts2 , Spring MVC and Hibernate JPA framework for development  • Involved in Design Development and Implementation of business Applications using Java/J2EE Technologies.  • Web application to manage Unix build stations using C , MVC 4, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, plink.exe for sending remote commands , bash, SQL Server  • Proficient in Java/J2EE technologies like JSP, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Java Servlets, AJAX, JavaBeans, JNDI, JMS, XML, web service using IDEs like Eclipse 3.1/3.5.  • Migrated external DNS from Server 2003 to BIND running on Linux.  • Enables integration of the Fortran models into the scriptable and powerful Python language  • Front-end development using HTML5, SASS, and JavaScript best practices  • Working on Unix Migration and upgrade process.  • Developed product and client workflows using Drools, creating work Item Handlers, split Nodes, Join nodes and connecting them to execute Compliance rules  • Update and reface corporate intranet website with Bootstrap framework for a more modern and responsive design  • Adobe Flex Builder, Flex Pro - developing websites phone Apps.  • Deployed code in Apache Tomcat and Web logic server  • Experience in front end development including extensive experience using Bootstrap framework for responsive site  • Worked on development of UI of various modules mostly based on Adobe Flex.  • I worked on a task to decrease database load for search and moved some part of search to Elastic Search search engine.  • Worked closely with Oracle database in backend to interconnect with user interfaces using native complex SQL queries  • Analyzed audience behavior to identify content opportunities and increase engagement  • Responsible for initiative status updates, initiative/program delivery schedules to larger stakeholder group, which includes LOB executives in a timely manner. The initiatives had projects with complex Oracle/Informatica/Teradata based data warehouse with ETL and Microstrategy/SAS for multidimensional reporting.  • Developing test scripts using Angular JS Protractor testing tools for current release of the project  • Developed HQl queries to develop the finder methods in Data Service.  • Installed, configured, deployed, Monitored and troubleshoot JBOSS 4.2.1/5.0 GA and EAP domains  • Involved in writing packages, stored procedures to access database.  • Created both stand-alone and clustered environments for JBOSS domains  • Extensively worked with Servlets and Struts based multi tier applications in developing J2EE Components.  • Designed, developed maintain a dating site using JavaScript/JQuery, CSS3, Responsive Design, HTML5, MYSQL  • Developed MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session facade, and Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns  • Develop strategies for UNIX client/server implementations architect the infrastructure require to support those strategies.  • Involved in writing all client side validations using Java Script, JSON.  • Good experience in XML technologies such as XSLT, XSD, JAXB and its parsing techniques to build Web Services for the enterprise applications using SOAP and writing DTD, Schema, Name spaces, XSL, Xpath, Xlink, XQuery, XHTML and SAX, DOM and JDOM parsers  • Utilized Log4j logging API for debugging and monitoring purposes.    Environment: Core Java, Java EE, Spring 2.5, Struts 2.x, Hibernate 3.2.1, RAD V7.5,IBM WebSphere 7, WebLogic 10.3, Apache Tomcat 6.0, Web Services, JMS, WebSphere MQ 7.0 Java/J2EE Developer Premier Inc - Charlotte, NC January 2016 to April 2017 Description: Premier, Inc. is a healthcare improvement company that is headquartered in Charlotte, N.C. On October 1, 2013, the company completed its IPO. In 2006, Premier won the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile/TDD environment utilizing a test driven development and SDET approach and pair-programming.  • Developed the application using spring framework that leverages model view layer architecture, also configured Dependency Injection.  • Used Hibernate ORM tools which automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Design of GUI using Model View Architecture STRUTS Frame Work  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate  • Created hibernate mapping files to map POJO to DB tables  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers  • Developing application using Spring core module and POJO's using Eclipse and worked on Messaging service.  • Designed and developed the XSD for WSDL.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries JSTL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application  • Involved in developing the Pig scripts.  • Currently working on fitness tool which aids in Test Driven Development.  • Used JMS for the asynchronous exchange of critical business data and events amongJ2EE components and legacy system.  • Worked with Map/Reduce and stream processing e.g. Storm  • Worked with NoSQL databases such as Cassandra, MongoDB, and Riak  • Supported and provided important feedback to various development teams with regards to the grid computing and caching technology.  • Developed User Interface in JSP, JavaScript and HTML with Backbone JS Framework  • Designed and developed REST-ful style Web Service layer and WSLD.  • Implemented a generic interface to Hibernate criteria API for UI search functionality.  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures along with Shell Scripting- database application scripts.  • Deployment of web, enterprise java components, messaging components and multi-threading.  • Developed XML Schemas - XSD, DTD for the validation of XML documents, also used Subversion.  • XML SAX and DOM API, JDOM , XSLT was used for informative view.  • Used XML web services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is  • Used SWING for GUI based coding.    Environment: Java 1.4, J2EE, JSP 2.0, PL/SQL, Spring 2.0, EJB 2.0, JMS, JNDI, Oracle, XML, DOM, SOAP, JUnit, Apache Camel, WebSphere 8.5, Hibernate 3.0, JDBC, MS SQL Server 2012, JESS, REST-ful Web service, Weblogic 8, Jboss Drools, SOA Design Patterns, Cassandra, NOSQL, Hadoop Java Developer Salient CRGT - San Antonio, TX March 2014 to December 2015 Description:Salient CRGT, Inc. is an American private firm that provides health analytics, cloud services, Agile software development, mobility services, cyber security, data analytics, and infrastructure optimization to civilian, defense, homeland and intelligence agencies.    Responsibilities:  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, and CSS2/3 based on the W3C standards.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using the Angular framework.  • Designed Dynamic and Multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery, and JavaScript.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Ext.JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, and JSP for interactive cross-browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Designed Web Application User Interface, interaction scenarios and navigation based on analysts, interpretations of requirement and use cases.  • There is a configuration widget written in CSS 3, JavaScript, and jQuery framework in UI Layer with Tag library, an application deployed and tested on Linux.  • Developed different GUI screens using JSP and user validations using JavaScript.  • Effectively implemented AJAX in developing dynamic web pages  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS and MVC framework for data access.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Implemented Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of JSON data over HTTP.  • Developed Action controller, Action Forms, Tiles Structure, Validation Structure (for data validation), JSP pages, Form Beans, AJAX code, JavaScript and worked on integration.  • Involved in writing application-level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Worked with Cross-Browser Compatible issues  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS. Built DAO package as well as DAO impl package to implement the data access logic, and using Hibernate Annotation to do the data mapping. Used Log4J API for logging and debugging. Developed UNIX shell scripts for performing administrative tasks.  • Developed the application using agile methodology. Worked on Java Messaging Services (JMS) for developing messaging services.  • Used JERSEY framework to implement the JAX-RS ( Java API for XML and RESTfulService). Used Ant for building and deploying the war file into the application server.  • Worked with Eclipse as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the application. SVN is used for version control systems and source code management.  • Created test cases using JUnit and Mockito. Created automated test cases for the web application using Selenium.  • Configured and set up JBoss Server for deployment. Used JIRA for tracking bugs. Used JENKINS for continuous integration.    Environment: HTML 4/5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSF, JSON, JAVA, Ext.js, Web Services, JSP, jQuery, Angular JS, JSON, JSTL, ECLIPSE, SQL server, MySQL, SVN and MS Office. Java Developer Tribbianis - Pune, Maharashtra December 2012 to February 2014 Description: Tribbianis Software Solutions Pvt Ltd, Pune knows that every business is different,so there are no cookie-cutter solutions.Our approach to software development involves deep analysis of your current processes so we can fully understand your business and create the right solution to help your business reach the next level of efficiency and profitability.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on multiple projects simultaneously.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQueryandJavaScript.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS3.  • Grails web development in Groovy/GSP/jQuery for CSC government division. Spearheaded innovative workflow mechanism. Initiated Specs unit testing framework. Agile environment  • Using the advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Develop various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux libraries.  • Formulate and define system scope and objective based on user needs and thorough understanding of business processes  • Participated in numerous creative brainstorm sessions with strategists, storyboards, design specifications, and screen layouts that were shared with Directors and other team members  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax and CSS  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers  • Designed the table fewer web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards  • Continuously provide input to project management activities throughout the project lifecycle influencing scope, risk plan, project plan, issues and status    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Agile methodology, Eclipse. Java UI Developer Excersinc - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to November 2012 Description: It helps companies gain real, measureable business value from their implementation of leading technology solutions in the areas of Project Portfolio Management, Business to Business Integration, Workforce Management, and Enterprise Architecture.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in SCRUM's and Sprints of Agile Methodology.  • Created detailed design documents (UML diagrams like Use case, Class, Sequence, and Component diagrams) using Rational Rose.  • Involved in design activities that are HLD (High-Level Design) and LLD (Low-Level Design)  • Designed and developed front-end using JSP, JSTL, EL, and other custom tag libraries.  • Expertise in Web Page development using XML, XSLT.  • Involved in Web Page development using YUI Library.  • Involved in the design and prepared use case diagrams, sequence diagrams, and class diagrams for various modules.  • The Presentation Layer was developed using HTML, JSP, JSF, CSS, JavaScript, and JSTL.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate  • Developed test classes in JUnit for implementing unit testing.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using concepts like IOC of Spring Framework  • Designed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS) to exchange of critical business data and events among J2EE components and the legacy system.  • Expose and Consume REST web services to get the data from different contracts from different clients and expose the warehouse inventory details for consumer tracking  • Used Spring MVC in the Web Layer  • Involved in configuring and deploying the application using WebSphere.  • Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using Hibernate ORM.  • Transaction Management using the Hibernate configurations  • Write and modify database stored procedures, triggers, functions, and PL/SQL Scripts.  • Created Forms and Reports using Oracle.  • Involved in writing shell scripts for deploying the application on UNIX.  • Involved in build management and build resolution activities of e-commerce project.  • Involved in Smoke Testing, Testing, bug fixing and documentation of the system.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, JDBC, JSP, Web Services, REST, Oracle, JavaScript, HTML, CSS3, jQuery, JUnit 4, AJAX, SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jaxp, Jboss, Jdk, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Design patterns, Git, Groovy, Javascript, Reactjs, Oop, Reporting tools Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 8 (JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8), Eclipse, Java Swings, JSF, JUnit, Log4J, Ant, Maven  Methodologies/Design patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Singleton  Web Technologies  Java, C, PL/SQL, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, AJAX, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, Java beans, AWS, JDBC, AngularJS, Angular2,Angular4, NodeJS, ReactJS,Express,MEANstack,JavaBatch,ANT    XML/Web Services XML, XSD, WSDL, SOAP, Apache Axis, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML Beans, SOAP, RESTful Web Services  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Groovy.  Application/Web Servers WebLogic 8.x/9.x/10. x. JBOSS 3.x/4.0, IBM Web Sphere 4.0/5.x/6. x.  IDE Tools  Eclipse, Oracle JDeveloper, JUnit, WinCVS, Maven, Grunt, ANT, Log4J, Agile, TOAD, SQL Developer,TTD, XMLSpy, JIRA, UML, Subversion, Find Bugs, Git, eGit, GitBash,Zenhub,Trello, Postman, zebhub,MockitoTrello, Splunk    Databases Oracle 11g/12C, MySQL, SQL, MongoDB.  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, BO XI R3.  Cloud AWS.  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, Clear Case, Git.  Testing Selenium, Karma.  Modelling/Wire Framing, LESS, SASS/SCSS.  Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, Macintosh HD.