Salesforce Administrator/Dev Salesforce Administrator/Dev Salesforce Administrator/Dev - ACTINVER SECURIITIES Houston, TX • Having 4+ years of experience in Administration & Developing in Salesforce CRM.  • Salesforce.com Certified Force.com Developer.  • Excelled in working with various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Worked on the designing of Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, custom fields, role-based Page Layouts, design of Visual Force Pages, Reports, Dashboards and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Experience with tools like Apex Data loader, Jitterbit data loader for Force.com Data Migration.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL, Visualforce, APEX on Force.com.  • Good knowledge on Apex development in creating Triggers, Apex Classes, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers and Controller Extensions.  • Experience working with Force.com IDE, Data Loader, Import Wizard and salesforce.com Sandbox Environments.  • Experienced in working and Configuring Price Quote (CPQ)  • Implemented Security and Sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Involved in Deployment of code from Salesforce.com Sandbox to the Production environment using Change Sets, Aside.io.  • Created Lightning Pages with Lightning Components.  • Migrated Salesforce classic to salesforce Lightning and implemented complete functionality into lightning.  • Worked with third party API tools like SKYVIA and DocuSign to reach the users requirements.  • Proficient in analyzing business requirements and implementing them to Salesforce objects, master-detail relationships, lookup relationships.  • Capable of working in a group as well as independently.  • Having good knowledge in design visual force pages with responsive designs by using Bootstrap, HTML, CSS. Work Experience Salesforce Administrator/Dev ACTINVER SECURIITIES - Houston, TX July 2017 to Present • Developed Lightning components and Lightning apps to provide better and more interactive interfaces to end users, which help in sales enhancements.  • Worked on Apex classes, Visualforce Pages, Controller classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Implemented SFDC Integration using REST/SOAP Web Service API'S for extracting the data from external systems.  • Migrated some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Built unique Lightning pages as per business needs with the Lightning Community Builder.  • Worked on Lightning Process builder flows, Connect API, Chatter and quick Action.  • Worked on salesforce Wave analytics for optimizing the mobile access and data visualization.  • Created custom Report types and Dashboards so that users can generate reports and visualize data on dashboards.  • Used SOQL and SOSL for querying the objects.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects Account, Contact, Leads, Opportunity, Cases, Order standard objects.  • Implemented Email to lead, Web to lead functionalities and Data Loader to bulk load leads data into salesforce.com from other databases and CSV files.  • Used Force.com IDE for development of Visual Force Pages, Apex classes, Triggers and debugging and analyzing logs.  • Performed Apex Callouts from salesforce to the same external system to get tracking information of an order.  • Deployed application from Sandbox to Production environments using Change Set, Eclipse and Force.com Migration tool.  • Integrated the web services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data.    Environment: salesforce.com, Apex, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Lightning (components and controllers), Communities, Pages, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, jQuery, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Data Migration, SOQL, SOSL. Salesforce Developer CITI Bank - Tampa, FL February 2017 to June 2017 • Designed, developed and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages, Apex classes to suit to the needs of the application.  • Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Worked on Salesforce Lightning Components for building customized components replacing the existing ones.  • Experience in modifying Visualforce pages to be supported in Lightning and good experience and good understanding of Lightning mode and its features.  • Create various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements.  • Designed and developed workflow rules, validation rules and customizations within Salesforce.com.  • Worked with Dynamic Apex to access Objects and Field describe information, execute dynamic SOQL, SOSL and DML queries.  • Used Picklists, Dependent Picklists, and Record Types to enforce data quality.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Worked with Data Loader for data migration and performed Insert, Update, Import and Export operations.    Environment: Salesforce.com CRM Application Platform, Apex Language, Visual Force, S-Controls, HTML, JavaScript, Custom Objects, Tabs, Page Layouts, Workflows, Validation rules, Email, Dashboards, Reports, Eclipse, Sandbox, Production environment. Teaching Assistant and Salesforce Admin/ Developer Kent State University - Kent, OH February 2016 to December 2016 • Good with Configure Price Quote Product and Pricing, also understand configuration settings as they relate to business requirements, also good with standard Quote Proposal creation process.  • Executed SOQL queries in workbench and data loader to verify Product/Pricing staging data in SFDC/CPQ.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Opportunities.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Components and Visual Force Pages.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes    Environment: Salesforce.com CRM Application Platform, Apex Language, Visual Force, S-Controls, HTML, JavaScript, CPQ, Custom Objects, Tabs, Page Layouts, Workflows, Validation rules, Email, Dashboards, Reports, Approval Process, Process Builder. Salesforce Administrator/ Developer Value Labs - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2015 to December 2015 • Worked on various Salesforce .com Standard objects like Accounts, Opportunities, Leads, Campaign, Events, Tasks, Contacts, Cases, Reports and Dashboards  • Worked effectively to ensure that the data is protected and is made available to the authorized users by customizing the user Roles, Role hierarchies, Profiles and Sharing settings.  • Involved in the Development of Apex Classes, Visualforce pages.  • Worked on Salesforce CRM platform on different environment of SFDC such as Sales and Service clouds.  • Made new enhancements on service cloud console view and developed many Visual force components.  • Used Service Cloud to allow users to automate service processes, streamline workflows.  • Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  • Created various Custom Objects, Tabs, Formula fields, Validation rules, Approval process, Record Type, Picklist, Dependent Pick lists, List views.  • Created relationships among Objects using lookup and master-detail relationships and created the junction objects.  • Used Data Loader, Command Line Interface, ETL tools for loading.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, Page Layouts and Record types and configured the permission based on the organization hierarchy requirements.  • Developed several Custom Reports and Dashboards that are used by Business user and Managers.  • Participated in Creating and customizing Email template and configuring them to the email alert within the workflow rule for a Standard Custom Objects.  • Created Workflow rules and defined related tasks, Email alerts and Field updates.  • Hands on Experience in Creating Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.    Environment: Salesforc.com platform, Apex, Visualforce (pages, Component and Controllers) pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sharing rules, Web-to-lead, Work Flow automation. Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Intern ( Java) APP2 Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to August 2014 • Participated in technical discussions within the team or other groups within the Business Units associated with specific projects.  • Coordinating with L2 team for production issues.  • Prepared Minutes of Meeting Docs (MOM)  • Front end validations were done using JavaScript. Education Master's computer and Information Science Kent State University Kent - Kent, OH Bachelors in AP Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Kakinada - Indi, Karnataka Skills APEX (4 years), LOADER (4 years), ECLIPSE (3 years), JAVA (3 years), FORCE.COM (2 years), Salesforce, Salesforce Admin Additional Information Technical Skills:    Salesforce Technologies: Salesforce CRM, Lightning Components, Standard/Custom  Objects, Roles and Profiles, Workflows, Assignments, Validation  Rules and Approvals, Triggers, Record Types, Visual Force, Apex,  SOQL, SOSL, Web services, Data Loader.  Web Technologies: SOAP, REST API'S, WSDL, HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, XML,  PHP, CSS3, jQuery, JSON.  Languages: JAVA/J2EE, C++, C, APEX, AngularJS, Python.  IDE: Force.com IDE, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Adobe Flash  ETL/Integration Tools: Informatica, Force.com, Data loader, Force.com, Workbench, Cast systems, TIBCO, Composite, Scribe, Jenkins, Git-Hub.  Database: PL/SQL, SQL Server, Oracle, My SQL.    Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, UNIX, Mac OS X