Java/J2EE/UI Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE/UI Developer - Vanguard Financial Services Malvern, PA • 8+ years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle - Software analysis, design, architecture, development, testing, deployment, and maintenance.  • Experience in developing REST web services using Java, Spring, Jersey and SOAP services using Spring, Apache CXF.  • Strong hands on experience in developing user interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, Javascript, Jquery, Angular 4 and Angular-JS.  • Hands on experience in working on XML Suite of technologies (XML, XSD, DTD, XML Schema, DOM) and very strong Business Modeling skills using Rational Unified Process, OOAD and UML.  • Extensive experience in designing and developing Enterprise Applications for J2EE platform using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, JSTL, Swing, Apache tiles, Struts, Spring, Spring Webflow, Shell Scripting, Hibernate, XML, SOA, Web service, Axis, NetBeans, Eclipse, ANT.  • Strong programming skills using Java, JPA, JTA, JNDI, JSP, Servlet, Java Beans, JSTL, JDBC, XML-based languages (X3D, XSL), JSP, JSP with JSTL, AJAX, JQueries, XSLT, Bootstrap, Servlets, JSF (RichFaces, PrimeFaces).  • Extensive experience in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, and Pair Programming.  • Expertise in Cutting Edge Technologies like EJB, JMS, REST, Jersey, JTA, and Web Sphere MQ Series with good experience in Developing and Deploying Enterprise Java Beans on Application Servers like WebLogic, WebSphere, Jboss and Tomcat.  • Proficient in using Struts framework and design patterns like Singleton, DTO, DAO, Factory, Session Facade, Front Controller and Service Locator.  • Expertise in client-side design and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, MS FrontPage, JSP, Struts Tag Library, AngularJS, ExtJS.  • Hands on experience in working with IBM RAD and WAS server.  • Experienced in RDBMS Design, ER modeling, SQL, PL/SQL, procedures, cursors, functions, triggers.  • Proficiency in working with all databases like Oracle, MySQL, DB2, MongoDB, CouchDB, Cassandra.  • Extensive experience with IBM Web Sphere Server, BEA Web logic, JBoss & Tomcat server.  • Expertise using version control tools like CVS, GIT, SVN, VSS and Rational ClearCase.  • Expertise in using Apache Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins(CI) build tools.  • Experienced in writing unit test cases using Junit, TestNG, Mockito, Cucumber, Selenium and using tools like JIRA, Confluence and Rally.  • Experienced in developing and deploying applications to AWS using continuous integration tools like Jenkins.  • Experience in using Docker for deployment of applications inside software containers in Linux.  • learning of new technologies that will allow for a more effective design and implementation.  • Excellent track record of leading end to end implementation and integration projects to successful completion under tight deadlines.  • Intellectual capacity to grasp new situations quickly and problem-solving skills.  • Worked on various domains such as logistics, human resources, insurance, financial and electronics.  • Involved in developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated), Test Procedures and white-box and black-box testing. Work Experience Java/J2EE/UI Developer Vanguard Financial Services - Malvern, PA June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE SCRUM methodology.  • Participated in the application architecture, development tools for web solutions that fulfill the business requirements of the project.  • Designed and Developed User interfaces using Angular 4, Typescript, HTML5, Prime-NG, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Configured routing in the application for the components using Angular Router Module  • Worked with Angular Http services to make REST API calls for various CRUD operations.  • Developed unit and integration tests for various Angular components using Angular CLI, Jasmine, Spy and Angular Test Bed.  • Worked with template driven forms to create data entry screens using Angular forms module.  • Worked extensively on Spring boot for building web services. Used MAVEN in each project to automate the builds and managing project.  • Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework and handled the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Configured spring beans following the Spring Framework's Dependency Injection (DI) and Inversion of Control (IOC) principles, both xml and annotation based.  • Used Spring MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different DPs.  • Designed and developed microservices business components using Spring Boot.  • Built REST web microservices in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end Angular Ajax calls.  • Entailed in system design and development in core java using Collections, multithreading.  • Built DAO package as well as DAO IMPL package to implement the data access logic and using Hibernate Annotation to do the data mapping.  • Developed JUnit test cases for back-end logic implementation development. Used SonarQube for code coverage.  • Developed QUnit test code for JavaScript test case for front-end tests. Involved in implementing BDD functionality of extreme programming in software development life cycle.  • Developed BDD automation scripts using Cucumber tool and Selenium.  • Used Subversion SVN and GIT for version control, and JIRA for tracking bugs.  • Setup and Configured Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Deployment process.  • Used Advanced REST Client and POSTMAN for testing JSON output using.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring Boot, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Spring RESTful web services, Angular 4, Spring Boot, Typescript, Ajax, JUNIT, SVN, GIT, Jenkins, Cucumber, Protractor, Jasmine, Karma, Webpack, Angular CLI, AWS, Oracle, New Relic monitoring, Mockito Java/J2EE/UI Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA November 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked in developing three different applications in AWS environment from scratch.  • Designed and developed the applications using Agile methodology and followed ATDD, Scrum.  • Documented User Stories in JIRA and facilitated Story Point discussions to analyze the level of effort on project specifications.  • Documented Build and process of the application on team collaboration tool Confluence and using GitHub pages.  • Created UI for an internal application using Angular JS, Bootstrap, HTML and CSS for better user performance.  • Developed multiple Angular Reusable Components for the UI in Typescript.  • Called REST web services through Angular JS services to get JSON Object and modified the response object to display in UI.  • Involved in designing the client-side module architecture based on new Angular Framework.  • Worked in developing custom validations for forms on the front-end in Typescript.  • Day to day interactions with the scrum master, architect and team lead for story progress in every Sprint.  • Met with the project manager frequently for reviewing project goals and for creating proposals for future developments and researching their fields for UI design.  • Used Spring Batch with Spring Boot framework for developing a batch application for Loyalty Rewards.  • Experience in managing the artifacts generated by MAVEN in the Nexus and Artifactory repository.  • Designed and developed two API's using RESTful web services and used Spring JPA for persisting data in PostgreSQL database.  • Developed Controllers, Services and custom Validations with custom error responses for web services.  • Designed schema for relational database POSTGRES shared by multiple applications.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Chef.  • Used Terraform for automation deployment in AWS of Batch application.  • Created parameterized Cloud formation templates for provisioning various AWS resources like RDS, EC2 and Simple Storage Service(S3) in various environments.  • Deployed Rest Web Service in Docker containers in AWS ECS cluster.  • Created Policy documents and worked with admin team in creating IAM role for the application.  • Created multiple Bucket Policies for S3.  • Created RDS instance and Simple Storage Service(S3) buckets using Cloud formation service in AWS console.  • Created a LAMBDA in AWS for automating file transfer from S3 and created SNS topics for monitoring the resources.  • Developed Unit Tests using Junit, Mockito and Power Mock and Involved in functional and Integration testing  • Developed Integration tests for Spring boot batch application.  • Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic. Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring  • Created ATDD suite for more effective testing for batch application and web services.  • Created Automated tests framework in Cucumber for Restful Web services.  • Hands on experience of Build & Deployment phases and usage of Continuous Integration (CI/CD) tools i.e. Jenkins.  • Used Git and SVN for version control in maintaining source code for multiple applications.    Environment: HTML5, AWS, CSS, Selenium, ATDD, GIT, Ajax, PostgreSQL, Splunk, ELK, Angular 4, Angular CLI, Webpack, NodeJS, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, REST, Junit, Mockito, PowerMock, MockMVC, Jasmine, Karma, Gradle, Selenium, Protractor, Lambda, Cloud formation, SNS, Cucumber, Jira, Confluence, Windows. Java/J2EE/UI Developer State Farm - Bloomington, IL January 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Application development was carried out following Agile-Scrum methodology.  • Developed the application using Angular-JS, Spring, Jersey, Angular-UI, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript  • Developed Angular services, controllers and crated models for two-way data binding.  • Designing user Interface using Angular UI components such as tabs, grids, dropdowns and configured the routing service using Angular-JS router.  • Involved in developing Angular-JS directives to do reusable UI components.  • Involved in designing of the application following Spring- Jersey architecture  • Used Angular Http services to display the content on the browser and took part in creating custom reusable components.  • Developed Spring-Jersey REST resources to serve the web application with JSON data.  • Used Apache Tomcat application server for application deployment and used Grunt for JavaScript packaging.  • Used Spring declarative transaction management to manage transactions in the application.  • Responsible for retrieving data from various sources such as Microsoft SQL and XML documents.  • Deployed restful web services, Configured JMS end points, Message routing, JDBC connectors using ESB.  • Developed Spring AOP logging aspects for the application, which is used across modules.  • Developed Spring services and data access objects and used Spring Mongo Template to map java classes to MongoDB collections and documents.  • Experience in MongoDB, creating collections and performing scan and query operations based on the hash and range keys.  • Built a restful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB  • Developed Spring services and data access objects and used Spring transaction management in the application.  • Developed Spring JMS message listeners to consume messages from queues.  • Developed Spring batch jobs for importing xml data in to database and for email notifications.  • Used Junit and Mockito for testing the application and log4j for logging the application.  • Developed angular unit test cases to test angular components using Karma and Jasmine.  • Worked with AWSEC2 instances for Tomcat, created custom scripts and applications using the AWS SDK.  • Involved SOAP-UI old side/new side testing/recursive testing.  • Involved in Behavior driven development (BDD) using Cucumber-JVM.  • Used Maven build tool to build and deploy the application and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Developed the application using J2EE architecture specification and Design patterns.  • Used extensively Eclipse in development and debugging the application.  • Used SVN version controller to manage the code versions.    Environment: Core Java 1.7, Spring, Jersey, Angular-JS 1.3, JMS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSON, Angular-UI, Agile-Scrum, MongoDB, Jasmine, Junit, Log4j, AWS, Apache Tomcat 7.0 Java/J2EE Developer Prokarma - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using Agile-Scrum methodology.  • Designed and developed web application using JSF, Spring and AJAX technology and UI using JSF, Apache PrimeFaces and Richfaces components.  • Designed and Developed the UI pages using JSF Apache RichFaces with MVC Design Pattern.  • Developed JSF custom converters, validators and configured application internalization resources in faces-config.xml.  • Developed JSF managed beans with various scopes and performed implicit and explicit navigations.  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Spring.  • Wrote many JavaScripts to do client-side validations.  • Involved in transforming XML data in to Java Objects using a JAXB binding tool.  • Wrote builds and deployment scripts using ANT and was also responsible in maintaining them.  • Wrote Junit classes for the services and prepared documentation.  • Used Apache Tomcat application server for application deployment  • Used JAX-WS (SOAP)for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services using SOA with CXF framework.  • Used JSP's HTML on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages.  • Developed the entire application web-based client implementing MVC Architecture using spring framework.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work in conjunction with spring functionality.  • Used Spring framework to inject the DAO and Bean objects, auto wiring the components.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Implemented dozer bean mapping for mapping the domain objects.  • Used SQL Queries in Java code to do select/update/delete depending upon the business requirement.  • Also used Stored procedures connecting to the database using spring JDBC.  • Responsible for modifying existing xml schema definition as per client's requirements.  • Extensively worked with XML schema, XSL/XSLT, XML to navigate in XML documents, and DOM4J to process and parse xml files.  • Extensively worked on XML Altova Map Force for the transformations of xml to xslt.  • Used XPATH to navigate through Attributes and Elements in an XML Document.  • Used JAXB to marshal and unmarshal the xml- java object, java objects-xml  • Extensively used JSP to develop schema viewer applications.  • Developed dynamic interfaces in JSP, JQUERY, AJAX, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Build a custom JQUERY framework based on the user requirements providing structure and consistency throughout the application.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  • Expertise in Creating Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate Mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Implemented drag and drop, calendar widget, print functionality using JQuery.  • Used Git as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.  • Used Gradle as a build tool automating the building, testing, publishing and deployment loading all the dependencies from the nexus artifact repository.  • A WebSphere JNDI naming tree is maintained for the external configuration of a service.    Environment: Core Java 1.7, Spring, Hibernate, JSF 2, Primefaces, Richfaces, Jquery, Ajax, GIT, Gradle, ANT, XML, JAXB, JMS, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Agile-Scrum, Oracle, Junit, Log4j, Apache Tomcat 7.0 Java Developer Mastek - IN June 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Implemented Struts Framework and Hibernate in the new version of the Application.  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts and JavaScript.  • Developed Action classes, Dyna Action Forms and used Validation framework.  • Used EJB Stateless/Stateful session beans to implement business logic, session handling, and transaction and deployed Enterprise Java Beans both Session and Entity on WebSphere Application Server.  • Implement modules into NodeJs to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Taken care of java Multi-Threading in common java classes/library.  • Extensively used Java Scripts to enforce client side validations and also used JQuery for Ajax processing.  • Involved in development/ maintenance of various web services using IBM WebSphere to interact with other Applications.  • Involved in unit testing, troubleshooting and debugging. Modifying existing programs with enhancements.  • Worked on Linux environment for deploying the application, running scripts for jobs.  • Involved in fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application.  • Worked as the part of a core team to monitor and enhance the performance of the application.    Environment: Core Java, Jakarta Struts Framework, Hibernate, EJB, Web Services, CSS, NodeJs, Eclipse, CVS, Boot, WebSphere Application Server 6.5, JUnit, UNIX, JavaScript, SOA, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JQuery, DB2. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (7 years), JUNIT (7 years), TESTING (7 years), WEB SERVICES (7 years), CSS (6 years), Java J2Ee, Rest, J2Ee, Core Java, Spring, Soap, Hibernate, AWS, MVC, JEE, Angular, Javascript, Angularjs, JSP Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java 1.8/1.7/1.6/1.5, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, UML  Technologies  JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, JDBC, Struts, RMI, EJB, Hibernate, Spring, Web Services, SOA, JMS, SAX and DOM Parsers, AJAX, JAXB, JAXP1, LDAP    Web Technologies HTML/DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JSF, XML, XSL, XSLT, CSS, Angular 2/4, AngularJS, ExtJS.  Development Tools (IDEs) Eclipse, MyEclipse, STS, RAD, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, Brackets, Atom, VS Code  Web/Application Servers Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic, IBM WebSphere.  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Session Façade, Singleton, Business Delegate, DAO, DTO patterns  RDBMS Oracle10g/11g, MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL, DB2.  NoSQL Databases MongoDB, Cassandra and CouchDB  Platforms Windows, UNIX, LINUX  Testing Tools Junit, Selenium, Mockito, testNG, Cucumber  Version Control CVS, GIT, SVN, VSS and Rational ClearCase.  Methodologies Agile Methodology, RUP, Extreme Programming, RAD  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins.