Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Developer - PEGA New York, NY I am a highly motivated and organized PRPC developer and lead with over 7+ years IT experience. Have worked on several technologies like Java, XML, PL/SQL, Pega Rules Process Commander (PRPC).  Good command on developing Business Process Management (BPM) and Business Rules Engine (BRE) applications using Pega Rules Process Commander.  Very Proficient in Pega Implementation Cycle which includes PRPC tool installation, design, development, testing and implementation.  Experience is wide area of domains like Banking, Insurance and Health care.  Experience implementing Pega Guardrails using various versions of Pega PRPC.  Experience in creating High level Class Structures and Rule sets in PRPC.  Extensive experience in gathering, documenting, and analyzing business needs and requirements and worked on several Project methodologies like Six Sigma, Waterfall, RUP, Scrum and Agile.  Extensively worked on CPM Framework.  Experience in RDBMS technologies like Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, MS-SQL.  Used Connector Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Developer PEGA - New York, NY February 2017 to Present • Technical design of Pega module and resolve the blockers for the team.  • Interaction with Business users to understand Use Cases and requirements.  • Created High Level Class structure, Workflows and Rule sets in Pega PRPC  • Implementation of PRPC components like Decision tables, Decision Maps, Declarative expressions, Constraints and Indexes etc.  • Implementation of Business Intelligence Exchange (BIX) for reporting.  • Implementation of JMS for external application communication.  • Created Activities, steps and methods like property set, page new, calling other activities for implementing core business logic.  • Involved in Direct Capture of Objectives (DCO) Sessions to gather requirements and use cases.  • Implemented Single Sign on functionality for the company business users.  • Created Decision and Declarative rules, flows, action flows, validation rules.  • Created Section, Layouts, New, Perform, Confirm and Review Harness for UI screens  • Used RDB Method to created Database Connection and Created Web services using Connect SOAP.  • Extensive use of Case Management Framework to maintain and run the client business.  • Developed Rules for validation and integration pertained to RuleConnect and RuleService.  • Customized Interaction Driver (Pega CPM) according to business needs.  • Coordinated implementation, Integration, UAT and also for bug fix and enhancement activities.  • Created Data models, Activities, Access groups and Access Roles Sr. Pega Developer PEGA - Milpitas, CA November 2015 to January 2017 • Worked with Project Managers, Business Leads, and Business Analysts to define business requirements for designing, testing, and building Pega systems solutions to meet those requirements.  • Involved in Inception, Elaboration, and Construction and Transition phases of the application.  • Participated in the requirements gathering and analysis with the business users.  • Understand various components of the system configuration and applied intelligence to the conversion issues.  • Created Activities and core business logic.  • Created Data classes and DB tables for integrating with external systems.  • Developed Front End Screens using Harness, Flow Actions, Sections rules and validations  • Implemented various PRPC components like Decision tables, Decision Maps, Declarative expressions, Constraints etc.  • Developed Rules for Validations.  • Designed Workflows and implemented the requirements following the Use Case documents and Pega Guardrails.  • Performed peer code reviews and followed Pega Guardrails.  • Had Troubleshoot technical problems and conducted analyses for efficient program/application solutions which support client business processes and functional requirements.  • Debugging the application code and fixing defects found during Integration system testing and user acceptance testing  • Creation of search reports using report definition rules of PRPC.  • Involved in the customizing of portals.  • Attached SLA assignments and created SLA activities based on project requirements    Six sigms, EBJ, mercury, Developer May 2013 to September 2015 • Worked with the line of business to evolve existing production process to comply with new government and corporate regulations.  • Worked in the Design and Development of Data Model, Process Flow, Activities, and UI Properties Wrote SLAs and Activities to show the assignment on the exception case to resolve the case.  • Involved in Bug Fixing Activities with Lead and System Architects for Harness, Declare Expressions and When Rules.  • Implementation of Decision tables, Decision Maps and Declarative Expression Developed the Session Bean, home and remote Interface for implementing the session facade design pattern.  • Involved in Change Management aspects including defining and implementing procedures / technologies to deal with change in • Business Environment. Extensively used PRPC-PAL tool for performance testing.  • Developed SOAP service to provide service to external systems.  • Designed and developed the User interface for the application by creating the harness and section rules Created Data classes and DB tables for integrating with external systems.  • Developed Validation Rules and Integration rules pertained to Rule-Connect- and Rule-Service.  • Implemented various PRPC components like Decision tables, Decision Maps, Declarative expressions, Constraints, and Indexes etc.  • Used BIX to extract all BPM data Work details, Assignments and Processes.  • Participated in the requirements gathering and analysis with the business users.  • Administration activities like creation of Access Groups, applications, operator IDs, rule set versioning and locking, taking wraps and importing on QA machines for Quality Assurance. Java Developer Infosys February 2011 to April 2013 • Extensively developed EJB's for implementing the business logics.  • Implemented JMS technology for asynchronously sending and receiving the messages.  Created frameworks using design patterns that include Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object (DAO), singleton classes, business delegates, and service locator.  • Developed classes for handling the client requests using Servlets, Flash Remoting Servlets and helper bean classes Developed several Stored Procedures for implementing business logics for submitting the bids, pginating the licenses, verifying the submit bids.  • Worked extensively in all parts of the project for performance tuning, code cleanup, automated builds, version Manager Control.  • Developed prototypes for hibernate for object/relational persistence and query service. Successfully developed and deployed the module in clustered environment for Web sphere Application Server.  • ANT script is used to create WAR and EAR files.  • Created Java Servlets and other classes deployed as EAR file, connecting to SQL server database using JDBC.  • Developed the business logic using Java Beans and Session Beans.  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider. This feature was implemented using XML, SOAP.  • Developed Event Logging & Error Reporting application using Servlets.  • Built customer tag handlers and description library.  • Developed view pages and Java Beans (JSP, Java Beans, HTML, SQL) Developed system to access to legacy system database (JDBC).  • Developed remote accessing to customers requirements.  • Modeled EJBs and other classes using Rational Rose.  • Designed data flow system, divided data flow to modules, defined function and interface.  • Designed database RE diagrams tables, data constrains, triggers, stored procedures and functions (MS SQL Server, SQL).  • Developed procedures and functions, user interfaces and error handles for bookkeeping and RMB transaction modules (SQL), writing user manual and training users. Java Developer Ancestry - Lehi, UT November 2009 to January 2011 • Worked on migrating stacks running on data centres to AWS cloud.  • Developed micro services to configure and manage Jobs for all of our stacks.  • Used Spring Quartz scheduler to schedule cron Jobs.  • Used Hibernate and Spring JPA to persist Job data as part of Jobs Micro Services.  • Worked with Angular 4.0 along with Angular CLI to create UI for the Micro Services.  • Used CSS and Bootstrap to create the UI.  • Improved the performance of application by configuring Mem Cache and scaling the kubernetes Pod instances.  • Created new endpoints for existing stacks for additional functionality.  • Used Spring MVC to write services which would be exposed through a REST API.  • Worked in CI/CD process to integrate and deploy our stacks.  • Wrote groovy script to pipeline the deployment process in Jenkins.  • Used Kibana to check for logs and identify errors.  • Configured probe on stacks to look into the errors, start/stop servers.  • Validated and thoroughly tested out our stacks before the migration.  • Used Jmeter and New Relic to test the performance of our stacks.  • Added a scaling group policy for our stacks.  • Worked on creating plans for AWS cloud migration of stacks.  • Used Terraform scripting to configure stacks on AWS.  • Used Git as a version control tool for our stacks and updated code, resolved conflicts using it.  • Worked on time-zone conversion of our stacks during the migration to AWS.  • Used SQL queries and written stored procs for implementing time-zone conversions for existing database.  • Used Junit and Mockito frameworks to write integration and Unit tests.  • Checked code coverage using SonarQube. Education Bachelor's Skills JSP (2 years), MERCURY (1 year), CRM (Less than 1 year), CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS    JIRA  CRM  JSP  JSP  EBJ  Mercury