Sr. Software Developer Sr. Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - Charter Communications New York, NY Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Charter Communications - New York, NY January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented the Spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  • Proven expertise in implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO).  • Windows Server machines running PostgreSQL DBMS, presented with HTML5 and CSS  • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables  • Developed Hibernate mapping files for the Object Relational Mapping while configuring Hibernate, Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integrating JSP with Hibernate and Spring frameworks  • Developed IBATIS config files for SYBASE D.B tables, stored process  • Designed and Developed JavaScript frame work (Angular.js) which is wrapper on top of JQuery frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets  • Created Web Applications with real-time, two-way connection, where both Client and Server can initiate communication by using Angular.js.  • Professional experience in designing, development, testing, deployment and support of applications programmed in Python, Django, Flask, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Apache, Nginx, Gunicorn.  • Performed Coding using OOP PERL, Shell, SED, AWK, Navicli commands.  • Troubleshoot and Maintain Sybase ASE Internal Procedures.  • Configured Sybase ASE sysmon & MDA monitoring queries.  • Implemented various Widget for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture  application using Node.js, Express and Jade on the backend.  • Experience in making Responsive web pages (RWD) using Bootstrap.js, RESTful API web development and media queries and Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Developed a module in PHP and SQL Server with MVC to asynchronously manage various details of tests and plots. Used backbone.js and fat free framework (PHP) to connect client side application to backend with RESFul JSON interface.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Implemented Java Script validation frame work for client side & server side.  • Participated in the design and construction of 2 Proof of Concepts for a CCS end-to-end workflow business process using EMC Documentum Process Management Suite and Oracle BPM JDeveloper.  • Extensively used Oracle programming using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Implemented and Maintained a Multi-Datacenter Cassandra cluster.  • Extensive experience in installation, configuration, management and deployment of Big Data components and the underlying infrastructure of Hadoop Cluster.  • In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design. Open source framework like Jersey used for create REST API  • Migrating SOAP based API to REST.  • Coordinating with team members for developing Flex components using ActionScript and other Java services for WebServices.  • Created an HTML website and mobile applications that students could easily understand and use within Eclipse and Netbeans.  • Designed and developed SOA based enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite and WebLogic  • Administered bot Git and Subversion repositories for an enterprise code off.  • Helped optimize ruby-on-rails based tool used for diagnostics of GitHub Enterprise appliances.  • Used WebLogic, VSS, JUnit and few other Eclipse plug-ins.  • Mentoring of junior members for agile (Scrum) process & Junit testing.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML.  • Developed Hibernate mapping files for the Object Relational Mapping while configuring Hibernate, Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integrating JSP with Hibernate and Spring frameworks  • Worked on XML validations, Marshalling and Unmarshalling XML into Java Objects and vice versa using JAXB.  • Developed web services using Apache Axis2 in Java and SOAP/WSDL on SOA architecture.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Jquery, Ajax, Sencha Extjs, Javascript, Oracle, Crud, Pl/Sql, Jdbc,Apache Cxf, Rest, Eclipse, Weblogic, Clearcase, Junit, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Jstl ( Java Server Pagesstandard Tag Library), Servlet, Maven, Itext, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jasper Report, Ilog, Web 2.0, Soa, Scripting, Jms, Jboss, Dbms, Sybase. SR. Java full stack Developer Freddie Mac - McLean, VA September 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering from the Business Analysts and for preparing the requirement specification document  • Involved in design, development and testing of software development life cycle  • Involved in structuring and execution of MVC configuration design utilizing spring framework for Web-level  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection(DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations. This functionality is implemented by developingRESTFUL web services using spring boot  • Worked on developing the backend part of the application involving spring framework, and Web Services  • Implemented Splunk logging to move Business Entities in to the separate log file  • Developed the code for calling the external Webservice through Spring  • Implemented the CRA error code logic to call the external Webservices  • Developed a cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing Angular.Js, JavaScript API  • Wrote the front end look and appearance for the screens using JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, jQuery  • Worked with MI team to Implement SonarQube for code quality check and code coverage integrated them into Jenkins to achieve Continuous Integration  • Setting up the build, configuration and auto deploying using Maven build tool  • Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control  • Consumed SOAP web services for our Application  • Followed Agile Methodology and Scrum list as a Software development process  • Prepared Junit test cases using Mockito and Power Mockito and executed the test cases using Junit for the entire project and implemented build process for maven for TDD  • Deployment of ear and war files in WebLogic Server  • Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database  • Developing scalable applications in a dynamic environment, primarily using Java, Spring web services and object/relationship mapping tools  • Implemented log4j for logging purposes and debug the application  • Designed and implemented customized exception handling to handle the exceptions in the application  • Communicated development status on a regular basis to technology team members    Environment: Java8, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, SOA, Maven, Jenkins, Angular, SOAP, GIT, XML, Oracle, WebLogic,Agile, JSON, SonarQube Sr. Java Developer Hyla Mobile - Foster City, CA March 2015 to August 2016 HYLA Mobile, formerly Recycling Corps, is one of the world's leading providers of products and services that capture extend and optimize the life and value of used mobile phones. We are transforming the wireless ecosystem by helping consumers realize and immediately take advantage of the residual value of their used devices, and are providing a reliable and responsible way of collecting, processing and distributing used mobile phones.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in daily SCRUM meeting for updating and task distributing as a part of the Agile methodology.  • Expertise in Project Process Flow Management and thorough knowledge of software development life cycle (SDLC) in Agile and Scrum environment.  • Developed web applications using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JavaScript, AJAX, and jQuery, HTML5, JSON, AngularJS, ExtJS, Bootstrap, Redux, ReactJS and CSS3  • Developed Responsive Design UI, Rich REST Service Applications, Single Page Applications (SPA) and HTML Wireframes using HTML5 Grid Structures/Layouts, CSS3 Media Queries, Twitter Bootstrap, Ajax, and Redux.  • Used standard security technology like SSL (Security Sockets Layer) to establish encrypted link between a web server and a browser. Also, used mSSL to ensure data integrity.  • Wrote Unit tests for verifying JavaScript utility routines and used Istanbul for code coverage of the application.  • Integrated the application with Spring-MVC using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (DI), and Spring Annotations.  • Developed forms in the applications using Angular forms module.  • Involved in implementation of navigation using Spring MVC Controllers, configured controllers using Spring MVC annotations and configuration files.  • Implemented the web services client to consume the third-party service API for validating credit cards. Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  • Worked in debugging and performance tuning of targets, sources, mappings and sessions.  • Utilized Core J2EE design patterns such as Business Delegate, Factory and DAO in the implementation of the services.  • Used SQL Queries in Java code to do select/update/delete depending upon the requirement.  • Involved in design, optimization and performance with relational databases such as MySQL.  • Involved in installing, configuring and deploying the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Worked on db interactions on MongoDB to perform CRUD operations on collections and documents.  • Used Jenkins as a build tool automating the building, testing, publishing in executable file, and Jenkins loads all the dependencies from their repository, and implemented continuous delivery with Docker to run all the tests before generating war file.  • Used BDD frameworks such as Cucumber for functional testing and mocking frameworks like Mockito for unit testing the java applications.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues; Used SVN version control tools and was involved in the configuration of these tools  • Deployed application in virtual server - Amazon Web Services for maintaining Volumes, Creating Snapshots and Security Groups in AWS, and S3.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, Spring framework, Hibernate, ExpressJS, Agile, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, JEST, AJAX, Redux, ReactJS, Bootstrap, Spring Boot, ORM, jQuery, JSON, SOAP, IBM WebSphere Application Server, MySQL, TDD, SVN, MongoDB, Jenkins, Docker, Cucumber, Mockito, JUnit, log4j, AWS. Java / j2ee developer Aspire Infinite Solutions December 2013 to February 2015 CCCS or Consumer Co-operative Credit Society formation was aimed primarily to get the essential as well as luxury commodities in an affordable rate. Aspire Infinite extended their support by digitized the entire system to enhance the profitability, maintaining the time management and employee/HR management. I had involved in developing many modules Ordering, Stock Verification, Purchase Order Management, Checking Goods and stock Update.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design/development and testing of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS and Enriched UI Components and Backing Beans, involved in configuring faces-config.xml for navigations, controllers; Used Web services for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Developed action and form classes based on Struts framework to handle the pages.  • Developed the application using Struts following MVC architecture.  • Involved in developing action classes, form Beans and Java Server Pages.  • Designed and developed Caching and Logging service using Log4j.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles and Validations provided by struts framework.  • Wrote JavaScript validations on the client side.  • Developed various Struts Action classes in the middle tier and service layer implementation.  • Created stored procedures, sequences, triggers and functions in DB2 to store and manipulate data in the database.  • Code complex SQL Join queries for reporting which include hundreds of different variations of reports Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  • Deployed applications on Apache Tomcat server. Migration of Web Sphere application server to Tomcat application and used Eclipse IDE and deployed the application on TOMCAT server.  • Developed J2EE components on Eclipse IDE and the application with reusable J2EE design patterns.  • Developed test cases for Unit testing using JUnit and performed integration and system testing and Used Selenium Grid for end to end testing.  • Used CVS, ANT, log4j as a documentation repository, for build scripts creation and for logging activities.    Environment: Java, Backing Beans, Spring, Hibernate, Junit, J2EE, JDBC, HTML, HTTP, CSS, UML, MVC, XML, AJAX, Apache Tomcat server, Eclipse, Windows, Unix, DB2, CVS, ANT, Log4J. Java Developer Virinchi Technologies September 2011 to November 2013 The project was to develop a web application called "QFund" which provides a comprehensive web-based PoS solution capable of handling various short-term finance transactions such as Payday Loan, Check Cashing, Installment Loan, Title Loan and Auto/Equity Loan    Responsibilities:  • Developed Business Service components using the Servlets and Java.  • Involved in design of Servlets to accept and process request from the clients.  • Developed the Web Interface using the optimal Front End Technologies like HTML, Servlets, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Developed MVC design pattern based User Interface using XML, HTML and CSS.  • User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases using UML.  • Used JAXP for parsing & JAXB for binding.  • Used Hibernate for Database Persistence and to communicate between action Servlets and Database interactions.  • Developed various objects using Java to interact with Controllers to get data from MSSQL database.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with MSSQL Server.  • Created objects like table, complex stored procedure, view, UDF, Cursor, DML and DDL Trigger based on the requirement using T-SQL programming.  • Being part of Point Solutions group involved in extensive troubleshooting of the existing SQL code and stored procedures.  • Responsible for Testing and Debugging the Stored Procedure, SQL Scripts, SSIS package and Reports.  • Worked in Query Optimization and performance tuning of stored procedures, Functions etc.  • Deployed the application and JBoss Application Server with both Windows and UNIX environments.  • Unit testing and Regression Testing of Web Application and fixing the issues involved in development.  • Involved in the execution of test cases and maintaining the Bug reports and tracking the status of the bugs.    Environment: HTML, Java, Servlets, Hibernate, JBoss Application Server, JavaScript, CSS, XHTML, jQuery, JDBC, UML, JAXP, JAXB, MSSQL, Windows. Education Bachelor's