Software Development Engineer Software Development Engineer Software Development Engineer - Deutsche Bank Morrisville, NC • 4+ years of Hands-on experience in analyzing and developing software applications using Java, J2EE, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, .Net Core, Web Technologies, Web services.  • Working experience in Big data technologies: Hadoop Map-Reduce framework, NoSQL Databases such as Neo4j and MongoDB.  • Hands on experience in developing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP and REST Web Services.  • Hands on experience in Web Application Development using Client Script design technologies like HTML5, CSS3, XML, Java Script, Typescript, jQuery, JSON and AJAX.  • Extensively worked on implementing query processing in Graph Databases using Scala and Java.  • Experienced working in both Waterfall and Agile Software Development Methodologies.  • Developed applications using Test Driven Development (TDD) Approach.  • A prudent developer, self-motivator, fast learner, and team player who is committed to excellence and has strong analytical, problem-solving and communication skills. Work Experience Software Development Engineer Deutsche Bank - Cary, NC June 2018 to Present DBDI/Cash Manager Project: Production-critical Global Transaction Banking application related to cash management which transfers over one trillion EUR per day.  Technology stack: Java, Hibernate, Struts, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Oracle, Bitbucket, Teamcity, Tomcat, SonarQube, Veracode, Udeploy  • Worked as part of a large team to enhance the legacy application by adding features to ensure continuous operation.  • Maintenance of struts based legacy application and refactoring code in order to improve system architecture.  • Analyzed production defects and made corresponding code changes to fix the issues.  • Created the build and deployment process using Jira, Bitbucket, TeamCity and IBM UrbanCode Deploy tools.  NextGen Project: Redesigning the monolithic application to reduce complexity, simplify build and deployment process.  Technology stack: Spring Boot Framework, Angular, RESTful web services, Docker, Openshift  • Actively participated in requirement analysis, design, coding and testing of the application in scrum environment.  • Developed REST API's using Spring boot framework and integrated with user interface developed in Angular.  • Implemented multi-domain functionality to be able to connect with multiple data sources at runtime.  • Implemented WebSSO authentication for the application.  • Worked on implementing of CICD pipeline. Software Engineer ITRON - Raleigh, NC April 2018 to June 2018 DevComms Project: Effective communication among meters/sensors of electricity/gas to manage the resources better.  Technology stack: C#, .NET, Azure, Azure Service Bus, Visual Studio Team Services  • Developed Interfaces to handle communication with IoT devices for Itron Cloud Services Platform  • Developed contracts and the corresponding services for various kinds of messages. Graduate Assistant ( Java Developer) University of Georgia - Athens, GA January 2016 to May 2017 • Developed and maintained Java web application with Hibernate, Spring MVC Framework using RESTful web services  • Created user-friendly GUI Interface and Web pages using HTML, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Extensively used Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object-Oriented Concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Inheritance, Polymorphism and collections.  • Wrote build & deployment scripts using Maven on UNIX environment. Used GIT for version control. Software Development Intern Oakridge National Laboratory - Oakridge, TN May 2016 to August 2016 ORNL is the largest science and technology national laboratory sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). The laboratory is home to the world's top supercomputers and is a leading neutron science and nuclear energy research facility.  Technology stack - Java, Apache Solr, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML/ JSP Pages, Bash shell scripting, Apache Tomcat, SVN  • Involved in the development of data search interface which makes data contained in different metadata formats available for search through the GUI for scientists  • The task was split into three main parts, Harvesting the metadata, Building the search index and developing Graphical User Interface (GUI) are the main tasks performed.  • Used Apache Solr for indexing data which is in the form of XML.  • Developed unit test cases and functional test cases using Junit.  • Used SVN as a version control tool. Assistant Software Engineer Tata Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to March 2015 India  Multiplex Automation System Project  Technology stack - Java, JSP, Servlets, Apache Tomcat, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JUnit, MySQL  • Contributed in the development of application through all the phases of software development lifecycle.  • Worked on building database which includes writing Queries and stored procedures using SQL Identified test scenarios and performed manual testing.  Sourcing Workbench Project  Client: Ericson  Technology stack - Java, Spring Boot, Apache Tomcat, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Junit, MySQL  • Contributed software engineering expertise in the development of application through the software lifecycle, from requirements gathering to successful deployment.  • Developed and enhanced the application by analyzing the business objectives.  • Worked on development of the database which includes Queries, stored procedures and database timely jobs in MySQL database.  • Troubleshoot and resolved bugs in the application to ensure optimal development environment. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Georgia December 2017 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU May 2013 Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, C++, Git, Bootstrap, Typescript, Jenkins, Json, Php, Svn, Xml, Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Ajax, Css, Tomcat, MYSQL, Javascript, HTML 5, Angular Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:  Languages Java, Scala, C#, Bash, SQL(RDBMS), C, C++, Cypher Query Language  Databases Neo4j (Graph Database), SQL server, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Non-Relational Databases, MongoDB  Frameworks Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, .NET, JDBC, RESTful Web Services, Microservices, JUnit  Web Technology Stack AngularJS, jQuery, Bootstrap (HTML5, CSS, JS), Typescript, PHP, DOM, AJAX, XML, JSON  Application/Web Servers Apache Tomcat Web Server, Glassfish, Oracle WebLogic  IDE's, Editors Eclipse, Intellij, Visual Studio, MySQL Workbench, SQL Developer, VIM  Version Control, CICD SVN, GIT, Maven, Teamcity, Jenkins, JIRA  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, Mac OS, Linux