Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Capital Group of Companies San Diego, CA ? Over 9 years of experience in several area of IT industry as Java/J2EE Developer, worked in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Production support and Implementation phases of Object Oriented and Web based applications.  ? Extensive understanding and experience with various methodologies such as Waterfall, Agile.  ? Expertise in development and deployment of multi-tiered web-based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets 2.3/2.4, JSP 1.1/2.0, Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Spring 3.0/4.0, JDBC, JNDI, Java Beans and Web services (SOAP, WSDL).  ? Extensive experience using Spring Framework in business layer for Dependency Injection, AOP.  ? Expertise in various Java/J2EE design patterns including Data Access Object, Session Façade, Service Locator, MVC, Transfer Object and Singleton in the development of Multi-tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  ? Extensively worked on core java concepts like Exception handling, IO Handling and Collections Framework.  ? 5+ years of hands-on experience in consuming as well as developing API for SOAP and REST based web services to integrate third party functional modules into the core application.  ? Almost 5 years of experience in Spring.  ? Proficient in several frameworks like Struts 2.0, Spring Framework 3.0, spring MVC.  ? Extensive experience in SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions with databases such as Oracle, MS SQL Server 2005.  ? Hands on exposure to multiple Application Servers like BEA WebLogic Application Server, Apache Tomcat.  ? Working experience with relational databases: MySQL and Oracle.  ? Self-motivated, quick learner with excellent communication skills and ready to take on new challenges.  ? Involved in developing and deploying J2EE Applications archives (Jar, War and Ear) on BEA WebLogic application server.  ? Good exposure in Automation testing selenium, serenity BDD approach cucumber.  ? Experience in developing applications with n-tier architectures. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Capital Group of Companies - Irvine, CA December 2018 to Present Description: Objective of this project was to help customer financial platform to move from a less efficient tool to cutting edge technology called Eagle Investment Systems.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development of model & view layer using Struts framework.  ? Developed JSP pages with Struts Validation Framework and application resources following the guidelines.  ? Designed and developed user interface using front end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax.  ? Developed application using J2EE architecture with Spring and Hibernate.  ? Involved in creation of high-level Design Document & Low-level Design Documents.  ? Designed and developed independent implementation classes.  ? Implemented AJAX by using jQuery methods named POST, GET and AJAX.  ? Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, and Created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in struts-config.xml, web.xml files.  ? Collect appropriate user interface messages to display them in UI using common message service.  ? Integrating web-tier and service layer using spring framework.  ? Designed a common controller in determining the appropriate resulting UI page based on the service outcome.  ? Developed common UI for display error, success, warning and informational messages.  ? Organize and develop JUNIT test cases.  ? Involving in performance and regression testing phases.  ? Developed ANT Script to compile and deploy the application into the app server.  ? Issue tracking is done using Bugzilla.  ? Involved in writing test cases using JUnit for various modules.  ? Involved in logging using Log4j and working with defects using Quality Centre.  ? Involved in testing, bug fixing and documentation of the system deployment.  ? Involved in enhancing the performance of the application including various enhancement requests.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, SOAP & Restful Web Services, JUnit, Maven, Eclipse, FileZilla, Oracle, SQL Server, IBM WebSphere, SoapUI, Quality Center, Rally, Scrum Methodology Java/J2EE Developer Abercrombie and Fitch - New Albany, OH April 2017 to November 2018 Description: Enterprise Web Services (EWS) team is responsible for developing Webservices that are used by all business units with-in Abercrombie & Fitch. I am involved in the EWS - Integration project where I am responsible for developing Web Service (SOAP and REST) and Web Service clients for various client applications consuming the Web Service. As a part of the development gained great experience in the Oracle platform especially on SQL standards and Java.    Responsibilities:  ? Used Spring IOC, Writing Java Bean classes, with get and set methods for each property to be configured by spring.  ? Used Spring MVC architecture and Hibernate ORM to map the Java classes and oracle SQL server database.  ? Designed and developed UI screens with Java Scripts to provide interactive screens to display data  ? Used Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the business logic tier (Business object) and the persistent storage tier (data source)  ? Expertise in Dynamic SQL, Collections and Exception handling.  ? Used Apache CXF 3, Apache Axis 2 and Apache Axis 1 for developing stubs, as per the requirement of the client applications.  ? Experience in XML technologies including XML, XSLT, XPath, DTD, XML-Schema, JAXB.  ? Experience on Web services like RESTful, SOAPUI and WSDL elements and knowledge in SOA.  ? Good knowledge in Java architecture and developing the applications using Java/J2EE design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory, Transfer Objects, Front Controller and Data Access Objects.  ? Strong experience in the development, testing and production environments.  ? The project was executed using Test Driven Development in an Agile/Scrum environment.  ? Expertise in UML (class diagrams, object diagrams, use-case diagrams, state diagrams, sequence diagrams, activity diagrams, and collaboration diagrams) as a business analysis methodology for application functionality design.  ? Knowledge in ORM frameworks such as Hibernate.  ? Actively participated in daily standup team meetings.  ? Used JUnit and Mockito to do the unit testing to track the defects and to close the defects  ? Modified SQL, stored procedure and functions for performance enhancement.  ? Initiated JAX-WS (SOAP) for producing web services and is involved in writing programs to consume the web services using SOA with CXF framework.  ? Used XPATH to navigate through Attributes and Elements in an XML Document.  ? Configures the maven Install, deploy, source and Jar plugins in the pom.xml for doing Maven install or deploy or create Jar files in the Nexus repository.    Environment: Java1.8, Spring IOC, Java Beans, Spring 4, Spring MVC, Hibernate ORM, Oracle 12c, Java Scripts, JSP, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, DAO, SQL, Collections, Exceptions, WebSphere, Apache CXF 3, Apache Axis2, Apache Axis 1, XML , XSLT, XPath, JAXB, DOM parsers, SAX, Web Services, SOA, SOAP Web Service, RESTful, Web Service, WSDL, Design Patterns, JSON, Test Driven Development (TDD), Agile/Scrum, JIRA, UML, Junit, Mockito, JAX-WS, Maven, SQL Developer, Subversion-SVN. J2EE Developer HSBC - Pune, Maharashtra November 2012 to March 2017 Description: The SCaMPS project (Strategic Content Management and Production System) seeks to deliver a single logical system for the management and distribution of content created by the GBM (Global Banking and Markets) department of HSBC, globally for publication to clients.    Responsibilities:  ? Technical Analysis and Design: At the time new requirement or some changes used to come I always used to be part of analysis and design. To analyze the complexity and estimate the required timeslots.  ? Development / Code Review: I was part of development team. I also used to do code review of other team members as well. I used Sonar for that.  ? Unit Testing / Peer Testing: After development I used to do unit testing using JUNIT.As part of the process we used to do peer testing of other developers as well.  ? Deployment / Support SIT: I used to develop code in Dev environment then after deployment to SIT, testers used to test and in case of any changes or defects, my role was to support the SIT cycle.  ? Supporting UAT: As part of the role I used to support of UAT environment and used to fix defects or changes if there are any before moving to production.  ? Production Release Coordinator: On rotation basis apart from development role I used to work on production issues as well. Also, I worked as a production release coordinator in this my role was to communicate with all the team who are going release their code into production and work together with them for successful release. We used to do daily standup call to discuss about the release and difficulties in cases of any.    Environment: jdk 1.6, XSLT, C# .net, java Spring, ORACLE, SQL Server, restful webservice, STS for version control. J2EE Developer HSBC - Pune, Maharashtra March 2012 to November 2012 Description: It is a vendor platform from Smart Stream called CMS + inhouse DML. RTCM was the first project to use DML in HSBC on real-time systems.  Cross Products Services Cash management function is responsible for determining the daily funding requirement for Global Banking and Markets and any associated HSBC businesses that utilize the group Nostro accounts. Funding is currently performed regionally in alignment with its entity structure, resulting in separate Balance Sheet Management desks and cash management processes in the three key hub locations, notably, London, HK and New York.    Responsibilities:  ? I was working on DML middleware part of it as a developer.  ? The "Data Management Layer" (DML) framework has been developed in-house (within HSBC) to facilitate feed processes from multiple applications within the group.  ? "The DML Framework enables the development of real-time and batch integration solutions to the problems of moving data from system-A, format-N, protocol-X to system-B, format-M, protocol-Y".  ? This framework is built upon the industry de-facto Java framework named "Spring". DML can run as a stand-alone Java process or within an application server process (e.g. WebSphere).  ? Within HSBC DML v2 has only been deployed as a single, stand-alone Java process whereas the requirements for the Cash Management necessitate a highly available, performing process.    Environment: jdk 1.6, java Spring Integration, ORACLE, RTC for version control.    Project 2: Perfect Match (Pmatch) - Confirmation Matching System  Description: Key Features:  ? Real Time Online  ? Graphical User Interface  ? Support Multi Branches  ? Automatically Match deals and Chasers  ? Matching Different Message types  ? Mismatch Pair in Exceptions  ? Static Data: Client and Brokers, Currency  ? Audit History  ? Report Generation    Responsibilities:  ? This was a support project.  ? FX, Money Market and Metals Confirmations.  ? Reconciliation and investigation of SWIFT and non-SWIFT confirmations including Phone, Broker and CLS matching.  ? Analyzing incoming and outgoing confirmations in real time.  ? Pairs confirmations and highlights the differences for review.  ? Learns matching rules.  ? Exception handling capability (Priority, Due Diligence, Phone).  ? Audit Trail covering system processing, user actions, cancellations, amendments, investigations and replies.  ? Reporting.  ? My role was to setup MQ configuration.  ? communicate with various team.  ? check the deal in Pmatch, documentation.  ? Testing  ? Support for SIT, UAT, Production J2EE Developer HSBC - Pune, Maharashtra September 2011 to March 2012 Description: HSBC has 62 sites outside of 4 major hubs namely - London, Hong Kong, Paris and New York. These 62 sites are referred to as the Satellite Sites. Satellite Sites Data Management Layer (SS DML) was formed in 2008 as part of Satellite Sites strategy with a vision    Responsibilities:  ? To integrate TREATS with various Global systems.  ? Enabling Straight through Processing (STP) and replacing manual process.  ? Accelerated rollout of Derivatives Trade Processing (DTP) in Satellite Sites.  ? Be the single point of integration to improve connectivity between various GBM systems.  ? Worked as a developer.  ? I was responsible for end to end implementation including project prioritization, design, coding, production implementation, environment support & production support (level 1, 2 & 3).  ? SS DML was the first application to use DML framework with in GBM.  ? NRL is used by DML Business Analysts to write the mapping rules.  ? Developers use java code automatically generated from NRL mapping rules for their implementation.  Environment: DML framework, Spring (Core, Batch & Integration), Java, Oracle, UNIX, My SQL, MQ, Natural Rules Language (NRL) & UML, RSA. J2EE Developer Wipro - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2010 to August 2011 Description: The CCBDS project is one of the Friends Provident Project. After implementation of this project new credit card details are setting up to use Ogone System (Payment Service Provider Third Party) for collection. Admin Staff is using this new functionality to log on to Ogone. They will then enter the credit card details on the Alias creation function and request for an alias. After creating the alias details will be displayed on the webpage. User can then print the page.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed Tier 2 as well as Tier 1 business logic.  ? Developed Tier 2 business logic.  ? Interacted with third party (PSP)  ? Worked as a developer for presentation layer.  ? In this I have worked as a Tier 2 developer and used Webservices, Spring, EJB as a technology.  ? Tier 1 was calling our web Service and further using my code we were communicating with Tier 3(Mainframe).  ? We automated testing with the help of J2EE application.  ? It was a struts-based project and for this we used MySQL as a back end.  ? I handled front end as well as a back end.    Environment: JDK 1.6J2EE Web Services, Oracle Web logic Portal, Ext JS (Node.js, Angular.js), Struts 1.2. WebLogic Server, J2EE, ATG 2006.3, SHA512 Algorithm, Synergy (for check in check out), JaxB (Marshalling and Unmarshalling), EJB, Synergy (for check in check out). Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, Jaxb, Jsp, Servlets, Jdbc, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oracle, Sql, .net, Software engineering, C#, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Scripting, Xml Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java/J2EE, C#, SQL, HTML5, XML, HTML  Scripting Languages JavaScript, AJAX, ANT, Unix Shell scripting.  Databases SQL Server 2008, Oracle 11g/10g/9i.  Technologies  Core Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring, JAXB, ATG, Web Service like Soap and Restful, Node.js, Angulas.js JDBC, Struts1.2, Portal, Tomcat, ATG2006.3, WebSphere, WebLogic, XSLT, C# .Net, HTML, AJAX, CSS.    Distributed Technologies Web Services like Soap and Restful  Application Servers WebSphere Application Sever, WebLogic  Protocols SOAP, HTTP, UDDI, FTP, TCP/IP, UDP/IP, SSL  Software Engineering Agile (Scrum), TDD, Waterfall  IDE Tools Eclipse, Notepad++, Fire Bug, Sublime Text, Net Beans.  Testing Automation testing selenium, serenity BDD approach cucumber  Operating Systems Windows 98/XP/2000, Sun Solaris, Vista, 7.  Version Control Systems MS Visual Source Safe (VSS), CVS  Tools TIBCO P Portal Builder 4.5, Lyris List Manager, Toad, Putty.