Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Enuit LLC Houston, TX • Around 5 years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Web Application Design, Development, Programming, Testing, Support Maintenance, and End-User support using java/J2EE technologies.  • Proficiency in developing secure enterprise Java applications using technologies such as JSP, Servlets, JAVA Beans, C++, EJB, JMS, JNDI, JDBC, XML.  • Started as junior developer, on a large-scale project. My tasks involved backend development using java with spring framework. MDA project (Model driven architecture), had tasks to model and develop new components. Also, front end development using EXTJS.  • Expertise in socket, collections, serialization, threads programming.  • Expertise in various open source frameworks like Struts 2, Spring, Spring Boot and Object Relational Mapping Technology like Hibernate.  • Experience in modeling presentation tier using Struts, Spring MVC2 (Model-View-Controller) architecture.  • Extensive experience with JMS Pub/Sub Environment.  • Skilled in Web Logic Application server, IBM Web Sphere Application server and IBM Web Sphere Portals  • Good experience in AngularJS built application service layer using Angular 2.0/Angular 7.0 Dependency Injection.  • Experienced in using AWS SDK and/or CLI Tools. Experience in developing scripts using SOAP and Restful API models for the purposes of integrating workflows with AWS.  • Designed and developed the application using Java Server Faces (JSF) framework and Spring web flow.  • Knowledge in Agile software development process, test driven development and Object-oriented modeling UML, Object-Oriented analysis and design, developing Use Cases, Interaction Diagrams (Sequence and Activity), Class Diagrams, and Package Diagrams using Rational Rose & Visio.  • Designed and developed Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations.  • Created forms and web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Developed ANT scripts in to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Expertise on entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in Intranet and Internet applications using Web/Application Servers like Tomcat, JBoss, Web Sphere, Web Logic and Port lets Application Server.  • Extensive Knowledge on databases like Oracle 9i/10g, DB2, NoSQL and MySQL. Experience in writing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions.  • Experience in SOAP, JAX-RPC, JAXB, JAXP (XML binding technologies), XML/XSLT and WSDL using IBM-MQ (messaging technology) series for developing Web Services.  • Solicited requirements and developed custom components for internal customers in Java, ASP, VB, XML/XSLT, and SOAP-based services.  • Hands on experience working with the UI technologies like HTML, JavaScript, JSF, JSP tag libraries.  • Sound Knowledge of Bootstrap Framework for Responsive Web Applications.  • Good working knowledge in version control tools like CVS and Rational Clear Case (repositories).  • Expertise in SOA, MVC frameworks using Spring and Struts.  • Worked with servers IBM web sphere, Web logic, JBoss and Apache's Tomcat.  • Working experience on reading synchronous Multithreads and event-based programming.  • Analytical, methodical, and resourceful approach to problem solving and decision-making; identifying and documenting root causes and counteractive actions to meet short and long-term business and system requirements. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Enuit LLC - Houston, TX April 2018 to Present Description: Shipping System: This project is about shipping goods from one place to another. It encompasses various modules of making shipments. The functions include management of user, customer, goods, shipments, items and categories. Business functions include negotiating and recording deals, scheduling physical commodity movements, tracking primary and secondary costs, generating invoices, providing useful reports, calculating taxes, total cost, shipment charges and settlement amounts.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, designing, coding, testing and deployment of the application.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller MVC architecture.  • Developed UI using JSP, HTML5 Tag libraries, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS and AJAX.  • Used AngularJS 7.0 for Directives, Filters, Validation, and Data binding of UI components.  • Used Angular to build a Single Page Application (SPA) using Typescript.  • Developed reusable custom directives using Angular JS 7.0 using transude, restrict, event handlers and templating.  • Used XML/XSLT for transforming common XML format and SAML for Single Sign-on.  • Developed Java Beans and Custom Tag Libraries providing client-side validations in JavaScript and providing interactive front-end GUI using AJAX.  • Used Joins Stored Procedures and Functions in Interaction with backend database using SQL.  • Involved in Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the AJAX asynchronous calls to the server to validate and populate the pages that are directed through view resolver.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST APIs and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Wrote database interaction code and used JDBC API to connect MySQL.  • Created a custom analytics framework to gather useful user behavior data using Dynamo DB.  • Documented the requirements including the available code, which should be implemented using Spark, Hive, HDFS, HBase and Elastic Search.  • Used Core Java with knowledge of multithreading concurrency memory management.  • Build the application using Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.  • Used Oracle as database and involved in the development of PL/SQL backend implementation.  • Involved in stage deployments using Glassfish Server.  • Designed the front-end and wrote corresponding one-one REST methods to implement respective change requests.  • Developed RESTful web services using Java Servlets JSON JAX-WS and JAX-RS and persistence using Hibernate and JPA framework.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions.  • Developed a pipeline using Kafka, Spark and Hive to ingest, transform and analyze the data  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RD5, SQS, Cloud Formation.  • Designed Restful XML web service for handling asynchronous AJAX requests.  • Worked with Java 8 lambda expressions and functional interfaces.  • Used Gradle for project management and build automation and continuous Integration using Jenkins.    • Used issue-tracking tool JIRA for bug fixing and life cycle traceability.  • Used Selenium, Cucumber for UI automation.  • Used log4j for logging errors, info, exceptions  Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate 4.0, JAX-RS Web Services, Apache CXF, jQuery 1.08, jQuery, AJAX, UML, JSTL, Oracle 11g, Web Sphere, Eclipse 4.2, Junit, XML, Log4j, Maven 3.1, Gradle, AWS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, Angular JS 7.0, HTML5, CSS3, Toad, Maven, Spring REST, Junit 4.1, Easy Mock, JIRA, Rally, Jasmine, Apache POI, Selenium, GIT, Bamboo CI, Cucumber, SOAPUI, JMeter. Junior Java Developer Health Markets Agency - Houston, TX September 2016 to March 2018 Description: Developed a health care system where users can choose to use employer portal, employee portal or broker portal base on their roles. The system provides functionalities such as "check eligibility", "find brokers", "choose health care providers" and "online payment". Before employees can enroll their healthcare plan, their employer has to register them on the employee roster. If employers or employees do not know how to go through the process, they can get help from an authorized broker. The broker's portal provides full functionalities to broker so that they can help both employer and employee.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in design and development as a Core Java and J2EE Software developer. Understanding business and software requirement plus utilizing technology to enunciate data flow between front end and back end technologies.  • Pooling up most apposite design pattern for DAO and implementing interface to reduce code reuse. Understanding the Business process and developing logic and software stack based on business flow.  • Using advanced level of HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts. Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring. Developed various UI (User Interface) components using JSP, HTML and AngularJS 6.0.  • Production support for the Micros Point of Sale software, database, or interface to the OMS systems for Buy Online Pick Up in Store (BOPIS).  • Utilized MICROS POS software experience and developed functional requirements for the company.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, jQuery and used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Developed and designed new cross-browser accessible interfaces using jQuery and JavaScript. Involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content. Used WebLogic for deployment of applications.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers and functions with PL/SQL for Oracle database. Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement. Used Angular JS, JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface. Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit framework.  • Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services AWS  • Hands on Experience in databases such as MYSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, ORACLE. MongoDB (No SQL).  • Experience in Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure.  • Experience in scripting deployments to AWS, Monitoring infrastructure like Nagios, AppDynamics, New Relic etc.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence. Involved in intense User Interface (UI) operations and client-side validations using AJAX toolkit.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework and extensively used Core Java  such as Multi-threading, exceptions, and collections.  • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using Java with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.  • Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.  • Utilized Agile Scrum Methodology (SDLC) with Atlassian JIRA to manage projects and participated in daily stand up meetings.    • Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle.  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with Ant and Shell Script.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC ,JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Hibernate, Angular JS, SOAP, REST, WebLogic, jQuery, AJAX, JSP, servlet, Mongo DB, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, Eclipse, Junit, MAVEN, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), Jasper reports, ILOG, Agile Scrum, Web 2.0, SOA, SVN. Junior Java Developer East Lake Insurance Services - Chula Vista, CA March 2015 to August 2016 Description: Designed and developed a web-based application project, where eligibility of the customers is decided based on the past records which are automatically populated by the program. If the customer is an existing customer, then the existing rules apply. If the customer is a new customer, then future business rules will apply. Agents can check the status of their customers and their current policy rules. Once policy number is auto generated, then the policy details are issued to the customer. Developed as a WTP (Web Tools Platform) project in J2EE Eclipse functionality. WTP allows for all Java code within the same Eclipse project.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Requirement Analysis and Documentation as per SDLC methodologies.  • Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements.  • Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD  methodology using Rally Agile Development Software.  • Worked closely with the Business/Users team in translating technical requirements into application code.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture using Spring, JSP & Java beans to migrate from Struts Framework.  • Developed different modules using Java, Apache Camel, Spring and Hibernate.  • Involved in development of services-based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM  with JPA Annotations and Spring MVC Framework.  • Integrated Spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Worked on migrating Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.  • Developed web layer using Springs framework and to manage the project in MVC pattern.  • Designed and developed a RESTful APIs using Spring REST API.  • Client pages are built using HTML, CSS, JSP, AngularJS 2.0, JavaScript/jQuery.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services.  • Developed helper classes, delegate classes, value objects to access business tier and transfer the information from business layer to the presentation layer.  • Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat Application Server.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections.  • Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle11g database.  • Designed and developed database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, PL/SQL packages and Cursors for Oracle.  • Defined XML documents for input and output sources of Web Services. Created schema documents for XML validation and developed XML schemas.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries, also used JUnit for unit testing and Mockito for mock based testing.  • Used Git for Version Control.  • Used log4j with Splunk Logging for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing using ClearQuest as bug tracking tool.    Environment: Java, Activiti, JSP, PL/SQL Spring boot, JSON, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, Maven, Struts, Spring, Spring MVC and Hibernate, IntelliJ, Oracle11g, JPA, Tomcat, Spring REST API, Apache Camel, JUnit, JSF, Mockito, XML, Git, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Jenkins, ClearQuest and Rally. Entry-level Java/J2EE developer Family Health Centers - San Diego, CA January 2014 to February 2015 Description: The main objective of the application is to have an Integrated Technical Solution to support the Senior Market Products, which will house the following capabilities: Enrollment, Billing, Claims Processing/Payment and CMS Reconciliation.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, development and enhancements of the projects for building wire line flows.  • Played a key role in developing the business layer and data management components of this web-based system over J2EE architecture.  • Involved in meetings and discussions with Business Architects to understand the system requirements and solution approach.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Developed EJBs for implementing backend functionalities.  • Involved in using Bootstrap and Node.js for the development of UI.  • Developed Graphical User Interface (front-end) using JSP, JSF, HTML5, JSTL, CSS, JavaScript, Backbone and custom tags.  • Used Web Services (JAXWS) to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP protocol.  • Involved in design, development of Restful and SOAP web services  • Developed SQL scripts using MongoDB.  • Performed client side designing and validations using HTML5, DOJO, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and Struts Tag Library.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Preparation of Application Design doc, test plan and cases.  • Used JUnit to unit test the modules & Log4j along with Splunk for logging error/debug messages and managing them  • Worked on IntelliJ for development and deployment of application in WebLogic Application Server  • Worked closely with cross-functional teams (QA, BA, PM, Product Owner) as a part of AGILE environment  Environment: Java, Spring API, EJB 3.0, 2.0, Node.js, JSP, HTML5, Restful, SOAP, CSS, Bootstrap, Maven, Jenkins, Splunk, Log4j, JavaScript, AJAX, WebLogic, JavaScript, DOJO, JSON, jQuery, XML, JUnit, MongoDB, WebLogic, IntelliJ. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Platforms Windows 2000/NT/ XP/Vista and Sun Solaris 2.8/2.9, UNIX  Programming JDK 8, 9, 10,11, C, C++  Server Scripting JSP1.2,2.1, JSP-EL, JSTL, Custom Tags, NodeJS  Client Scripting jQuery 2.0,2.1,2.2,3.2,3.3, jQuery, Dojo, AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS2, CSS3, HTML4, HTML5  Java Frameworks Struts 1.2, Struts 2.1, Spring MVC, JSF 1.1, JSF 2.1  Database Tools Toad for Oracle, Toad for MySQL, Toad for DB2, Toad for MS-SQL, MySQL Workbench  Databases MS-SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle  Middleware Specifications EJB 2.1, EJB 3.0, CORBA, RMI  Security JAAS, Spring Security  Version Control Tortoise SVN, GitHub, CVS, GitLab  IDEs Eclipse 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, IntelliJ  Server Build Tools ANT 1.7,1.8,1.9, Maven, Gradle  Continuous Integration Jenkins  XML Technologies XSLT, JAXP, JDOM, SAX, DOM, XPATH, XML, XSD, DTD  Webservice Specifications JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Webservice Tools SoapUI 4.0,5.1  Webservice Implementations Axis 1.0,2.1, JWSDP2.1, Sun Metro, Sun Jersey, Apache XFire, Apache CXF  Whitebox Testing Junit 3, Junit 4, Selenium  Client Testing Jasmine  Application Servers WebLogic 12.1.2,12.2.1.0 WebSphere 8.0, JBoss 4.0, Glassfish 4.1.1  Web Servers Tomcat 7.0,8.0  UML Tools UML Model, Rational Enterprise, MS Visio  ORM Frameworks Hibernate 4.3.0, 5.0.2, TopLink, OpenJPA, iBatis  Defect Tracking JIRA  Methodologies Agile (XP, Scrum), Rational Unified Process (RUP), Waterfall, Kanban  HTML Editors Adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime Text  Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Dynamo DB  Microservices Spring Microservices, Spring Boot