Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Raleigh, NC • Extensive 8+ years of professional experience in analysis, design, coding in Core Java, Web Development, Multi-tier enterprise applications using Java/J2EE.  • Developed Internet/Intranet and Client/Server applications using Java and J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans etc.  • Implemented various Design Patterns such as Model View Controller (MVC), Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton pattern and Factory.  • Extensive working experience with Spring Modules (DAO, MVC, Securities, AOP, ORM data).  • Extensive experience in design, development and implementation of spring and Hibernate frameworks and Hibernate Critieras.  • Extensive experience in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like analysis, design, development and testing with SOA, Amazon Web Service (AWS) and Microservices architectures.  • Designed and developed user-friendly GUI interface and web pages using HTML, CSS, Jquery and Javascript  • Thorough knowledge of Microservices architecture and experience in implementing several design patterns. Designed and implemented RESTful Web services using Spring Rest and JAX-RS  • Experienced in deploying Web Application and configuring data source to IBM Websphere and servers like Tomcat. Coded Maven build scripts to build and deploy the application. Extensively worked on JPA Toplink and Hibernate Critieras.  • Developed web tier components of web stores using Spring Web MVC framework/Struts Framework that leverages Model View Controller (MVC) architecture. Used Spring dependency injection for middle layer development. Experienced in developing standalone applications using Spring Boot.  • Developed DAOs (Data Access Object) using Hibernate as ORM to interact with DBMS - Oracle, Mysql and MongoDB. Integrated Hibernate in context files and configured Hibernate session factory  • Extensive development experience with IDE's like IDEA, Eclipse, RAD, Spring tool suite and NetBeans.  • Experienced in Application Software Development and Design, Object Oriented Design and Analysis (OOAD), technical documentation, debugging. Designed and developed Servlets to store the details of the users in the database. Utilized JDBC API to access a database of reusable design components  • Managed the platform over the years through agile, scrum and waterfall practices  • Self-motivated, good team member with excellent analytical, communication & problem solving skills with ability to work independently as well as in a team. Basic ideas of creating, optimizing and editing web content  • Experience working with Service Oriented Architecture, which includes Universal Description and Discovery Integration (UDDI) lookups and Web Services Description Language (WSDL) using SOAP protocol.  • Proficient in Java/J2EE Design Patterns including singleton, command, Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), and Business Delegate.  • Hands-on experience in IDE Tools: RAD, Eclipse, NetBeans, My Eclipse. Hands on working experience with Production Support Teams.  • Strong experience in implementing MVC framework like Struts, Spring, and ORM tools like Hibernate in J2EE architecture.Worked on Web/Application Servers WebSphere, Weblogic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss.  • Hands on experience in working with client scripting languages HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and CSS including special handling of various browsers like IE, Netscape and Mozilla.  • Experienced in writing complex SQL queries, Triggers and Stored Procedures in various databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL. Experience in consuming both XML & JSON data RESTful web services using Angular JS.  • Excellent technical knowledge in back-end RDBMS tools like Oracle 9i/10G and MySQL Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Bank of America - Raleigh, NC April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed and implemented Spring boot, Spring Modules (DAO, MVC, Securities, AOP, ORM data) and Java/J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework for the application.  • Used java concepts like Collections, Exception handling, Concurrency to develop business logic. Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP's, Servlets, Java Web Start, and EJB's and Web logic.  • Developed Internet/Intranet and Client/Server applications using Java and J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans.  • Architected mainframe modernization solutions using SOA web services, middleware integration technologies and ESB based on JAVA/J2EE.  • Developed code using Java 8 features like lambda expressions, streams, predicates and new date time API. Developed a Web Application using Java with the Google Web Toolkit API with PostgreSQL.  • Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces based on Java/J2EE design patterns.  • Developed Micro Service to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with various data persistence frameworks such Hibernate and JPA and messaging engines.  • Used iBatis and MyBatis ORM tools which automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java. Implemented functionalities using Spring IO/ Spring Boot with Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM.  • Proficient in implementation of spring frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring REST, Spring AOP, Spring transaction Management, Spring Data, Spring DAO, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Spring Boot.  • Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application. Designed the page flow using struts, server side components, and ibatis for DAO layer. Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Implemented functionalities using Spring IO / Spring Boot with Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM.  • Developed Microservice to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with various data persistence frameworks such Hibernate and JPA and messaging engines.  • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex. Implemented application level persistence using JPA Toplink, Hibernate and spring.  • Designed and developed Enterprise Eligibility business objects and domain objects with Object Relational Mapping framework such as Hibernate. Implemented Hibernate Critieras for Object relational model for handling server side/database objects data.  • Developed scalable front-end user interfaces using SCSS, Webpack, HTML, CSS, Backbone and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS and Mongo DB.  • Designed and developed the login portal using framework Angular along with HTML5, CSS3 and TypeScript, including ReactJS, ES6, Gulp, NodeJS, RxJS, Webpack, Karma and Jasmine. Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Worked on Angular 2 with TypeScript and other latest client-side technologies Designed and implemented user interface for web-based customer application using HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, JSON, AJAX and Angular.  • Configured Hibernate, Spring and MyFaces (JSF) to map the business objects to MySQL Database using XML configuration file. Used MongoDB and MySQL databases in Web API development. Developed database migrations using SQL Alchemy Migration. Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database.  • Designed and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling. Worked in RDBMS implementation using SOAP, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Design and development of the exception management workflow using Oracle BPM. Configured Server for Oracle Database and Apache Tomcat.  • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database. Wrote SQL stored procedures and used JDBC API. Created complex SQL queries, stored procedures, joins and SSIS packages.  • Used SQL Profiler for troubleshooting, monitoring, optimization of SQL Server and SQLcode. Tuned and Optimized SQL Queries using SQL Profiler and Execution Plan (metrics) results  • Designed and developed SOA based enterprise system using JIRA, BPM, iLog, Git, SVN, Oracle SOA Suite and WebLogic. Designed and Developed using Web Service using Rest, XML, Maven, ANT, Apache CXF, Apache Axis 2 on JBOSS.  • Designed and Developed Web Services to interact with various business sectors and used Restful API, JSON, OAUTH, XML, SOAP protocol for web services communication.  • Development of REST web services using Spring with the enabled OAUTH. Microservices has been built using spring boot, Oracle, spring security integrating OAUTH.  • Developed the authentication/authorization for the application using various NPM node modules including regex, JWT Web Token etc.  • Development in Java through IntelliJ, Eclipse Java IDE. Worked with IntelliJ and used Gradle build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Configured server side J2EE components like JavaBeans, JSP, Servlets, JNDI and XML using IDE- NetBeans and deployments in Jboss Wildfly. Implemented MAVEN for building the application and GIT, SVN for managing and controlling the source code.  • Integrating Micro services and JSP's using Ajax and jersey client based on the Rest template which is generated using Swagger. Created test coverage for the web services by using Junit and Easymock.  • Developed functional test cases and end to end test cases on JUnit for testing for business scenario. Created Java based scripts for Selenium RC with JUnit, TestNG as automation frame work. Done load testing of SOAP Web Services using SOAP UI and Apache JMeter tools.  • Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the rest based services and used Junit and Mockito to test the middleware services. Using SonarQube tool measured and analyzed the quality of source code.  • Maintain support and enhance the enterprise tools services and software like SonarQube maven Github. Utilized Agile Methodology/Scrum (SDLC) to managed projects and team. Acted a Scrum Coach for adoption of Scrum for BI business projects.  • Brought cloud-based (Amazon Web Services) software cluster search web application from conceptualization to launch as lead project developer.  • Have built application to run on Amazon ec2 cloud to maximize scalability and to make use of high-performance ec2 computing resources.  • Managed and architected Amazon Web Services integration adapter which uses Amazon S3 and EBS service to persist data and Amazon EC2 service to run an on-demand instance.  • Built application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs as well as use RDS for Oracle DB.  • Setup and build AWS infrastructure for the project using various resources, VPC, IAM, Lambda, S3, Cloudfront, API gateway. Used Docker as CI/CD tool for integrating different code components.  • Involved in Designing and deploying AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic LoadBalancer, Auto scaling groups. Supporting Systems Infrastructure comprised of Linux OS,AWS, EC2 clusters.  • Developed software's for AWS in Java 8 (using Spring Framework, MySQL, AWS Aurora, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, EBS, Akamai WAF (web application firewall) and Apache Tomcat web server.)  • Created a new cluster and container management tool using Kubernetes for Zero downtime Deployment. Applications are monitored using the Splunk, New Relic and CloudWatch alarms.  • Hands on experience and good knowledge of AWS services: EC2, S3, RDS, VPN, VPC, Auto scaling, SNS, SES, Cloud Front,Cloud Formation,ECS, Storage Gateway,Internet Gateway,NAT Gateway. Developed Java API to interact with the Amazon SQS used for sending bulk emails.  • Customize the display in the necessary UI framework, using JSP, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS, elasticsearch. Maintained Kinesis Firehose data streams that consume CloudWatch events and outputs to S3. Integrated data from automated backend Hadoop job with the application over a config-driven transfer server.  • Deployed and developed my project using AWS EC2, S3, Data pipeline, Elastic Beanstalk, cloud watch, Elastic search, AWS server migration service, Lambda, Amazon messaging services (SQS and SNS) and Amazon Kinesis services.  • Automated the ingestion of data from source systems into Hadoop, data pipeline, messagebroker activemq, and from Hadoop into Vertica. Deployed to Amazon Web Services ElasticBeanstalk and internally on a Linux server using Ansible.  • Worked on development of infrastructure automation in AWS (EC2, Lambda, EBS, RDS, Dynamo, ELB, EIP etc) with AWS CloudFormation. Integrated backend processes with SQS communication and elasticache storage.  • Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins, AWS: CodeDeploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.  • Responsible for implementing XML Http Request to make Ajax calls from servers to simulate Single Sign on (SSO) functionality  • Responsible for configuring JBOSS Application Server administration activities which involved creating domains, Configuring the domain for WebLogic clustering, SSL, Database Connection configurations, performance monitoring, etc.  • Worked in a maven project with BDD and TDD approach, JVM. Writing step definitions and page object code under JUNIT.  • Developed whole presentation layer using JavaScript based frameworks such as Javascript MVC (JMVC), JQuery, Ajax, JSON and Google Gears with REST full communication.  • Executed the test steps defined in Test Cases manually and reporting the bugs in JIRA.  • Configured JMS Server setupand DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic Server.  • Used ActiveMQ messaging to set up communication between applications in ESB. And flows are created for JAX-WS and JAX-RS web services. Developed Restful MicroServices deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Used Apache Tomcat Application Server for application deployment in the clustered window environment. Worked on Linux environment for deploying the application, running scripts for jobs. Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  • Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT and LINUX operating systems. Development experience in Windows, Linux, Mac OS, Docker containers and UNIX operating systems.  • Implemented SOLID principles, Transaction Management and Layering for n Tier Application using patterns like Repository, Facet, Unit of Work etc.  • Designed and Developed Applications by using design patterns and other J2EE design patterns (Factories, Abstract, Prototype, Façade, Singleton).  • Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  • Build features using TDD (Test driven development) and Domain driven design in DevOps environment with continuous integration, regression and deployment. Created customers logging aspect using Spring AOP by single responsibility design. Applied industry proven J2EE and Gang of Four design patterns such as Decorator, Strategy, Factory.  • Developed end-to-end composite RESTful Web Services by using SOA with CXF framework.  • Strong Knowledge on automated java-based integration testing and behavioral testing of the applications using Selenium and Cucumber respectively. Integrating Struts with spring by delegating Struts action management to Spring Framework using proxy.    Environment:  Java , Spring boot, Thymeleaf, JPA, Toplink, Hibernate, Hibernate Critieras, JavaScript, Angular 2, ReactJS ,JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, CSS, MySQL, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Profiler, SOA, Rest, JSON, OAUTH, JWT, IntelliJ, JBoss, Git Swagger, JUnit, EasyMock, TestNG, JMeter, Postman, SonarQube, Agile, Scrum, AWS, Docker, Kubernetes, ECS, kinesis, Hadoop, Data pipeline, SSO, SSL, Lamdba, Maven, JIRA, Microservices, JMS, Activemq, Tomcat, Linux/ Mac Sr. Java Full Stack Developer T-Mobile - Palo Alto, CA November 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Configured Java/J2EE, Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC, Spring Modules (DAO, MVC, ORM).  • Developed generic Java packages to produce and consume JMS messages through topics and queues in asynchronous message processing with guaranteed delivery.  • Used several spring modules like Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Spring DAO, SpringAOP, Spring Batch. Written the application in the back end using Spring MVC framework, core Java, J2EE.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  • Developed Web Services controllers, with generic interfaces, and default implementations, exposed as Java Spring RESTful Web services.  • Performed importing data from various sources to the Cassandra cluster using Java APIs.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web Ajax application  • Implemented Spring Modules like IOC (Dependency Injection), Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), Spring MVC and Spring ORM. Worked on various Spring modules (Spring MVC, DAO and IOC) along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Developed a Filter View and back-end components with the Spring MVC, iBatis, JSTL, Dojo, JQuery, JSTL. Worked on framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Implemented Object Relational Mapping (ORM) for mapping between the java classes and database tables using Hibernate/iBatis. Wrote HQL Queries to retrieve update save data and used Oracle for database server.  • Development of the interactive UI's for the front-end users using the front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, XML and JavaScript. Worked with Relational Databases SQL Server, MySQL, Postgres and MongoDB.  • Design and Development of database systems using RDBMS concepts including Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL and experience in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Stored procedures, prepared statements and triggers.  • Customized RESTful Web Service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller. Developed REST web services supporting JSON to perform tasks. RESTful web services leveraged by web applications.  • Developed the REST services using oAuth Security Infrastructure in a secure way. Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP. Interfaced with the DB2 back-end database using Hibernate Framework and XML configuration files.  • Worked on the Eclipse SDK framework to develop the Code and Deploy the Application by Integrating to the Tomcat Server. Used SVN version controller to manage code versions and to check in the data as XML files.  • Developed EJBs (Session and Entity) in WebSphere Application Studio for handling business processes, database access, and asynchronous messaging. Implemented JUnit for unit testing and SonarQube for code analysis.  • Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations. Configured Git and Bitbucket servers as the software version control tools. Tested end-to-end using external tools like Jmeter, SOAPUI by enabling security on Data Power appliance. SOAP UI Advanced-Rest Client/Postman are used extensively for testing Restful web services.  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA and Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check. Used AWS SDK to connect with Amazon SQS for bulk email processing.  • Brought cloud-based (Amazon Web Services) software cluster search web application from conceptualization to launch as lead project developer. Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS EC2, manage documents in S3, providing IAM access to S3 buckets.  • Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources VPC, EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Google Cloud, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates. Implemented AWS solutions using DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation AWS Config, Auto scaling, CloudFront, IAM and DynamoDB.  • Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, VPC, Glacier, Route53, S3, RDS, CloudWatch, CloudWatch Logs, Cloud Trial) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling. Maintained the user accounts IAM Roles, VPC, RDB, Dynamo DB, SES, SQS and SNS services in AWS cloud. Extensively used EJB and various J2EE (JSP/EJB/JMS) component for the implementation of the modules.  • Developed reporting application using node.js, javascript, jQuery/datatables, MongoDB, and ElasticSearch. Set up ElasticSearch, Logstash and Kibana based logging infrastructure for entire application stack.  • Automated the ingestion of data from source systems into Hadoop, data pipeline, messagebroker activemq, and from Hadoop into Vertica. Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets and HTML5.  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server. Designed the web client by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, EXT JS, and DOJO with JSON.  • Tracked software issues and project progress enterprise-wide using Bugzilla, Jira, VersionOne, ClearQuest and XPlanner.  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators. Designed and developed SOA based enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite and WebLogic 10g.  • Used Apache Camel with URIs to work directly with any kind of Transport or messaging model such as HTTP, ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ and JMS.  • Deployed, the application using Apache Tomcat Application server as well as Web Sphere Application Server.  • Developed shell scripts, on linux platform, to process data from upstream systems that were scheduled to be executed at specific times by Autosys  • Excellent development experience in Windows, Linux, Mac OS, Docker containers and UNIX operating systems. Performed DevOps for Linux, Mac and Windows platforms.  • Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, Spring Modules, Ibatis, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Postgres, PostgreSQL, Restful API, JSON, OAUTH, XML, Eclipse, websphere, Git, SVN, JUnit, Mockito, JMeter, Postman, SonarQube, Agile, Scrum, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, Load Balancer, Auto scaling, DynamoDB, Cloudwatch, SES, SQS, SNS, Elasticsearch, Message broker activemq, Maven, JIRA, BPM , iLog, SOA, JMS, Activemq, Tomcat, Linux, Unix/Mac. Senior Java Developer Sanofi - Chicago, IL May 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed hibernate ORM mappings using Hibernate and JPA annotations to map java classes to database tables. Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment.  • Implemented JAVA Web Services based on SOA architecture with SOAP and WSDL  • Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, AJAX, Log4J, Oracle and SQL Server.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller architecture.  • Implemented the business layer by using Hibernate with Spring DAO and also developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM. Developed application using Struts, Spring and Hibernate. Used Spring Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Developed use case diagrams, class diagrams, database tables, and mapping between procedure results set and object oriented java objects using MyBatis.  • Developed the application using Struts framework. The views are programmed using JSP pages with the struts tag library, Model is the combination of EJB's and Java classes and web implementation controllers are Servlets.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript (OOP) Framework like bootstrap, Node.js and Angular.js.  • Designed and implemented user interface for web-based customer application using HTML, CSS, Typescript, JSON, AJAX and Angular. Implemented web-based application by using JSF Framework and implemented User-friendly  • Created new connections through application coding for better access to DB2 database and wrote SQL & PL SQL - Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc.  • Used Hibernate, JDBC, JPA, Spring Data JPA, Query DSL to connect to databases like Oracle, MSSQL and MYSQL to store, delete, manipulate and retrieved data from them in many of my applications.  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, REST, Apache CXF while integrating with the license server to validate the licenses. Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML. Configured JMS Server set up and DB Connection pool setup and deployed Returned items in Weblogic Server.  • Used Maven, SVN, selenium RC, Java and Selenium Grid to create nightly automation scripts. Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and used Struts Test Cases for testing Action Classes.  • Automated web service calls in PostMan using JavaScript and executed the collection using Newman and verified the response in both JSON and XML. Extensively used Eclipse as the IDE tool for creating the code.  • Wrote complex reporting applications with Ext JS and Sencha Touch for Windows Azure and Amazon Web Services, Linux and Windows servers. Utilized Agile Methodology/Scrum (SDLC) to managed projects and team.  • Used various Amazon Web Services (AWS) Components like EC2 for virtual servers, S3 and Glacier for storing objects, EBS, Cloud Front, Elastic cache and DynamoDB for storing data. Built application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs as well as use RDS for Oracle DB.  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using Web sphere Studio Application Developer and used CVS for version control.  • Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP's, Servlets, Java Web Start, EJB's and Web logic.  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process. Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Worked on implementing Ajax / jQuery methods in retrieving the data from JSON files and loading the claims data on the HTML elements. Deployed application software on Amazon Ec2 cloud computing platform and Linux  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Defined and Created SOA software and hardware infrastructure, including Application Servers, Services Bus, Server Domains etc. Designed user interface using Struts and deployed the application in Tomcat.  • Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT and LINUX operating systems. Used Resource Manager to schedule the job in Unix server.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (Firefox, Chrome, Opera and Safari) on Windows and Mac.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, Spring, Mybatis, Struts, JSF, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Db2, MS SQL, Rest, XML, Apache CXF, Eclipse, Weblogic, SVN, JUnit, JMeter, Postman, Agile, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, JSP, Servlets, Maven, ANT, JSON, XML, JIRA, jRules, SOA, Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Mac. Java Developer Liberty Mutual, Inc - Columbus, OH November 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:    • Developed Shell Scripts used to monitor production applications, start and stop custom Java applications.  • Designed, developed, tested and maintained Java applications. Used Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate.  • Developed business logic using Java technologies and publish them as Web Applications.  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant Java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB, etc.  • Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller and EJB as model in the Struts Framework. Used Struts Framework to implement J2EE design patterns MVC.  • Engaged in developing the UI by using HTML, JSF, JQuery, and JavaScript and in some places used AJAX to make calls to other services and Involved in developing the CSS sheets for the UI Components.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON, Node JS.  • Designed and developed various Web forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Designed and Developed WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication.  • In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design. Open source framework like Jersey used for create REST API.  • Designed and Developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2.  • Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  • Deployment of the webservice converted java interfaces on a daily basis to a websphere testing environment for subsequent development of the front end.  • Used version control and configuration management tools like SVN, CVS and Subversion.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Used SoapUI and JMeter to check load balancing in WebLogic with multi thread and to check accounts.  • Designed Use Cases using UML and managed the entire functional requirements life cycle using water fall model.  • Created hybrid cloud by combining private cloud and public cloud (using Amazon web services) and used it for public scaling.  • Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery on Amazon EC2.  • Involved in setting up AWS services with EC2 instances, S3 bucket, IAM, RDS took part in deploying application in AWS along with writing and retrieving files to and from AWS S3 bucket for UI to render data faster.  • Worked and learned a great deal from Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services (IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, ITaaS) with EC2, S3, EBS, RDS, VPC and IAM. Architect deployment models with Azure Classic  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server. Used ANT for building the application and deployed on BEA WebLogic Application Server.  • Developed jQuery code using an XML Http Request Adapter to send an AJAX request to the server-side code and implemented a callback function to handle the results.  • Developed Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI) for exchanging the data following SOA architecture principles. Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script.  • Used Struts Model-View-Controller approach to help design new features and fix Jira bugs and request. Deployed the complete Web applications in TOMCAT Application server.  • Designed and developed a system for inventory management and data warehouses, create and publish Excel or SAS reports for merchandising users (SAS, Unix Scripts and JSP/Servlet).    Environment  Java, Spring, Struts, JDBC, JSF, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Oracle, SOAP, Rest, Axis2, NetBeans, websphere, CVS, JUnit, Waterfall, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, JSP, Servlets, Ant, XML, WSDL, JIRA, Tomcat, Linux, Unix. Software Engineer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA May 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Development of basic framework for the project by using spring, Hibernate and other API.  • Developed various backend application programs such as Views, Functions, Triggers, Procedures and Packages using SQL and PL/SQL language for the top management for decision making.  • Extensive experience with Angular JS, directives, and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications. Extensive experience on modern front-end template frameworks for JavaScript including Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular JS etc.  • Hands-on experience in Consuming RESTful Web services using AJAX (Angular $http, $resource and jQuery) to exchange (request / responses) information with databases such as MySQL and Oracle.  • Hands on Experience developing SOAP and REST web services in Java using JERSEY and APACHE CXF.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using REST, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.    Environment  Hibernate, Log4j, JUnit, SOAP, JSP, OSGI, Spring Batch, Java, J2EE, Spring IOC, Maven, SVN, IBM WebSphere, JDBC, DB2, Agile, SCRUM, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node JS Ajax, DAO. Software Developer eBay - San Jose, CA May 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, design, Analysis, Code development base and Testing.  • Coded dynamic and browser compatible UI web pages using JavaScript, CSS, HTML, JQuery, Ajax and responsive design in MVC environment.  • Interacting with business analyst on the requirement gathering, Design, Analysis.  • Have implemented and written Utilities in Vbscript as well batch files for automation of various project related activities.  • Development of Customization module, Build and Deploy application on IT and supports team testing.  • Resolve Build and Deployment Issues, Creating Build Setup for Flexcube Retail  Environment  Java, Spring, Ajax, XML, UML, WebLogic, EJB, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, JQuery, , ANT, jQuery, Apache Webserver. Education Master of Science and Engineering in Science and Engineering University of Delaware