Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Jersey City, NJ • Around 6 years of experience as a J2EE Developer in development and implementation of Web-based Client-Server applications using Web, Java and J2EE technologies.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using Spring Frameworks and Dropwizard.  • Expertise in designing applications using various design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Builder, Proxy and etc.  • Extensively worked on coding using core java concepts like multithreading, collections, stream, optional, serialization, synchronization, exception handling, generics.  • Utilized Java 8 features like lambda expressions, stream and collections operations which could increase the performance of application.  • Strong knowledge on Hibernate and in using Hibernate HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions.  • Experience in working with database objects like Tables, Indexes, Views, and using Oracle, MySQL tools like MySQL Workbench, SQL Plus.  • Good knowledge and experience in developing web interfaces using technologies like XML, HTML, Java Script, Angular 6 and CSS.  • Good experience in slf4j and log4J implementation to persist the data into log files and experience with Maven for the build and deployment of applications.  • Experienced in Git, TeamCity and Jenkins. Work Experience Java Developer BNY-MELLON - Jersey City, NJ April 2019 to Present Description:  Storefront Compute Hosting is an IaaS used within BNY Mellon company. The project aims to develop an easy-used service for application developers to provision and manage virtual machine as their needs.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development, debugging, testing and deploying of the project "Storefront Compute Hosting".  • Implemented the services for provisioning, managing and destroying VMs using Java 8, Jersey, Guice, Slf4j and Jackson with Builder, Factory, Singleton and Proxy patterns.  • Involved in the back-end core Java programing, implemented methods and logics with Java Collections, Eclipse Collections, Stream, Generics, Multi-Threading, Reflection, Functional Interface and Lambda Expressions.  • Implemented services for validating VM provision request, placing and managing VM using Jersey and Jackson, improved code readability and robustness using Eclipse Collection, Lambda Expressions and Optional.  • Implemented unit tests and integration tests for the inventory service (for querying VMs) and execution service (for provisioning VMs) using Junit, Mockito and Cucumber. Including implementing integration tests for test concurrency performance using Multi-threading and Stream, improved the expandability using Generics and Functional Interface.  • Used Slf4j for logging and configured with surefire/failsafe plugin for testing. Used GitLab for version control. Used TeamCity and Jenkins for continuous integration.  Environment: Java 8, Jersey, Jetty, Guice, Jackson, JUnit, Mockito, Cucumber, Slf4j, IntelliJ IDE, Maven, GitLab, TeamCity, Jenkins. Fund Advisor FEDERATED INVESTORS - Pittsburgh, PA August 2017 to May 2018 Description:  Federated Investors is a privately controlled and independent investment management firm and provides services like mutual funds, institutional separate accounts, commingled trusts and sub-advisory accounts. Fund Adviser is a tool used by portfolio managers, wealth advisors and fund research with its accurate data, precise analytics, reporting tools, and experienced insights to inform portfolio strategies and performances. It includes US and global fund flows, indices to help you pinpoint sector and geographical trends, and a comprehensive hedge fund database. It analyzes data at any level with content, analytics and reporting capabilities that best suits your needs. It also uses high-powered charting tools, style-based analysis, and benchmarking tools to develop ideas and communicate them clearly.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) -- design, analysis, development, debugging and testing of project "Fund Advisor".  • Implemented the RESTful services of "Non-U.S. Products - China" part by using Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Implemented fund information fetching service by using Multi-Threading. Refactored convertor code by using Functional Interface, Lambda Expression and Stream API. Parsed response data by using Jackson.  • Used Spring Security for authentication and authorization.  • Involved in development of the user interface by using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular 4.  • Developed the persistence layer by using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped by using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Involved in writing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Views for Oracle database.  • Used JUnit and Mockito framework for unit testing of application.  • Used GIT as version control tool for effectively managing the code changes & experience with Agile/Scrum methodology.  • Used Jenkins to deploy the applications.  Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring REST, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Hibernate, Oracle database, JUnit, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 4, GIT, Maven, IntelliJ IDE, Jenkins ZHONGTAI SECURITIES - Jinan, CN August 2015 to June 2017 Description:  Margin Financing Management System is an important part of the risk management system, which supervises the investors' margin trading behavior, managements margin account, processes risk warning and margin closeout.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development, debugging and testing of project "Margin Financing Management System".  • Responsible for developing the "management panel" by using Spring MVC and Spring JDBC.  • Implemented the APIs for margin financing data visualization part by using multithreading to fetch data from other web services.  • Implemented authentication and authorization by using Spring Security.  • Involved in developing dynamic views by using JSP and Chart.js.  • Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes. Build and deploy done by using Maven and Git repository.  • Automation of the build process by using Jenkins.    Environment: Java, Spring Framework, REST API, Spring JDBC, XML, SOAP UI, Maven, Junit, GIT, Oracle database, UNIX    GUOSEN SECURITIES CO., LTD. Wuhan, CN Market Display & Simulated Trading System February 2013 to August 2015 Description:  Market Display & Simulated Trading System is a web-based application for investors to browse the market and doing simulated transaction.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of the system by using Java Servlets & JSP.  • Implemented trading calls system for simulated trading part by using JMS.  • Designed and developed the front-end of market display website by using JSP, JSP custom tags, Tag Libraries, HTML and used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Worked on Oracle database coding of stored procedures, SQL DDL and DML statements, function, cursors and triggers.  • Used Eclipse IDE standard S/W for developing the application and SVN for Code-management.  • Used Log4j for Logging and Linux commands for debugging purpose.  • Tested the application using JUnit and User Acceptance Testing (UAT) is conducted for the current flow messages.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP Tag Libraries, Oracle database, XML, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Eclipse IDE, Log4j, UML and Rational Rose, SVN Education Provider & Panel Management UPMC - Pittsburgh, PA May 2018 to March 2019 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jdk, C++, Docker, Git, Javascript, Node.js, Jenkins, Vs code, Python, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Junit, Maven, Vm, Soap, C#, .Net, MVC, WCF, WPF Additional Information SKILL SET  • Programming Languages - Java JDK 1.8, C++, C, Python, JavaScript, SQL  • Framework - Spring Frameworks, Dropwizard, Hibernate, Junit, Mockito, Guice, Angular, Node.js  • Web Services - Restful, SOAP, HTTP, Postman, Apache Http Client  • Application Servers - Tomcat, Jetty  • Databases, Cloud and VM - Oracle DB, MySQL, MongoDB, VMware vSphere, Terraform, Docker  • Development Tools - IntelliJ, Eclipse, VS Code, NetBeans, TeamCity, Jenkins, Git, Maven, Postman