Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Verizon • Over 7 years of experience in designing, implementing and deploying commercial Enterprise Applications for Multi-tiered-distributed software products and distributed applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in development of software applications using Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, SOAP and Restful Web Services, Spring, JavaScript, HTML, JSON, CSS, XML and AJAX.  • Experience with Middleware technologies JMS/MQ series.  • Experience with HTML5/CSS3/JavaScript/AJAX. Working experience with JavaScript libraries like jQuery, AngularJS.  • Excellent experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for Developing, Maintaining and Supporting projects. Experience with Agile and Waterfall SDLC methodologies.  • Experience in shell programming for UNIX and Linux environment.  • Strong knowledge about Multithreading, Collections and Exception Handling mechanisms in Java.  • Extensive programming capability in using various IDE's which includes Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA.  • Specialist in working on different kinds of Application Servers & web tiers including Apache Tomcat, Web Logic.  • Experienced in working with Atlassian Toolset such as Jira, Confluence, Git, Jenkins, Continuous deployment (CI/CD).  • Experience in Unit Testing and generating of Test cases using JUnit, Mockito, Spring Test.  • Experience using multiple RDBMS products like Oracle 9i/10g/11g and MySQL.  • Experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, Restful) and Java XML.  • Experienced in developing micro services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud Config Server, Spring registry and discovery clients.  • Experienced in working with Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Experience in working with NO SQL databases such as MongoDB.  • Multi-cultured Team Player with complete flexibility to work independently as well as in a team and have quick grasping capabilities to work with the newly emerging technologies. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Verizon - Temple Terrace, FL February 2018 to Present Description: Global Quote web services has increased consumption rate with growing clients over the years. To increase the performance and to take advantage of the scalability features cloud can offer, divided the enterprise application into micro services and migrated it to Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing micro services architecture challenges, design analysis, development of the user stories, assigning tasks, testing the application.  • Involved in dividing the functionality into multiple micro services, carefully designed to have high CPU utilization to take advantage of the scalability.  • Developed micro services using Spring Boot, built using the Maven, runs as jar file on Embedded tomcat sever.  • Removed EJBs from the original application and used Spring Core to make it compatible with Tomcat server. Used Spring DAO layer to make database operations on oracle database.  • Exposed micro services as both SOAP and Restful web services using Spring Soap, Rest controllers.  • Used Spring Cloud Config server to load the properties dynamically, Spring Eureka service registration and discovery client for maintaining instances and use ribbon load balancer to balance the load between multiple instances of the same service.  • Developed end-to-end API Design and development using Swagger JEE and Spring Boot for micro services.  • Used slf4j for developing loggers.  • Deployed micro services on to PCF and involved in finding optimum cloud instance environment variables and application specific system variables.  • For better integration, configuration and deployment (CI/CD), AWS code pipeline was used in this application development work flow.  • Developed complex SQL queries and stored procedures, involved in creating Database objects such as functions, triggers, tables, views, packages.  • Created Jenkins jobs for continuous integration and continuous delivery to AWS environment.  • Debug troubleshoot and resolving defects encountered during various testing cycles  • Support during SIT, UAT and Regression testing Phases and Perform production release support and maintenance.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Agile Methodology, Spring Boot, Micro Services, Spring Rest, Spring SOAP, Spring Config Server, Eureka Registry Server, Eclipse, XML, SQL,JDBC, slf4j, Oracle 11g, Maven, JavaMail, SOAP, AWS, LOG4J,GIT, Jira, Confluence, Jenkins, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Axis 1.2, Oracle 11g. Sr. Java Developer Morgan Stanley, New York - Plaza, NY, US July 2016 to December 2017 Description: American AgCredit specializes in providing financial services to agricultural and rural customers throughout California, Colorado, New Mexico, Nevada, Kansas and Oklahoma, as well as to capital markets customers in all 50 states. Worked for a project on online pricing management tool, Loan Feeding Systems and Loan Settlement Engine for Customer Transactions. Which is web-based applications accessed by existing and potential customers. Project deals with data stored in day to day transactions, where we validate the transactions against the existing loan and deposits and send that XML feeds to Loan Servicing Systems.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the analysis, documenting the requirements and architecting the application based on J2EE standards. Strictly Followed Test Driven Development.  • Used UML for developing Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams and preliminary Class Diagrams for the system and involved in low-level design.  • Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework involving JSP, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and CSS. Used Jquery to make Ajax calls.  • Implemented the application using Spring Framework which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Developed JSPs, Servlets and custom tags for creating user interfaces.  • Experience in developing web services for production systems using REST. Generated web service client interface using Jersey.  • ESB is used for scheduling the email notifications.  • Used Spring Security to implement security, where cross cutting concerns were identified.  • Developed and implemented DAOs and services using Hibernate, Spring AOP.  • Developed HQL queries to retrieve data using Hibernate. The Data Manipulation operations were implemented using Hibernate Template provided by spring.  • Developed CRUD (Create, Read, Update, and Delete) operations for the processing of alerts.  • Developed integration tests for the alerts module to retrieve and post data through APS (Alerts Products Service).  • Extensively used MVC and Singleton design patterns.  • Extensively used Eclipse IDE for building, testing, and deploying applications.  • Maintaining the business standards and deployed entire code in the Web sphere application server.  • Developed Unit and Functional Test Cases using JUnit while following the Test-Driven Development (TDD) approach.  • Used Log4j for tracking the applications.  • Did Packaging and Deployment of builds through Maven script.  • Used Clear case as version control tool and Clear Quest for defect management.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Agile Methodology, TDD, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.2, Eclipse, XML, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, CSS, JSP, Servlets, SQL, MVC,JDBC, JAX-RS, Jersey,JUnit-4,Oracle 11g, Maven, JavaMail, Java Web Services, RESTful, LOG4J, Clear case, Clear Quest, WebSphere 8.0. Java Developer Reston, VA February 2014 to May 2016 Description: CMS is responsible for health policy and management of the state's publicly funded health systems. These programs include Medicaid health coverage for those with limited income, mental health service. The objective of the project was to develop Medicaid management information system (MITS).    Responsibilities:  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, HTML, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Involved in developing business components using plain old java object  • Extensively worked with Servlets and Struts based multi tier applications in developing J2EE Components.  • Involved in writing packages, stored procedures to access database.  • Created both stand-alone and clustered environments for JBOSS domains  • Developed MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session facade, and Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns  • Involved in writing all client-side validations using Java Script, JQuery.  • Used Hibernate ORM tools which automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java  • Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  • Designed, Developed and Implemented document transformation applications using XML tool.  • The business logic was implemented in Processors and DAO layer accesses the back-end SQL Server database using Hibernate.  • Implemented the Unit testing for the components developed.  • Used Log4j for logging and handling defects of the application  • Used SVN for Version controlling.    Environment: Java1.5, J2EE, Struts 2.x, JSP, JDBC, HTML, Java Script, XML, XSLT, CSS, Servlets, WebServices, SOAP, apache Axis, Oracle10g, JDeveloper, JBoss 5.1, SVN. Java/J2EE Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2011 to October 2013 Description: CRM-T (Customer Relationship Management - T-Home) application is responsible for management of end to end business processes of T-Home. When a private customer or business customer requests for telecom products, CRMT application is used to process the customer request. Different types of customer requests are handled by CRMT such as provisioning of new product, change of product, cancellation of product or relocation. Order Management is main purpose of the CRM-T application.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the business and functional requirements provided by the client and preparing work order estimates.  • Involved in the entire software development cycle spanning requirements analysis, design, development, building, testing, and deployment.  • Designed, developed and deployed various data gathering forms using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and Servlets.  • Developed user interface module using JSP, Servlets and MVC framework.  • Used Struts tiles libraries for layout of Web page, Struts validation using validation.xml and validation-rules.xml for validation of user Inputs and Exception Handling using Struts Exceptional Handler.  • Designed and developed the Critical modules like Order Processing and Order Making and Agents and Reports Generation.  • Implemented the session beans and entity beans to develop the business logic to persist the customer data in to the system.  • Performed the code reviews and refractor the code to improve the performance.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Struts 1.x, JDBC, HTML, Java Script, XML, Tomcat 5.0, ANT, SQL Server, SQL. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate