Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - AMEX, Sun Rise, FL Sunrise, FL ? A competent software professional with 7+ years of experience in all the technical phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement analysis, design, implementation and testing in both Web based and Enterprise applications with emphasis on Object Oriented, Java/J2EE and Client Server technologies  ? Strong exposure to Software methodologies like Agile (SCRUM), Waterfall and Test-Driven Development (TDD)  ? Well versed with converting business requirements into technical solutions and rapidly delivering in a competitive time frame with effective architecture and design which brings enormous value to business  ? Experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML5, DHTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL  ? Expertise in J2EE Technology-Spring, JPA, Hibernate, Struts, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, JSF, JTA, JMS  ? Experience in design and development of robust and highly scalable web service platforms and API's based on REST and SOAP for e-commerce applications using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC technologies and Jersey frameworks  ? Experience in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like spring, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch and Spring MVC  ? Experience with different design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, DAO and MVC  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers  ? like SAX, DOM  ? Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics  ? Expertise in back-end/server-side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java 0Messaging Service (JMS), Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI)  ? Expertise in developing data models using Hibernate Object relational mapping (ORM) frame work and also used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level  ? Expertise in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, Mongo DB and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  ? Good understanding of Openshift platform in managing Docker containers Kubernetes Clusters, Mesos.  ? Having experience with Cloud Computing environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS)  ? Hands-on experience on various AWS Cloud services like EC2, Route53, EBS, Auto Scaling, VPC, Cloud Formation, S3, RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, IAM, Cloud Watch and other services of the AWS infrastructure like Dynamo DB, SQS and EMR focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  ? Developed the Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) as a gateway between the business tier and UI to make the business tier separate from UI  ? Experience on different IDEs such as IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, RAD and deployment using Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, Web Sphere, Glassfish, Camel and JBOSS  ? Experienced in building Webservices for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  ? Experience with Selenium, JUnit, Mockito, Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  ? Good experience with JIRA in issue tracking.  ? Proficient in writing ANT and Maven for builds and deployments to different environments  ? Experience on UNIX/LINUX Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server  ? Experience in using code repository tools - Tortoise SVN, GitHub, and Visual Source Safe  ? Strong communication and analytical skills and a demonstrated ability to handle multiple tasks as well as work independently or in a team Work Experience Full Stack Developer AMEX, Sun Rise, FL June 2018 to Present American Express is a global services company that provides customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. The project involved creating UI Screens for Amex product/service and also developing internal Java coding by retrieving data from client side, processing it and saving it in database. It also involved fetching data from database and displaying it to the user.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, and testing.  ? Developed the view-controller components using JSPs, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript (jQuery).  ? Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS.  ? Hands-on experience in developing integration with Elastic search in any of the programming languages like JAVA and JavaScript. Having knowledge of advance reporting using Elastic search and Node JS.  ? Implemented core features of AngularJS framework such as dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Directives, Templates, Services and Deep Linking Designing.  ? Used Java 8 features like stream and Lambda expressions.  ? Maintained Interface compatibility and concurrency in the project using Java 8 new features like default, static methods and Concurrency API.  ? Used Java 8 Method References feature to point to methods by their names and used functional Interfaces.  ? Used Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View- Controller (MVC) architecture at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  ? Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping logged data and transactions details etc.  ? Used Spring Batch for processing large amount of data like transaction management, job processing, resource management and logging.  ? Secured the API's by implementing Oauth2 token-based authentication/authorization scheme using spring security.  ? Designed and developed third-party Payment services to Offer Users Convenient Payment Methods based on OAuth Protocol  ? Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine and wrote Hibernate Queries to automate the mapping between Oracle database and Objects in Java.  ? Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache ActiveMQ and Apache Camel as JMS provider.  ? Core development experience for Groovy Grails restful web services.  ? Involved in writing SQL and Stored Procedures for handling complex queries with help of TOAD and access them through Java Programs from Oracle Database.  ? Worked with MongoDB to store non-relational data into collection and retrieve them whenever required.  ? Experience in making the Devops pipelines using Openshift and Kubernetes for the Microservices Architecture.  ? Used WebLogic server to route our JMS queue messages to different business floors and configured routes in WebLogic and used JMS in e-mail notification.  ? Worked on setting up Maven scripts to build, package, and deploy application code to the target WebLogic Application Servers and worked on continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  ? Used spring config server for centralized configuration and Splunk for centralized logging. Used Concourse and Jenkins for Microservices deployment.  ? Developed the monolithic application and involved in migrating existing monolithic application in to Micro Service Architecture based RESTful Service and deployments were done on AWS.  ? Converted a monolithic app to microservices architecture using Spring Boot using 12-factor app methodology. Deployed, Scaled, Configured, wrote manifest file for various Microservices in PCF.  ? Implemented REST Microservices using spring boot. Generated Metrics with method level granularity and Persistence using Spring AOP and Spring Actuator.  ? Implemented Zipkins for distributed Micro Service Monitoring. Integrated Swagger UI and wrote integration test along with REST document.  ? Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot.  ? Hands on Coding to build REST Micro Services using Spring Cloud, Oracle, XSD, JSON, Spring Config, Cloud Foundry and Jenkins.  ? Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS) and deployed the application on it.  ? Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux).  ? Worked on AWS services to deploy static websites and dynamic Web Apps on EC2 using Elastic Beanstalk and Elastic Container Service-Docker.  ? Involved in creating EC2 instances and installed required configurations and applications on it and created S3 buckets for storing object level data into it.  ? Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor the application and to store the logging information.  ? Used Kafka to handle data pipeline for high speed filtering and pattern matching on the fly and monitoring data pipeline operations. This involves aggregating statistics from distributed applications to produce centralized feeds of operational data.  ? Utilized kubernetes and docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploy.  ? Developed API's to read and publish data from Elasticsearch cluster using native Java Transport client as well as REST client. Worked on Spring Integration with the Elasticsearch  ? Focused on Test Driven Development there by creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  ? Performed automation testing and authored test scripts using Selenium Web Driver, Selenium Grid and Junit.  ? Worked in Agile TDD environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Gradle , ANT, Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components.  Environment: Agile methodology, Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, XML, JSP, JAX-RS, Spring AOP, Spring security, Oracle, MongoDB, JSP, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Docker, Kafka, GIT, JIRA, PL/SQL, STS, JUnit, Log4J, Maven, Jenkins, WebLogic Application Server, AWS IAM, EC2, S3, RDS, SQS. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Century Link - Denver, CO October 2017 to May 2018 Consulting+ is a web-based order management system for CenturyLink residential service. CenturyLink Customer Service Representatives will use Consulting + thin client application to order various telephone services for the residential customers. This application replaces the existing thick client application to place the orders.    Responsibilities:  ? Experienced in working on DevOps/Agile operations process and tools area (Code review, unit test automation, Build & Release automation, Environment, Service, Incident and Change Management)  ? Designed and developed UI screens with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, Angular JS, Node JS to provide interactive screens to display data  ? Designed and implemented the User interface using JSF, JQuery  ? Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry  ? Fundamental mastery of AWS clouds computing platform and its dimensions of scalability  ? Involved in complete application stack in AWS EC2, S3  ? Designed Java Components and integrated using Spring framework with Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern  ? Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security  ? Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  ? Implementing Microservices in Spring Native cloud. Implementing Spring cloud APIs to authenticate and facilitate the incoming server requests. Created Maven build file to build the application  ? Building applications using Test Driven Development. Used REST API for development for Microservices.  ? Design of REST controllers using Spring MVC.  ? Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application  ? Implementing or exposing the Micro services based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC  ? Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Axis  ? Created web services using Spring @Rest Controller to return JSON to the frontend  ? Extensive use of HTML5 with AngularJS, JSTL, JSP and JQuery for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for  ? Developed Custom Tag Libraries for the use in web pages by using JSTL packages for the development of the Web Pages  ? JSF ( Java Server Faces) was used for to simplify development integration of user interfaces and the operation on the values they (UI) hold  ? Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from SQL Server  ? Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security  ? Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class  ? Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management  ? Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS (MQ series) for sending and receiving messages while creating web services  ? Implemented service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS  ? Developed queries to perform CRUD operations  ? XSLT to transform the XML files to the presentation layer for the enrich design  ? Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server  ? Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs  ? Development carried out under Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE)  ? Used GlassFish as application server for some of the web applications.  ? Worked closely with Software Developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems  ? Jenkins is used as a continuous integration tool for automation of daily process  ? Used MAVEN to define the dependencies and build the application and used JUnit for suite execution and Assertions  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management  ? Created & Maintained Automation Selenium Automation Scripts for the Scrum Stories  ? Used Selenium Web Driver to run test cases in multiple browsers and Platforms  ? Log4J was used to monitor the error logs and used GIT as a Version Control system  Environment: Core Java, Multithreading, Agile Methodology, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, Angular JS, JSTL, JQuery, AJAX, AWS EC2, S3, Micro Services, Hibernate, Spring, RESTful API, SOA, JAX-RS, JSON, Hibernate, SQL Server, MyBatis, SQL, JMS, Oracle, CRUD, CI, CD, JIRA, DevOps, Jenkins, MAVEN, JUnit, UNIX, Eclipse, Glassfish, Selenium, IBM Web Sphere, Log4J, GIT Java/J2EE Developer Mercy Hospital - Cincinnati, OH April 2016 to September 2017 Health care information system is a high performance, user-friendly online information system. This package is extremely flexible, modularly built and has a set of modifiable screens, data forms and reports. It provides a powerful way of user driven application with transparency, security and ease in data access.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked with Onshore team members and participated in work planning team bandwidth and prepared work breakdown Developed service-oriented middleware to incorporate two legacy source systems and published them as web-services. Incorporated source system specific business logic in Java code and exposing them as Web Service as per Base profile specifications and WSDL contract.  ? Involved in client requirement gathering, analysis & application design of Extreme Programming using Agile methodology with iterative and incremental software development.  ? Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using AngularJS, HTML, JSP, JS, CSS and AJAX.  ? Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring framework to inject dependency into objects and to wire objects of business classes.  ? Used Spring framework including Spring core /IOC, Spring Web, Spring Security.  ? Developed persistence layer Data access objects using DAO pattern, JDBC, Hibernate  ? Developed costume queries using Hibernate criteria, native SQL and HQL. Developed inheritance domain objects using table per class hierarchy strategy.  ? Configured EH Cache to load the static tables into secondary storage area.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using CXF framework tool/Apache Commons.  ? Developed integration modules for disparate clients using Apache Camel.  ? Developed Stateless session beans to parse (parser frame work) and process the user request into domain object (DAO design pattern) to delegate the business request to the business delegate object  ? Used SOAP web services and XML data over HTTP.  ? Developed necessary parsing and XML construction logic using XML parser APIs JAXB.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, Struts published validation framework to support client side and server side validation.  ? Used built in store Procedures to reach the requirements from the Client to improve the response times of the services.  ? Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, Oracle using TOAD tool.  ? Developed an automated application using JMS for messaging and JNDI to interact with the Server.  ? Developed Scripts for the build process and deployed in Web Logic Server.  ? Developed customized SQL for retrieving the data from the database worked with business and client to reach the performance parameters.  ? Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process.  ? Implemented Log4J for logging errors, tracking using logger's components.  ? Developed unit test cases to test business scenarios associated with each use case sequences.  ? Used GIT for version control tool.  ? Experienced in writing unit test cases using JUNIT.  ? Worked on UNIX environment for development.  ? Actively participated in production support.  Environment: Java, JEE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Spring (dependency injection, AOP), Spring Web, Struts, Hibernate, JMS, Clear case, WebLogic Server, Web- services, SOAP, WSDL, JNDI, UDDI, JAX-RPC, JAXB, Log4j, Oracle, Rally, JUnit, Jenkins, GIT, TOAD, UNIX Java Developer The E-Vault Company - Salt Lake City, UT January 2015 to March 2016 The E-Vault company (a subsidiary of Seagate) Sales representative get Sales Order Leads and they use the Sales force application to enter the information into that system. They also use a NetSuite order processing and Accounting system to process the orders, generate invoices, make entries in AP, AC, GL, etc. and work order, etc. They are transferring the Sales order leads manually enter the NetSuite application. The team wants to capture the different types of Sales force entered Order leads into orders into the Net Suite system. The incoming data will be in JSON format that data will get new properties and the new JSON object will be entered a SQL database using SOAP based POST http action methods.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in Requirements gathering and created Design prototypes using story boards to involve in analysis, design, and implementation of the Insurance Purchase System.  ? Developed Struts validation framework and JavaScript for validation.  ? Worked in implementation of MVC design paradigm of Spring framework, Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) using Hibernate and Oracle database at the back end.  ? Developed Exception Handling framework and used Log4j for logging.  ? Worked with defect tracking system Bugzilla.  ? Involved in developing SOAP and Restful Web Services functions to get data from the Mainframe Systems.  ? Developed SQL queries and views for handling database activities in Oracle/MS SQL Server.  ? Implemented and maintained AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience.  ? Used Spring MVC Framework to develop Action classes and Controllers along with validation framework and annotations.  ? Involved in development of presentation layer using Spring framework, and MVC design paradigm.  ? Used JBOSS Server for deploying the application.  ? Involved in Object Analysis, design and documentation of the application model using Unified Modelling Language (UML).  ? Used SVN as a version control system and for code management.  Environment: Java SDK, Entity Bean, Struts, Spring MVC Session Bean, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, and Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers, Stored Procedures, log4j, JBOSS, Eclipse. Java Developer Medicon HealthCare August 2013 to December 2014 Medicon HealthCare engaged in manufacturing & exporting of pharmaceutical products for acute care market etc. Medicon is a leading group of Pharmacy companies that is headed by an experienced management involved in the diverse field of pharmacy industry. Tycho System is a medical system which provides user's functions such as searching diseases modify and display records. The system contains search engine, user control center and huge databases of the record of diseases of different medical centers.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the risk workflow system.  ? Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support in WATER FALL methodology.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using Struts, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in J2EE using Struts MVC.  ? Implemented Struts framework (Action & Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate classes.  ? Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  ? Achieved synchronization of multiple threads through Multithreading and Exception Handling.  ? Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  ? Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and performed action mapping using Struts.  ? Developed batch job using EJB scheduling and leveraged container managed transactions for highly transactions.  ? Involved in developing Web Services to send XML request and reading the response SOAP UI from Java platform.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs, Garbage collections for dynamic memory allocation to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.  ? Established Database Connectivity using JDBC for Oracle.  ? Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  ? Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.  ? Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements.  ? Implemented JUNIT test cases for unit testing and Suites for end to end testing.  ? Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories and bug fixing.  ? Used SVN to check-in and check-out and co-ordinate among team members for Version Controlling.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, XML, Struts, JDBC, IBATIS, Web Services, SOAP UI, Restful, HQL, SQL, JBOSS, JSON, Oracle, ANT, Eclipse IDE, JUNIT, JIRA, Tortoise SVN, and UNIX. Jr. Java Developer Visual Soft August 2011 to July 2013 This is an e-commerce application, which helps the customers to sell their products online. A particular customer can access his information with proper authentication/authorization only (Encrypted id/passwords). It enables the customer to update the product information online, search for a product by full/partial product name, product category and ID. It also provides the customer with up-to-date reports on the sales information based on customer age-group/gender and product Name/category.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in client requirement gathering, analysis & application design.  ? Involved in design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation, and Maintenance Support in WATER FALL methodology.  ? Developed the UI layer with JSP, HTML, CSS3 and Java Script.  ? Used Java Script to perform client-side validations.  ? Developed server-side presentation layer using Struts MVC Framework.  ? Developed Action classes, Action Forms and Struts Configuration file to handle required UI actions and JSPs for Views.  ? Developed batch job using EJB scheduling and leveraged container managed highly transactions.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs, Garbage collections for dynamic memory allocation to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Used JPA and JDBC in the persistence layer to persist the data to the DB2 database.  ? Created and written SQL queries, tables, triggers, views and PL/SQL procedures to retrieve and persist the data to the database.  ? Performance Tuning and Optimization with Java Performance Analysis Tool.  ? Implemented JUnit test cases for Struts/Spring components.  ? JUnit is used to perform the Unit Test Cases.  ? Used Eclipse and worked on installing and configuring JBOSS.  ? Made use of SVN for checkout and check in operations.  ? Worked with production support team in debugging and fixing various production issues.  Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, EJB, Struts, JDBC, JPA, SQL, DB2, JUnit, JBOSS, Eclipse, SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills Java (7 years), JavaScript (7 years), JSP (7 years), JUnit (6 years), SQL (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: C, C++, Java, J2EE, PL/SQL.  Platforms Windows, Linux and Unix.  Tools and Framework: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, JSF, JUnit, SOAP UI, JReport, Rational Rose  J2SE/J2EE Technologies: Java, J2EE, RMI, Sockets, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Java Beans, JSTL, JSF, Jakarta Struts, EJB, Spring, Hibernate, JTA, JNDI, JPA JMS, Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI and RESTFUL), Groovy/Grails.  Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSF, AJAX, BackboneJS, NodeJS, JSON Restful.  XML Technologies: XML, XSL, DOM, SAX, DTD, XQuery, XSD and XSLT.  Cloud Technologies: AWS EC2, S3  Databases: Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, MS SQL, IBM DB2, MongoDB, NoSQL.  Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Glassfish, Web logic Application server, JBOSS.  Build Tools: ANT, Maven, Vagrant, Docker and Jenkins  IDE / Tools: Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite (STS), RAD  Testing Tools/ Others: Selenium, JUnit, Mockito, Soap UI, Log4j and JIRA  Version Control: Tortoise SVN, CVS and GIT    Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall, Test Driven Development