Salesforce Lightning Developer Salesforce Lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Lightning Developer - Suntrust Bank Atlanta, GA Work Experience Salesforce Lightning Developer Suntrust Bank - Atlanta, GA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various activities of the project, like development meeting, requirement gathering, and analyzing requirements, documenting the functional and nonfunctional requirements.  ? Designed, developed and deployed the Custom Apps, Custom objects, Custom Fields, Custom buttons, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages, Apex classes to suit to the needs of the application.  ? Worked in Agile methodology, attended daily scrum meetings, weekly grooming meetings and sprint review meetings.  ? Implemented Salesforce Lightning Components for small set of users within the organization, developed Lightning components and server-side controllers to meet the business requirements.  ? Developed web apps for desktop using Salesforce Lightning Component UI framework.  ? Created Lightning components and apps combining Lightning Design system, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  ? Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  ? Worked with SFChatter which helps the users to communicate with the organization easily and quickly.  ? Enforced security by implementing object and field level security, sharing rules, permission sets, organization wide defaults and roles.  ? Used refined global search in Lightning by developing Apex classes and Controllers.  ? Used field level security along with page layouts in Lightning to manage access to certain fields.  ? Implemented Salesforce web services like SOAP and REST API, Java, XML.  ? Performed Data Migration from home grown legacy system to salesforce CRM using Data loader.  ? I was Involved in developing Salesforce Lightning applications using Lightning Components, Controllers and Events and used custom CSS in the components.  ? Developed Lightning Component Framework and built Lightning component using aura framework.  ? Cleaned up tons of un-useful data in our org using de-duping tools and cleansing data prior to import, created almost 90 validation rules to ensure data quality and integrity.  ? Automated 80% of our manual processes using declarative tools like workflows, process builder, Flows, Approval processes and formula fields thus reducing significant manual effort across all our internal teams.  ? Manage page layouts, fields, and system interface/capabilities, Lightning Component.  ? Experience in creating Lightning Components and used Lightning Design System to convert existing Visualforce pages to lightning components.  ? Used change-sets to deploy the code in to different environment (Testing, UAT and production).  ? Implemented Sales cloud and incorporated the enhanced features as required to streamline the business process.  ? Worked on Test classes of various triggers and apex classes in the application to maintain minimum of 75% code coverage.  ? Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records. Used Salesforce1 simulator during the development to test if the lightning components works properly on the mobile device  ? Strong Experience in Salesforce Lightning components design & designing compact layouts using Apex triggers, Page layouts, Visual force pages, workflows for Mobile platform.  ? Created Lightning Components using Controllers, Helper Methods, AngularJS, CSS and Bootstrap.  ? Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  ? Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the lightning component look and feel better.  ? Hands on experience on salesforce packages and lightning. Implementing salesforce lightning components for small set of users within the organizations.  ? Used Salesforce1 simulator during the development to test if the lightning components works properly on the mobile device.  ? Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records.  Integration Implementation Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for building integration processes integrating cloud-based applications (SaaS/PaaS), and On-Premise Enterprise Applications.  ? Done with integrations using connectors such as Sale force, HL7, SAP, Database, HTTP, FTP and File Connectors.  ? Worked on data migration of objects like Account, contact, lead, attachments and custom objects from source SFDC to Target SFDC, used data loader and file exporter tools.  ? Worked with Integration and web services. Integrated Salesforce with legacy systems using Apex Web services and outbound messaging.  ? Used third party tool - File exporter for migrating Documents, Attachments objects.  ? Integrated the web services using REST and SOAP by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the homegrown applications by using the homegrown web services.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Lightning Components, Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Agile, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer Kaiser - Pleasanton, CA January 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Performed the roles of Salesforce Developer and Administrator in the organization.  ? Interacted with different business teams and developing teams to acquire the requirements and documentation of business and technology requirements.  ? Developed Custom objects, Custom fields, Tabs, Record types as per the requirements of the organization. Salesforce developer  ? Automated business logics in the organization using validation rules, workflow rules and apex triggers.  ? Created and configured Page layouts and search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components in detail and edit pages of records.  ? Created complex workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  ? Enhanced the security by configuring profiles, organization wide defaults, sharing rules and roles.  ? Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  ? Developed apex controllers and extensions along with Visualforce pages for better UI and functioning.  ? Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to better utilize Sales force as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the needs of the organization.  ? Created custom Dashboards for manager's home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people.  ? Used Data Loader for insert, update, bulk import or export of data from Salesforce .com sObjects used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  ? Used Salesforce.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Controllers and Triggers, Visualforce, Force.com IDE, Migration Tool, Web Services API.  ? Create/setup Sandbox for user testing and migrate code from development org to other sandbox and production orgs, and vice versa using Force.com IDE.  ? Used the Agile methodology to develop documentation and business models in support of SDLC implementation.  ? Worked closely with the business for requirements and enhancements while guiding implementation and facilitating Testing including user acceptance of changes.  ? Responsible for analysis, requirements, Testing, production migration and project management of all support issues.  ? Hands on experience on Batch/Real Time Data migration tasks.  ? Defining Validation rules, Work flows and Approval process based on the client requirements.  ? By using Apex Data Loader importing data into Salesforce cloud.  ? Generating reports and Dashboards.  ? Involved in end to end testing and configuration enhancement for the CPQ and CLM functionalities.  ? Used Visualforce to build enrich UI for creating Custom buttons and for routing to new pages and worked on integrating SOAP and REST API.  ? Involved in end to end QA and UAT testing and validation of CPQ including products, pricing, quoting etc.  ? Written SOQL, SOSL, Aggregate, Relationship queries in apex classes, triggers to retrieve optimized data from sObjects.  ? Ability to write complex SOQL, SOSL queries across multiple objects within the SFDC database.  ? Hands on experience in Apttus CPQ to streamline configuration also to ensure pricing and quoting accuracy.  ? Involved in CPQ (Configure, Price& Quote) design and mapped to the Salesforce custom objects and involved in Apttus Advanced Workflow Approvals.    Environment: Apex, Visual force, Apex Classes, SOQL, Apex triggers,Visual force, Pages, Batch Apex, Schedule Apex, SOAP, REST, Workflows and Approvals, Data Warehousing, Case Management, Automation, Sandbox testing.SalesForce.com Platform, S-Controls, Salesforce.com Custom Objects, HTML, Java Script, Workflows, Reports, Force.com Eclipse Plug-in, SalesForce.com sandbox. MS SQLServer2000, MS Access, Query Analyzer, DTS, BCP, SQL Profiler, Import & Export Data, Windows 2000 Server, MS Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook), SQL, MS Project, Apttus CPQ, Ant script. Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC November 2012 to December 2014 CashPro online is a new worldwide client access channel, designed to deliver the global power of bank of America Merrill Lynch through one portal and one password. CashPro online represents a multimillion dollar investment shared client vision to create the industry's best banking experience. Providing greater control over the financial solutions your business uses through simple, global access wherever and whenever you choose.    Responsibilities:  ? Performed analysis and created UML diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using MS-Visio.  ? Identified the Business Requirements of the project.  ? Web application is developed using the Struts MVC framework.  ? Used JSP to create login page, user profile, and account information pages.  ? Wrote Custom tags and Tag Library Descriptor (TLD) for encapsulating dynamic functionality and used JSTL tags for populating data on the JSP.  ? Developed server side utilities using Java Beans, XML, and EJB.  ? Developed Stored Procedures extensively used XPath for finding information in an XML document.  ? Used JDBC to connect to the database.  ? Developed message driven beans (MDB)'s for receiving the messages from other systems.  ? Developed DAO layer using JDBC and wrote several SQL queries to store and retrieve results from database.  ? Apache Tomcat server administration.  ? Developed Unix Shell Scripts to perform administrator related tasks.  ? Used Java Swing for developing internal GUI applications.    Environment: Core Java, Swing, RAD, Servlets, JSP, Custom Tags, Structs, Java beans, EJB, JDBC, Oracle, XML, JMS, IBM Web Sphere, Net Beans, WSAD, Rational Rose, Unix, Shell Scripting. Jr. Java Developer Spectrum Soft Solutions August 2010 to February 2012 This project was designed to build a Common Access Platform for customers and insurance agents using Internet to interact with the system from any part and allow the customers to buy insurance online. Also, used by the HR department to manage the vast information generated due to massive business operations. Main objective is to help in tracking HR related issues, optimize and increase the productivity.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the High level and detailed Design, Coding, Testing, and Implementation of the applications.  ? Created the rider's module, where information of clients are collected, stored, and managed.  ? Developed code for Vendor module& Product module which contain information about various vendors from which insurance are bought and their product information respectively.  ? Involved in creating JSP pages, JavaScript's validation and developed error handling framework for the application.  ? Preparing unit test cases and documents for QA.  ? Involved in the Data-Migration activities for creating Data Mapping documents from client source data to our new target system.  ? Used AJAX for asynchronous communication with server to provide better user experience.  ? Writing standalone Java classes, reusable components and Java Beans for getting data from oracle tables.  ? Written hibernate mapping files, POJO classes.  ? Involved in writing HQL queries and criteria queries.  ? Supporting System Integrating Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  ? Performing the Unit testing and basic functional testing with different set of data.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, HTML, JDBC, JDK, Waterfall Model, Tomcat, Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (1 year), Analyzer (2 years), Apex (4 years), C (Less than 1 year), Case Management (2 years), CSS (2 years), Databases (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (4 years), Excel (2 years), Force.com (2 years), HTML (5 years), Java (7 years), loader. (4 years), SDLC (2 years), SQL (4 years), UI (4 years), user interface (4 years), Visio. (2 years), Workflow (4 years), XML. (4 years)