Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Kansas City, MO • Over Seven Years of experience in all the phases of Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) phases of design, development, implementation, deployment, testing and maintenance as per quality standards using Agile and waterfall methodologies.  • Good Experience in Application Software Development and Design, Object Oriented Design and Analysis (OOAD), Technical Documentation, Software Testing and Debugging.  • Excellent implementation knowledge of JDK 1.6/1.7/1.8, Spring, Hibernate, AOP, Struts, JDBC, EJB.  • Experience in RDBMS using Oracle, DB2, MySQL.  • Involved in configuring, deploying applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server, BEA WebLogic Application Server, Apache Tomcat on UNIX, Linux and Windows platforms.  • Extensive experience in Design, Development and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) using Spring and JSF Frameworks.  • Experience in Database Design, writing stored procedure, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries.  • Experience in Web Services using SOAP, UDDI, WSDL and XML related technologies - XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPath, SAX, DOM, JAXB and XML Beans.  • Developed the code for front end using jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML5, CSS and JSON.  • Extensive experience with Java/J2EE Design Patterns like Service Locator, Session Facade, Factory, Abstract Factory, Singleton, IOC, Adaptor, Data Access Objects, Proxy Interface.  • Expertise in implementing Action classes, Form Beans using Struts framework and writing JSP pages with Struts Tag Library, JSTL and custom tags.  • Experience in creating build scripts using Ant and Maven.  • Strong TDD (test driven development) and continuous integration experience using JUnit, Mock Framework.  • Strong experience in developing Web Services like SOAP and RESTful.  • Proficient in developing UML diagrams using Rational Rose and Visual Paradigm.  • Strong Experience with version control tools such as SVN, CVS, Clear Case and defect tracking using Clear Quest.  • Excellent oral and written communication skills, Team building, Leadership, Project Management skills.  • Detail oriented person with good technical troubleshooting/problem-solving ability.  • Strengths include good team player, self-motivated, quick learner, open to work with new technologies in a dynamic, fast-paced and deadline driven environment, excellent interpersonal, analytical and communication skills. Work Experience Java Developer PSI Services LLC October 2017 to Present Project: ISACA (Item Authoring)  Project Description: PSI Services LLC provides pre-employment testing, licensure and certification testing solutions to corporations, professional associations, and government regulatory agencies in North America. It offers certification services, including professional associations, leadership services products and clients, test delivery and administration services, item authoring and banking solutions, and test development/psychometric services; and talent assessment services, such as leadership and development assessments, technology services, professional services, test administration and Webinars. It also operates testing centers that offers test administrative services.  Responsibilities:  • Design, architect and develop enterprise class web applications.  • Collaborate with subject matter experts, product managers and engineers to build modern, scalable, user friendly and functionally robust web applications.  • Implement key business modules in Java with the Spring application framework for the application Item Authoring.  • Highly creative Angular4 development in web development using JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Used Continuous Integration tools like ANT.  • Invoking RESTful API's from client-side JavaScript using AJAX and jQuery calls.  • Developed dynamic web pages using JSP, to interface with a SQL database, using Servlets.  • Develop the Web layer of applications with the Spring MVC framework.  • Used Spring MVC and IBatis to define and configure managed Beans for data access logic and dependency injection.  • Design the database using the standard RDBMS design techniques and make sure that the database tables are in normalized form.  • Configure the Eclipse IDE for development environment and to integrate the source control tool with Eclipse Plug-in. Worked on IntelliJ for Client Services project.  • Work in an Agile environment and ability to estimate requirements as needed.  • Comfortable learning and applying new technologies to enhance application usability and performance.  • Enhance and support existing application functionality which includes new feature development, code refactoring and resolving complex code issues as reported.  • Create Unit Test plans and test the components with Junit.  • DB2 unique Exchange command has been used to exchange the data between clone and base tables.  • Create System integration test plans and document the test results for the integration testing.  • Deployed the applications on Tomcat Application Server.  • Used JIRA/STASH as shared repository.  • Used GIT as source repository. Implemented the batch process by using parallel processing using split process and merge process.  • Used JPA to connect to the databases.  • Used SQL queries and stored procedures in Oracle 10g database environment and used SQL Developer for testing purpose.  Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, Eclipse Neon, Scrum Methodology, Tomcat 7.0,DB2, Git, TortoiseSVN 1.7.9, Spring MVC 4.0, Struts, RESTful, SOAP Web Service, XML, Jenkins, Veracode, IBatis, SQL Developer, Log4j. Java Developer NIC Inc October 2016 to September 2017 Project: DMV of KANSAS, National and State Parks of KANSAS  Project Description: NIC Inc. provides support for Corporate Security activities with a focus on evaluation of infrastructure and applications through penetration testing. NIC Inc. is the leading provider of outsourced eGovernment services which builds and manages official government Web sites and eGovernment services for 30 states and hundreds of local governments in the United States. NIC Inc designs, manages, and markets eGovernment services on behalf of state and local governments. NIC Inc. partners with government leaders and establish local offices to provide customized solutions for each government we serve. Our electronic government solutions use technology to increase efficiency and reduce costs for governments and their constituents.  Responsibilities:  • Provide technical expertise within an assigned business unit/area in the analysis, design, and development of business applications.  • Accountable for major development responsibilities of large/complex projects or across multiple, nearly simultaneous smaller projects.  • Implement key business modules in Java with the Spring application framework.  • Develop the Web layer of applications with the Spring MVC framework.  • Object relational mapping with Hibernate.  • Design the database using the standard RDBMS design techniques and make sure that the database tables are in normalized form.  • Created data pipeline model using  • Designed and developed the UI using JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Primefaces, jQuery and AJAX.  • Configure the Eclipse IDE for development environment and to integrate the source control tool with Eclipse Plug-in.  • Create Unit Test plans and test the components with Junit.  • Create System integration test plans and document the test results for the integration testing.  • Deployed the applications on Tomcat Application Server.  • Used JIRA/STASH as shared repository.  • Used GIT as source repository. Implemented the batch process by using parallel processing using split process and merge process.  • Used JPA to connect to the databases.  • Wrote the SQL queries and stored procedures in Oracle10g database environment and used SQL Developer for testing purpose.  • Implemented Sprint based Scrum Agile methodology for the development of the Projects and closely worked with the Scrum Master, Client, and Team Members.  • Provided Technical support for production environments resolving the issues, analyzing the defects, providing and implementing the solution defects.  Environment: Java1.7, JSP, CSS3, HTML5, Eclipse, Scrum methodology, Tomcat7.0, SQL, Git, JPA, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Struts, RESTful, SOAP Web Service, XML, Jenkins, JIRA/STASH, Hibernate, SQL developer, Log4j. Java Developer State of Michigan (SOM) May 2013 to October 2016 Project: Affordable Care Act (ACA)  Project Description: ACA interface with federal exchange for TIERS and SSP is comprised of various web services, which will accept and persist Medicaid/CHIP application and QHP related information from Health Insurance Marketplace through electronic referral and disposition results back to Health Insurance Marketplace using the web services, their descriptions, and system responsible for producing the web service.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for system analysis, design and development in J2EE using MVC based architecture.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design & development and the project was developed using Agile Methodologies.  • Designed and developed necessary UML Diagrams like Use Case, Class, Sequence, State and Activity diagrams using IBM Rational Rose.  • Extensively applied various design patterns such as Front Controller, Factory, Singleton, Business Delegate Service Locator, DAO etc. throughout the application for a clear and manageable distribution of roles.  • Used the JSF especially custom validator for client side validations and PrimeFaces.  • Consumed Web Services by implementing Spring's REST support to make the development of RESTFUL Web Services. Was involved in few Front-end fixes for RCP application.  • Implemented the batch process by using parallel processing using split process and merge process.  • Used SAX and DOM parsers to parse the raw XML documents.  • Designed and developed client-side GUI using JSP, HTML, jQuery, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Created and consumed SOAP Web Services using Apache CXF.  • Build the application and deployed on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Develop, implement and maintain various batch jobs like Unearned Income, Bendex, FAPIPV Sanctions, ASCAP and Prisoner Match.  • Developed pages with JavaScript /Ajax for client-side form validation.  • Understanding of design, coding and deployment of Java Server Pages and Servlets with management of persistence using Hibernate.  • Triaged and resolved coding issues and ensured customer email campaigns were displaying accurately across major email clients using HTML/CSS.  • Used Oracle Database for persisting the data.  • Developed back end interfaces using PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, Functions, Anonymous PL/SQL programs, Cursors, Exceptions Handling, Collections and triggers.  • Involved in Production Support, to resolve the Production issues within the timeline.  • Used Rational Clear Case and Clear Quest for version control and change management in assigning and tracking the issues and resolving them.  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and used Test Cases for testing Action Classes.  • Extensively used Log4j for logging throughout the application and developing build schedule tool that supports verifying the database builds using RCP technology in JAVA.  Environment:Java1.7,JSP,CSS3,Bootstrap3, Rational Application Developer(RAD), Scrum methodology,Tomcat7.0,PL/SQL,Junit,SpringBoot,Struts,RESTful,SOAPWebService,XML,Javascript,HTML5, jQuery, SQL Developer, Log4j. Java Developer ICore Infotech March 2013 to May 2013 Project: E-Billing system  Project Description: The Insurance E-Billing system provides the customers access to their accounts with robust and secure data communication over the Internet. It is three-tier J2EE Architecture. The web-tier was developed using JSP, Servlets and Struts framework. The middle-tier consisted of Spring Framework maintaining the business logic and interacting with the SQL server. The application was managed over Web sphere application server.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project which was modeled using Rational Unified Process (RUP).  • Generated Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Implemented the application using Jakarta Struts Framework which is based on Model View Controller design pattern.  • Image transformation in JSP's using SWINGS and APPLETS.  • Used the Struts Validation and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Implemented the template-based categorization of presentation content using Struts-Tiles. MVC implementation using Struts framework.  • Implemented workflow system in a SOA environment, through web services built using Axis2 for SOAP over HTTP and SMTP. Configuration and deployments of AXIS2 components on web sphere application server at class loader level, and used the same to build and consume the web services (both synchronous and asynchronous)  • Developed components of web services (JAX-WS, REST, JAX-RPC) end to end, using different JAX-WS standards with clear understanding on WSDL (type, message, port Type, bindings, and service)  • Developed various EJB components to fulfill the business functionality.  • Session Beans were developed to process the requests from the user.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated it with the Struts Framework and Hibernate.  Environment: Java 1.5, EJB, JSP, CSS, Boostrap3, Eclipse Neon, Scrum Methodology,Tomcat 7.0, Spring MVC, Struts,RESTful,SOAP Webservice, XML, Hibernate, SQL Developer, Log4j. Technical Engineer IBM India Private Ltd March 2011 to July 2011 Project: Core Banking  Project Description: Core banking solution in Karvy aims at supporting functions like maintaining customer information and providing services for savings/checking/overdraft/loans accounts, trade finance, remittances and all the other basic banking functions. The functionalities handled by the Credit Management team in the core banking system includes support for loan/mortgage/overdraft accounts, Collateral Maintenance, Insurance coverage, Risk assessment and Non-Performing assets module. The System also generates the various reports required for auditing purposes.  Responsibilities:  • Analysis, design and development of Application based on J2EE and Design Patterns.  • Used the Struts framework for managing the navigation and page flow.  • Created templates using design patterns (Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Façade)  • Extensively Developed the EJB-Session Bean acts as Façade, will be able to access the business entities.  • Wrote clean, high-performance HTML/CSS code with a focus on code reusability.  • Drafted back-end code to retrieve sensor data from external sources using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed the web-tier using HTML, Struts framework, JSP and Servlets.  • Used JDBC for accessing the data from the DB2 database.  • Provided support for Production and Implementation Issues.  • Involved in end-user/client training of the application. Involved in the release management process to QA/UAT/Production regions.  • Installation, configuring, administration of JBOSS EAP 6.4 on Linux environment.  Environment: J2EE, Java 1.5, EJB2.0, Java beans, JDBC, JSP, Struts 1.0, Design Patterns, BEA Weblogic 7.1, PL/SQL,DB2,UML,CVS,Junit,Log4j. Project Engineer Wipro Technologies October 2010 to February 2011 Project: Wireless Intelligence System  Project Description: Developed a web based Wireless Intelligence application for AT&T. This application is used to track, visualize, manage and govern performance, usage and spend of all wireless services used by the employees of an organization. Some of the features of this application are performance, management, billing data import and generation of reports.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and used Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Created Design Docs from Functional Specifications.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework in the application.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IoC).  • Involved in development of Debit Memo module using JSPs and Servlets.  • Coded Javascript for performing client-side validations.  • Developed Object Relational (O/R) mapping using Hibernate 3.0. Developed Data Access Object (DAO) persistence layer using Hibernate 3.0.  • Involved in development of Web Services using JAX-WS 2.0 to get data from the SAP System.  • Used Tomcat Web Server 5.5 for development purpose.  • Used Oracle SQL Developer 1.2.0 for Oracle 10g for running queries to confirm the results from the application.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures for the application in Oracle.  • Worked on code-merge, code integration and module integration. Involved in monitoring the defects and assigning it to the concerned.  • Used JUnit for Unit Testing and Clover for code coverage.  • Used CVS as Version Control System for the application.  • Provided support to the testing team and also involved in the Bug Fixing.  • Deployed the application on to IBM WebSphere 6.1 in UNIX environment IBM AIX 5.1.0.3. Tested the application after making the necessary configuration.  Environment: Java1.6, JSP, CSS, Bootstrap 3, Eclipse Neon, Scrum methodology, Tomcat 5.5, CVS, Spring MVC, Struts, RESTful, SOAP Web Service, XML, Jenkins, Veracode, Hibernate, SQL Developer, Log4j, Junit. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University 2011 to 2012 Bachelors in Electronics & Communication Engineering in Electronics & Communication Engineering Andhra University 2006 to 2010 Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, Javascript, Angularjs, JSP, Java J2Ee, Spring, Angular, Rest, JEE, MVC Additional Information SKILLS:  Languages Java (JDK 1.6/1.7/1.8), UNIX Shell Scripting, Visual Basic 6, PL/SQL  Project Methodologies OOAD, UML, SDLC, Waterfall and Agile (Scrum)  Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux (Fedora/Ubuntu), Mac OSX  Web Technologies HTML5, AngularJS, Angular 4, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, XML, XSLT, XPATH, XSL, CSS, JSON  J2EE Technologies EJB, JMS, Servlets (2.5/3.0), JSP, JDBC, JNDI, XSD, JAXB, JAX-WS, SOA, SOAP, WSDL  Web/Application Servers Web Logic Server, Web Sphere Application Server, Apache Tomcat, JBoss  RDBMS Oracle (8i/9i/10g), SQL Server 4.8, DB2 8.1, MySQL  Frameworks Struts, Spring (Dependency Injection, Batch, MVC, Boot), Hibernate, Log4J  Web Services SOAP, RESTful  DB Tools MySQL Workbench, TOAD, Sequel Developer 3.x, DB Visualizer, PuTTY  IDEs Eclipse 4.x, STS, RAD, NetBeans  Testing Tools JUnit 3.8, Mock Framework  Build Scripts Maven, Ant  Version Controllers GIT, SVN, ClearCase