Pega Developer Pega <span class="hl">Developer</span> Pega Developer - CISCO San Jose, CA • 8+ years of professional experience in IT industry which includes about as Java developer in different sectors.  • experience with Pega Rules Process Commander (PRPC) BPM technologies.  • Hands on experience in developing Business Process Management (BPM) and Business Rules Engine (BRE) applications using Pega Rules Process Commander.  • Experience in Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, Webservices, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3.  • Expertise in understanding end user requirements and to prepare technical design documents.  • Expertise in analysis, design, development and managing Process Flows, Class Structure design, User Interface (UI), Data Pages, Data Transforms, Case Management, creating various Flow Actions, Activities, Correspondence rules, Security and Java in the PRPC application.  • Implemented business rules by using Decision Rules, Declarative Rules.  • Experience in using Services and Connectors - SOAP Services, REST Services, Connect-SOAP, File Listeners, Connect-SQL and Agents in PRPC to integrate with external systems.  • Experience in Agile/Scrum Methodology.  • Experience in developing Harness, Sections, Report Definition Rules and SLA.  • Proficient in using the Construction and Debugging tools like Tracer, Live UI, SMA and Clipboard.  • Experience in using System Management Application (SMA) for Listeners and Agents.  • Modified the Styles, Skins, CSS of portals and work object forms to enhance the User Interface.  • Created Rules like When Condition Rules, Decision Table Rules, Decision Tree Rules, Declarative Expressions, Declare Onchange and Declare Trigger as per the requirements.  • Developed validation rules to ensure that users enter the correct information.  • Implemented the business rules based on Use Cases using PRPC.  • Expertise in effort estimation and planning the project execution. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Pega Developer CISCO - San Jose, CA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Understanding Business Requirements for creating rule sets and class structure.  • Created Process flows, and Properties based on the requirements.  • Development of Harness, Sections and layout.  • Created repeating groups in user interface rules using page list properties wherever necessary.  • Extensively worked on the Integration part of the Pega PRPC.  • Worked on the Connect-Sql and Connect-Soap rules to integrate with the Bank Database.  • Worked with Clipboard and Tracer tools extensively to trace hard to find defects.  • Developed decision rules and incorporated them in the work flows using decision smart shape.  • Creation of search reports using List view and Summary view rules of PRPC.  • Developed validation rules to ensure that users enter the correct information.  • Creation of activities, steps for implementing core business logic.  • Implementation of Decision tables, Decision Maps and Declarative expressions.  • Designed Portal, worked on Personalized Dashboards so end users can customize their dashboard.    Environment: Pega Rules Process Commander 7.2.1, Oracle 11g, HTML, SOAP UI, TOAD, CA Rally. Pega Developer Cigna - Denver, CO July 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, analysis, development and deployment of maintenance change requests for the PEGA based application.  • Highly skilled and experienced in Agile Development process for diverse requirements  • Used JDBC to establish database connectivity between the corporate user database and the application database.  • Created nightly agent for creation of operator ids in the application.  • Involved in monitoring of DataStage & Auto Sys jobs and PEGA agents.  • Involved in Ruleset allocation, Product Creation and Rule deployment activities.  • Involved in interacting with business to resolve day-to-day production issues.  • Used Declare Triggers, Declare Index and Declare on Change rules to implement various business requirements.  • Implemented SLA for business logic which needs to be triggered at various time intervals without manual intervention.  • Created DMLs for executing the scripts as part of updating the backend tables in production.  • Used System Management Application (SMA) to monitor various agents and listeners, to get stats on the rule information and to clear the rule cache and lookup list cache.  • Coordination with offshore team for change requests and production issues.  • Gathering inputs from the customer to fix the production issues.  • Worked on JMS, MQ and File Services    Environment: Pega Rules Process Commander 7.2.1, SQL, HTML, SOAP, XML, CSS, Java Script, CA Agile. Pega Developer Cigna - Pembroke Pines, FL May 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created High Level Class structure, Workflows and Rule sets in Pega PRPC.  • Expertise in Smart Adjustment Framework and Smart Investigate Smart Dispute Frame works and PCS framework.  • Created System use cases, decision diagrams to provide appropriate decomposition to the use case model and documents to control the complex claim engine flows.  • Explanation of client requirements on deliverables.  • Involved in Customizing CPM flows as per customer process change requirements.  • Design and Implementation of transaction search portal, for Payments for both lines of business.  • Created Application profile and executed Application Accelerator using Pega DCO tools and assisted in creating use cases and HLD documentation.  • Worked on PLA to consolidates and summarizes application system log data.  • Created data models for the flows, sections Harness.  • Worked on UI design and have written java scripts to auto refresh the user sections.  • Developed screen validations and display processing.  • Implemented activities, steps, methods and error handling.  • Involved with team in the Configuration of several JDBC and MQ interface.  • Creation of integration rules as Rule-RDB-SQL, RULE-Connect-SOAP.  • PRPC Build Deployment using Tomcat on MS SQL server and Oracle Servers.  • Worked on CPM framework and good overview of various services used in the application, implementation of rules and interfaces.  • Involved in customizing the CPM framework while developing new exception case - Recall, Cancelled and OverAll10DaySLA tasks.  • Involved in configuring, deploying the application and worked with Trouble shootings.  • Involved in Bug Fixing Activities for Harness, Declare Expression and When Rules.  • Implemented SLAs Activities as per new functionality.  • Created search reports using List view and Summary view rules of PRPC.  • Involved in conducting Unit testing, Regression testing, Integration testing, System testing Performance testing and End-to-End testing.    Environment: PRPC 6.2, CPM, Web logic and SQL. Java Developer Cigna - Jacksonville, FL November 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on low-level design and development of new features.  • Designed the business use-cases using UML.  • Implemented the process for sending/receiving messages through JMS message queues to/from various systems.  • Struts is used as base framework to control the application flow, OR mapping tool.  • Hibernate is used for the interaction with database Oracle and spring beans are used for controlling the flow between Business layer and Hibernate; while JSP's formed the UI for the application.  • Performed code review and test cases review for the developed features.  • Did performance analysis on the code and carried out code refactoring on the existing code.  • Wrote test cases for unit testing the code using JUnit testing Framework.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers and Views to populate the database Oracle and maintained the data integrity.    Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, XML, Servlets, Struts Framework, Tomcat5.5, Apache2.2 and PostgreSQL. Java Developer Cigna - Coconut Grove, FL April 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed activity, sequence and class diagrams using Unified Modeling Language and Rational Rose.  • Developed HTML and JSP pages using Struts.  • Developed Controller Servlets, Action and Form objects for process of interacting with Oracle database and retrieving dynamic data.  • Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  • Used Apache Log4J logging API to log errors and messages.  • Developed XML parser for File parsing.  • Involved in writing Detail Design Documents with UML Specifications.  • Involved in unit testing and system testing and responsible for preparing test scripts for the system testing.  • Responsible for packaging and deploying components in to the WebSphere.  • Developed backend components, DB Scripts for the backend communication.  • Responsible for performance tuning of the product and eliminating memory leakages in the product.    Environment: Java, Java Beans, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, LOG4J, XML, HTML, SQL Server, Web Sphere. Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Db2, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Subversion, Pega, Soap, Security, Tomcat, Web logic, Ui, Apache, Linux, Unix, Windows 98, Macos Additional Information Technical Skills:  BPM Product PEGA Rules Process CommanderV7.2.1, V7.1.6, V6.1, V6.2.  PRPC Skill Set File Listener, SOAP Services, MQ Listener, SQL and SOAP Connectors, Class Design, Security and UI.  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM web sphere, Oracle web logic.  Operating Systems Windows 98/xp/07/10, UNIX, Linux, MacOS  Database Orcle DB2, MySQL, MS SQL server  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall model  Tools Subversion HP Quality center, SOAP UI, SQL Developer, TOAD