Appian Developer Appian <span class="hl">Developer</span> Appian Developer - Bank of America Charlotte, NC • Around 6 years of experience in Design, Development, Maintenance, Enhancement and Production Support of Enterprise Application.  • 3+ years of hands on experience in application design and development using Appian BPM tool.  • Good Exposure on Appian Sites, Tempo & Portal Interface.  • Having good knowledge in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) • Worked upon Appian 7.10 to latest version.  • Proficient in Appian Installation, Appian Application development using SAIL, Process modeling, creating BAM reports, creating business rules and troubleshooting.  • I have knowledge on web services.  • Worked on generating reports like PDF and Excel.  • Coded Custom Data Types CDT's in xml for tables and views.  • Experience in designing the Process Models, Security.  • Creating Data Stores, Query rules, Expression rules.  • Interacted with the Business Users and the Client to test according to their requirements.  • Analyzed application logs for monitoring and improving performance of application.  • Highly dedicated, with strong Analytical & Logical skills, solution oriented and enthusiastic to learn.  • I have knowledge on Appian Smart Services.  • I have good knowledge on Appian Fitnesse, Deployment Automation, SVN, and integration with other technologies like PHP, Java.  • Works with a team to design, develop, implement, and maintain high-quality technical solutions • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills along with experience in leading teams both at Onshore and Offshore effectively with focus on optimizing Customer's cost of approach and invaluable time.  • Hands on experience with Relational databases including Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL and experience in writing Complex SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures.  • Experience in Java/J2EE environments. Worked extensively on J2EE for developing Web Applications by using JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, and Spring.  • Experience in AJAX, XML, XSLT, XPATH, and Web Services with SOAP to design, deploy, develop and implement the internet / Intranet applications.  • Experience in Persistence Framework like Hibernate ORM (Object Relational Mapping).  • Project Experience in web-based applications using EJB and Open-Jpa.  • Worked in Projects which followed agile development using Scrum methodology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Appian Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC May 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Interact with Business people and coordinate with team.  • Coding (involves sequence flow, status flow).  • Developed Tempo Record, Tempo Reports, Sites.  • Worked on process modeling, creating CDT's, managing Groups and JSP plugging.  • Checked Appian alerts.  • Requirement Analysis.  • Worked on creating Rules on validations for the fields in application.  • Worked on process modeling, creating CDT's, managing Groups, objects and creating query and expression rules.  • Process Orchestration, mapping and streamlining the business process so that automation can be done through a BPM suite.  • Automation of the end to end business process in Appian BPM Suite taking care of both the process flows, human interactions and business rules and validations.  • Integration of the application with downstream systems like Hot Docs system etc.  • Supporting the UAT and SIT teams from a development standpoint for resolution of defects to create a turnkey production ready application • Taking Application export and deploy in to SIT, UAT Test environment and fixing test issues    Environment: Appian BPM (version 18.4), HTML, JSP, XML Java Script and MYSQL. Appian BPM Developer KONE September 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities: • Extensively involved in business requirements gathering and technical and functional walk-through meetings.  • Worked with Product owner and team to understand requirements and ensure consistency in design across applications built on the Appian platform.  • Perform the detailed analysis of the business requirements provided, for Appian development.  • Worked in agile manner in all phases of SDLC.  • Worked with Appian product administration activities and implementation of Appian SAIL components.  • Created process flow in Appian using the process modeler.  • Created tempo enabled forms using SAIL • Developed Tempo Record, Tempo Reports.  • Developed web components in SAIL and gained experience in working with plug-ins for digital signature that are embedded in PDF format • Involved in design of application using Appian BPM and data interaction with databases through Appian smart services like write to data store using CDTs or query entity expression rules.  • Worked on Appian deployments from Dev to QA environment as well as to prod environment.  • Integrated Appian with an external application where Appian users is created from a flat file which is generated by external application which drops the file to SFTP location. Appian consume that to create and update users and hierarchy in Appian.  • Appian sites are created for all the users to interact with the application.  • Employees (Appian Users) are created in Appian by a batch process which reads users from a flat file using SFTP.  • Implemented print pdf functionality using Appian smart service "PDF from XSL FO Transformation." • Managed end-to-end application support for all Appian applications deployed.    Environment: Appian BPM (version 7.10), Web Services, Java Script and MYSQL. Java Developer Redknee October 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities: • Involved in designing Application based on MVC architecture.  • Created service layer using SOAP web services and JAXB.  • Designed and developed for the Presentation layer using MVC Struts Frame work • Created the JSPs, Action classes and Action forms for the Presentation layer  Used Java/J2EE Design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Service Locator, DAO  Implemented server side validation using Struts Validation Framework.  • Extensively used AWS to integration with Enterprise and web applications. Persistence layer • implemented using Hibernate framework • Developed Persistence classes and hibernate, cfg, xml and other configuration files for Hibernate mapping to Oracle database • Used different Hibernate APIS like Configuration, Session Factory, Session and Hibernate • Transaction Manager for writing the persistence logic • Unit tested with JUnit and involved in System testing, Load testing and User Acceptance testing and fixed the bugs • Developed build scripts using ANT tool for compilation and deployment purpose • Implemented logging using log4j and apache commons-logging framework    Environment: Java, Hibernate, Struts, Web sphere, SOAP, Oracle, CVS, ANT, JSP, Servlets, JUnit, ANT, log4j, HTML, JavaScript. Java Developer Dhriti Consulting Services July 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities: • Involved in gathering requirements and built technical specifications from the requirements.  • Developed mock up screens using Use-Case diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Extensively worked with core java like collections, String Builder, and interfaces.  • Development of UI models using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, Web link and CSS.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring MVC, Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model, and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Worked on SOA/Web Services and created request and response WSDLs.  • Developed Spring Beans and configured spring using applicationContext.xml.  • Assisted Database Developer using PL/SQL for managing data associated with the tables.  • Used JDBC to connect to the Oracle database.  • Developed front-end screens using Struts to serve as data entry screen and for business logic.  • Responsible for Production support of Application by proactively looking at production issues.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Spring Boot, and Hibernate framework to provide the needed functionality.  • Developed SQL Queries for performing CRUD operations in Oracle for the application.  • Used LOG4J, JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Developed the ANT Script for building the application and deploying on JBoss Application Server.    Environment: Java, HTML, Java Script, Struts, SQL, JDBC, Eclipse, ANT, JBoss Application Server. Education Bachelor's