Sr. Android Developer Sr. Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Android Developer - Comcast Philadelphia, PA • Over 8+ years of experience in Software development. Over 5 years as an Android application developer and a Java - based web application developer.  • Proficient with Java, C Programming, and Android SDK Version Android 1.5 to Android 6.0.  • Good experience in Object Oriented Design (OOD), analysis (OOA), modeling (OOM) based on Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Experience in working with Google Maps API, GPS Location Data, Google messaging, Volley and Push Notification.  • Good mobile and web design skills using Activities, Fragments (android), HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and XML.  • Strong expertise in version control like GIT, Subversion (SVN) and team Foundation Server (TFS), Bitbucket.  • Worked on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, and JQuery mobile, Bootstrap, JSON, XML, Cordova and native Android.  • Extensively used SQLite database for data storage.  • Experiences in web service using markup languages like XML, HTML/CSS, PHP.  • Having capabilities to distribute Android apps into Google Play and do in app purchase.  • Good knowledge in various industries including e-commerce, cloud, healthcare, energy and CRM  • Experience in Database Development using T-SQL, PL/SQL including Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers.  • Good experience in Object Oriented Design OOD, Analysis OOA and Programming OOP in past projects.  • Experiences in web service protocols such as RESTful and TCP.  • Extensive development experience using Eclipse, Netbeans, Notepad.  • Well versed with Source Version Control tools like Github1.3/1.5.  • To improve optimization used Recycler view component and set different layout managers to this.  • Experience in developing Barcode scanning app.  • Experienced with complete Android lifecycle and Fragment life cycle process.  • Experience in Android device support, publishing apps to Google Play Store, Memory Management.  • Strong background in successful application of OOPS designs principles and methodologies  • Strong Understanding of Mobile Design Paradigm.  • Experience with Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Agile Software Development, Scrum Methodology.  • Expertise in web development applications using Core Java, Servlets.  • Experience in Struts and Springframeworks.  • Handling various technical aspects like coding of modules using given design specifications, debugging and fixing the defects as well as analyzing the root cause.  • Experience in using Storage options in Android like Shared Preferences and internal storage using SQLite, Parse.  • Experience in using Java Native Interface (JNI).  • Learnt to work under heavy pressure and deadlines.  • Involved in TDD, developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated), Test Procedures and white-box and black-box testing.  • Worked with Activities, Fragments, Android Binding, Android Framework, Media player and Adapters, Async Task, Intent Services, Broadcast Receiver, Media player, Content Providers, Location Services and Push Notification.  • Good understanding on Android Frameworks like Phone Gap, JNI, and HAL.  • Used IDE's like Eclipse, Android Studio, Visual Studio, Emacs, Vim, JBuilder, Xamarin, IntelliJ IDEA, Dreamweaver, Web Services & Parsing Techniques SOAP, REST & XML (SOAP API), JSON (Restful API), OAUTH, DOM, SAX. Work Experience Sr. Android Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in full life cycle of the application including wireframe design, server development and client development.  • Development of various modules in accordance with Agile Methodology framework and Scrum method of project management.  • Collaborating along with the Business Analysis, Design, QA and Development team in shaping the product.  • Developed the UI using fragments, Layout and other UI components.  • Involved in creating reusable component with fragments for different resolution devices and different orientation of landscape and portrait.  • Created Widgets using Google material design.  • Used various devices, which include tablets and phone with a latest Android OS to the application.  • Used SOAP UI for access web service.  • Used RxJava for some web service requests to the Android app.  • Converted data from API into JSON format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to display them on the application.  • Embedded Google Maps API, GPS location data into app with Zqooming controls.  • Enabled GPS/Wi-Fi to detect user location from where to begin searching.  • Singleton Object has used to achieve synchronization.  • Tested the application on various Android devices.  • Worked on the local data storage using shared preferences.  • Extensively utilized Async Task, Thread, Handler, Services to provide smooth UI experience.  • Implanted JSON to create interaction between server and application.  • Handling JSON data using efficient parsing techniques.  • Developed code for Views, View models and business code.  • Used OOPS methodologies to generate classes in Java.  • Used Espresso as an Android test automation framework to write powerful and robust automatic black-box test cases.  • Unit tested all the classes using JUNIT at various class level and methods level.  • Performed Unit testing on the various modules/functions to ensure that the output is as expected.  • Worked on Continuous Integration and code version using GIT.    Environment:Android SDK, Android API's, Restful WEB services, XML, JSON, Log cat, Windows7, ADT plug-in, GIT (Version control), DDMS console, ADB server, Emulator, GSON. Sr.Android Developer Care1st Health Plan - Monterey Park, CA May 2017 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Full life cycle development and modification of existing applications to add new features emphasizing reliability, scalability and performance.  • Used SCRUM-Agile software development method for managing application developments and software design.  • Created Widgets using Google material design.  • Designed and developed the user interfaces, Designed Dynamic UI with Fragments using Google Material design.  • Implemented MVP pattern using Dagger 2.  • Updated the look and feel following Material Design guidelines.  • Used Retrofit and GSON for network calls and parsing the JSON response.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, calls etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  • Responsible for executing code, deploy application and fixing the bugs.  • Worked on communicating with Restful services to implement Single Sign-on for Associates.  • Created and used SQL Queries, Scripts and Stored Procedures for data validations.  • Developed business logic of the application and experience with SQLite local data storage.  • Stored the user information in Realm which is the internal database.  • Developed some parts of app by writing native methods using JNI.  • Implemented Notification Manager to display updates on the notification bar.  • Implementing Broadcast Receivers for Android.  • Worked on Continuous Integration and code version using GIT.  • Improved the HTTP calls by migrating the request from AsyncTasks to RxJava.  • Used Junit, Espresso for unit and instrumentation testing.  • Testing included emulators and device testing with multiple versions and the sizes with the help of ADB.  • Fixed the bugs identified by the QA testing team.  • Used RESTful Web Services to fetch data asynchronously and render an appropriate view.  Environment: Android API's, ADT plug-in, JDK 1.6, XML, v14 preference, openGL plugins, GLsurface view, Android SDK, Android Studio 3.0+, GIT. Android Developer Best Buy - Minneapolis, MN January 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in all the phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) which includes Development, Testing.  • Involved and designed many UI screens matching the previous versions by upgrading the features.  • Worked on the local data storage using shared preferences.  • Created a local database using SQLite to store and retrieve the data.  • Created and used SQL Queries, Scripts and Stored Procedures for data validations.  • Developed very interactive user interface using widgets like menus, Dialogs, boxes, buttons, lists, views and fragments.  • Utilized Google Maps API to enable Google map search for near locations.  • Implemented zip code functionality using Location Manager API and also implemented Google Maps API.  • Developed business logic along with connecting the application to the server with REST web services.  • Download and upload content from back-end web server via REST API.  • Pitfalls of image loading on Android are handled by using Picasso library.  • Implemented the payment gateway integration to process the payments for purchasing the merchandise.  • Implanted JSON to create interaction between server and application.  • Handling XML data using efficient parsing techniques like JSON & DOM parser.  • Implemented Broadcast Receiver.  • Implemented Third party libraries for network calls and parcening JSON responses.  • Involved in creating reusable component with fragments for different resolution devices and different orientation of landscape and portrait.  • Tested the application on various Android devices.  Environment: Android SDK, Android NDK, Android Studio IDE, Java, GIT, XML. Mobile Application Developer Citi - Irving, TX March 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in all the phases of SDLC like design, development, testing.  • Creating Intents (explicit, implicit), Multi-threading and Creating Linear, Relative and Table Layout.  • Implementing Date picker, Time picker and surface view.  • Used effectively All Android Application components.  • Created Widgets like list View using Array adapter and Views as mentioned in the client requirements.  • Worked extensively with Java, Android Touch frameworks and third party API including Java mail API.  • Used adblogcat, DDMS for Debugging.  • Involved in Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.  • A key resource for layout and UI work utilizing XML, shape drawable, adaptor views, activities, fragments, custom views (Tableview, Textview, Edittext) etc.  • Also involved in doing reviews of the developed integration components.  • Involved in peer to peer code reviews and cross checked whether coding standards are being followed.  Environment: Android SDK, Android NDK, Android Studio IDE, Java, GIT, XML. Java/J2EE Developer Motorola Solutions - Chicago, IL December 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, development and testing phases of software development cycles.  • Implement a web-based application using Spring Framework.  • Designed the front end using HTML, CSS, JSP and Spring Tag Libraries. Used Struts MVC and Web Flow to bind web parameters to business logic.  • Extensively used Eclipse to write code.  • Integrated Social media connectivity along with Email through Java Mail plug-in to enable promotion through users.  • Used JavaScript for client side validation and JSF validators for server side data validations.  • Involved in designing UML class diagrams.  • Developed code for Java Multithreading.  • Used Spring Framework for Authentication and Authorization.  • Prepared test cases and ran them for development of every component.  • Developed Data Access Object pattern to abstract and encapsulate data access mechanism.  • Used Oracle as backend database.  • Used JDBC for data retrieval from the database for various Queries.  • Implemented log-in authentication in oauth2 using Spring Security integration.  • Implemented back-end integration to MySQL database server using Spring JPA plugin.  • Implemented the payment gateway operation in the application for leads exchange and purchase transaction using Spring- Java Plug-in.  Environment: Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JDBC), HTML/DHTML, PL/SQL, CSS, XSLT, XML/XSL, JavaScript, Struts Framework, EclipseIDE, Glass Fish, Spring Framework, Oracle 10g. Java Developer Care Cloud - Miami, FL April 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and documented the software design using UML  • Developed servlet programs to transfer the control to other pages depending on the business logics  • Used XML for the modules  • Created JSP pages for the results  • Wrote the required SQL queries and used JDBC to interact with the database.  • Developed the front-end using HTML, XML, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, and interactive JSP pages.  • Front-end validations using Java script for HTML, extensive use of CSS.  • Used AJAX to improve the performance of application.  • Servlets are used to get the information from request, response and pass it to view dispatchers and other controls as needed.  • Action classes and handlers for processing the messages and passing it to various other applications are done through STRUTS, as it requires higher level of abstraction.  • Coded server side components using Eclipse 3.x.  • Implemented Database interactions using JDBC with back-end Oracle 9i.  • Wrote and executed Stored Procedures on the Back-End using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Wrote Generic SQL queries for retrieving data from Database.  • Developed Listener classes that receive the information from JMS Queues and extracted data from the XML files and save the data in the Oracle database.  • Used VSS for team application development & Version Control.  • Exported packages and stored them for backup and recovery.  Environment: Java, JSP, JMS, JDBC, Java Script, Eclipse IDE, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, HTML Oracle 9i, AJAX Education Bachelor's Skills Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Android studio, C++, Javascript, Json, Xml, Database, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Sqlite, Android, Android sdk, Corona sdk, Html5, Ibm worklight, Worklight Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages C, C++, J2SE, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, PL/SQL  Frameworks Phone-Gap, Corona SDK, Theappbuilder, Spring, Struts, Hibernate  Android Libraries Picasso, Retrofit, Butterknife, Gson, Dagger  Android Skills  Android SDK, ADT, DDMS, Logcat debugging, ADB Logcat, SQLite, Android Emulator, Google APIs, Google Analytics, GSON, Google Maps Location Services, Open Sources Web APIs, Retrofit, Volley, Butter Knife, Picasso, Material Design    Database SQLITE, SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, Realm Database  Tools Android Studio, IntelliJ IDEA, XCODE, Eclipse, NetBeans 6.X, MS Visual Studio, IBM Worklight, Photoshop, Sublime Text, Atom  Development IDE's Android Studio, Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, Visual Studio  Operating Systems Linux, Windows 10, Mac OSX, Android, Ubuntu  Web Services Android SDK, HTTP, Restful Web Services, Google APIs, XML, JSON, DOM parsers, SAX parsers  Application Servers Tomcat 5.5/6.0/7.0, WebSphere 6.0