Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Sun Trust Bank • Over 6+ years of experience in software design and development.  • Extensive experience in Application Software Design, Object Oriented Design, Development, Documentation, Debugging, Testing and Implementation.  • Superior skills in Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment, Re-Engineering, Coding and testing in N-tier systems using J2EE technologies including JDK/J2SDK/J2EE, JDBC, JavaBeans, Servlets, Java Server Pages, spring, EJB, JNDI, JMS, Applets, Hibernate, Swing, RMI, , Log4j and Junit.  • Expertise in design and development of various web applications with N-Tier Architecture using MVC and using the Struts and Spring Framework.  • Sound Knowledge of MVC Architecture, Struts framework, spring framework, Java Design Patterns and O/R mapping Hibernate framework.  • Good Knowledge in coded Java applications on both client-side and server-side using JDBC and advanced multithreading  • Strong knowledge on Object Oriented concepts, J2EE and design patterns.  • Experienced in creating various project artifacts like use-case documents, functional design document, technical design document etc.  • Functional Systems Expertise - CRM/ERP, JAVA (J2SE, J2EE).  • Strong designing and implementation work experience in Java and J2EE technologies like Core Java, Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), Servlets ,JPA and JSP.  • Strong experience in using AJAX, JSTL, Struts Tag Libraries, Tiles, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Java Server Pages (JSP), Java Server Faces (JSF) Apache Commons, Velocity for designing front end.  • Expertise using tools such as Eclipse, IBM Web Sphere Studio Application Developer WSAD, Rational Application Developer (RAD), Rational Software Architect and JBuilder.  • Experience working on application and web servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, BEA WebLogic.  • Experience on different OS like UNIX, Red Hat Linux, Windows Variants, Windows 2003 Server, and Windows Vista.  • Experience in logging like Log4j and version control tools like SVN. Performed unit testing using JUnit. Strict attention to detail and ability to work in team or as an individual contributor.  • Intensive knowledge in databases like MongoDB query-based programming, Oracle, SQL Server, PL/SQL, ANSI standard SQL Queries, Triggers, DB2 Client, O/R Mapping, Hibernate, experience working with Cassandra and JPA.  • Experience in various agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, and Pair Programming.  • Proficient in Quality Control - includes ensuring defect free releases, maintaining correct entries in Design Docs, UI specs, Test Cases, Traceability Matrix.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Sun Trust Bank - Los Angeles, CA December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing, and designing, proposing, and delivering solutions that are appropriate for the business and technology strategies.  • Involved in the analysis, design and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Used MVC based spring framework to develop the multi-tier web application presentation layer components.  • Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.  • Developed application using spring, JSP and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Used the DAO Pattern and J2EE framework facilitated the integration and deployment of DAO, Servlets, JSP and XML.  • Used JSP for presentation layer, developed high performance object/relational persistence and query service for entire application utilizing Hibernate.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Struts Application Framework.  • Designed and Developed Java Script frame work which is wrapper on top of JQUERY frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  • Used Spring Boot for developing micro services and used REST to retrieve data from client-side using Micro service architecture.  • Used AJAX based on JQUERY and JSON technologies for making Asynchronous Http requests along with Java Script.  • Used AJAX in suggestive search and to display dialog boxes with JSF and DOJO for some front end.  • Responsible for implementing new enhancements and fixing defects using Java, JSP, JSF, spring and Hibernate.  • Developed Session beans which encapsulate the workflow logic and used Hibernate to access data  • Developed a web-based reporting for credit monitoring system with HTML, XHTML, JSTL and JavaScript.  • Developed REST based Micro services using Spring Boot.  • Used JavaScript and Angular.js to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations.  • Used XML and Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB), to map java classes to XML representation.  • Used SOAPUI to test the Web Services and worked on XML, XSD and XSLT to parse the request and create the new one based on the specification.  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering EJBs, Servlets, and JSP components to be deployed on a Web Logic application server.  • Used Log4J to write log messages with various levels.  • Developed the application using Java Beans, Servlets and EJB's.  • Developed the test cases with JUnit for Unit testing of the built components.  • Designed database and created tables, written the complex SQL Queries and stored procedures as per the requirements.  • Involved in analysis, design, and Implementation applying the agile methodology.    Environment: J2EE/ Java, JavaScript, EJB, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, JSP, JSF, XML, EXT, JSON, Angular.js, Servlets, JSP, spring, spring Boot, DOJO, Hibernate, MVC, ANT, SOAP, Log4j, Windows and UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer JC Penney - Dallas, TX May 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and Maintenance phases of the project with major emphasis on Development of the modules like Activations, Customer Service.  • Developed Action class and Action Form for business logic with support of spring framework and Presentation tier.  • Involved in design and development of server side layer using XML, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB and DAO patterns using Eclipse IDE.  • Developed several controller classes as required for the design such as Abstract Wizard form controller, Simple Form controller, Multi Action controller, etc in Spring MVC.  • Used Spring/MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different design patterns with J2EE and XML technology.  • Implemented the service layer using spring 2.5 with transaction and logging interceptors.  • Implemented Microservices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Involved in developing Java APIs, which communicates with the Java Beans.  • Created several JSP's and populated them with data from databases using JDBC.  • Developed many JSP pages, used JSON plug-in for asynchronous communication.  • Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  • Used XML to transfer the application data between client and server. In server-side Servlets is used to construct and parse the data in XML format and in client-side Java is used.  • Used SAX and DOM for parsing XML documents and XSLT for transformation.  • Developed User Interface screens for various modules like Action, Risk, Lessons learned, MOM items using JSF, JavaScript, AJAX using RAD.  • Extensively used JavaScript and Angular.js to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations.  • Developed the application using Java Beans, Servlets and EJB's.  • Involved in the Deployment of the application in JBoss Application Server.  • Used Hibernate ORM for data persistence and transaction management.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with spring to interact with the database.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using CXF framework tool/Apache Commons.  • Installation and Configuration of the Score Card GUI application over the grid in the production environment.  • Used Log4j to provide central logging facility.  • Developed Developers test for repeatable test by using JUnit for fixing defects.  • Involved in writing the Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, views.  • Created various MongoDB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from for the application.  • Implemented the project under Agile Project Management Environment and followed SCRUM iterative incremental model & configured various sprints to execute.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.    Environment: J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, spring, Hibernate, Groovy, EJB, JNDI, JSP, XML, Angular.js, MVC, Eclipse, JBoss, WebLogic, DAO, SAX, DOM, RAD, Java Script, HTML, AJAX, CXF, SOAP, Log4j, Junit, agile, MongoDB, Oracle and Windows. Java/J2EE Developer Sun Trust Bank - Los Angeles, CA March 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing the specifications provided by the client and converting the specifications into the use cases.  • Implemented MVC architecture and DAO design pattern for maximum abstraction of the application and code reusability.  • Involved in the design of the Referential Data Service module to interface with various databases using JDBC.  • Developed web application using JSP custom tag libraries, Struts Action classes and Action. Designed Java Servlets and Objects using J2EE standards.  • Used J2EEdesign patterns like Value Object Pattern, Business Delegate, service locator, and session façade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  • Developed web application using JSP custom tag libraries, Struts Action classes and Action. Designed Java Servlets and Objects using J2EE standards.  • Implemented Struts Validation Framework for Server side validation.  • Implemented the application using Struts Framework which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Developed JSP's with Custom Tag Libraries for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and was involved in their integration.  • Integrated Hibernate ORM framework with spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Involved in designing and developing the front end of the application using JSP, Java script, AJAX, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3.  • Involved Java Multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction and developed a batch process framework.  • Used Apache POI for accessing Microsoft documents through Java code.  • Integrated Hibernate and JSF with Spring Framework.  • Implemented Java Message Services (JMS) using JMS API.  • Responsible for implementing new enhancements and fixing defects using Java, JSP, JSF, spring and Hibernate. Developed Session beans which encapsulate the workflow logic and used Hibernate to access data  • Used Struts, Hibernate module as an Object Relational mapping tool for back end operations over SQL database.  • Created XML Schema, XML template and used XML SAX/DOM API to parse them.  • Extensively used HTML, JavaScript, Angular.js and Ajax for client side development and validations.  • Developed the business components using EJB Session Beans.  • Created Stateless Session EJB's for retrieving data and Entity Beans for maintaining User Profile.  • Used JBoss and WebSphere as an application server to deploy the code.  • Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Involved in writing and updating Hibernate queries and Hibernate specific configuration and mapping File.  • Developed Web services (SOAP) through WSDL in Apache Axis to interact with other components.  • Developed the application using Eclipse as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation, test case template generation, mutator/accessor code generation.  • Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, packages on Oracle database.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.    Environment: J2EE, JDBC, spring, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, MVC, Angular.js, EJB, JSF, JMS, Jboss, WebSphere, Eclipse, Multi threading, Apache POI, XML, DOM, HTML, Java Script, CSS, SOAP, Log4j, Junit, Ant, SQL, Oracle and Windows. J2EE Developer MVP Healthcare - Rochester, NY January 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • In architecting various Business Layer and Data Management components of multi-tiered web based system over J2EE architecture  • Participated in Functional Document reviews and created Technical documents  • Actively designed, developed and integrated the Metrics module with all other components.  • Development using Java, JSP and Servlets on WSAD  • Developed Struts Action and Form classes to access Java Beans and UI.  • Developed and deployed various Sessions beans  • Used Hibernate to access database and perform database updating.  • Wrote complex queries and mapped database views using DAO in Oracle  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Co-ordination with offshore team on development activities.  • Developed Use Cases, UML diagrams such as Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Class Diagrams, for my application modules (Metrics)  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP. Developed Web Services for Payment Transaction and Payment Release.  • Developed the application using RAD as the IDE and used its features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation and version control (CVS).  • Wrote test cases in Junit for unit testing of classes and implemented the logging using Log4j.  • Retrieving code from the repository and deploying in Production using ANT.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, XML, DHTML, JSP, Servlets, Soap, Ant, Struts, Oracle, EJB, JNDI, Hibernate, WebSphere, Windows. J2EE Developer HealthSouth - Birmingham, AL March 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • The entire application was developed in J2EE using an MVC based architecture.  • Created use cases, class diagrams, activity diagrams and collaboration diagrams.  • Used the Struts1.3 framework and Standard Tag Libraries and various custom in-house custom tag libraries for the presentation layer.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations.  • Used various types of controllers and view resolvers.  • Consumed a Web service for exchange rate calculation.  • Used Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the business logic tier and the persistent storage tier  • Used Hibernate for Database Persistence.  • Deployed applications on WebSphere Application server.  • Used Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate objects in the business logic layer.  • Involved in unit testing using JUnit, system testing and creation of various test scripts.  • Built scripts using ANT that compiles the code, pre-compiles the JSPs, built an EAR file and deployed the application on the application server.  • Used CVS as a version control system, an important component of Source Configuration Management (SCM).    Environment: JSP, Struts1.3, Spring core, Web Services, Hibernate3.0, MySQL, JDBC, XML, CSS, Eclipse, UML, HTML, Apache Ant, WebSphere, Junit, Log4J, CVS and Windows. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jms, Jndi, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Wsad, C/c++, C++, Design patterns, Dtd, Html Additional Information Technical Skills:  Technologies& Frameworks  JAVA, J2EE,J2EE Design Patterns, EJB, STRUTS 1.0&2.0, Hibernate, Spring 3.0, Servlets, JSP, SOAP Web Services, REST Web Services JMS, IBM JDBC, Java Beans, JNDI, JMI, JSF, AJAX, LDAP, XML, DOM, SAX, SOAP, DTD, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS.    Languages Java, SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, XML, C/C++.  Application Servers Web Logic Server 10.3, Web Sphere 6.1/7.0, WESB 7.0, JBoss 6.0, Tomcat 5.5/6.0  IDE & Development Tools Eclipse 3.x,IBM WID ,OEP,CVS, VSS, SQL Query Analyzer, Toad, DB Visualizer, SQL+, Rational Rose for Java, SOAP, WSAD 5.0, JBuilder 4.0.  Analysis & Design Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML and J2EE Design  RDBMS Oracle 9i / 10g, Cassandra, DB2, kafka, MS-SQL Server 2005/2008, MySQL, MongoDB  Operating Systems Windows Variants, Linux, UNIX, Perl, Shell, DOS