Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Church & Dwight Township of Ewing, NJ • 9 Years of IT Experience is working with Java based frameworks and databases.  • Effective team player as well as individual performer with experience in Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, spring, Hibernate, SQL, PL/SQL and Oracle, MySQL, NOSQL.  • Extensive development experience in object oriented analysis, design and programming (OOA/OOD/OOP) throughout complete SDLC in various models like Waterfall and Agile.  • Proficient in writing ANT, Maven builds script to automate the application build and deployment.  • Experienced with Perl, Shell scripting and test automation tools like Selenium RC, WebDriver and Selenium Grid.  • Developed Python Mapper and Reducer scripts and implemented them using Hadoop streaming.  • Extensive experience in multiple Java and J2EE technologies such as Servlet, JSP, JSTL, Spring, Struts, Hibernate and JPA, XML, JSON, XSD, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JUnit, WSDL, SOAP, Restful Web Services (Restlet), ActionScript 3.0  • Well experienced in Working on Core Java, J2EE (EJB, JSP & Servlets, JDBC, JMS), SQL, JQuery, HTML.  • Strong hands-on experience with Spring IO, Spring Boot with Thymeleaf.  • Experienced in working on DevOps/Agile operations process and tools area (Code review, unit test automation, Build & Release automation, Environment, Service, Incident and Change Management)  • Experienced in performing Data driven testing to validate the components displayed on the website using Selenium.  • Implemented Frame work for Selenium scripts using Java.  • Solid Knowledge of MySQL and Oracle databases and writing SQL Queries.  • Experience in Micro services development using spring boot and deployment in Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Vast knowledge of utilizing cloud technologies including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • 4+ years of experience in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route53, VPC, Auto scaling etc.) and deployment services (Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, OpsWorks and Cloud Formation) and security practices (IAM, Cloudwatch and Cloudtrail).  • Experience in creating comprehensive web applications using MEAN stack implemented with MS SQL, Express, Angular 2/4 and Angular 4/6 Node.js, Java8.  • Hands on Experience on Angular 2 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application using the techniques in Angular 2/4 and Angular 4/6.  • Experience with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Data structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.  • Expert in using testing, logging and building tools like JUnit, Log4J and Ant.  • 4+ years of experience in Apache Hadoop technology and core Hadoop technology stack which includes HDFS, Map Reduce programming, Hive, Pig, HBase and SQOOP.  • Experience with WebSphere Portal 7 development and IBM Workplace Web Content Management and Workplace Forms  • Good knowledge in developing multi-threading applications.  • Expertise in writing JUnit test cases for different kind of applications and also development experience in mock object to simulate real objects.  • I mplemented AWS Lambda functions to run scripts in response to event in Amazon Dynamo DB table,S3 buckets, HTTP requests using Amazon API Gateway.  • Familiar with data collection technologies like Kafka.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experience in developing JAVA/J2EE, Spring4, Hibernate4 applications using IDEs such as Eclipse, RAD.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in node.js, angular.js, React.js, React-Native and Responsive design.  • Working with Database Spring boot, Spring Security, and Spring REST.  • Extensive experience in working with various databases like Oracle 11g/12c, SQL Server and MySQL  • Creating the Cassandra database across all the environments namely Development, Pre Production, UAT and Production.  • Expertise with Spring Framework using components like MVC, Transactions, ORM and JDBC. Also used Hibernate ORM, JSF and Struts MVC frameworks.  • Has extensive knowledge on UNIX Shell scripting, FTP, SFTP.  • Experience with Design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Object, MVC Pattern and Agile, SCRUM methodology.  • Experience in working with ES6 features, used babble, web pack with ES5, React js.  • Expert in latest technologies and approaches for SOA based development and good understanding of SOA life cycle, SOA design Backbone principle, Service registry and various other SOA infrastructures. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Church & Dwight - Township of Ewing, NJ September 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Involved in analysis, design and documentation of the application model.  • Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Factory Design Pattern and Singleton Design Pattern.  • Worked on advanced UI design and full stack development using MEAN stack.  • Used spring4 framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate.  • Added routing and developed factories, worked on root level variables and functions  • Developed Unit and E2E test cases using Node JS.  • Developed the Application making use Java 8's new Streams API and parallel Streams to partition the streams.  • Implemented client side functionality using HTML 5, Bootstrap, AngularJS 4.0, Angular 6 and JQuery, Sencha Ext JS.  • Proven ability in developing BDD scripts with Cucumber and writing step definitions for behavior  • Experience in Automation testing using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit and Maven.  • Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications. Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework  • Worked on Drools Rules Engine and Expectation Rule Engine for writing Business Rule Validation.  • Use JS framework such as Bootstrap (for data driven apps) and Backbone.js (for heavy DOM manipulation) . Full stack JavaScript development - React.js and plain JS modules on the client.  • The tech stack is AngularJS, Express and innovative server side technologies like Node.js, MongoDB (MEAN Stack).  • Worked on PowerShell/Bash scripts to gather resources metrics from AWS EC2 Instances, and configured Alerts and Dashboards using AWS CloudWatch Monitoring.  • Experience with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Node JS. And with the creation of RESTful Web service.  • Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • Created React.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework and control set.  • Setup the continuous Integration (CI) and continuous Deployment (CD) process for the application using the Jenkins.  • Developed critical components of the application including spring forms, Spring controllers, JSP views, and business logic and data logic components that include Hibernate Entities, Spring-Hibernate DAO and Spring models following MVC architecture.  • Implemented POC for Notifications and Appointment module using RESTful Microservice using Apache Camel framework using Java8.  • Consumed Web Services by implementing Spring REST support is to make the development of RESTful Web services  • Conducted Automation testing using the Standards, guidelines and structured methodology in testing the application.  • Responsible for writing the Design Specifications for the generic and application specific web services in Groovy n Grails.  • Developing Restful web service development in Grails.  • Developed Restful services using Spring boot and used docker for containerization and deployed in Amazon ECS.  • Created Groovy Server scripts and functions and used in Validation Rules and Triggers on Objects and Field Level for Validating user entries, Conditional Formatting.  • Worked on python modules such as Numpy, logging, PyQT, RabbitMQ, UHD, Boost libraries, etc.  • Experience with Python, Hadoop, Mongo DB.  • Created Type Script reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component based architecture provided by Angular 2/4 and Angular 4/6.  • Responsible for creating the Cassandra database across all the environments namely Development, Pre Production, UAT and Production.  • Assisted customer in implementing DevOps strategies using Jenkins for automated deployment of builds to different environments and Build Forge as the automated engine.  • Designed, Architected and implemented the Platform as a service built for Multi-tenant platform within the Hybrid cloud infrastructure within AWS and GCP.  • Worked with Python for parsing of Linux system files that would send data to RabbitMQ  • Implementing the Big Data solution using Hadoop, hive and Informatics 9.5.1 to pull/load the data into the HDFS system.  • Expert in implementing unified data platform to gather data from different sources using Kafka and Java Producers and consumers.  • Loaded data in elastic search from Datalake and Optimized the full search function using Elastic Search.  • Developed Framework components for Struts Presentation tier, Business tier and Resource tier  • Implemented application specific exception handling and logging frame work using Log4j, Hibernate4.  • Experience in Automation testing using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit and Maven.  • Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications. Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework  • Responsible for overall Docker & Kubernetes setup, configuration and Architecture.  • Configured and maintained a large-scale Docker based PaaS environment using kubernetes  • Implemented Apache Kafka to provide a unified, high-throughput, low-latency platform for handling real-time data feeds  • Used Grafana as a monitoring tool for Cassandra.  • Developed groovy scripts for automated verification of API response.  • Working on DevOps platform and have gained experience in specialized areas related to Ansible for Cloud Automation  • Designed and developed the login portal using framework Angular 2 along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script.  • Implemented various Widget for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • The web application development Using Spring Boot framework and JPA components to interact with the database  • Extensively used Java 8 features (Lambda Expressions, Streams)  • Used Java 8 Method References feature to point to methods by their names and also used functional Interfaces.  • Used micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka, Spring4 message broker  • Written micro services using Spring Boot and Spring Data for Dynamo DB  • Used Subversion for activities tracking Version Controlling and Change Management that is tracking structure of folders, maintaining global revision number for the whole repository and Clear Case operations  • Used Hibernate Mapping to form persistence objects to interact with Database    Environment: Java8, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML5, Spring4, React.js, Groovy, Hibernate 4 DHTML, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Spring Web MVC, DevOps, NOSQL, Spring Boot, Cassandra, CSS3, AWS, JAXP, RabbitMQ, JAXB, Oracle 11g, SQL, JUNIT, Reactive Systems, Reactive programming Java Lead Developer Novartis - East Hanover, NJ January 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities  • Development, enhancement and testing of the Web Methods flow services and Java services.  • Used web services for interaction between various components and created SOAP envelopes.  • Paypal had their own application stack for REST based Java application, understood their architecture before design and development.  • Developed the Application making use Java 8's new Streams API and parallel Streams to partition the streams.  • Microservices using the Akka reactive framework, functional programming using Java and Scala, multi-threaded.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and React.JS.  • Responsible for overall Docker & Kubernetes setup, configuration and Architecture.  • Configured and maintained a large scale Docker based PaaS environment using Kubernetes  • Used Java 8 features like stream and Lambda expressions  • Part of the team installed and configured Hadoop Map Reduce and HDFS.  • Expert in implementing unified data platform to gather data from different sources using Kafka and Java Producers and consumers.  • Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs.  • Developed and deployed solution using several new technologies, including Linux - Ubuntu, Drupal and Apache SOLR.  • Created Apache Directory Server for local network and Integrating RHEL instance with Active Directory in AWS VPC.  • Follow DDD and CQRS pattern for microservices and we have used asynchronous messaging using NServiceBus and RabbitMQ. For all database operations we have used entity framework and dapper. Application uses Docker for deployment.  • Involved in complete Agile/SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Developed and modified various tools in Java and scripts in Groovy to help automate the testing process of backend APIs via ReadyAPI in agile environment based on sprints.  • Utilized Cassandra tools including sstableloader, sstable2json and json2sstable, COPY for application data loading and analysis.  • Involved in all the different stage of SDLC like requirement gathering, High level design, Low level design reviews, Coding, Code reviews and defect fixing etc.  • Used microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka, Spring4 message broker.  • Used Java 8 Method References feature to point to methods by their names and also used functional Interfaces.  • Developed spring boot application that manages Minew BLE beacons by placing them to sleep and communicating to a COAP/MBED server of the results.  • Implemented IPC using RabbitMQ to utilize a component-based system in C#.  • Written micro services using Spring Boot and Spring Dsata for Dynamo DB  • Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework  • Planned the architecture for migrating applications from bare metal and AWS to Openshift.I have done few Upgrades and scaled OpenShift environment.  • Used Groovy scripts along with java for better performance and reduce the code redundancy.  • Experience in web applications creation with HTML5, Ajax, JQuery, Backbone.js, and CSS3.  • Performed UNIX Shell scripting for the application.  • Design, develop and test HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.JS, Redux that meets accessibility of web browser  • Worked on Solr, Elastic Search, Kafka, Flume, MangoDB, CockroachDB and Cassendra  • Extract the data from Oracle and push to Apache Kafka Queue using Golden Gate.  • Used Scala for coding the components in Play and Akka.  • Used scala scripts for spark machine learning libraries API execution for decision trees, ALS, logistic and linear regressions algorithms.  • Created Web Services (SOAP) between different components and also exposed few web services to client apps get metadata for the specific entities and documents.  • MEAN stack implementation, AngularJS Full-Stack generator (generator-angular-full stack), and actually run, edit, and deploy an application.  • Creating Groovy Scripts to add necessary business logic and run batch queries.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language..  • Extensively used Java 8 features (Lambda Expressions, Streams).  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and developed WAR framework to alert the client and production support in case of application failures.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, DHTML, AWS, Groovy, sReact.js, RabbitMQ, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Spring Web MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate 4.0, WSDL, SOAP, SQL, HP Quality Center, JUNIT, Ant. Java Developer Prudential - Newark, NJ November 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities  • Responsible for coding with the use of Object Oriented Principles and implementing MVC with JSP, Struts.  • Developed the Spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application  • Developed user interfaces using Java Server Pages using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS & JavaScript.  • Good Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, RedHat Linux).  • Designed different UI aspects for improved performance of the application by using GWT.  • Developed code using Core Java to implement technical enhancement following Java Standards.  • Proficient in Node.js, Mongo db, Redis and Linux flavor.  • Experience in writing the scripting language Groovy which can run on the Java virtual machine.  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Used JPA ( Java Persistence API) with Hibernate as Persistence provider for Object Relational mapping.  • Used Bindy, Stax and JAXB with camel to work with CSV and XML files and Used Groovy to design and develop the web based applications.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, JSF and JSP.  • Developed the Front end for the application using HTML5, Angular JS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Developed and implemented Swing, Spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework for the application  • Optimized the Cassandra cluster by making changes in Cassandra configuration file and Linux OS configurations.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js..  • Tune databases and provide design changes and support stress tests to proactively fix problems.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Data Warehouse (DW) data integrated from different sources in different format (PDF, TIFF, JPEG, web crawl and RDBMS data MySQL, oracle, SQL server etc.)  • Used XML and JSON for transferring/retrieving data between different Applications.  • Also wrote some complex PL/SQL queries using Joins, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursors, and Indexes in Data Access Layer.  • Designed and developed SOAP Web Services using CXF framework for communicating application services with different application and developed web services interceptors.  • Ant build file creation and usage of Maven Ivy tool set, along with dynamic JUnit report generation in PDF format.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  • Worked as backend developer of this app using Nodejs, Socket io and mongo db.  • Implemented the project using JAX-WS based Web Services using WSDL, UDDI, and SOAP to communicate with other systems.  • Experience in developing UI applications using HTML, HTML5, Jquery, and AJAX, AngularJS, Backbone JS.  • Developed back end interfaces using embedded SQL, PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, Functions, Procedures, Exceptions Handling in PL/SQL programs, Triggers.  • In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design. Open source framework like Jersey used for create REST API    Environment: Java1.5, JSP, JDBC, Spring Core 2.0, Struts 1.2, Groovy, Hibernate 3.0, React.js, Design Patterns, XML, Oracle, PL/SQL Developer, Web services, SOAP, XSLT, Jira. Java Developer UBEST - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2010 to October 2013 Responsibilities  • Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application functionality.  • Developing front end of application using HTML, CSS, backbone.js, javascript, jQuery.  • Design, develop and implement MVC Pattern based Keyword Driven automation testing framework utilizing Java, JUnit and Selenium WebDriver.  • Used Angular js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  • Developing front end of application using HTML, CSS, backbone.js, javascript, jQuery.  • Design, develop and implement MVC Pattern based Keyword Driven automation testing framework utilizing Java, JUnit and Selenium WebDriver.  • Used automated scripts and performed functionality testing during the various phases of the application development using Selenium.  • Used Angular js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  • Hands on experience with MVC Javascript frameworks such as Backbone.js, Angular.js and Node.js.  • Implemented server side tasks using Servlets and XML.  • Helped developed page templates using Struts Tiles framework.  • Implemented Struts Validation Framework for Server side validation.  • Developed JSP's with Custom Tag Libraries for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and was involved in their integration.  • Developed Web services (SOAP) through WSDL in Apache Axis to interact with other components.  • Developed Web services (SOAP) through WSDL in Apache Axis to interact with other components.  • Managing Source code in CVS and SVN and Project Documents in Share Point.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JDK JSP, XML, JSF, Struts , Web Services ,Spring MVC, JNDI, JDBC, SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, Oracle, SOAP UI Tool, SVN, SQL, ANT. Education B tech in CSE in CSE JNTU 2010