Integration Developer Integration <span class="hl">Developer</span> Middleware Developer Charleston, WV • 7+Years Experience in analysis, design and development of enterprise applications using Mule ESB, Oracle SOA Suite, Oracle Service Bus, Oracle BPM Suite, Spring boot Microservices, Web Services, Java, J2EE, and Database technologies.  • Extensive experience in large-scale SOA implementations using Mule ESB, Mule Flows, API Gateway, Oracle Fusion Middleware, Oracle SOA Suite.  • Experience with implementing Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) environment, Reliability Patterns with Mule ESB and Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) using Mule Server 3.x.  • Experience in Mule Administration, Configuration, & Tuning with Mule soft Management Console (MMC) & Enterprise release capabilities.  • Expertise in SOA, Orchestration and Integration Technologies in the areas of Web Services, OSB, SOAP, WSDL, BPEL, XML, XSD, UDDI, XSL, XPATH and XQuery.  • Expert in developing API, API management in on premises as well as cloud hub.  • Experience in Mule Connectors, Mule Flows, Data Weave transformations to integrate applications.  • Expert at working with Oracle SOA Suite SCA composites and components like BPEL process, Mediator, Business Rules, Human Workflow, and activities in JDeveloper.  • Experienced using the following SOA Suite technology adapters for integration with Database, JMS, and Web Service, BAM, and Oracle applications. Executed projects in multiple domains like Health Care, Banking, and Financial Services.  • Expertise in migrating SOA and OSB services from 11g to 12c.  • Extensive hands on experience in consuming as well as developing API's for SOAP and REST based Web services to integrate third party functional modules into the core application.  • Extensive experience in Health Exchange Process and implemented many best practices to fix integration issues.  • Involved in carrier integrations like BCBS and NEDD and developed HIPPA EDI 834/820 Carrier transactions.  • Worked on integration with external federal and state systems such as Child Support (OSCAR), Child Welfare (FACTS), Medicaid Management Information System (MMIS), Administration of Children and Families (ACF), Social Security Administration (SSA), and the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS). The system also supports the issuance of Electronic Benefits via EBT and EFT.  • Developed Integration composites for Feb Hub for verification components and Involved in Payment Systems integrations like Benaissance Payment System.  • Experience on Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) and Medical Assistance (MA).  • Extensively worked on Hub implementation for WV DHHR and SOV to leverage data from federal and local public agencies like DMV, IRS, CMS, FACTS, MMIS, OSCAR, and OASIS.  • Extensively worked on state and federal system integration functions like CMS external verifications, Payment systems, and IRS 1095B notices.  • Developed integration component to integrated USCIS SAVE Program (Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements)  • Extensively worked on FFM Account Transfer service integration with State Agency system  • Extensively worked on IRS service integration with State Agency system to transmit bulk 1095B Notices XML's and Status  • Developed new automated integrated services for posting SSA, MEDICARE, EQUIFAX XML files for RRV [ Renewal Redetermination Validation] for auto renewal of apps in bulk process.    PROFESSINAL CERTIFICATIONS  • MuleSoft Certified Developer - Level 1 (Mule 4)  • Oracle SOA Suite 12C Certified Implementation Specialist.  • Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE6 Programmer. Work Experience Integration Developer D2SOL InC May 2014 to Present Solution Environment: MuleSoft, Salesforce, Web services, Spring boot, JAVA/J2EE, Anypoint Studio, Mule 3.8, Informatica, MDM, MySQL, React JS, Micro Services, Kong API, Jenkins  Team Size: 500    Optum integrated eligibility takes an enterprise wide view of the multiple programs your clients may need and creates a "single front door" for them to enter. HHS data and programs enable us to integrate your systems to provide a seamless eligibility experience for clients and cross-agency visibility to your staff. Scaling to demand enhances cost-effectiveness and efficiency. It is the implementation of eligibility determination and benefits issuance system for the core economic services programs administered by the Bureau for Children and Families    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Full life cycle experience including requirements gathering, business analysis, system architecture, high-level design, Software architecture, detailed design, data design, coding, testing, and the creation of functional and Technical documentation.  • Created the MULE ESB Artifacts, flows and configured the MULE configuration files and deployed the application.  • Implemented OAUTH authentication, Rate Limiting, Throttling tiers, and SLA tiers, JSON Threat Protection as per API requirements.  • Configured Choice Routers, Global Exception Handling, Splitters and Aggregators, VM queues, Active MQ.  • Used the flow variables, flow reference, properties, CXF Webservices in the Mule flows.  • Implemented Groovy script in mule flow for configuring the business logic.  • Developed JSON Schemas and implemented Rest API validations to validate the input request.  • Integrated with Enterprise Systems like Salesforce and performed Extraction, transformation loading of the data.  • Configured the Salesforce, HTTP connectors and provided the proper connection timeouts, response timeouts, along with connection pooling.  • Performed operations like Invoking Apex method on SFDC objects and worked on creating SQL queries in extracting the Salesforce objects with bulk upserts.  • Created MUnit Test Cases and Mocked the test data for validating the positive and negative scenarios.  • Published RAML API's as an Endpoint Proxy via the API Gateway and deployed the Mule Deployable Archive on (on-prem) Mule Management Console(MMC).  • Deployed Mule Archives in the Cloud hub by configuring CPU Core Usage, Number of Worker Threads and Environmental Variables.  • Configured the Mule Batch Steps in the Mule Batch process with three phases of Loading, Dispatch and Process for letting know the customer about his pending transactions using the email notifications. Filtered the payload by using Accept Expression and processed the request.  • Created UML diagrams like Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, use case diagrams in different tiers of the module using Enterprise Architect.  • Involved in Agile Scrum meetings, Daily Stand up's, Sprint Retrospectives, Sprint planning.  • Implemented POC for Guaranteed Delivery of the request and response through web services, best practices and asynchronous calls using JMS Queues.  • Using GITHUB as the source code repository.  • Architecture and Development Best Practices recommendation.  • Development troubleshooting.    Project: WV DHHR Integrated Eligibility - eRAPIDS  Client: State of West Virginia, USA  Role: Middleware Developer  Solution Environment: Oracle SOA Suite 12c, Oracle OSB 12c, Oracle B2B 12c, Oracle BPM 12C, Oracle BAM 12c, Corticon, DB2, Oracle, Web services, Adobe, JAVA/J2EE, SOAP UI pro, Anypoint Studio, Mule 3.8  Team Size: 42    eRAPIDS (Electronic Recipient Automated Payment and Information Data System) are a division of Management Information Services used by Dept. of Health and Human Resources (DHHR) in Charleston, West Virginia. It is the implementation of eligibility determination and benefits issuance system for the core economic services programs administered by the Bureau for Children and Families. eRAPIDS is a web-based integrated eligibility system that delivers public assistance programs, WV WORKS (TANF), Medicaid, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) formerly food stamps, Emergency Assistance and seasonal programs; Low Income Energy Assistance (LIEAP) and School Clothing Allowance (SCA). eRAPIDS provides an enterprise environment for the administration and management of a group of related programs to support the need for information at the county state and federal levels. In addition, the system supports extensive and complex interfaces, both on-line and batch, with state and federal systems. In addition, the system supports extensive and complex interfaces, both on-line and batch, with federal and state systems such as Child Support (OSCAR), Child Welfare (FACTS), Medicaid Management Information System (MMIS), Administration of Children and Families (ACF), Social Security Administration (SSA), and the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS). The system also supports the issuance of Electronic Benefits via EBT and EFT.    The RAPIDS system, in its support of county workers' activities in administering welfare programs, has created a uniform application environment across the State's 55 counties, reduced the Quality Control error rate, improved worker productivity, and enhanced customer services through the outreach concept and improved timeliness and accuracy of benefit issuance.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Full life cycle experience including requirements gathering, business analysis, system architecture, high-level design, Software architecture, detailed design, data design, coding, testing, and the creation of functional and Technical documentation.  • Worked hands on in the WV IE projects to help the teams with the middleware implementation and worker portal screens developments.  • Involved in Web Services development using JAX-WS API.  • Created UML diagrams like Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, use case diagrams in different tiers of the module using Enterprise Architect.  • Using Oracle SOA Suite and configure SOA server and OSB for the middleware.  • Implemented POC for Guaranteed Delivery of the request and response through web services, best practices and asynchronous calls using JMS Queues.  • Used the various error handling features of SOA Suite 11g like Fault Management Framework, catch/catch-all branches, compensating transaction etc. to achieve robust error handling.  • Used MDS to share common assets like XSD, WSDL, Fault Policies, and DVM etc. Replaced concrete WSDL with Abstract WSDL stored in MDS to avoid dependency problems during server start-ups.  • Using SVN as the source code repository.  • Using DB2 database for the backend eRapids system  • Configured SOA Server.  • Configuring OSB Server for proxy services.  • Developed SOA composites in JDeveloper with BPEL, Mediator, and Web Service Components.  • Configured security in SOA server and OSB server and implemented role-based authentication.  • Create build/deployment ant scripts.  • Shell scripts development to a variety of tasks automation.  • Create scripts to get source code from versioning system (SVN).  • Create a versioning process.  • Oracle SOA Suite governance and implementation.  • Architecture and Development Best Practices recommendation.  • WebLogic cluster configuration and troubleshooting.  • Exposed and consumed JAX/WS based Account Transfer Service which facilitates the transfer of account from the Federally Facilitated Marketplace (FFM) to Medicaid/Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and from Medicaid/CHIP to the FFM for an eligibility determination.  • Created XSD Schema and WSDL file using oracle WebLogic web service.  • Developed Complex batch job's using Spring -Batch Framework for conversion of bulk verification response data coming from IRS, SSA, and Equifax.  • Involved in performance tuning of the batch as well as online applications by writing and optimizing SQL queries.    Project: FFM Account Transfer and IRS-1095-B  Client: State of West Virginia, USA  Role: Middleware Developer  Solution Environment: Oracle SOA Suite 12c, Oracle OSB 12c, Oracle B2B 12c, Oracle BAM 12c, Corticon, DB2, Oracle, Web services, Adobe, JAVA/J2EE, SOAP UI pro  Team Size: 42    The FFM Account Transfer service is a requirement of the ACA Affordable Care Act signed into Law on March 23, 2010. The Account Transfer service requires that the states be able to receive applications sent by FFM and likewise send state or FFM applications back to CMS  The Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, includes both the individual mandate and the employer mandate. The individual mandate requires that most Americans have qualifying health care coverage or potentially face a fine. The employer mandate requires employers with 50 or more full-time equivalent employees to offer healthcare coverage to their full-time employees or potentially face a fine. Form 1095 determines whether the employee or the employer have to pay a fine for failing to meet the individual mandate and the employer mandate, respectively.  Form 1095 is filed by whoever provided health insurance coverage to an individual, which means individuals don't have to fill out Form 1095 themselves.  Form 1095 contains individual health insurance information. Individuals can use the information on Form 1095 to fill the "Health care: individual responsibility" line on Forms 1040, 1040A or 1040EZ. For example, if an individual fails to meet adequate medical coverage, and does not qualify for any exemptions, they will enter the shared responsibility payment amount on that line in the 1040 Forms. Form 1095 is also used to fill out Form 8962 (premium tax credit) and Form 8965 (health coverage exemptions).    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in design Account Transfer Work Flow Process.  • Developed Orchestration, Schemas, Maps for Inbound and Outbound process  • Played Tech Lead/Lead developer role in FFM Account Transfer Implementation.  • Played a key role in the design, development, implementation and support Involved.  • Developed custom code to integrate Schema Tran components for validating inbound FFM Payloads.  • Developed FFM Account Transfer Automation process for processing the FFM Applications.  • Involved in design and development IRS-1095-B process.  • Currently Handling PROD support activities.  • Involved in BAM definition deployment and Policy creation with Business Rule Engine  • Generate BAM matrices report on a regular basis for PROD transactions.    Project: Maryland Health Benefit Exchange.  Client: State of Maryland, USA  Role: Middleware Developer  Solution Environment: Oracle SOA Suite 11g, Oracle OSB 11g, Oracle B2B 11g, Oracle BAM 11g, DB2, Oracle OPA, Oracle, Web services, JAVA/J2EE, SOAP UI pro  Team Size: 10    The Maryland Health Insurance Exchange, the Maryland Health Connection, is official Maryland State marketplace for health insurance under Obamacare. Can be used to apply for cost-assistance, compare prices of plans, change plans, and enroll in a plan that best suits you, your family, or your small business. When applying for a plan on the marketplace you'll find out if you are eligible for subsidies which can lower what you pay for premiums and lower the out-of-pocket costs you are responsible for. And Federal Poverty Levels (FPL) is used to see if you qualify for cost assistance when buying insurance through the State or Federal Health Insurance Marketplace.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Designed and implementation of the batch with the ability to scale the system to accommodate high case volume and product growth.  • Providing support to interface application development and system test team.  • Providing design, solution and implementing Non-functional requirements such as batch restart for interfaces.  • Involved in Web Services development using JAX-WS API.  • Created UML diagrams like Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, use case diagrams in different tiers of the module using Enterprise Architect.  • Using Oracle SOA Suite and configure SOA server and OSB for the middleware.  • Configuring OSB Server for proxy services.  • Developed custom XPATH functions in mediator for transferring messages.  • Pre-production load test tuning.  • Maintain positive client interactions and understanding requirements  • Problem identification and integration of technical skills to address and solve issues.  • Working with the functional team to find the fit gaps in requirements.  • Used SVN version controls to check in/out files, etc. also responsible for branching, merging the branch to main using Tortoise SVN tool. Java/BPM Developer Intern NYIT February 2013 to April 2014 Solution Environment: Oracle SOA Suite 11g, Oracle OSB 11g, Oracle BPM 11g, Oracle, Web services, JAVA/J2EE, SOAP UI pro  Team Size: 2    The main purpose of the project was to have additional/enhanced features in the existing client application. The aim was to provide better Reporting and increase the efficiency of processes by converting Manual processes into Clarity Processes and by providing the enhanced reports for business decisions for the selection process.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in development process workflows.  • Involved in development BPM workspace customization.  • Involved in configuring proxy and business services in OSB.  • Involved in development of Web Services.  • Involved in development of transactions using spring framework.  • Involved in development of DAO layer and Involved in development screen flows. Java Developer Paradigm - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to January 2013 Solution Environment: JAVA/J2EE, Spring, MySQL, Ajax, Html, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, WebLogic.  Team Size: 10    National Informatic Centre(NIC) is a tool to generate performance and availability of the associates who are working under a work order. It was implemented by specific hierarchy level. The first level is the department under this project are present, under this level work orders are present. Each work order will have certain duration and number of positions, these positions are to be filled by associates. Once the position is filled, our application will generate performance report for the associate. On the other side, the application has recruitment process for the associates just like job portal. Once the resume shortlisted the Recruiter team(HR) will screen the candidates then they will arrange technical round, NIC round and Final round. All these processes are track by application. The system will give the list of candidates shortlisted in each round.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and code development.  • Developed applications using Java, J2EE and Front-end technologies.  • Spring framework and DAO classes using for persistence management and involved in integrating the frameworks for the project.  • Re-factor existing code structure to separate core business logic and Data Access Objects (DAOs).  • Write database queries and programs for data insertion, updates and views.  • Design and develop the presentation layer using JSPs, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Involve in design, configuration, development and bug-fixes.  • Respond promptly and professionally to bug reports. Education Masters in Computer Science New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY January 2013 to August 2014 Bachelor's in computer science engineering Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2007 to November 2011 Skills JAVA, ORACLE SOA SUITE, SOA (6 years), SOAP (6 years), MuleSoft (4 years), Linux, Javascript, SQL, XML, Sql Server Certifications/Licenses MuleSoft Certified Developer - Level 1 (Mule 4) June 2019 to Present Oracle SOA Suite 12C Certified Implementation Specialist April 2017 to Present Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE6 Programmer October 2014 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Mule ESB: Anypoint Studio, MMC, Mule Runtime 3.x & 4.0, RAML 0.8 & 1.0.  • SOA/BPM Tools: Oracle SOA Suite 11g/12c, Oracle BAM 11g/12c, Oracle B2B 11g/12c, Oracle Service Bus 11g/12c, Oracle BPM 11g/12C  • Programming Languages Java  • IDE: Anypoint Studio, JDeveloper 12c/11g, Oracle Document Editor, IntelliJ, SQL Developer, Eclipse, Adobe Live Cycle, Tableau.  • Web Technologies: Web Services, Shell Script, JSON, XSD, XSLT.  • Databases: IBM DB2, Oracle, SQL Server.  • Servers: Web logic 10g/12c, Tomcat  • Tools: Toad, SQL Developer, Postman, Advanced Rest Client, RAML, Swagger, Altovo Xml Spy, SOAP UI, SOAP UI Pro, Hermes JMS, Tortoise SVN, GitHub, DB Visualizer.  • Monitoring Tools: Splunk  • Ticketing Tools: Service Now, Remedy, ATS.  • Deployment Tools: Jenkins, Remedy and ANT.