Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer Minneapolis, MN ? Over 6 years of professional experience in designing and building web applications using Java/ J2EE.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) – Analysis, Design, Implementation, Integration, QA methodologies, Test Strategy. Test metrics and maintenance of applications.   ? Strong experience in software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, TDD, Scrum, and RAD.  ? Participated in Scrum, Sprint review, Retrospection, and Virtual Closure meetings as part of Agile.  ? Deep understanding of MVC [model-view-control], Client-Server and N-tier Architectures.  ? Well versed skill in design, development, and deployment of applications for the J2EE platform using Servlets, Struts, Spring, EJB, JSP, SOA, SOAP, REST, Microservices, ORM, JPA, JMS, JAXP, JAXB, JUnit.  ? Hands on experience in Front-End technologies like AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Tag Libraries, AJAX used for Responsive web page designing.  ? Experience in XML technologies like XML, DTD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, JAXB, SAX and DOM Parsers.  ? Worked with Spring Features like Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Heroku.  ? Experience in Spring Security, Spring Integration, Spring Zulu, Eureka, Netflix, Hystrix.  ? Expertise in developing SOAP, Rest Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS.  ? Hands-on experience in developing several Microservices using spring boot, jersey, swagger to communicate through HTTP protocol for implementing SOA approach and web services.  ? Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, Spring, Spring Boot, JSF, AJAX and Hibernate [ORM].   ? Used Hibernate as an ORM mapping tool like JPA Entities for mapping Java classes using HQL.  ? Experience in working with messaging systems like Kafka, Event Sourcing, RabbitMQ, and Active MQ.   ? Experience in creating rules using Business Rules Engines: Drools, ILOG.  ? Experience with Docker, leveraging Linux Containers and AMI's to create Docker Images/ containers.  ? Hands-on Experience in Utilized Kubernetes for the run time environment of the CI/CD system to build, test and deploy in an open-source platform and Splunk data flow, components, features and product capability.   ? Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services like RDS, IAM, EC2, Redshift, SQS, SNS, Cloud Watch and S3.  ? Experience in working with PCF to deliver applications continuously to every cloud with a single platform.  ? Extensive Experience in retrieving and manipulating data from backend using Database SQL queries, PL/SQL- Stored Procedures, Functions, Sequences, Triggers, Views and Packages.  ? Hands-on Experience with relational databases Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, My SQL as well as NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Mark Logic, Cassandra, DynamoDB.  ? Highly proficient in designing n-tier Enterprise application with J2EE design patterns like IOC, AOP, MVC, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, DTO, DAO, Front Controller, Factory and Singleton.  ? Hands-on experience in writing ANT, Maven build scripts, providing logging facility using Log4j.  ? Worked with Version Control Systems like CVS, SVN (Subversion), GIT, GitHub, Clear case.  ? Experience with Tomcat, WebLogic Server, JBoss, and IBM WebSphere.   ? Experience in using Design Tools like Rational Rose Enterprise Tool, visual paradigm, MS Visio.  ? Good exposure on using IDE'S like Eclipse, Sublime Text, IntelliJ and Net Beans.  ? Expertise in Selenium automation using Selenium WebDriver, Selenium Grid, Junit and Maven.  ? Solid experience of Defect/Test Management tools like JIRA, Quality Centre/Test Director, Bugzilla. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer OPTUM - Eden Prairie, MN July 2018 to Present Description: Optum delivers solutions to help modernize the health system and improve population health. Optum helps in managing the total cost of care, reduce risks and improve quality and outcomes for individuals and organizations. Optum powers intelligence across the health care system and is infused into all products and services. It represents the unique combination of data, analytics, and expertise that guides action in various ways.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases by following Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology.  ? Effectively used Java 8 concepts like Lambda Expressions, Collections and Stream API.  ? Implemented unique design patterns such as singleton, business factory and J2EE design patterns.  ? Developed User Interface application modules using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, and AJAX.  ? Well Versed of Domain-Driven Approach in Developing the Enterprise level applications.  ? Made enhancements to the WDS Presentation layer using JavaScript utilizing ExtJs libraries and Sencha Tools.  ? Effectively Utilized various built-in Widgets of ExtJs to display the data as per the Client requirements.  ? Implemented MVC pattern using Spring MVC and integrated with Hibernate ORM.  ? Developed Microservices with Spring to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each Microservice in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  ? Developed Entity objects and used Hibernate the ORM tool to access persistent data.  ? Used Layer7 to provide security for business services. Followed Role-Based Authentication using OAuth2.0.  ? Experience using persistence framework like Hibernate, JPA for mapping java classes with Database.  ? Developed REST web services as part of a project to achieve Continuous Delivery goal on the highly scalable environment, used Docker coupled with load-balancing tool Nginx.  ? Building, Securing, Authentication for REST API was done by Spring MVC. Used Spring MVC annotations for Error Handling in REST API.  ? Implemented the business modules integration using Spring and Hibernate data mapping.  ? Completed unit testing using Junit and Mockito. And utilized POSTMAN Tool to test the REST Services.  ? Used Gradle as a Build Process and used generating Documentation, Reporting, and adding Dependencies.  ? Create and update the DB2 database scripts. Also used SQL server as an Archival Database.  ? Used JMS Queues and Topics to interact with various External Systems as per the Domain.  ? Conduct unit testing and maintain the application to ensure strong functionality and optimization  ? Well versed in Deployment procedure using JBoss Server and used Jenkins for Continuous Integration.  ? Effectively utilized Chrome inbuilt debugger to resolve and test UI Changes.  ? Wrote various Buy-in programs, Medicare Savings Programs and Low Income Subsidy Programs using Progress Corticon Business Rule Management System (BRMS).  ? Used Rule Engines to provide Drools Dashboard for Client.  ? Used Maintainability Index Tool and Sonar Scanner to check the Maintainability of the Developed Code.  ? Used FileZilla to monitor Logs in QA and PROD environments and Resolved Deployment and Build Errors.  ? Used various development tools like Eclipse, TFS, Visual Studio, Find Bug, SonarQube, Data Studio.  Environment: Java 7/8, JavaScript, EXTJS, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, OAuth2.0, DB2, Hibernate, REST, JSON, Eclipse, Gradle, JUnit, Jenkins, Sonar, TFS, Log4J, JBoss EAP 6.4/7.1, SQL Server, Docker, JMS, NGINX. Java Full Stack Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Warrenville, IL November 2017 to June 2018 Description: Liberty Mutual Insurance is an American diversified global insurer and the second-largest property and casualty insurer in the United States. Ecommerce application provides services such as Auto Insurance and home insurance. The application is used for accessibility into the appropriate Agent Centre applications and generating quotes and policies, payments and reports. The project includes integration with different third-party components like Trans union for insurance score MVR for getting the driver license details app from component to print the Application forms and ID Cards online.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked in a highly dynamic AGILE environment and participated in scrum and sprint meetings.  ? Implemented various J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Builder, etc.  ? Extensively used Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections, multithreading and for effective sorting mechanisms and Streams to store and process the data.  ? Implemented Multithreading concept to handle transaction management with isolation and propagation levels.  ? Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS and Node.js as frontend building Environment.  ? Configure and run gulp tasks in Node.js runtime and handle injection, CSS pre-processing, test running.  ? Developed custom directives, Factories, and Services in AngularJS and implemented code as per coding standards.  ? Used Spring DI, Annotations and MVC to implement business and navigation of the application.  ? Microservices have been built using Spring boot, Spring security and deployed to AWS cloud.  ? Used Spring Ribbon along with Spring Boot for load balancing and fault tolerance of the application.  ? Spring Quartz for scheduling tasks to generating reports and emails to clients.  ? Developed microservices with Spring to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each microservice in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway  ? Experience in creating RESTful web services using Jersey, SPRING framework and JAX-RS.  ? Implemented RESTful web services to retrieve data from client-side and made REST API calls from AngularJS and parsed the data to project client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security &OAuth2.  ? Created REST-based Web Services by establishing links using HATEOAS from Spring-based Applications.  ? Configured Swagger-UI registered Microservice with Eureka server to monitor service from Spring Boot.  ? Implemented the business modules integration using Spring and Hibernate data mapping.  ? Developed Entity objects and used Hibernate the ORM tool to access persistent data from MySQL.  ? Worked on Proof of Concept for developing an application using Node JS with AngularJS and Mongo DB.  ? Maintained, structured, and surveyed documents within the NoSQL MongoDB database, ensuring data integrity, correcting anomalies, and increasing the overall maintainability of the database.  ? Involved in developing API's and Rest API proxy using APIGEE edge and for sending mobile notifications.  ? Published and consumed a stream of records using Producer and Consumer APIs with Spring for Apache Kafka.  ? Developed Rules using Rule Engines- JBoss Drools, Workflows, human tasks to implement Business rules validations and provided Drools Dashboard for Business users.  ? Configured the Docker Containers and creating Dockers files for different environments.  ? Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2 instances.  ? Experienced with event-driven and scheduled AWS Lambda functions to trigger various AWS resources.  ? Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application.  ? MYSQL was used as the database for the application which was hosted in the cloud using Amazon RDS service.  ? Developed and maintained functions, procedures, triggers, indexes using MYSQL database programming.  ? Used Jenkins as the integration tool and improved scalability of applications on cross-platforms.  ? Used Maven as a Build Process and used generating Documentation, Reporting, and adding Dependencies.  ? Developed test scripts in Selenium Web Driver using Java Language. Developed testing using Junit.  ? Used JIRA for resolving bugs/defects in the application by coordinated with team members of the project.  ? Used Git as a version control system and deployed the application in a Production environment and implemented Log4J for Logging Errors.  ? Involved in Production Support and Maintenance of the application and troubleshooting of Issues on JBoss by checking logs, payments, etc.  Environment: Java 7/8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS [1.5/1.6], NodeJS, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Ribbon, Spring Quartz, Spring Security, Jersey, JAX-RS, OAuth2, HATEOAS, Apache Kafka, Swagger-UI, Eureka server, APIGEE, MySQL, Mongo DB, AWS, Hibernate, Drools, Dockers, REST, JSON, Eclipse, Maven, JUnit, Selenium, Jenkins, JIRA, Git, Log4J, JBoss. Java Full Stack Developer Sterling Bank - Houston, TX September 2016 to October 2017 Description: Sterling bank offers a secure payment gateway for all types of transactions. They are technological expertise for secure transactions. Customers can check their transaction details using their secured login into the web portal. Customers can manage their account at any time from the web portal. Generating reports and online payments can be done through the portal. They can also subscribe for monthly statements through mail or email.  Responsibilities:  ? Well versed with complete Life Cycle Development process that includes requirement analysis, design, implementation, testing, maintenance and followed Agile methodology.  ? Involved in implementing different J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Business Delegate, and DAO.  ? Implemented Core Java concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, and Collections.  ? Developed presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript, DOM, JSON.  ? Used React JS for creating components and to render views and to update the DOM dynamically.  ? Used Bootstrap, ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send a request to the server.  ? With the concept of ReactJs Worked on usage metrics and an end to end events tracing for analysis purpose.  ? Used Node.js for building web applications with client-server architecture, where both can initiate communication in two-way connections and allow them to exchange data.  ? Worked on development of MVC Architectural pattern using Spring Framework, Spring DI and Annotations.  ? Designed and integrated the full-scale Spring / Hibernate persistence solution with the application architecture.  ? Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Worked on RESTful services for transferring and retrieving XML and JSON data between different applications.  ? Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Hibernate template support. Used Hibernate for the persistence layer and used HQL for query purpose.  ? Used RabbitMQ message broker to route messages to the clients across the cloud network.  ? Wrote Docker files for creating Docker images for microservices and Docker containers for the environment. Used Kubernetes to deploy Docker containers.  ? Used Eureka service registry of PCF configured for each service to enable communication via the cloud.  ? Used in-built marketplace services of PCF for RabbitMQ config.  ? Used config-server options of PCF for maintaining application properties pertaining to each environment and User-Provided-Config-Server (cf cups) option for Syslog and Oracle DB connectivity.  ? Used NoSQL database Cassandra for proof of concept and having experience in creating a Stored Procedures and having experience in Remote Procedure Call (RPC).  ? Worked on large datasets to generate insights by using Splunk.  ? Converted and automated builds using Maven. Scheduled automated nightly builds using Jenkins and maintained Continuous integration effort with Jenkins along with scheduled builds.  ? Worked on High level and low-level system design, planning, estimation, and implementation.  ? Experience in writing Unit Tests using JUnit, Mockito.  ? Helping application teams in on-boarding Splunk and creating dashboards, alerts, reports etc.  ? Experience in using JUnit and build tools such as Maven. Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs, and SVN for version control.  ? Deployed and tested the application in UNIX on IBM Web Logic Application Server.  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJS, Node.js, Micro Services, Spring, Hibernate, SOA, REST, RabbitMQ, PCF, Oracle 11g, Cassandra, Docker, Kubernetes, Maven, Jenkins, Junit, Mockito, Log4J, SVN, Web Logic 12c, Unix. Jr. Java Developer Merit Systems Pvt Ltd March 2012 to July 2015 Description: Merit System's vision is to develop software products that would enhance business performance. With a focus on the development of cutting-edge software products. It has a wide range of products include business process monitoring, event monitoring, and corporate messaging products. We have launched a series of products in the areas of Messaging, Business Event Monitoring (BEM) and Business Process Management (BPM).    Responsibilities  ? Analyze the requirements based on business data and user requirements.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, jQuery, and JavaScript.  ? Implemented the modules using the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern.  ? Develop GUI related changes using JSP, HTML and client validations using JavaScript.  ? Developed Java beans, helper classes and Servlets for interacting with UI written in JSP.  ? Wrote a controller Servlet that dispatched requests to appropriate classes.  ? Developed Dispatch Action classes to define several business methods.  ? Involved coding SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers.  ? Involved in Designing the Database Schema and writing the complex SQL queries using Oracle.  ? Created java classes to communicate with the database using JDBC.  ? Accessed stored procedures and functions using JDBC Callable statements.  ? Deployed Applications on Apache Tomcat Server.  ? Involved in unit testing, troubleshooting and debugging. Modifying existing programs with enhancements.  ? Involved in fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application.  ? Used Log4J for any logging purposes during the development of the application.    Environment: JDK 1.6, HTML, jQuery, JAVASCRIPT, Servlets, JSP, XML, XSLT, Oracle10g, SQL, PL/SQL, MS Visio, Eclipse, JDBC, Log4J, Apache Tomcat Server. Education Master's Skills AWT, BEA, BEA WEBLOGIC, ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JBOSS, JDK, JFC, JMS, JNDI, jQuery, JSF, JSP, Angular, Javascript, Node, Angularjs, React