Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - JPMorgan Chase ? Java/J2EE Programmer with over 7 years of IT experience in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle such as analysis, design, develop, build, testing and maintenance of Web Based, Client-Server applications using JAVA/J2EE  ? Hands on experience in JDK8+, Spring, Spring boot, REST, Microservices, Apache Storm 1.x, Apache Kafka 2.x, Cassandra 3.0, Oracle 11g.  ? Used Multithreading to improve the performance/scalability of the applications.  ? Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring batch and Spring Integration  ? Strong Experience in SOA implementations - SOAP (JAX-WS), REST (JAX-RS).  ? Familiar with all aspects of technology projects including Business Requirements, Design Specification, Design Patterns and Deployment.  ? Experience in developing, deploying enterprise applications on IBM WebSphere, BEA WebLogic, Oracle Application Server, JBoss, Tomcat, Jetty  ? Extensive experience working on databases: Sybase, Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL.  ? Experience in working with NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  ? Highly Proficient in writing complex SQL Queries, stored procedures, triggers and very well experienced in PL/SQL, MySQL  ? Experience in working on Maven, Gradle and Ant for project build and logging tools as Log4J and Splunk.  ? Experience with version controller tools as GIT, SVN and CVS.  ? Experience in unit testing using JUnit, Mockito framework.  ? Experience of development using software development methodologies as Agile, Waterfall development and Test-Driven Development (TDD) environments.  ? Experienced in Development, testing and deployment of enterprise applications on Windows & UNIX platforms using IDEs such as Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA.  ? Worked on different OS UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux, Windows 7 and Windows 10.  ? Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team. Work Experience Java Developer JPMorgan Chase - Plano, TX January 2018 to Present Project: Chase Retail Mobile Products    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Interacted with business analysts to study the requirements and design interfaces for the various use cases.  ? Used Agile methodology throughout the software development lifecycle (SDLC)  ? Worked in Digital Presentation Services team which will act as middle layer between UI and Backend layers.  ? followed Sprint model for the development of REST API's.  ? Involved in design, development, deployment of features for products such as QuickPay, Transfers, BillPay of JPMC Chase Mobile Banking app.  ? Used Java 1.8 and Spring Boot to develop Services which communicates with both front-end UI and Back end systems.  ? Hands on Development and delivering contracts and Implementation of Controllers to UI to consume.  ? Experienced in developing API's based on swagger/WSDL files that we receive from back end systems.  ? Hands on experience in writing test case to follow Test Driven Development model, used Mockito framework to write the test cases for REST API's.  ? Worked with CI/CD tools such as Jenkins for the deployment and monitoring the build systems of the code.  ? Participated in reviewing the code to deliver quality code and to make sure better product and better customer experience.  ? Worked with UI, testing teams to troubleshoot the issue/defects of the chase mobile app.  ? Used GIT as version management and GitHub as the repository  ? Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with Jenkins, and Jenkins Jobs.  ? Working with Product owners to understand the business flows and functionality.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JDK 8, Spring5.x, Spring Boot, SON, XML, Cassandra, 3.x, Apache Kafka 2.0, Oracle 12c, Hibernate. x, REST, Apache Tomcat, Maven 3.5.x, Junit 5, Mockito, Intellij, SOAP UI Java Developer PG&E - San Ramon, CA May 2016 to December 2017 Project: support the Major Greenfield Projects.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Interacted with business analysts to study the requirements and design interfaces for the various use cases.  ? Responsible for developing and modifying the existing service layer based on the business requirements.  ? Developed the necessary front-end user interfaces in JSPs, HTML, Java Script, CSS that will be integrated using Spring MVC Framework.  ? Worked on Spring Rest web service implementation.  ? Developed Form Beans/ JavaBeans, Spring Controller Classes and configured with the corresponding JSP pages in spring-config.xml file.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate Framework.  ? Implementation of Thread pool and locks for concurrency management.  ? Created the Hibernate mapping and properties files using spring modules like MVC, Web and ORM. Used Hibernate template to integrate Spring DAO business objects with respective tables from the database.  ? Created tables, stored procedures in SQL for data manipulation and retrieval, Database Modification using SQL, PL/SQL, Stored procedures, triggers, Views in Oracle 10g.  ? Involved in creating restful web services and consuming them.  ? Implemented various standard J2EE design patterns (Singleton, Factory, Data Access Object, MVC, Front Controller)  ? Used MAVEN for project management and build automation.  ? Used Subversion as a version control for implementing the application.  ? Controlled the log information by using framework Log4j.  ? Performed Unit Testing Using JUnit.  Environment: Eclipse, Java (JDK 1.6), struts2, spring MVC, spring Core, Hibernate, Web Services, Apache Tomcat, Servlets, Jsp, Html, Css, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, React, Ajax, SVN, MySQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Windows Family(xp/7/8/10), Maven, JMeter, Putty, FileZilla, Readmine, JIRA, JUnit, Log4j, UML Java Sr Developer County of Fresno - Fresno, CA March 2015 to April 2016 Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Developed Complex batch job's using spring -Batch Framework for conversion data like Case Merge and Case Client Elimination.  ? Involved in designing, estimating business requirements, and worked with business team to determine the needs, gather, analyze and document requirements.  ? Involved in design of database tables based on new requirements and on the mappings between legacy and new system.  ? Followed Sprint methodology during project development.  ? Online web application was developed following MVC design pattern using Java 1.7, JSP, JavaScript, JSON, JQUERY, HTML, CSS, Servlets and EJB 3.0.  ? Front end JSPs are developed using custom tag libraries, dynamic tables are generated using JQuery and JSON elements.  ? Hosted and consumed web services using SOAP protocol. Worked on defining schemas and WSDL for the web services.  ? Used Session and request variables to hold the data between JSPs and EJBs.  ? Hosted and consumed JAX-WS web services.  ? Involved in performance tuning of the batch as well as online applications by writing and optimizing SQL queries.  Environment: JDK 1.7, Core Java, JSP, JSON, JQuery, Ajax, Servlets, EJB 3.0, JAX-WS web services, Spring - Batch Framework, Oracle Database, Eclipse, Web Sphere 8.5, Ant build tool, Log4j for logging, UNIX. Java Developer Howard Hughes Corporation - Dallas, TX June 2014 to January 2015 Project: HHC is a real-estate company, developed their internal Applications using Java Technologies.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Developed application using Struts 2 Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  ? Integrating Struts with spring by delegating Struts action management to Spring Framework using proxy. Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection.  ? Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  ? Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  ? Hibernate frame work is used in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database (DB2).  ? Implemented J2EE design patterns.  ? Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator, and Singleton.  ? Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  ? Designed and developed the web-tier using Html, JSP's, Servlets, Struts, and Tiles framework.  ? Used Http compression and AJAX for faster response time.  ? Implemented spring security features using AOP Interceptors for the authentication.  ? Used Java Scripts for client side validations and validation frame work for server side validations.  ? Extensively worked with HQL and hibernate criteria queries.  ? Generated backend hibernate DAO and business objects.  ? Used Hibernate annotations for hibernate mapping.  ? Used log4j for logging messages  ? Consumed Web Services (SOAP) from third party for send the emails in bulk. This service is used to send the emails to the customers in bulk as a part of Batch process.  ? Deployed the application on to WebSphere application server.  ? Used RAD as a IDE and extremely worked with the WAS 7.0(WebSphere Application Server)  Environment: JDK 1.6, J2EE, Struts 2, spring, SOAP Web Service, JAX-WS, RAD, WebSphere Application Server (WAS) 7, Hibernate, Maven, DB2 Data Base, JAXB. Java Developer ExxonMobil - Houston, TX November 2013 to May 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Used Agile (Scrum) software development methodology.  ? Generated the use case diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence Diagrams in the design phase using Star UML tool.  ? Designed, Developed and analyzed the front-end and back-end using JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS,  ? BOOTSTRAP, ANGULAR JS, Java Script, jQuery.  ? Responsible for identifying scope and assumptions for Estimates considering risks if any.  ? Preparing design and technical documents.  ? Involved staging and interface framework design using spring batch.  ? Designing and developing REST based Web Service using JSON / XML and JAX-RS.  ? Created spring batch jobs by using Groovy.  ? Implemented Multithreading in staging framework.  ? Developed front end UI application using Angular JS and given support to the existing applications.  ? Experience in configuring build tools like Maven and ANT for the development and deployment.  ? Involved AT, SIT and production defect fixing.  ? Designed and developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2.  ? Implement client Change Requests (CRs).  Environment:  Java/J2EE, JDK 7, Spring3.x, Spring Batch Framework, Spring Integration, Spring Restful Web Services, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, Groovy, JBoss EAP 4.3, Apache Tomcat, Maven 3.2.5 , Junit 4, Eclipse, PMD, Check style, Beyond Compare Java Developer Katy Independent School District - Katy, TX January 2013 to November 2013 Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Extensively involved in design and implementation of front-end controller using Struts MVC framework, jsp, javascript.  ? Hands on experience in developing Rest API's using Java 1.6 , Spring framework.  ? Created XML schema documents based on the requirements and used JAXB for marshalling and unmarshalling of the XML documents.  ? Followed agile methodology for development process.  ? Back-end access to Oracle, which used to query/update the database for enhanced reporting and advanced search of the data using Hibernate.  ? Developed web services using JAX-WS utility  ? Developed and used JMS queues to for asynchronous communication.  ? Used TOAD for database and application development.  ? Implemented Camel a rule-based routing and mediation engine to configure different mediation rules, for different client bases.  ? Prepared Unit test cases using JUnit and remote testing using SOAP UI.  ? Provided Production Support and involved in defect fixing in QA testing.  Environment:  My Eclipse 8.0, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Windows XP, Java (JDK 1.5), J2EE 1.5, Web Services, Tomcat 5, HTML, UML, Ant, JSF, JSP, Servlets, Spring2.0/2.5, Java Script, jQuery,Struts2, Hibernate, SVN(Apache Subversion). Education Master's in Information Technology Management in Information Technology Management Texas A&M 2012 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communications Engineering in Electronics and Communications Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2010 Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES, JAXB, JBOSS, JMS, jQuery, JSF, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, APPLICATION SERVER, Git, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, ORM, PVCS, SCRIPTING, Spring, Soap, Rest, Java J2Ee, Core Java