Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - AAA Orange, CA • Over Eight + years of working experience in software analysis, design and development of enterprise applications using Java/J2EE/ UI technologies.  • Proficient in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including information strategy planning.  • Experienced in requirement Grooming, analysis, design, development, quality assurance and maintenance, and demos.  • Extensively worked in developing spring - MVC, Spring Web Services, Annotations, Spring - Rest API, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC, Spring Transaction Management, Struts, JPA Framework and Hibernate 4.0.  • Hands on experience with Java 8 Generics, Algorithms, Streams, Exceptional Handling, Lambda Expression and Collection Framework.  • Hands on working experience with Servlet, JDBC and JSP J2EE Web technologies, hands on working experience with Hibernate 4, Struts and Spring 4 J2EE frameworks, hands on working experience with SOAP and RESTFul API J2EE Web Services.  • Worked with Splunk to search application logs in production, QA, CQA, Dev and CDEV environments  • Experience in developing applications using JBoss, Oracle WebLogic, IBM WebSphere and TOMCAT.  • Developed web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation.  • Experienced with SQL and PL/SQL in writing Stored Procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle 12, DB2 and SQL Server.  • Hands on experience in Client Side Design and Development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, AJAX, XML, JSF, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS 2.  • Hands on working experience with the Java Enterprise Applications in UNIX / LINUX environment.  • Working experience with AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying the web applications.  • Good knowledge on SCALA, Autosys (Jobs Scheduling tool) and Windows batch scripting.  • Good working experience in Agile environment, Sprint planning, Daily standups, Demos and Retrospection.  • Extensive experience in Analysis, Design, Code Reviews, Unit Testing and Integration Testing.  • Involved in Bug bash sessions to resolve the issues, deploy to PreProduction environment, verify those changes, finally deploy it to Production environment.  • Worked with Pair programming with team mates  • Worked in integrating web components to multiple services across multiple projects. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer AAA - August, CA August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including grooming, analysis, architecture design, and development and testing phases.  • Analysis of the Business Requirement and Functional Specification documents.  • Used Rational Rose for use case diagrams, Activity Flow Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and Object diagrams in design phase.  • Managed the dependency between the classes by implementing Spring's IOC to promote the loose coupling between them.  • Used Annotations like @Advice, based Spring Framework for auto wiring and injecting the required dependencies to implement business logic.  • Involved in writing the AOP concerns and implemented DI for the services and used Spring MVC.  • Designed and developed Aspects, Advices and Pointcuts for logging and transaction aspects using Spring AOP and Spring Batch.  • Implemented code using Collections, Multi-Threading, Exceptional Handling, Streams and Core Java Concepts.  • Developed Web UI or view components using Spring Tiles, JSP, Java Script, Angular JS, CSS3, Ext JS, React JS, BootStrap, AJAX, Node JS, Redux, ExpressJS Bootstrap, Custom Tag Libraries.  • Used Google Web Toolkit (GWT) to create and maintain complex Java script front end.  • Created test cases with Mocha, Chai, Jasmine and Karma frameworks, for web components.  • Involved in tracking the application logs with Splunk operators and functions in Production and PreProduction environments.    • Involved in Bug bash sessions to resolve the issues, deploy to PreProduction environment, verify those changes, finally deploy it to Production environment.  • Worked with Pair programming with team mates.  • Managed the dependency between the classes by implementing Spring's IOC to promote the loose coupling between them.  • Involved in creating and consuming micro services, to access the intents based on the search query.  • Used Annotations like @Advice, based Spring Framework for auto wiring and injecting the required dependencies to implement business logic.  • Involved in writing the AOP concerns and implemented DI for the services and used Spring MVC.  • Designed and developed Aspects, Advices and Pointcuts for logging and transaction aspects using Spring AOP and Spring Batch.  • Implemented code using Collections, Multi-Threading, Exceptional Handling, Streams and Core Java Concepts.  • Developed Web UI or view components using Spring Tiles, JSP, Java Script, Angular JS 2, CSS3, BootStrap, AJAX, Node JS, Redux, Custom Tag Libraries.  • Developed entity classes, JPA mapping files for the object relational mapping while configuring JPA, also developed HQL and Named Queries and wrote Data Access Object (DAO) to handle HQL queries.  • Implemented MultiThreaded Concurrency technology to increase web request and response to the server and improve the performance of application.  • Utilized JNDI architecture to coordinate processes between applications.  • Developed SQL, HQL queries and PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, to interact with the oracle database.  • Implemented Splunk queries, to track the logs and check performance of the applications.  • Involved in implementing Java Transaction Management using JDBC.  • Involved in consuming the Web services by generating WSDL and performed data exchange with the third party using SOAP JAX-WS, XML.  • Implemented Rest based services (RESTful) using JAX-RS annotations and Jersey provider with JSON data transfer.  • Used Apache CXF to build and develop services using frontend programming APIs, like JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  • Integrated Scala in to Maven to provide mutual dependencies.  • I have read CSV file in Spark, by Flat Map to get RDD in two dimensional Array.  • Used JAXP for parsing XML documents and followed XML Schema Definition (XSD).  • Used Maven tool for the Project management and for the purpose of compile, run, deploy and to add external dependencies.  • Involved in implementing presentation layer for single page applications using Angular JS 2 directives, services and controllers.  • Experienced in Unit Testing, Debugging, Remote Debugging, Integration and System Testing using Testing, JUNIT, Selenium and Jasmine.  • Worked in integrating SVN to Rich Client Platform (RCP), to design view components.  • Used JMS to establish communication between the processes of the layers.  • Working experience with AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying the web applications.  • Responsible for resolving Production support issues. Identifying, fixing and testing with various scenarios like regression testing for the fixes.  • Implemented Service Portal and modal windows with ServiceNow.  • Experienced in Unit Testing, Debugging, Remote Debugging, Integration and System Testing using Testing, JUNIT, Selenium and Jasmine.  • Have worked with Tortoise and SourceTree for Version Controlling and Change Management.  • Developed & deployed the web components using GIT, Lara and Jenkins.  Environment: Java, J2EE, XML, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Jaxb, JMS, JSON, Angular JS 2, Node JS, Ext JS, React JS, Redux, ExpressJS, BootStrap, Spring, Splunk, Release and Deployment, Hibernate, SOAP, REST, IntelliJ, SQL Developer, AWS, IBM WebSphere, Scala, Mule ESB, Spark, DB2, GIT, UNIX, Jenkins, MQ, RCP, SONARQube, Lara, Jeera, Junit Test Cases, ServiceNow. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Experian February 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including backlog grooming, Sprint planning, analysis, architecture design, development and testing phases.  • Analysis of the Business Requirement and Functional Specification documents.  • Involved in implementing the User Interface by creating modules and components, and coupled them together as functional application with Angular 2, by making Rest calls to the backend API.  • Involved in developing the front end components for both Desktop and Mobile based applications.  • Involved in creating e2e test suites for all components, and running them with Protractor, Jasmine, Karma, Chai and Mocha plugins.  • Implemented animations, styles and design with CSS, HTML and Java Script.  • Worked with BootStrap, JQuery, Java Script, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSP, Redux and Angular JS to develop Web page of Web Application.  • Created test cases with Mocha, Chai, Jasmine and Karma frameworks, for web components.  • Involved in tracking the application logs with Splunk operators and functions in Production and PreProduction environments.    • Involved in Bug bash sessions to resolve the issues, deploy to PreProduction environment, verify those changes, finally deploy it to Production environment.  • Worked with Pair programming with team mates.  • Managed the dependency between the classes by implementing Spring's IOC to promote the loose coupling between them.  • Involved in creating and consuming micro services, to access the intents based on the search query.  • Used Annotations like @Advice, based Spring Framework for auto wiring and injecting the required dependencies to implement business logic.  • Involved in writing the AOP concerns and implemented DI for the services and used Spring MVC.  • Designed and developed Aspects, Advices and Pointcuts for logging and transaction aspects using Spring AOP and Spring Batch.  • Implemented code using Collections, Multi-Threading, Exceptional Handling, Streams and Core Java Concepts.  • Developed Web UI or view components using Spring Tiles, JSP, Java Script, Angular JS 2, CSS3, BootStrap, AJAX, Node JS, Redux, Custom Tag Libraries.  • Developed entity classes, JPA mapping files for the object relational mapping while configuring JPA, also developed HQL and Named Queries and wrote Data Access Object (DAO) to handle HQL queries.  • Implemented MultiThreaded Concurrency technology to increase web request and response to the server and improve the performance of application.  • Utilized JNDI architecture to coordinate processes between applications.  • Developed SQL, HQL queries and PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, to interact with the oracle database.  • Implemented Splunk queries, to track the logs and check performance of the applications.  • Involved in implementing Java Transaction Management using JDBC.  • Involved in consuming the Web services by generating WSDL and performed data exchange with the third party using SOAP JAX-WS, XML.  • Implemented Rest based services (RESTful) using JAX-RS annotations and Jersey provider with JSON data transfer.  • Used Apache CXF to build and develop services using frontend programming APIs, like JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  • Integrated Scala in to Maven to provide mutual dependencies.  • I have read CSV file in Spark, by Flat Map to get RDD in two dimensional Array.  • Used JAXP for parsing XML documents and followed XML Schema Definition (XSD).  • Used Maven tool for the Project management and for the purpose of compile, run, deploy and to add external dependencies.  • Involved in implementing presentation layer for single page applications using Angular JS 2 directives, services and controllers.  • Experienced in Unit Testing, Debugging, Remote Debugging, Integration and System Testing using Testing, JUNIT, Selenium and Jasmine.  • Worked in integrating SVN to Rich Client Platform (RCP), to design view components.  • Used JMS to establish communication between the processes of the layers.  • Working experience with AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying the web applications.  • Responsible for resolving Production support issues. Identifying, fixing and testing with various scenarios like regression testing for the fixes.  • Implemented Service Portal and modal windows with ServiceNow.  • Developed & deployed the web components using GIT and Jenkins.  Environment: Java, J2EE, XML, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Jaxb, JMS, JSON, Angular JS 2, Node JS, Ext JS, React JS, Redux, ExpressJS, BootStrap, Spring, Splunk, Release and Deployment, Hibernate, SOAP, REST, IntelliJ, SQL Developer, AWS, IBM WebSphere, Scala, Mule ESB, Spark, DB2, GIT, UNIX, Jenkins, MQ, RCP, SONARQube, Lara, Jeera, Junit Test Cases, ServiceNow. Java Full Stack Developer Panda Express - Pasadena, CA June 2011 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in programming, testing, debugging, implementing and maintaining of Java EE client/server distributed application to meet the organization's needs.  • Designed and development applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML and OOAD and created Use cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Responsible for designing & developing the UI Screens using Angular JS with node.js, HTML pages, CSS, spring boot framework with Apache-Maven and JAVA-J2EE technologies.  • Implemented nested views and routing using Angular UIRouter as per the requirement. GUI was developed using JSP, HTML, and Angular JS and created reusable components in Angular JSusing Custom Directives Filters, Services and Partials.  • Followed Scrum/Agile for project implementation.  • Worked on highly advanced user interface design and development using JavaScript, Angular 4, React JS, JQuery, BootStrap, Node JS, HTML5 and CSS3 LESS/SASS.  • Defined new validations through Angular JS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Exposed RESTful web services using JAX-RS. Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Restful API for various requirements.  • Experience in developing components in Angular 2.0 and used AngularJS 2.0 to build a single page application using type script.  • Implemented Restful Web Services using Spring and used SpringBoot forMicroServices& consumed services using SpringREST template.  • Experience in writing the SQL queries and PL/SQL Functions, Stored procedures and Views.  • Working with ECMA Script 6 features. Used Babel, Web Pack with es2015, react JSX presets.  • Extensively implemented ODM functionality like read, create, delete, update functions by using Spring framework.  • Used Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP requests with the help of Node Js.  • Mainly involved in development and maintenance of the website using Python, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX, J-Query, DOJO, EXTJS 4.0, JavaScript, Angular JS, b .js, ECMAScript 5 and 6.  • Involved in developing components on Reporting Dashboard with Spring MVC, Spring Framework and Hibernate &used Spring Security to secure the application.  • Configured Hibernate session factory to integrate Hibernate with Spring and used JPA/Hibernate to communicate with data layer and XML/JAXB to read XML data.  • Architected, designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in Angular JS which consume JSON from a Spring MVC, using Spring Security to secure the Application.  • Optimized the design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Singleton, Service Locator and Business Delegate. All code was written using the RAD.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Created ant build files to create the WAR files and involved in development of thesystem using the Spring MVC framework. Involved in development of Hibernate objects to persist data into the database.  • Involved in giving support for ODM patch update activities in all the environments which is provided by IBM for the product bugs.  • Worked with Mongo DB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures and implemented read preferences in Mongo DB replica set.  • Implemented the authentication, authorization, and access-control features using Spring Security.  • Involved in writing SQL scripts and creating backend database table for complex business operations. Participated in consuming web-services using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and facilitates for future applications.  • Wrote Script for AJAX implementations in the website and created components, used jQuery for client side form validations and used JSON for creating objects in Java script.  • Developed queues using AWS SQS with JMS for services to subscribe and listen events. Implemented logic to listen and to subscribe events.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work in conjunction with spring functionality.  • Used Express JS to route different endpoints, made RESTful WEB SERVICES to manipulate data in MySQL.  • Configure REST controllers, view resolver components and implemented transaction management using Springdeclarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts.  • Implemented version controlling using GIT and used Jenkins for continuous integration. Wrote build & deployment scripts using Maven on UNIX environment and integrated using Jenkins.  • Used Log4j API for logging in development, testing and production environments, configured to send email notifications.  • Used AWS infrastructure to host the portal. Created EC2 instances, VPCs, RDS, S3 features of AWS.  • Involved to track application modules through Splunk logs to understand the flow of multi module project.  • Used GIT for version control and used eclipse as the IDE for developing the application, Used Rational Clear Quest for defect fixing. Involved in guiding, mentoring new contractors to understand the application.  Environment: Java, J2EE, XML, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Jaxb, JMS, JSON, Angular JS 2, Node JS, Ext JS, React JS, Redux, Express JS, BootStrap, Spring, Splunk, Release and Deployment, Hibernate, SOAP, REST, IntelliJ, SQL Developer, AWS, IBM WebSphere, Scala, Mule ESB, Spark, DB2, GIT, UNIX, Jenkins, MQ, RCP, SONARQube, Lara, Jeera, Junit Test Cases, ServiceNow. Education MBA University of Riverside - Riverside, CA Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Git, Html, Jenkins, Json, Subversion, Svn Links http://@Advice Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java 8, Java Script, UML, Angular JS 2, Node JS, Ext JS, HTML 5, XML, XSL, HTML5, CSS3, OOJS.  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX.  Version Control SubVersion [SVN], Git, ClearCase, Tortoise  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, RAD, MyEclipse.  Database servers Oracle (SQL, PL/SQL), SQL Server, DB2.  J2EE Technologies JDBC, Servlets, Java Beans, EJB, JSP, JNDI, JMS, Spring Boot, Struts, Hibernate, SOAP Web Services and Rest Web Services.  Open source Technologies JUnit, Log4J, Ant, JSON, AspectJ, JSF, JPA  Web Application servers IBM Web Sphere, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat, GlassFish, Oracle Web Logic.  Object Relational Mapping Hibernate 4.0, JPA  Continuous Integration and Build Tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins, SONARQ  Data base Tool TOAD, IBM Data Studio, SQL Developer, My SQL Server 2000/2005, OLAP and OLTP