Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - NCDOT Raleigh, NC • Over 7+ years of experience in designing, implementing and deploying commercial Enterprise Applications for Multi-tiered-distributed software products and distributed applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in frameworks like Spring, Struts.  • Experience in Hibernate, JDBC, JNDI, ANT and Log4j.  • Experience in tools like Eclipse, Tomcat, Web Sphere, Maven and ANT.  • Experience with IBM CICS Transaction Gateway, ECI and EPI Interfaces.  • Experience with first data payment service for credit card transactions.  • Experience includes industry verticals like Retail, Finance Technology.  • Strong knowledge about Multithreading, Collections and Exception Handling mechanisms in Java.  • Ability to work with XML and XML related technologies like XSL/XSLT/XSD.  • Experience with HTML/CSS/JavaScript.  • Strong RDBMS fundamentals and experience with databases like MySQL, SQL server, Oracle & DB2.  • Worked with different IDE and Rapid Application Development tools like Eclipse, Cross Platform Net Beans, My Eclipse.  • Experience with Agile and Waterfall SDLC methodologies. Experience with Middleware technologies JMS/MQ series. Experience with testing frameworks like JUnit 3 and 4 and mock.  • Experience with Integration/Regression/UAT testing, Production planning, production rollout and production support activities.  • Highly motivated self-starter with strong analytical problem-solving skills and an ability to multitask.  • A good team player with excellent communication, presentation and interpersonal skills and ability to prioritize and coordinate work across different geographic locations. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer NCDOT - Raleigh, NC July 2016 to Present Description: North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) is working on application development and support for DMV's Motor Carrier Units - Lites and IRP. These applications are business critical applications and require development updates and changes as well as monitoring and auditing as required by State law. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) operates the Unified Registration System (URS) which will discontinue issuance of MC, MX, and FF Numbers and be unified in a single USDOT number. The URS will combine multiple registration processes, information technology systems and forms into a single, electronic online registration process saving time and money for the industry and FMCSA. This rule also improves the ability for FMCSA to locate small and medium-sized private and exempt for-hire motor carriers for enforcement action, because investigators will be able to work with designated process agents to locate and/or serve documents on hard-to- find motor carriers    Responsibilities:  • Modify existing front-end software to correct errors, allow it to adapt to new hardware, or to improve its performance.  • Develop and direct software system testing and validation procedures, programming, and documentation.  • Confer with systems analysts, engineers, programmers and others to design system and to obtain information on project limitations and capabilities, performance requirements and interfaces.  • Consult with clients and help produce and define business requirement for application enhancements  • Analyzing, designing, and programming by following the technical procedures and documentation.  • Create milestones and project timeline estimates  • Utilize in-depth understanding and usage of principles, theories and practices of application development.  • Utilize NCDOT standards for coding and development of applications.  • Develop re-usable Java Application as a service which are currently using Mainframe as backend to improve customer experience needs and optimize quality and deployment practices  • Frequent collaboration with development team and supervisor. Sr. Java Developer Fidelity Investments - Raleigh, NC October 2014 to June 2016 Description: Fidelity Investments developed SOA micro services ( Java real time) on demand Solution for customer data conversion which migrates data from EDB Data Source to CP. These data are being consumed by all of SIPD Planning and Guidance, and various other planning tools like GPS, ISE. Delivered a project which allowed legacy applications to interoperate with the new P&G Integrated Guidance Experience. Integrated with Various Third Party Services Like CDS from Rest Services, Enhancement to the existing Rest Services to include new functionality. Worked on integrating with Emoney API (recently bought by Fidelity) to allow Fidelity Customers and Reps to access Emoney on WSO2 Rest API Platform.    Responsibilities:  • Creating a 'Data as a Service' using SOA architecture providing customer data to a set of interactive web based tools.  • Contribute to the entire development lifecycle from concept to deployment as a member of an agile, cross-functional team.  • Customer data was converted real time and on demand to a new Oracle database environment while the existing Oracle database will be supported until retired.  • Tackle challenges and play several roles on this dynamic project.  • Use RTC and later Jira for tracking the Features, User Stories, Tasks & Defects. Participated in Daily Scrum Meetings and Sprint Retrospective and sprint planning for on time delivery of Business Needs.  • Used Spring Integration to Integrated from REST to SOAP Web Services.  • Used WSO2 Rest API Digital Platform to integrate with external EMONEY API.  • Extensively Worked with Eclipse as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the complete application.  • Used SonarQube to track Junit Coverage and Udeploy to promote code for higher environments.  • Written test cases using Mockito API and done Unit testing and written executing Mockito Unit Tests.  • Used Git version control and for branching and merging. • Worked on Agile Development Methodology and Practiced Disciplined Agile in 2 week Sprints. Java Full Stack Developer MasterCard - St. Louis, MO January 2014 to September 2014 Description: MasterCard Introduced changes to increase authorizations maximize checkout conversion rates and decrease fraud on transactions through Master Pass. These changes included use of a risk based authentication system and dynamic multi-factor authentication methods. Primary goal was to enable an ideal consumer experience while limiting fraud on e-commerce and mobile Master Pass transactions to a level where card Issuers will offer merchants chargeback protection.    Responsibilities:  • Interacting with client in design and code review meetings.  • Worked on User Interface and User Experience.  • Used Fusion Jira for tracking the User Stories.  • Extensively involved in the Pair Programming Methodology which would increase the quality of writing better code.  • Participated in Daily Scrum Meetings and Sprint Retrospective and sprint planning for on time delivery of Business Needs.  • Extensively Worked with Eclipse as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the complete application  • Handle the design, architecture, development, code review, and testing of applications.  • Execute and own the baseline architecture implementations and design activities collaborating with other Engineers & Engineering Team.  • Regularly communicate with management about risk analysis and design tradeoffs.  • Work to define feature requirements and deliver the product that materially impacts the business and improves the consumer experience.  • Identify performance bottlenecks and come up with novel ways to solve them.  • Design and implement scalable, resilient, high performance services. Java Full Stack Developer US Bank - Portland, OR June 2013 to December 2013 Description: Banking project which includes Toyota and lexus as an intranet banking project which incorporates the facility of adding Authorized User to the account and also the Joint Authorized user and the backend validations and sending out an email to the respective primary card holder. Omniture Tracking Code for Visa Credit Processing Account and Collections replacement Project allowing the users to take advantage of the various Payment offers.    Responsibilities:  • Participate in the technical design of application systems.  • Develops and implements application systems.  • 2/3 development on front end adding additional authorized user pages.  • 1/3 work backend developing the code in multi-tier enterprise level applications.  • Assists in definition of time tables and project tasks; analyzes and estimates cost and time. Performs change impact analysis tasks.  • Creates comprehensive unit test plans and test cases.  • Participates in design, coding, testing, implementation, and documentation of solutions.  • Creates and executes performance tests to ensure that expected application performance levels are achieved. Designs, codes, tests, debugs, documents, maintains, and modifies computer programs of moderate complexity, significance, and risk.  • Contributes and at times, leads clients and technical staff to investigate, analyze, and resolve technical problems related to system functions, programming, and procedures.  • Joins in post-implementation reviews of both application development content and process to maximize and share learning.  • Shares in monitoring operating efficiency of existing systems.  • Writes documentation that describes installation and operating procedures. Java/J2ee Developer Fry Inc - Ann Arbor, MI January 2013 to May 2013 Description: Fry, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of MICROS Systems, Inc. and a leading e-commerce solutions provider. OCP 4.0 offers a wide-range of functionality for users including catalog, content and experience management, internal search, customer service, roles-based security, operational reporting and system tools.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables on time.  • Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application.  • Developed various UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, interaction diagrams (sequence and collaboration) and activity diagrams.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • Automated build process by writing ANT build scripts.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using Oracle database.  • Played a key role in the design and development of almost all the modules of the project.  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J.  • Used JUnit for unit testing.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management. J2EE Developer BSNL Telecommunications - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to August 2011 Description: BSNL built a carrier-grade provisioning solution SCREEN3 - to manage market and securely deliver News content and other mobile content from operator networks to mobile handsets. SCREEN3 is an innovative, end-to-end solution that provides mobile consumers with zero-click access to current, relevant information right on the home screen of their mobile phone. With SCREEN3, consumers can subscribe to their favorite premium channels, such as news, sports, entertainment, and weather.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business users during requirements gathering and designed the system using UML (Class Diagrams and Sequential Diagrams) with OOD features.  • Used spring framework as middle tier application framework and handled persistence strategy using Spring's ORM module for Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate as persistence mechanism implementing object relational mapping and implemented advanced features like HQL and Criteria based querying.  • Extensively used the Spring Core for Inversion of Control (IOC), Application Context and ORM modules of Spring Framework in the project.  • Developed various Controller classes and used spring's validator for form validations.  • Used JSTL for view coupled with spring bind tags and enhanced UI with CSS.  • Used Display Tag to show data in tabular form.  • Worked on SQL Server as the relational backend.  • Log4j used for logging and tracing.  • Followed best practices of TDD consistently testing service and data access tier using JUnit.  • Wrote build scripts for the application using Ant. Education Masters in Renewable in Renewable University of Dayton - Dayton, OH 2013 Bachelors of Engineering in Mechanical in Mechanical JNTUH University 2011 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-ws, Jndi, Jsp, Jta, Jvm, Servlet, Struts, Ant, Deployment, Maven, Jira, Junit, Application server Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    J2EE Standards  Java, Servlet, JSP,JDBC, JNDI, ANT, Struts, Spring, MVC, Hibernate, XML Deployment-Descriptors, , JavaScript, Design patterns, JVM, Java EE    Databases Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server 2005/2008, MS Access, TOAD, MS word, MS Excel, SQL Developer  Languages Java, SQL, PL/SQL  Internet Languages HTML, XML, AJAX, CSS, JSON, JPA 1.0/2.0,JTA 1.1,JAXB 2.2  Application/Web Server  Tomcat 9.0, Application Server , J-Boss , WebLogic , Webservices-JWS-2, JAX-WS, WS-I standards, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, IBM WebSphere Application Server ND v6.1 IBM HTTP Server, IBM WebSphere MQ, IBM RAD (Rational Application Developer) , ESB, WebSphere, SOAP, REST,IBM CICS Transaction Gateway, CTG V9.2    Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows /2010/ NT/XP/Vista  Project Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  IDE's & Tools Eclipse, Net Beans, Subversion, Clear Quest, Maven, Fusion-JIRA  Testing/Control Tools JUnit, CVS, SVN, Maven, Apache Maven