Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Pleasanton, CA • Around 2 years of IT experience as JAVA/J2EE Developer in Software Development Life Cycle and Software Integration.  • Experience in Development and support of web-based and enterprise applications utilizing core Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, XML, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JSON, HTML and JavaScript, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Expertise in Core Java such as OOPs, Collection Framework, Exceptions Handling, Input/output (I/O) System, Annotations, Multi-Threading, Lambda Expressions and Generics.  • Experienced in building web application using various Spring Framework features like Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring ORM, Spring JPA, Spring JMS, Spring Transactions, Spring Boot, Spring Data and Spring Security.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Garbage Collection, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Hands on work experience in XML, XSLT, XPATH.  • Experienced in implementing Service-oriented architecture and Web Services using RESTFUL.  • Used Swagger (REST) for WS documentation.  • Expertise in using IDEs like Eclipse, My Eclipse, IntelliJ in various Configurations with version control tools like CVS, GIT, SVN.  • Experience in using Tomcat, J-boss and Web logic App servers and Web Servers like Apache.  • Experience in Oracle/MySQL/SQL Server query-based programming and PL/SQL procedure programming.  • Knowledge of PL/SQL with the experience in constructing the triggers, tables, functions, user defined data type, procedures etc.  • Experienced in Client-side validation, Client-Server data interaction using Ajax in Node JS.  • Experience in using components of Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experiences in creating Micro services to build flexible, independently deployable software systems.  • Experience in log management tools like log4j.  • Strong Knowledge and extensive experience using automated build and testing utilities such as Jenkins, Junit, Mockito, and Maven.  • Have good experience of all testing phases such as Unit testing, Integration testing and System testing.  • Good debugging skills - deep diving into technical issues, collaborating with cross-domain experts, handling clients with different priorities and mind sets, both onsite and remote.  • Excellent organizational, interpersonal and communication skills. Comfortable working both independently and in a team environment. Fast learning, self-motivated, hard working. Work Experience Java Developer Cyient Inc - Milpitas, CA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed the application using Spring MVC, Spring Rest, IOC, DAO (Data Access Object).  • Used Agile methodology to perform tasks including coding, testing, debugging, documentation, peer- review, deploying and support.  • Participated in task identification, work effort estimates, and schedules for development and maintenance activities.  • Actively involved in designing the outline of project, understanding of business necessities and interacted with the team members to understand the requirements for the project.  • Extensively used Node JS in implementing various GUI components in application portal.  • Implemented User Interface and integrated with backend code, Node JS as server side technology.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  • Developed the application by implementing MVC Architecture using Spring MVC.  • Developed Spring Data application for batch processing.  • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot.  • Used Spring Security for implementing authentication and authorization and access control features.  • Used Concurrency concepts, Garbage collection, Exceptional Handling, Memory management, and OOPS concepts.  • Used Spring MVC framework on the server side for creating RESTful web services by giving JSON out and modifying the DOM object on UI, by making HTTP calls and used GET and PUT.  • Implemented mapping (Object-relation) in the persistence layer using Hibernate framework with Spring functionality.  • Used Spring Core framework to inject dependency, DAO and Bean objects, auto-wiring Components.  • Coordinated with several teams-the Design team, Business analyst and end users of the system.  • Designed, developed and implemented JSP's in presentation layer for Submission Application Reference implementation. Resolved issues in basic networking components.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, JSP.  • Used JQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server.  • Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems  • that communicate with server and GITHUB as Jar Repository Tool.  • Used Oracle, SQL to retrieve and store data in the database.  • Deploying applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing.  • Used Jenkins for CI and Tomcat for the new standalone application deployment.  • Developed Spring REST Exception Mappers.  • Used Log4J to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • Build unit test cases using Mockito framework for testing accuracy of code.  • Used Tomcat for application deployment.    Environment: Java/ J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, Node JS, RESTful Web services, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Spring- Boot, XML, JSON, AWS, MySQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Maven, Log4J, GIT, Mockito, SQL, Oracle, Tomcat. Program Analyst Reliance Tech - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, and State Chart Diagrams.  • Used HTML, CSS, and Java Script for developing front end browser pages.  • Involved in developing applications by using Core Java concepts, Servlets, JSP and connection to the Database is done by JDBC Bridge.  • Extensively used SQL concepts to Insert, Retrieve, and Update the information in the database.  • Used MySQL Database for storing and retrieving the data.  • Designed and Developed Servlets to communicate between the Presentation and Business Layer  • Developed applications and Deployed on Apache Tomcat server.  • Involved in writing Test Cases.  • Used SVN for version Control tool.    Environment: Eclipse IDE, Java, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, CSS, Java Script, MySQL, SVN tool Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Arkansas State University - Jonesboro, AR December 2017 Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Kakinada - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh May 2015 Skills Java (1 year), JSP. (1 year), MySQL (1 year), SQL (1 year), Tomcat (1 year), JSP, Spring, Hibernate, MVC, Java J2Ee, J2Ee Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java, SQL, PLSQL  J2EE Technologies Servlet, JSP, JDBC, JSTL, Restful Web Services  Databases Oracle, MySQL  Frameworks Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JMS  Servers Apache Tomcat 7.0, WebLogic 11g, Glassfish 4.1, WebSphere, JBoss  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS, Java Script, Bootstrap, XML, DTD, XML Schema, JSON, Node JS  Build Tools MAVEN, GRADLE, ANT, JENKINS  DB Tools TOAD, MySQL Workbench  Cloud Services AWS: EC2, S3  Version control tools GIT, SVN, CVS  IDE's Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans  Testing JUnit, Mockito  Logging Framework Log4j, Slf4j  Methodologies Agile-Scrum, TDD, Waterfall