Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Duetsche Bank New York, NY • Having 6+ years of experience in full stack development in Analysis, Design, Development, implementation and Testing of web based, enterprise business applications using the JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Development, Documentation, Testing, Deployment, Version Control and production support.  • Developed web-based applications using Java 8, J2EE, spring, Web Services (SOAP and REST), MVC framework (Struts, Spring MVC), Oracle and SQL.  • Experienced in working with cutting edge front-end technologies/frame work and libraries like jQuery, Prototype, DHTML, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML and AJAX.  • Extensive experience in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Backbone.js, React JS, Node JS and Bootstrap.  • Experienced with Web Service Applications using User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, JavaScript & UI Libraries/Frameworks, Angular JS, Angular 2 , 4, React JS, NodeJS, Twitter Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, XML, XSLT, AJAX, jQuery, JSON.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3, DHTML and JavaScript that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Experienced in using IDEs such as Eclipse, My Eclipse, IntelliJ, RAD, and Net Beans.  • Worked with cross browser compatibility issues and did testing on the browsers like Safari, IE- 9, 10, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Extensively experienced in using MVC (Model View Controller) or MVW architecture for developing applications using JSP, Servlets.  • Converted wireframes and Photoshop documents into functional CSS2, CSS3, HTML4, HTML5 and JavaScript code.  • Experienced in working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS, JavaScript, prototype JS and various MVC JavaScript frameworks backbone.js and node.js.  • Expert in Restful Web services and Big Web service development and consumption using (JAX-RS and JAX-WS).  • Experienced in deploying the web application using WebLogic Application Server  • Expert in leading frameworks as React, Angular, to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components in Single Page Applications.  • Experienced in working MVC Architecture and also in using version control (SVN) and GitHub.  • Expert in use of Angular 2 technologies to include LESS, SASS and additional technologies to ensure current migration from Angular JS 1.6 to Angular 2.0.  • Experienced in React JS and working with Redux architecture with Webpack & babel-polyfill environment.  • Experienced using React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Used Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Developed server side JavaScript using Node JS and npm.  • Experienced working on REST Web services and XML and JSON technologies.  • Worked on NoSQL databases like Mongo DB, Dynamo DB. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Duetsche Bank October 2018 to Present Project: iBanking  Description: This project provides all the screens to the DB customer to log in and view account information, make fund transfer, apply for loan etc. It provides a back-office application for DB bankers to view and process customer requests, updating information etc. The iBanking database does not hold any information with respect to the account of a user but just stores the login details, contact information, transactions & activity logs, All the account related information is fetched/updated from/to the Core Banking.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, HTML5, Spring, AngularJS, Servlets, and JavaBeans.  • Developing JSP pages and the view and controller related files using the Spring Web MVC framework.  • Developed business components using core java8 concepts and classes like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Collections, Serialization and Multithreading etc.  • Created Angular 1 application using Angular-JS, Angular-UI, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS and JS  • Configured Angular UI router to create routing for views and sub views in the application.  • Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8 and Junit.  • Developed Restful web services using JAXWS, JAXRS and spring.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed UI using HTML 5, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and Angular JS for interactive cross browser functionality.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Used AJAX and angular promises to make API calls.  • Worked on unit testing the application using Jasmine, Karma.  • Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data and Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • We setup the development environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Bower and GIT.  • Used Node JS to run ES6 and Webpack tasks to build properly the project.  • Created stubbed JSON files ahead to determine Java engineers the structure for the form.  • Maintaining Parent and child elements by using State and Props in React JS.  • Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Pleasant Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, concepts.  • Wrote services to store data and retrieve user data from MongoDB for the application.  Environment:, Angular JS 2, Aws, ES6, React JS, Webpack, Redux, GITHub, Node JS, Java 8, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap js, Backbone.JS, MongoDB, Hibernate, Jenkins, Agile, JQuery, Junit, Maven, Spring Dependency Injection, Sketch, Dreamweaver, JSON, AJAX, DHTML, XML, Gulp, Grunt, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Unix Java Full Stack Developer Landmark Health - Tampa, FL September 2017 to September 2018 Description: Landmark is a medical provider group specialized in caring for complex, chronic patients. Our doctors and providers drive to patients where they live, bringing care through house calls. This home-based medical care is designed to help patients stay well and stay home.  Responsibilities:  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using React with Redux library, jQuery UI and CSS/Less and HTML5 for internal administrative application services.  • It is web application based on the MERN Stack using Mongo DB, Express JS, React JS and NodeJS.  • Involved in responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React JS.  • Closely worked with Application using React JS and Node JS libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and redux to root the URL's properly.  • Configured React-Redux for state management to delivery high performed features and great experience for end users.  • Worked on ReactJS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Implemented User Interface using HTML5, CSS/CSS3 (SAAS), Angular validations, Bootstrap.  • Developed dynamic and responsive Web pages from scratch using HTML5, CSS3 (using SASS) and JavaScript.  • Used JSON web tokens mechanism for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node JS.  • Designed and developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Boot  • Migrating existing application into REST based Micro services to provide all the CRUD capabilities using Spring Boot.  • Used Node JS router to make cross-domain requests to API services like GitHub API, MongoDB  • Worked on Mongo DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  • Done a pipeline from Mongo DB cluster by configuring Mongoose Connector.  • Implemented Elastic Search in Mongo DB for synchronization of data in the database.  • Used Express JS which is fast, assertive, essential and moderate web framework of Node JS that helps manage a sever and routes.  • Implemented a metrics collection mechanism for the server by utilizing Apache Kafka to stream server-side events.  • Designed and deployed application using the AWS stack (Including EC2, MongoDB) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Used AWS deployment services to quickly set up a dynamic website and configured virtual servers.  • Employed the Single Sign On (SSO) authentication using CA Site Minder for logging to the application from different cross network websites.  • Used Mocha and Chai as unit test runner to test various React JS components.  • Developed test driven development code using JUnit and Mockito framework.  • Used Source Tree and Jenkins for building the CI/CD pipeline and day to day builds and deployments using Gradle.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  Environment: Mongo DB, Express JS, React JS, Node JS, View, Flux, Mongoose, HTML, CSS3, Typescript, EKS, JSON, Redux, NPM, Jenkins, Mocha, Chai, AWS, Single Sign On, CA Site Minder Java Developer Syntel - Pune, Maharashtra December 2015 to July 2017 Description: This is a Billing system that includes tools to generate monthly invoices, reports, emails and mobile updates based on the insurance plan. Automation for the whole billing system was done using GUI. This helps in reducing the paperwork. The web Application also provides risk assessment, fraud transactions to help evaluation.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Action Classes for workflow control and Data Access Object for getting database connections from connection pool.  • Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client side validations and to achieve other client-side functionality.  • Developed JSP Pages made them accessible to the Client using WebLogic Application Server.  • Extensively used the Jakarta Struts Framework.  • Developed various Action Classes that route requests to appropriate handlers.  • Used Struts MVC framework for the ease and improve performance of the application.  • Designed Presentation layer using JSP, Struts framework and did front-end validations using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed presentation layer using struts tag libraries like logic, html, bean, etc in JSP pages  • Implemented web page layout using struts tiles libraries, and performed struts validations using Struts validation framework.  • Used JSP for presentation layer, developed high performance object/relational persistence and query service for entire application utilizing Hibernate.  • Developed use case diagrams, class diagrams, database tables, and provided mapping between relational database tables and object oriented java objects using Hibernate.  • Implemented RESTful WebServices using the framework Jersey that extends the JAX-RS API.  • Implemented user session management using Http Sessions.  • Used JDBC to access Oracle Database and used Stored Procedures.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Developed JSP Pages made them accessible to the Client using WebLogic Application Server.  • Extensively used complex SQL statements including joins and nested queries  • Extensively worked on AJAX. Used ANT scripts for building the application.  • Involved in developing Unit test framework using JUnit. Wrote JUnit test cases for every java class.  • Developed Java Helper classes for updating Customer Accounts and Customer information.  Environment: JDK 1.5, J2EE 1.4, Eclipse IDE, ANT, JDBC, JSP, JQuery, Junit, Struts, XML, XSLT, XPATH, WebLogic 8.1, Win CVS and Oracle 9i. Java Developer SLK Software - IN September 2014 to December 2015 Description: SLK Software is a fast paced technology and consulting company with an emphasis on key industries such as Banking and Manufacturing and deep domain expertise across the entire value chain.  Responsibilities:  • Performed software development utilizing technologies such as core Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, Hibernate, JSF, Servlet and Oracle database.  • Designed and implemented the UI using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, JSON and AJAX.  • Used struts MVC framework for creating the application  • Experienced in J2EE Architecture, MVC Architecture, and Design Patterns.  • Designed GUI using Model View Architecture (STRUTS Frame Work).  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate and Created hibernate mapping files to map POJO to DB tables  • Working closely with UI developers to design and develop services required in the application front-end.  • Developed a code for Web services using XML, SOAP and used SOAP UI tool for testing the services  • Use Hibernate to do the object relational mapping between the tables and Java objects.  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project.  • Worked in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers  • Performed unit testing for all the components using JUnit  • Designed and developed the XSD for WSDL  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries JSTL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application  • Write test cases using JUnit as a framework.  • Awarded on spot developer award for delivering defect free code.  Environment: Struts, JSP, XML, EJB, Eclipse 3.2, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, JDBC, JNDI, Java Beans, JMS, BEA WebLogic Server, App Server, MVC Framework Java Developer Nendrasys Software Solutions - IN May 2013 to September 2014 Description: The objective of Item Management is to set-up, maintain, and share Item information in a flexible system that easily supports Company's growth, increases speed to market and improves data accuracy, while reducing user workload. Guided Setup is one module of the project which functions as a wizard to complete the configuration and creation of various types of items like Single Items, Multiple Items and Assortment Items.  Responsibilities:  • Developed web application using Struts, JSP, Servlet, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Wrote JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating Servlet, JSP, and XML.  • Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from database.  • Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problem.  • The application was deployed on the Tomcat.  • Involved in build and deploying the application using ANT.  • Used CVS as version control system.  • Worked on bug fixing and Production Support.  Environment: J2EE, JDBC, Struts, JavaScript, Html, CSS, JSP, Servlet, Tomcat, Oracle, Eclipse IDE, CVS, ANT, Log4J. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communications in Electronics and Communications Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAXB, JSP, STRUTS, WSAD, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, JSON, XML, XSL, XSLT, DB2, JDBC, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER