Guidewire Developer Guidewire <span class="hl">Developer</span> Guidewire Developer - Berkley Risk Administrators Company LLC Minneapolis, MN Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Guidewire Developer Berkley Risk Administrators Company LLC February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in the Requirement gathering for the Guidewire Claim Center 9.0 upgrade an existing version Claim Center 7.0. Hands-on Experience on Claim Center 9.0  • Developed the Claim Center 9.0 Integration Modules like Policy Integration, Configuration enhancements and upgrade.  • Actively involved in developing coverages and exposures to P&C business like Commercial Auto, Package, General Liability, Excess and Workers Compensation Business Claims.  • Developed SOAP Web Service endpoints for policy external systems and published to integrate with Guidewire Claim Center  • Actively Supporting Guidewire Claim Center 7.0 Production Environment.  • Developed Claim Center Configuration Modules like PCF Designing, Event Rules, and Messaging.  • Developed Guidewire plugins to integrate with external Systems like Jopari, PeopleSoft, EPICOR, Mitchell, Policy Administrative System.  • Developed Rules for the integration points, configured GW-XML model using GOSU Programming Language.  • Developed Batch Jobs using the Spring Batch to read data and write data from a database and creating files.  • Used Hibernate for reading and writing data to the database.  • Using Atlassian tools like Bamboo, JIRA, Confluence, Stash for application builds and deployment.  • Used Tidal Scheduler to schedule the batch jobs on a daily basis. Deployed JAR, EAR, and WAR applications WebSphere Application Servers  • Used Eclipse as development environment.  • Using GIT as Version control tools and Stash (BIT BUCKET) as Repository.  • Using JIRA for tracking defects and new user stories.  Environment: Guidewire Claim Center 7 & 9.0, GOSU, J2EE, JAVA, Spring Batch XML, spring, Web Services, Windows 7, GIT, JIRA, JUnit, Log4j, Ant, Maven, UNIX, TIDAL, putty, open shift enterprise (OSE3), DCRUM, STS IDE, Eclipse, Bamboo. Java Application Developer OPTUM (UHG) - Eden Prairie, MN March 2017 to January 2018 Consumer Activity Presentment Portal (CAP) and Employer Activity Presentment Portal (EAP) are web applications that are used to enroll and maintain customer HSA (Health savings accounts) and HRA (Health reimbursement accounts and employer information. CAP and EAP both are regular J2EE web applications build by using JSF framework.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in capturing the business requirements, design, development and testing of the application.  • Spring MVC Framework was used to make application Web-centric and followed the MVC modular architecture for the application.  • Used customized services and directives in Angular JS to develop dynamic and responsive webpages.  • Involved in application deployment, writing unit test cases and performed unit testing  • Used Soap UI tool for unit testing and debugging of the developed module.  • 24x7 on call support in production environment on rotation basis.  • Ensured Applications were up and running by utilizing proactive monitoring tools like Dynatrace Client 6.2, DCRUM, Site scope, HPBSM.  • Diagnose and resolving production issues.  • Used Splunk and Kibana elastic search tool to monitor the logs.  • Used Jenkins, Docker Images & OpenShift enterprise (OSE3) environment for application builds and deployment.  • Using SVN and GIT for Version Controlling tools. Used Web-Sphere RAD IDE  • Scheduling and running jobs using IBM Tivoli Workload Scheduler tool  Environment: J2EE, JAVA, Soap, JAX-WS, JSP, Spring MVC, Angular JS, Web Services, Windows 7, GIT, JUnit, Log4j, Ant, Maven, UNIX, IBM TWS, Dynatrace 6.2, Service Now, HP BSM, Splunk, Kibana, open shift enterprise (OSE3), DCRUM, RAD 8.0, Jenkins Java/J2EE Developer Great American Insurance - Cincinnati, OH February 2016 to March 2017 Guidewire Claim Center an end-to-end claims management solution, including loss-report intake, adjudication process, and operational reporting. Integration is the communication between the guidewire and external systems. Policy system and retrieval (PSAR), ISO Claim search are the main integration parts.    Responsibilities:  • Developed a code for Web services using XML, SOAP and used SOAP UI tool for testing the services  • Exposure on Policy Center entities, Account, location groups while working on mapping.  • Good understanding of P&C insurance lines  • Involved in configuring PCF, Rule Sets, Workflows, and Data Model Changes.  • Involved in Integrating Guidewire Claim Center with the external system using SOAP Web Services.  • Developed SOAP Web Services clients using Apache AXIS 2 framework  • Experience in Implementation and generating of WSDL, client STUBS and Server Side code  • Involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system.  • Designed and developed Guidewire policy search integration adapters per business requirements.  • Developed PCF Designing, Event Rules, Pre-update, and Post-Setup Rules for the integration points using GOSU Language.  • Involved in the planning process of iterations under the Agile Scrum methodology  • Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  • Worked with Messaging queues for ISO Claim Search and exposure to batch process.  • Used Dimensions for version controlling.  • Scheduling and running cron jobs using UC4 automic tool.  • Involved in resolving Integration Test, UAT and deployment  • Involved in Production Support Issues and maintenance.  • Developed Exception handling framework and used log4J for logging and used JUNIT for unit testing.  • Used Eclipse IDE for development, JIRA and HP Quality Center for defect tracking.  Environment: J2EE, JAVA, Soap, JAX-WS, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, Ajax, XML, Web Services, Windows 7, Dimensions, JUnit, Log4j, Ant, Maven, UNIX, Guidewire Claim Center 6.0, GOSU, SQL Server, WSDL Tester. Java/ J2EE Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ June 2015 to February 2016 Merchant List Exchange (MLE) is a global capability that generates and manages Merchant lists containing Consumer Relevant Merchant Data (CRMD) enriched by Enterprise Location Based Services (ELBS) to support several different enterprise initiatives both inside and outside the Global Digital Offers Ecosystem (DOE).    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in the Requirement gathering for the enhancements to the existing project. Used Jenkins and Maven for application builds and deployment.  • Implement RESTful API based Web services and integrated with Spring MVC and Hibernate  • Developed code using IOC concepts (Spring Framework) for injecting dependencies.  • Implemented Spring POJO classes for business logic and form bean classes for validation by using spring framework. Used JAXB for marshalling and unmarshalling.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions, monitored error logs and fixed the problems. Used Eclipse IDE for development, RALLY for defect tracking.  • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Deployed the application on JBOSS Application Server.  • Good experience in using version control tools like GIT and SVN.  Environment: J2EE, Spring MVC, JPA, RESTful API, JAX-RS, JAVA, JAXB, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JNDI, JavaScript, HTML, jQuery, Ajax, XML, Windows 7, Git, Source Tree, JUnit, Log4j, Maven, Unix, JBOSS, Splunk. Java/ J2EE Developer SYSCON ERM Services Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to December 2014 The application used by organizations to maintain their schedules, resources and data. It acts as activity Management tool. The application facilitates to maintain the projects along with their sub modules and tasks going on in a company. It also contains Meeting schedules, Issues, Billing facilities etc.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and the Development of the Application.  • Exposure in development of the following: Enterprise Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JavaScript, Oracle, HTML, and CSS.  • Configured the Data source in hibernate Configuration file  • Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing  • Used Hibernate as persistent component for accessing the Relational Data from SQL Server.  • Developed the J2EE components using Eclipse Indigo. Used SVN for version control.  Environment: JDK, J2EE, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, SVN, JSP, Servlets, JSF, Eclipse, Tomcat and Hibernate Education Masters in Computer Technology in Computer Technology Eastern Illinois University May 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology in Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jndi, Jsf, Servlets, Git, Html, Javascript, Scripting, Svn, Xml, Xslt, Sql Server, Linux, SQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nagaraju-nandagiri-b88933137 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License