Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer - PNC Bank Pittsburgh, PA • Full Stack Java/J2EE Developer with 7 Years of experience developing Enterprise Applications, Distributed Application, Client/Server Applications, Servlets Communication, Internet/Intranet based database applications and Developing, Testing and Implementing Application Environment.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes Integration, Implementation, Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Documentation, and Testing of all software applications.  • Extensive experience working in a Test-Driven and Agile-Scrum Development.  • Strong experience in design/development of web applications using Java J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JMS, MVC Framework, Web Services, XML, XSD, JSON, and JAXB.  • Good knowledge in Angular 2.0 and Angular 4.0 directives to create reusable components and attributes, along with easy to test and maintain client-side interactivity in web applications.  • Strong knowledge of Algorithms & Data Structures, OOP's, Collections, Model, Controller, Filters, mapping POJO classes to database.  • Extensive experience of working with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/12c, MySQL, SQL Server and developing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Functions and SQL Queries.  • Experience in understanding and using NoSQL databases Mongo DB, Apache Cassandra, Dynamo DB, Couch DB and Redis.  • Knowledge on Web socket Implementation on API Management through customized polices.  • Extensive experience developing enterprise applications using Spring, JavaBeans, ANT and Maven.  • Experience on ORM frameworks like Hibernate/JPA used for mapping Java classes with relational database by Hibernate Query Language (HQL)  • Experience with design patterns like MVC, DAO, DTO Front Controller, and Factory Design pattern, Value Object, Singleton and Proxy Design Pattern.  • Experience in building web applications using SPRING framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), DAO (Data Access Object), Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Batch.  • Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, XML, DHTML, XHTML, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, ReactJS, NodeJS, Redux Angular JS and Bootstrap.  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, BPM, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis and Developed RESTFUL web services using Spring MVC.  • Experience in deploying and configuring multi-tier enterprise applications on multiple servers such as WebLogic Server, JBoss, WebSphere, Glass Fish, Tomcat, BEA WebLogic.  • Involved in configuring Jenkins on EC2 servers and integrate it with AWS Code Commit.  • Experience in storing severs data into S3 and have in-depth knowledge on various S3 features like versioning, lifecycle management, logging, events etc.  • Experience in using Docker for installing, testing, upgrading, removing and running software applications.  • Experience in Continuous Integration like Jenkins, Hudson and Continuous Deployment (CD) tools like Electric Cloud and Nolio skills, looking for a satisfying career in a fair working environment with opportunities for growth Expertise in using Version Control Systems like SVN, CVS, GIT, Bit Bucket and Project Tracking tools like JIRA, Rally.  • Experience of working with RAD, WSAD 5.0, Spring Tool Suite, JDeveloper, Eclipse, Net Beans.  • Experience in using Testing frameworks in Test Driven Development (TDD) such as JUnit, Mockito and Selenium.  • A resourceful team player with good inter-personal skills, effective problem solving and decision-making. Work Experience Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer PNC Bank - Pittsburg, MO July 2018 to Present • Designed the database views, triggers, functions and backup procedures using the Oracle SQL Developer to maintain data security and ensure data availability.  • Designed and developed a multi-platform responsive UI framework for the solution using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular2, Angular4 and additional JavaScript libraries.  • Involved with the requirement gathering and analysis stage followed by use case designing, project plan development and drafting the technical documentation.  • Experienced in developing spring boot based micro services from scratch and architecting with spring cloud components which are based on Netflix OSS to make the services cloud ready.  • Experienced in designing REST endpoint contracts and Documenting using swagger to be ready for consumption by several clients.  • Worked on AWS as a cloud environment for micro service deployment.  • Developed Ribbon Clients with Netflix Ribbon for load balancing and used Netflix Hysterix for fault tolerance and viewing the dashboard.  • Developed Application for Spring Cloud with Netflix Eureka to create the discovery Server and the discovery service and clients.  • Developed Gateway Service using Netflix Zuul to redirect service calls and created Spring Cloud Config Server Using Spring Boot to configure the application.  • Developed DAO layers in the micro service using Hibernate ORM for persisting the data in relational database systems like Oracle.  • Involved in creating the Build and Deployment scripts for the application using Maven.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools like Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS along with GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  • Extensively worked on focusing onAWS services like EC2, VPC, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, IAM, S3, Amazon RDS, Elastic Cache, SNS, SQS.  • Worked on Apache Storm which is used for real-time Stream processing and end-to-end delivery response and for migrating existing modules in IBM MQ to Kafka.Implemented the internal logging module based on the Singleton Pattern and log4j framework.  • Responsible for unit testing the application through multiple stages of Test Driven Development process using JUnit.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Oracle, JSP, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, AWS, Angular, XML, Maven, JSON, REST web services, AJAX, Bootstrap, JUnit, log4j, JSTL, JIRA. Sr. Java Developer Toshiba Global Commerce Solutions - Bentonville, AR December 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed, Configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation.  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application, developed using AGILE/Scrum methodology.  • Developed the UI using HTML5, CSS3, JSP and JavaScript for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Involved in designing the client-side module architecture based on new Angular Framework.  • Used Node.JS to run AngularJS on server with mock JSON data and completed the UI development independent of server.  • Used Spring MVC module to develop MVC Architecture.  • Developed the Controller to handle the requests and responses.  • Used Core Java to develop Business Logic as Spring Beans.  • Configured Spring Container to implement IOC/DI of the Spring Beans, and to manage the beans life circle.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Used spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template to perform the database the database operations by connecting Data Sources available.  • Developed POJO objects and used Hibernate as the Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool to access the persistent data from SQL Server.  • Stored procedure in the database and used Dynamic SQL to load the data.  • Used Jersey to implement Restful Web Service and used XML form to transfer the data.  • Used Rest Controllers to replace the existing operations layer, which acts as bridge between business layer and the UI.  • Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, sharing and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Responsible for Production support activities like Jobs monitoring, log the load statistics, analysis and resolve in case of any production issues, coordinate with business to fix any source file issues, coordinate with DBA to resolve any table space or file system related issues.  • Developed Unit Test Cases. Used JUnit for unit testing of the application.  • Created UNIX shell scripting for periodic generation of reports.  • Configured pom.xml to deploy the project using Maven.  • Provided Technical support for production environments resolving the issues, analyzing the defects, providing and implementing the solution defects.  • Implemented continuous delivery framework using Jenkins, Maven on multiple environments.  • Implemented Spring AOP for declarative transaction management.  • Deployed the Web Application in WebSphere.  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, JSP, Spring cloud, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, JDBC, Amazon Web-Services (Elastic Search), SOA (Service-oriented) Architecture, REST, JAX-RS, Jersey, JUnit, JAX-B, Mongo DB, WebSphere, JIRA, Maven, GIT, RAD, Jenkins, Unix, Agile Methodology. Java Developer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA August 2015 to November 2017 • Code Development, which includes GUI level coding, Business logic level coding.  • Modularization and Middle ware components implementation.  • Developed rich user interfaces using JSP  • Extensively worked on MySQL.  • Involved in developing Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using UML.  • Developed UI dashboards using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular 2/4.  • Involved in impact analysis of Change requests and Bug fixes.  • Used Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Building SOAP and REST APIs.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Integrated the application with Spring-MVC using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (DI), and Spring Annotations.  • Experience in Designing and executing the automation scripts using Selenium.  • Involved in writing the front-end code for the application using Angular 4.  • Performed Unit testing and integration testing of the modules.  • Involved in developing pages using JSP and Maven framework.  • Involved in developing weekly payment reports for members.  • Deploy and maintain various EC2 instance types on AWS.  • Automated deployment to CI/CD environments using ANSBILE and Jenkins  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to ORACLE.  • Involved in working with building tools using Maven and integrated with Jenkins for performing the Jenkins jobs.  • Implemented Angular 2.0 client-side form validation to validate the use inputs before passing to back-end  Environment: Java 8, Servlets, JSP, JQuery, RAD, Struts, Hibernate, Selenium, Spring, Aquadata Studio, Springboot, AJAX, HTML, XHTML, Java Script, MYSQL, Microservices, Angular2 and 4, MyEclipse, SVN. Software Engineer VoiceGateF Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to July 2015 • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for documentation, designing, development and user acceptance of the system.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML and Java Script.  • Understanding the various functional requirements for a module and client discussions.  • Documenting the requirements and check pointing the document with clients periodically.  • Team member of Finalization design strategies for various functional requirements.  • Solved defects in the Java J2EE application running on a JBOSS J2EEweb server.  • Re-factored Java code, solved numerous defects, and developed the Government contract feature.  • Active Participation in coding in Java and reviews.  • Identifying and resolving implementation level dependencies on and by other modules.  • Involved in code reviews and debugging.  • Involved in rewriting the SQL queries to improve the performance.  • Wrote SQL queries and PL/SQL Stored Procedures in Oracle.  • Interfaced with the client team and development team during acceptance testing and dry runs on the production systems.  Environment: Java, C++, JSP, Servlets, JUnit, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, JDBC, JBOSS, DTD, Hibernate. Software Developer Login Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to May 2014 • Built complex desktop - style UI using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript and AJAX including configuration wizards and interactive reports.  • Developed frontend layout and intro for home page using Fireworks.  • Used JDBC for manipulating data in the database.  • Worked on developing REST web services.  • Developed server side application to interact with database using Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Involved in application design of business logic using Java & J2EE.  • Used Microservices are designed with the individual database and project with no dependencies.  • Utilized the mail merge techniques in MS Word for the time reduction in sending certificates.  • Involved in developing Web Interfaces using the Angular JS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Extensively used images of the product for web and catalogue.  • Web Application developed using Web Technologies 2.0.  • Interactive Planning for the product development.  • Used Flash Animations and Storyboard & User Flows for e-learning tutorials using human factor engineering design concepts.  • Performed Unit Testing and JUnit integration and deployment of applications done using tools such as ANT and Maven.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Hibernate, Springboot, AngularJS, Microservices JQuery, XML, Core Java. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Governors State University Skills JAVA (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), JDBC (6 years), AJAX (6 years), DATABASE (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Technologies  Java, J2EE, JSTL, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, JUnit, ANT, Java Beans, JMS, JAXB,  Struts 2 Framework, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, JPA, Jasper, log4j, Jersey, JIRA, Design Patterns    Languages Java, J2EE, SQL, HTML, CSS, XML, JS  Build & Release Tools Maven, Ant, Gradle  ORM Frameworks Hibernate, JPA  Web Technologies HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, Ajax, JQuery UI, SVG, Font Awesome, Custom Tags, AngularJS  Web Services XML, SOA, DOM, SAX, XSLT, REST API, JaxB, JSON, JAX-RS, Jersey  Database Oracle, MySQL, MS Access, PostgreSQL  Servers Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, Glassfish, Apache HTTP Server, IBM Web Sphere, XAMPP  Cloud Platforms AWS (Amazon Web Services)  Version Control Tools Apache Subversion, SVN, GIT  IDE Development Tool Eclipse, Net Beans IDE, My Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Notepad++  Operating systems Windows, UNIX, LINUX, Ubuntu