Sr. J2EE Developer Sr. J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. J2EE Developer - State of Missouri Jefferson City, MO • 7+ years of extensive working experience in software development with proficiency in development of applications using Sun Microsystems technologies.  • Good understanding of all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in large scale enterprise software using Object Oriented Analysis and Design.  • Extensive experience in Web application development using JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Java Beans, MVC, Struts, JBOSS, JSON, Swing, RMI, EJB, JSF, JNDI, JMS, SOA, SOAP, Spring, Hibernate, RESTful, Python, JavaScript, Angular Js, AJAX, JAX-RPC, XML and HTML.  • Experience in Object Oriented Design, analysis with solid analytical, problem solving and decision making skills.  • Proficient in development of applications using JAVA and J2EE technologies with experience in JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, JMS, Web Services and Hibernate frameworks.   • Experience using design patterns including MVC, Singleton, Frontend Controller, Service Locator, and Decorator.  • In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, Exception handling, Multi-Threading.  • Experience in developing applications using Software Methodologies like Agile, Waterfall Iterative Development.  • Experience in Object Oriented analysis and design, UML (Use Cases, Sequence and Class diagrams) rational rhapsody, and Rational Rose.  • Extensive experience in XML related technologies such as XML, XSL, XHTML, XSLT, and JAXB.  • Experience in using the databases such as MySQL, Oracle, NoSQL  • Good Understanding of RDBMS through Database Design, writing queries and stored procedures using databases like MySQL, MS SQL Server, and DB2, Oracle 9i/10g /11g.  • Developed and deployed J2EE applications on both Web and Application Servers including Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, JBoss and IBM Web Sphere.  • Experienced in writing Server Side Components - Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) Session and Entity Beans, Remote Method Invocation (RMI) for distributed computing applications, access remote servers and invoking database with Java Database Connectivity (JDBC).  • Experience in NoSQL databases like Cassandra and MongoDB for data extraction and storing huge volumes of data.  • Thorough knowledge in Unit testing with JUnit 3.8/4.0, and MAVEN/ANT build environment.  • Possess excellent leadership qualities and has good problem solving capabilities.  • Efficiency in management skills, communication and ability to work under strict deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. J2EE Developer State of Missouri - Jefferson City, MO January 2019 to Present Project Description: Department of Labor and Industrial Relations is a diversified services providing department, taking care of the technological needs of unemployed workers in the state of Missouri. The new system provides the user to register, review the information regarding a claimant ,allows him or her to access whether the individual is in registry and also helps the supervisor or any other higher official to view the employee information and also the relative office information where the employee is working and also takes care of providing the information of eligibility and calculation of benefits they will be receiving by registering in the system to the state funding application in turn providing transparency and also saving state of any unnecessary and excess payments or spending as grants.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design of the application using UML and designed the application as per the BRD  • Extensively used Form Beans in data access layer to access and update information using Struts 1.0 framework.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) of the application.  • Developed presentation tier as JSPs and created Java APIs.  • Used Squirrel (DB2) to implement the database changes as part of development  • Wrote HQL queries as part of development.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  • Created database pool, multi-pool, data source and mapped them to roles.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Squirrel (db2) database.  • Used Spring for creating the object using dependency injection (IOC)  • Created REST web services using JAX-RS, Hibernate framework.  • Configured action mapping (in XML) for each logical request that may be submitted.  • Used Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data.  • Wrote batch jobs and was involved in performance tuning of complex queries.  • Wrote complex business rules as SQL and PL/SQL queries for the end user to use in reporting.  • Wrote listener classes to trigger xml file generation (BRMS rules) and load files into cache during Server start up and mapped the listeners in WEB.xml  • Wrote BRMS rules and used BRMS rules engine to implement the user requirement.  • Deployed the application on JBoss Application Server.  • Monitored the error logs and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSPs, Servlets, DAOs and Used Sub Version (SVN) for version control.  Environment: Java, Struts1.0, JSP, Hibernate, HTML, XML, PL/SQL, JBoss Application Jenkins, Sonar, Server (development), Web sphere (production), Spring, Sub-Version (SVN), SQUIRREL, ECLIPSE IDE/JBOSS IDE, JEE-5, JAX-B, JIRA. ava/J2EE Developer State of Missouri - Alpharetta, GA July 2012 to Present Project Description: Global Reservations System (GRS) is a new reservation that IHG has started using for reserving hotel rooms for guests. Using this system Users across the world will be able to reserve rooms from the IHG portfolio of hotels.  This project involves integration of the GRS system with Amadeus Reservation system. There is also a system where Use ACLs were generated for Reservation agents and are sent to Amadeus via Restful API calls.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all stages of SDLC including system analysis, design, development and post-implementation activities.  • Actively participated in SCRUM's and Sprints of Agile Methodology.  • Used Apache tomcat server for building the project.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework to achieve Dependency Injection for loose coupling, modularity, easy unit testing.  • Building cloud microservices and implementing back-up using Spring Boot.  • Created a few interfaces and classes to develop enhancements to the existing code.  • Created SQL queries for the team to debug the code faster.  • Used Tortoise SVN for version controlling.  • Utilized Angular-JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models). Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins, AWS: Code Deploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.  • Near-real time data stream processing workflow developed using Apache Kafka.  • Designed and Developed UI for Portfolio Review Dashboard application using Angular-JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, LESS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created middleware web services (SOAP/REST) and integrated them with different end systems.  • Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Provided support during deployments.  • Used Node js, Angular js, Backbone js, React js and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web application.  • Implemented AngularJS 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  • Implemented Batch jobs to deal with large number of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.    • Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller.  • Developed Micro Service to provide RESTfulAPI utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Hibernate, object relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation  • Developed Microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each Microservice in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  • Experience in handling code in different MVC layers.  • Created Custom Directives in Angular-JS, making use of Modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement  • Used Hibernate for entity mapping, managing database queries and data persistence  • Involved in Hibernate mapping for mapping the entities to the EDP tables.  • Experience with TOAD for Oracle.  • Created test cases and perform unit testing using JUnit, for the new services added to the project.    Environment: Java, Spring 3.1/STS, Eclipse-Kepler, Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, CSS, TOAD, SVN, Tomcat 7.0, Oracle 11i, JSP, MAVEN.,J2EE/J2SE, Java 6.0,JQuery, SQL,Kafka,Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Multi-Threading, Batch, Hibernate 3, CSS3, XML, HTML, JSP 2.0,JBoss,Mysql, Microservices,Node jS, Groovy, IBM MQ, Mongo DB, React JS-Red ux, AWS, Windows 7, Sub Version, Rally, AJAX Jr. Java/J2EE Developer United Services Automobile Association - San Antonio, TX August 2016 to November 2018 Project Description: The project deals with development of EIVR (Enterprise Interactive Voice Response) application as a call center by providing them with the information like Claims, ID card, Eligibility, and Benefits. The EIVR is an enhancement to the VRU system and is capable of interacting with the callers both by voice and/or key presses.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in VUI design and creation of test plans and development of detailed test scripts based on the functional specs.  • Extracted data to test various IVR call flows such as Claims, E&B and etc.  • Gathered and analyzed business requirements and involved in converting the functional specs into Tech Specs.  • Created Call flow diagrams for IVR applications.  • Developed the user interface screens for clients using Spring, JSP, JSTL, jQuery libraries, HTML, XML, AJAX and JavaScript, Unix scripting and python for UI Automation.  • Developed SOAP and REST web services using Java, hibernate, JAX-WS, JAX-RS and JAXB.  • Used Spring for creating the object using dependency injection (IOC).  • Used Hibernate for interacting the database using ORM framework like hibernate mapping and configuration using hibernate queries.  • Used Oracle 10g as a database in the backend  • Used Java Script and ECMA script for revalidations when caller provides input thru DTMF or thru Voice.  • Performed Unit testing using thru URLs, JUnit and also by making calls into the system.  • Supported the application from development phase thru QA, UAT, and Production.  • Used Java Servlets and JSPs to generate VXML code dynamically.  • Developed reusable code for Application Root.jsp, Header, Footer using JSF and JSP.  • Designed the Speech Applications with Call Flow charts using the Visio and was actively involved during the VUI design and grammar development requirements phase.  • Developed API to generate the VXML pages dynamically in Java.  • Analyzed the call logs and provided recommendations where most of the calls are failing or callers getting transferred, recognition failures etc.  • Wrote External grammars and validated using Parse tool.  • Updated Design Document with the call flow to reflect new Dialog States.  • Verified all Prompt VOX recording files to make sure they are in sync with the VUI.  • Assist QA Team with defining and implementing a defect resolution process including defect priority, severity, next steps, and assigned owner.  • Performed HIPAA validations.  • Used JSON for serializing structured data.  • Used agile methodologies.  • Worked in flexible schedules to deliver the project on time.  • Prepared documentation for some of the recurring defects and resolutions and business comments for those defects.  Environment: JAVA, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JDBC), Spring1.2, Struts, VXML, XML/XSL, DB2, JUnit, Web Services, Selenium, RAD, Log4j, SQL. Java Developer Bristol Myers Squibb, NJ September 2014 to June 2016 Project Description: CenturyLink is American ISP Company headquartered in Monroe, LA that provides communication & data services to residential, business and wholesale customers. Worked collectively on three different projects: API development, Legacy Gateway application (Trouble Management), CenturyLink Exchange Gateway (Production Support).    Responsibilities:  • Worked on internal Gateway application CXG7 (CenturyLink Gateway) for security.  • As a Gateway developer worked on the configuration and network support for the end client providing security to the exchange gateway.  • Worked with the clients for troubleshooting authentication or connection problems with handshake in test and production.  • Created code for various clients for maintain a good connection to the server via https.  • Helped the clients with Production release.  • Created and modified classes in the framework. Worked with various design patterns including Visitor, Bridge, and Singleton.  • Generated swagger document using java code for API development.  • Provide production support to the gateway team for maintaining good connectivity with business clients.  • Worked on API development building microservices for IMPROV app using REST services.  • Created and executed unit test plans.  • Used SonarQube tool to check the code quality to perform automatic reviews with static analysis of code to detect bugs, code smells and security vulnerabilities.  • Experience with Spring Boot dependency tool and deployment of the code in pivotal cloud foundry.  • Coordinated with the vendors from time to time as and when the need for change arises.  • Experience with SPL for creating dashboards, alerts & API information in Splunk Enterprise tool for logging.  • Used CQL (Cassandra Query Language) to read from and write data into Cassandra database.  • Experience in migrating data from Oracle database using Spring JDBC to Apache Cassandra (Datastax) NoSQL Database.  • Validated, modified code in J2EE for clients like Verizon, Frontier, Comtech for internal legacy gateway (QXG-TM) for Routing business flow Using Apache Camel.  • Modified Inbound Outbound Code routes by upgrading Camel components to 2.17.3  • Worked on APIGEE gateway application.  • Created taxonomies for various API for utilizing the SRA for APIGEE gateway using the Enterprise Service Platform (ESP)  • Developed ping Service for Ericsson in CDI app using Apache Camel.  • Worked on various Projects using SaaS; developed, deployed code in GitLab.  • Built & compiled java code using MAVEN and used TOMCAT server for running the QxGTM app.    Environment: Java, Spring Boot, JSP, Hibernate, HTML, XML, PL/SQL, Tomcat server, Microservices, Apache Camel 2.17.3 Jenkins, SonarQube, Server (development), Cassandra, Web sphere (production), Apigee Gateway, Splunk Enterprise Tool, JIRA. Java/J2EE Consultant State Street Corporation - Boston, MA October 2011 to June 2012 Project Description: State Street Corporation is an American financial services and bank holding company headquartered at One Lincoln Street in Boston with operations worldwide. It is the second United States bank on the list of oldest banks in continuous operation  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all stages of SDLC including system analysis, design, development and post-implementation activities.  • Maintained CSS and HTML, JavaScript, JSON, JSF, AngularJS, Bootstrap for designing Web Pages.  • Developed user interface using Bootstrap UI, AngularJS.  • Actively participated in SCRUM's and Sprints of Agile Methodology.  • Worked on creating and accessing web-services using SOAP and REST.  • Involved in Review Design & Requirement documents with the SE  • Responsible for developing enhancements, within the scope of the project across LPP component using Spring and Hibernate architecture.  • Good understanding of REST API's extensive experience of integrating services via Ajax using JavaScript, jQuery, and AngularJS  • Used AngularJS and jQuery for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Involved in testing using SoapUI, to ensure successful deliverables.  • Developed and coded Components with JSP, Java Beans and Servlets.  • Provided fix for issues raised during build and testing.  • Worked on creating JUNIT test cases, for the existing code and for the additional enhancement code, to achieve 100 percent code coverage.  • Worked on UNIX environment to update code and ensure the builds are successful and to read the logs during bug fixing.    • Strong experience of developing data models using WORKSHOP POJO's and configuring in persistence configuration File.  • Created Entity using JPA and SPRING and used Top link to connect to the Oracle database to store and fetch data from database.  • Extensively Used Ant tool to build and configure J2EE applications and used Log4J for logging in the application  • Worked on Eclipse Kepler for the ANT project and STS for accessing and working on the MAVEN project.  • Used SVN version controlling for maintaining the different project versions.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA), which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Implemented UI text and location info consume using REST APIs.  • Participated in developing view pages using HTML5, Java Script, AJAX, jQuery, JSP and Tag Libraries.  • Involved in building the code & deploying on Apache Tomcat server 7.0.  • Worked on TOAD for Oracle, to access DB, for CRUD operations and code analysis.  • Module and Unit Level Testing with JUnit and log4j.  • Used Apache Ant for building the application.    Environment: Java, Spring 3.1/STS, Hibernate, SOAP/REST, SOAPUI, JUnit, TOAD, log4j, UNIX, Eclipse-Kepler, Spring Tool Suite(STS), SVN, Servlets, Tomcat 7.0, Oracle 10g,Angular JS, MAVEN, ANT. Education Bachelor's Skills Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Amazon web services, Html, Bootstrap, Json, Orm, Xml, Xslt, Jdbc Additional Information Technical skills:  Programming Languages JAVA, SQL, PL/SQL, CQL, C.  J2EE Technologies EJB, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JSF, JMS, Java Beans, JPA, Spring, Hibernate, DI, Swagger.  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, Angular JS, JQuery, XML, XSLT, CSS, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap and JSTL.  Application/Web Server IBM WebSphere, Liberty Profile, Oracle WebLogic, Apache Tomcat.  Web Services SOAP, REST, JAX-RS, JAX-B.  Application Frameworks  Spring framework (Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Factory Pattern, Core, Spring Context, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring with Hibernate)    ORM Frameworks JPA, Hibernate, Spring JPA, DAO  Cloud Computing AWS (Amazon Web Services), EC2, S3.  Gateway Applications CA layer 7, APIGEE  Workflow Methodologies CA Agile, Scaled Agile (SAFe)  Testing Tools Postman, SOA, BUS tester