Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Bank of America • Around 8+ years of progressively responsible experience in development, testing, documentation & production support applications using Internet, Web and Client Server Technologies in N-Tier J2EE Architecture.  • Experience in the entire lifecycle process in projects which includes Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  • Proficient in design and rapid development of web and J2EE applications using Core Java, JSP, JSF, CSS, Servlets, EJB, JavaScript, spring, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, SWING, HTML/DHTML, XML and Struts framework  • Experience in XML related technologies including XML, XSD, UML, XSL, DTD, XML Schemas, SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Developed applications in environments of Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Expertise in working with application servers and Web Servers as Web Logic, WebSphere, Tomcat, JBoss.  • Extreme knowledge in developing front-end applications especially based using Angular JS.  • Experience in the design and development of SOA web services. Experience in integrating with the existing web services. Hands on experience using the UDDI, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAXP, JAXR, JAXB technologies.  • Strong experience in designing and working with MySQL and Mongo DB.  • Highly proficient in designing n-tier Enterprise application with J2EE design patterns like MVC, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Façade, DTO, DAO, Front Controller, Factory and Singleton.  • Well versed in JavaScript, mainly creating JavaScript Frameworks using JQuery  • Strong experience in UNIX and Shell scripting  • Experience in working with application servers Web sphere, jBoss, Web Logic.  • Expert level skills in Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JUNIT, Multithreading, JDBC, RMI with  • Experience in MVC Design Pattern of J2EE Architecture.  • Experienced with J2EE standard compatible application servers BEA Web logic, Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere/Deployment process and Integration within Systems.  • Proficiency in SDLC methodologies like Systems Engineering Methodology(SEM)  • Active participation in the technical and architectural design of the project and maintaining the team spirit in development, delivering the product.  • Strong analytical and problem solving skills. Willingness and ability to adapt to new  • Environments and learn new technologies Work Experience Java Developer Bank of America - Jacksonville, FL May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and SCRUM meetings to track, optimize and developed sequence diagrams depicting method interactions.  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Spring Templates, Hibernate, Web Services using Axis and Jersey Frame works, Java 7.  • Used Spring Core for concept Inversion of control (IOC) implemented using dependency injection.  • Developed Spring Controllers, Service Components, DAOs, Web Services and UI Integration for developing presentation layer of the application  • Hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework  • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP and REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks)  • Maintained Content Management System on daily basis.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery to display the data on the client side.  • Developed White box test cases using JUnit and Mockito frameworks and Configured Log4j Mechanism for complete project using xml files  • Used jQuery and AJAX sent the request to server side and receive the response.  • Generated JUnit test cases for testing various Java components  • Involved in setting up Maven configuration and helping Continuous Integration (CI) Issues  • Tested applications and documented results and bugs including documentation of information useful in the debugging process  • Developed Object Model and UML design models for developing Use cases and created Sequence diagram, class diagram and active diagrams for application components and interfaces  • Mentored, trained and educating the users in technology perspective, worked through walk through and review  • sessions, closely worked with users, developers and team members in problem solving  • Worked with QA team during various testing phases and resolved defects.  • Involved in debugging the defects, code review and analysis of Performance issues.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Java 7, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Hibernate, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, RESTFUL, SOA, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, jQuery, ANT, Mockito, MAVEN, Oracle, Design Patterns, UNIX, Tomcat, Cassandra, GIT, Windows, Linux Java Developer IBC Bank - San Antonio, TX October 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented front end (UI) of the application using HTML5, CSS, AngularJS and NodeJs.  • Designed and developed very complex and large web pages using AngularJS library with AJAX And JSON.  • Designed JSP pages for Initial applications, Submissions and Maintenance Involved in Implementing Message Driven Beans using for JMS systems.  • Developed session EJB and message driven bean (MDB) to process JMS XML messages;  • JSPs, Servlets, XML descriptors, using Web Sphere Application Server.  • Streamlined the time bound nightly batches for concurrent processing on various nodes within a Cluster using spring batch.  • Used struts validation framework to perform Server side validations.  • Developed Spring service classes for Initial applications and Maintenance module to implement business logic requirements.  • External customer portal is developed in annotation based Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Designed and Developed End to End customer self service module using annotation based Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP and JQuery.  • Involved in integrating applications with other application using IBM WebSphere.  • Involved in generating Hibernate Configurations files, Hibernate mapping files and Hibernate data Objects to communicate data in persistence layer.  • Worked on Database Stored Procedures and Functions, views and Synonyms.  • Implemented Java & J2EE design patterns.  • Responsible to prepare Unit test scripts using JUnit.    Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, Spring4.x, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Hibernate, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic application server8.1, JMS, Oracle 9i, Eclipse, CVS, AngularJs, NodeJS, HTML, CSS, JSON, Maven. Java/J2EE Developer PNC Bank - Cleveland, OH October 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using Agile Model  • Developed web application using Spring MVC framework.  • Implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front-End Framework.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control, to make application easy to test and integrate  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, and  • Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • Web application development for backend system using AngularJS with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Utilized spring annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection.  • Implemented web services for communicating by using SOAP hosted in the AWS.  • Provided connections using Spring JDBC to the database and developed SQL queries to Manipulate the data.  • Used Spring DAO concept in order to interact with database (DB2) using jdbc template.  • Used Web sphere Application Developer for building, testing and deploying application locally.  • Used Log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control.  • Asynchronous messaging is executed by utilizing JMS API for point-to- point messaging.  • Used GIT controls to track and maintain the different version of the project.  • Interacted with testing team to fix defects.    Environment: RAD 7.5, Web Sphere Application Server 7.0, Spring Framework 3.0.5, jQuery, Bootstrap,AJAX, JSON, Java 5.0, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, DOJO, SOAP, JAX-WS, JDBC, DB2, Log4j. Java Developer Spiro solutions - IN August 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in life cycle, User Interaction, Requirement gathering, Design, Development, Testing, and Implementation,  • Prepare Business Requirement Document.  • Analysis and Coding of Java components for Refills and Appointments modules.  • Used Spring MVC Framework Dependency Injection for integrating various Java Components.  • Experience in working with Spring MVC Controllers and Spring Hibernate template.  • Hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework.  • Developed Spring Controllers, Service Components, DAOs, Web Services and UI Integration for processing the member request for the two modules.  • Helped UI to integrate the Java Beans data using JSTL, spring tags.  • Developed the DAOlayer using the Hibernate and for real time performance used the caching system for Hibernate.  • Developed, Consumed Enterprise Web Services & generated client using Jersey & Axis Frameworks in RAD IDE.  • Configured the Spring, Hibernate, and Log4j Configuration files.  • Used ANT, Maven Scripts to build and deploy applications and helped to deployment for Continuous Integration using Jenkin and Maven.  • Wrote SQL queries and Stored Procedures for interacting with the Oracle database.  • Was part of production support team to resolve the production incidents  • Documentation of common problems prior to go-live and while actively in a Production Support role.  • Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, Web services, WSDL, SOAP, RESTFUL, SOA, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, jQuery, ANT, MAVEN, Oracle, Design Patterns, UNIX, Tomcat, SQL Server, Clear Case, Windows, Linux Java Developer JDA Software Ltd - IN May 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities  • Used various Java, J2EE APIs including JDBC, XML, Servlets and JSP. Used WS and SAAJ for development of Web Services.  • Implemented Singleton design pattern for Database Logger.  • Wrote SQL queries for create, update, delete and display applications stands.  • Working knowledge of application servers like Apache Tomcat 6.0/5.0, JBoss Server. Used Ant as build tool.  • Worked on the JMS to publish-subscribe the messages to interact with Tibco EMS.  • Designed and developed Spring Controllers and JSP for controller and view functionalities.  • Followed Waterfall SDLC Methodology, prepared exit and entrance criteria documents    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Spring, EJB, JNDI, JDBC, Web Services, UNIX, Oracle 9i, Web Logic Application server 9.0, Apache Tomcat 6.0, JMS 1.1, XML, Ant, Eclipse 3.2, Tibco EMS Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JBOSS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows 95/98/2000/XP, Windows NT  Languages PL/SQL, SQL, JAVA, XML, HTML, JavaScript  Application Development J2EE (JSP, Servlets), JDBC, Struts1.1/2.0, Hibernate, Flex, RMI2.0, XSLT, XSD, DTD, CSS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, Asp.Net  Web Server Jakarta Tomcat Web Server, JBoss, Web Logic  RDBMS Oracle  Tools Together Soft, Eclipse, Intelli j  Protocols HTTP, HTTPS, TCP/IP and UDP  Editors Microsoft Front Page, Macromedia Flash, Dream Weaver