Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Covestro Boston, MA • Over 7+ years of experience in JAVA/J2EE projects in software analysis, design, implementation and development.  • Experience in Web Application Design, Development, Programming, Testing, Support Maintenance, and End-User support using java/J2EE technologies with Web Sphere and Web Logic application servers.  • Strong experience in Design and development of multi-tier web based applications using J2EE technologies JAVA, Servlets, JSP, Oracle, MySQL and JDBC.  • Extensive experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using J2EE design patterns. Strong hands-on experience with AngularJS and NodeJS.  • Experience in developing enterprise applications using Object oriented methodologies, enterprise technologies, frameworks and design patterns.  • Implemented various J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Session Façade, Data Access Objects (DAO), Factory, Singleton, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Applications.  • Experience in building enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JDBC).  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment. Highly knowledgeable in UML, Use Cases, Conceptual Models, Collaboration Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Activity and Sequence Diagrams.  • Created forms and web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like CVS, SVN, and GIT.  • Worked with servers IBM web sphere, web logic, JBoss and Apache's Tomcat.  • Good at designing Design Documents, Unit Test Case, Integration Test Case, Integration Test Plan documents and estimating the assigning tasks.  • Highly organized with the ability to prioritize workload, manage multiple projects and meet project deadlines by following project standards and procedures as per client specifications.  • Good interpersonal skills, excellent verbal, written and presentation skills and can work both independently and in a team. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Covestro - Pittsburgh, PA September 2017 to Present Project Description:    Responsibilities:  • Experience with IBM Rational Application Developer with WebSphere Application Server 8.5.  Use of IBM Rational Application Developer Software to design, develop, analyse, test and deploy high quality web JAVA EE applications.    • Demonstrated experience in building Micro services.    • Experience writing HTML and CSS that works across browsers, including on Android.    • Experience with Azure App Services/Web Sites and Storage.    • Expertise writing JavaScript and using frameworks like Angular, to build scalable single page apps.    • Broad understanding of Microsoft Azure PAAS offerings, including Azure Websites, Azure SQL, etc.    • Experience with Azure IAAS.    • Understanding of Multi-threaded interface design.    • Expertise in multi-threading, object oriented design and the use of design patterns.    • Architecting and Development experience of Angular 4 Applications.    • Implemented GUI pages by using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular 4 and AJAX.    • Strong understanding of Transaction middleware platform with experience of administrating and supporting WebSphere JBoss TCServer and Apache is required.    • Experience managing upgrading and patching Apache deployments.    • Experience supporting applications using J2EE architecture including WebSphere Application Server/MQ TCServer/Tomcat JBOSS JAS and WebLogic.    • Experience in a Linux/UNIX/Windows distributed enterprise environment.    • Experience installing configuring performance tuning and troubleshooting Middleware software.    • Overall 5+ years of hands on experience building UI for web applications using Angular JS 4, HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Typescript and JavaScript Libraries.    • Experience with multiple JavaScript frameworks e.g. React, Angular.    • Experience with JAVA/JavaScript coding and compiling.  Use of Object oriented programming concepts to build and develop code for backend functionality of the overall application. Ensuring proper transaction management and error handing is maintained at each level of development in order to make the code debuggable.  • Participate in maintenance and updates to existing applications as requested; including updates of content that supports a rules-based delivery of web elements and data integration.    • Participate in daily meeting, test and resolve tickets assigned and understand and apply best business.  • Setup, configure and utilize SVN repository to store and fetch files and properties.  Use of Apache Subversion to keep different versions of source codes (compatible with apache tomcat version 8.0.47), web pages and documentation.    • Extensive knowledge of SQL databases like TOAD.  Work with Oracle database and write efficient SQL queries to fetch data according to the requirements and perform CRUD operations on the underlying Oracle database.    • Worked on enhancements and maintenance of internal web applications like CASTLE, BMT, PCS Portal, IHlims, MAR and RimGATE.  Interact with internal users within organization, gather information and work towards different enhancements suggested by them.    • Performed Cross Browser Testing on different internal applications as per testing standards mentioned in documentation. Use of cross browser testing for JAVA applications with IE 7 to IE 11 and Microsoft edge.    • Work with end users and project managers for application deployment.  Work with requested enhancements and deploy changes to production server (Linux server) for users. Deployed various WAR, JAR, EAR applications in clustered environment. Created automated scripts in ANT for deploying and monitoring.    • Setup, configure and utilize CVS repository to store and fetch files and properties.  Use of a version control system keeps track of all work and all changes in a set of files (source code compatible to WebSphere Application Server 8.5), and allows collaboration.    • Understand and conceptualize applications from both a technical/programming perspective and a business point of view.    • Experience with multi-server web application.    • Ability to take heap and thread dumps and the ability to understand JVM parameters and modify startup properties.    • Experience with Tomcat 7 and Tomcat 8.0.47.  Conduct performance testing of Apache and Tomcat management services. Program and prepare code for interfacing with Apache Tomcat Systems. Performance tuning and deploying of Apache Tomcat applications.    • Experience in migration of applications from WebSphere server to Apache tomcat version 7 and 8.0.47.    • Involved in testing the applications functionalities after migrating from JAVA 6 to JAVA 7.    Environment: JAVA6 and JAVA7, JDBC, SQL, IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.5, Apache Tomcat Server 7 and Apache Tomcat Server 8, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Linux Server. Sr. Java Developer TGS IT Solutions - Schaumburg, IL September 2016 to September 2017 Project Description:  It is a Mobile Communications web application enabling online purchase of Consumer Electronics products facilitating various Electronics and Wireless Accessories. It is a multi category, multi subcategory, and multi product system solely driven by an administration module having features like Promo-code, Gift Certificates. It has several independent sections & enables an admin to administer this web site.    Responsibilities:  • Actively took part in complete development of Agile methodology from gathering the requirements to testing the application.  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB, etc.    • Architect, develop and maintain an Angular 2 and Angular 4 web applications.    • Design and Development of Objects using Object Oriented Design in Java.    • Preparing the migration document for migrating application from Struts to Spring and Responsive web designing the application.    • Deep knowledge of Azure, AWS, MSFT and other cloud technologies.    • Operational support for global platforms and components, for integration and web technologies, like: JBoss, Apache, Web methods, API management platforms, etc.    • Install, configure, upgrade, troubleshoot, and proactively monitor to ensure availability, performance and capacity.    • Working knowledge of JBoss, Apache, F5, Nginx, Node.js, Webmethods, JBoss DV, API management.    • Hands on experience with testing tools such as Selenium and Cucumber and their integration into CI/CD pipelines.    • Experience in Amazon services and technologies (Knowledge and implementation level experience working with all AWS services like EC2, ECS, VPC, R53, ALB, CW etc).    • Understanding of Cloud deployment strategies like Blue/Green or A/B deployment strategies.    • Working knowledge on cloud native CICD tools AWS CodeCommit, CodeBuild, CodeDeploy, CodePipeline.    • Experience in Tomcat & Oracle WebLogic application server administration.    • Used Angular JS to build customer forms connect to backend. Develop the changes using JSTL, JQuery, JCP, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Web services.  • Configure beans in spring configuration file with Spring IOC, Spring AOP concepts.  • Used a light front-end framework against the JSON API for their service requests.  • Worked on XML Technologies like XML Parsers, JAXB for binding data to java objects  • Developed the Spring AOP Programming to configure logging for the application.  • Implemented JMS for notifications and testing with JUnit, Mock cases.  • Wrote JUNIT Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Mockito.  • Configured Hibernate second level cache using EHCache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.  • Additional UI Components implemented using an asynchronous AJAX, JQuery, Angular JS based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries JSTL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed Web logic container security components for adding vendor specific Security Realm to application using JMX.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining the regular expressions used by the URL rewriting engine of Ovi Share that enabled RESTful URLs for the website and its web services  • Have extensive experience in building and deploying applications on Web/Application Servers like Apache Tomcat.  • Experienced in Performance Tuning, Load Balancing and optimization of WebLogic Application Server  • Used JMS with Web Logic Application server  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML, XSLT and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Responsible for designing core-shared services used by all development teams, most notably the access controls and security credential management systems.  • Used GIT client Source Tree as version Control Management tool.    Environment: JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB, JSTL, JQuery, JCP, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Web services, Angular JS, JMX, Hibernate,Spring,Web Logic Application Server, HTML, XHTML, XSLT , Java Script, AWS, Microservices, TestNG. Java Developer Northern Trust - Minneapolis, MN August 2014 to August 2016 Project Description:  Online Banking System is a Web based application, based on the J2EE MVC architecture. This system has two clients: an application client used by administrators to manage customer accounts and a web client used by customers to access account history and perform transactions. Clients access the customer account and transaction information maintained in a database through enterprise beans. The user interface pages are coded using JSP, HTML, and, CSS. A controller Servlet delegates calls to appropriate handler classes in the middle tier.    Responsibilities:  • Maintained constant communication with Business Analyst and Business Users to identify the user stories and the technical feasibility.  • Used spring as middle-tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate and declarative transaction management.  • All logic exposed via interfaces and practices of Test Driven Development followed consistently.  • Experience with Angular JS to build web applications which includes fundamentals, such as components, forms, and services, it demonstrates how the framework embraces a range of new web technologies such as ES6 and Typescript syntax, Promises, Observables, and Web Workers, among many others.  • Experience with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Node JS.  • Ability to hunt for new Azure Apps & Infrastructure opportunities.  • Implemented the Spring Model View Controller (MVC) framework  • Designed and developed the UI using spring standard tag libraries, JSP, HTML, CSS and JQuery.  • Used spring validator framework for client side and server side validation. In addition, implemented dynamic loading of JSPs using AJAX.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence onto the DB2 database.  • Responsible for writing Hibernate Criteria and HQL queries.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous communication  • Tested Service and data access tier using JUnit in TDD methodology.  • RAD as IDE for the application development and integration of the frameworks.  • Deployed the applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Used RTC for version management between various integration and development streams.  • Highly skilled in deployment, data security and troubleshooting of the applications using AWS services..  • Maven is used as a build framework.  • Worked with production support team in debugging and fixing various production issues.  • Spring Framework, REST Standards.  • Prepared high and low level design documents for the business modules for future references and updates.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, MVC Framework, JSP, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Spring validator framework, ORM, JMS, AWS, Maven, Spring Boot, VPC, EC2, RDS, ECS, Lambda, IAM, CloudFront and Route53. Jr. Java Developer Adiance Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat August 2011 to June 2014 Project Description:  Design, Develop Order management web module for order tracking, order processing, shipping. This was an Intranet application used by admin staff. Developed user interfaces and established user authentication. Also worked on back-end for user information and data access.    Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in meetings with Business Analysts and Architects to identify the scope, requirements and architecture of the project.  • Followed MVC model and used spring frameworks for developing the Web layer of the application.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.  • Involved in SQL Server 2008 Database design for new modules and developed the persistence layer based on Hibernate.  • Involved in enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, created role based HTML navigation menu wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, Business Delegate and Session Facade. Developed User Interface and web page screens for various modules using JSF, JavaScript, and AJAX using RAD.  • Write front-end code for developing new pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in JBoss Application Server.    Environment: Angular JS, Node JS, Spring API, Struts, Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring ORM, Spring MVC, RAD, SQL Server 2008, JBoss, JavaScript, HTML, CSS Skills Bea, Bea weblogic, Java, Spring, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Struts, Design patterns, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Jenkins, Scripting, Visio, Ajax, Css, Saas, Tomcat, Weblogic Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming languages Java JDK1.2, 1.3,1.4,1.5,1.6,1.7  Platforms Windows 8/10, Unix, HP Unix, Linux (Red Hat 6.1, 7.2, 8.0), Sun Solaris  Methodologies Waterfall, Agile (Scrum, XP), Agile TDD, Kanban, RUP  Design Tools Microsoft Visio 2003, Google Sketch-Up  IDEs Eclipse2.x /3.x, NetBeans 4.1/5.0, JDeveloper 10g, Jbuilder8.0,IntelliJ 4.5/5.1/6.0  Web Applications/Servers BEA WebLogic 7.0, 8.1, 9.1, 10.1, Apache Tomcat 4.0, 5.1, 7  Design Patterns Singleton, Value Object, MVC, Session Façade, DAO, Factory  Server Scripting JSP, JSP-EL, Custom Tags, GWT, Vaadin  Client Scripting JQuery, JQueryUI, Dojo, ExtJS, KendoUI, HTML4,HTML5,CSS3,Javascript, AngularJS, RESTFUL APIs  Continuous Integration Jenkins  Databases Oracle8i/9i/10g, DB2, Sybase, MS SQL Server 2000 /2005, MySQL 3.23.  Database Tools TOAD 7.x, SQL Developer (Raptor), phpmyadmin  MVC Frameworks Struts 1.1, 1.2, 1.3.8, Spring 1.2, 2.0, 3.1, 4.0, JSF 1.1, 2.1  Web Technologies AngularJS, Node.js, HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and jQuery  Testing Junit 3.8.1, 4.1, HttpUnit 1.6, Junit Perf 1.8, DBUnit, Selenium  Cloud AWS,SaaS,PaaS,IaaS