Sr. Full Stack Java developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java developer - VISA Austin, TX • Having 8+ years of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes Analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance and Implementation of enterprise, web and client server applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Exposure to Full Life Cycle in different software development methodologies like Water Fall Model and Agile Methodologies like Test Driven Development, SCRUM and Pair Programming.  • Strong front-end UI development skills using scripting languages HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript, React JS, Angular 5, Bootstrap.  • Experience in Producing and consuming Web Services Technologies like Restful (JAX-RS), SOAP (JAX-WS), JAX-RPC and JAXR ( Java API for XML Registries).  • Proficient in-Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Web Services such as SOAP, RESTful using Jersey and Jackson.  • Experience using frameworks like Spring, JPA, Hibernate.  • Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Spring, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Web Flow, Spring Data, AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Proficient in implementing various J2EE design patterns like MVC, Service Locator, Session Façade, Data Access Object (DAO), Factory, Singleton, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Front Controller, View Helper and Business Delegate.  • Experienced in writing complex queries, stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views and triggers with major databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Knowledge on Apache Kafka cluster as a messaging system between the APIs and Microservices.  • Proven communication, technical skills and the ability to work in a team as well as individual with minimal supervision or guidance.  • Experience in using various Amazon Web Services (AWS) Components like EC2 for virtual servers, S3 and Glacier for storing objects, EBS, Cloud Front, Elastic cache and Dynamo DB for storing data.  • Excellent interaction skills with client and proven experience in working individual and as well as in a team. Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java developer VISA - Austin, TX February 2019 to Present Description: Commercial B2B Payables is Visa Online Portal inclined with file payments, online payments, web-services payments. ForgeRock authentication process with tokens IO and card management with freedom which generates a payment control and mailbox with secured URL.  Responsibilities:  • Regular interactions with the users to gather new requirements and resolve the application issues.  • Agile methodology was adopted in the development and used Scrum method of project management  • Good understanding of all parts of Software Engineering (e.g., Requirements, Design, Implementation, Testing).  • Ability to learn new technologies quickly.  • Detail-oriented, results-driven, and works well within a team environment.  • Strong problem solving and analytical skills, and experience troubleshooting systems issues.  • Actively involved in design of the application architecture in lines of Spring Framework.  • Experience with RESTful services.  • Developed EJB based JAX-WS Web Services and Jersey REST based Web services associated with business modules integration.  • Implement a CXF Service Endpoint with JAX-WS Front-end.  • Implement a Unit Test, Error handling and an Interceptor for a CXF Provider Web Service.  • Implement CXF Client Web Service.  • Strong focus on unit testing code utilizing JUnit tests.  • Write high-quality software code that complies with design specifications and meets development and support requirements.  • Module and Unit Level Testing with JUnit.  • Used Log4J for application logging.  • Experience with Databases including Oracle.  • Experience with application servers such as Tomcat or JBOSS.  • Demonstrates ability to understand notations done in modeling languages (i.e., UML) pertaining to use cases and class diagrams and be able to implement this through coding.  • Used Maven for building the application.  • Used JMeter for analysing the performance of the application.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration.  Environment: J2EE, Java2, Spring, Maven, JDK1.8, Jsp2.0, Ajax, Struts2, EJB3.0/2.0, JDBC, Hibernate, XML XSD, XML Beans, REST, WSDL, Oracle 10g, PostgreSQL, UNIX, Eclipse, WebLogic 8.1, Junit. Full Stack Java developer Voya financial, Connecticut August 2017 to January 2019 Description: Comprehensive 401(K) and pension savings plans, which provides retirement, annuity, pension and services. Funds Transfer application tracks with internal and external pension plans. Claim application which process the application in electronically by secure way.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, development and system integration and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Followed Agile Scrum Methodology to Development Environment. Participated in the daily SCRUM meeting and paired programming to produce quality delivery within time.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring-based application with very less configuration.  • Involved in developing components on Reporting Dashboard with Spring MVC, Spring Framework and Hibernate & used Spring Security to secure the application.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and allowed asynchronous exchange of important information and set up a scheduler for spring batch jobs.  • I worked on design patterns used in core java (j2se) source code like decorator and design patterns for java.io, iterator patterns for sorting arrays and collections, singleton patterns for runtime & calendar, factory patterns for Wrappers of primitive data types.  • Design and develop common utilities for JSON to Java object and vice versa using Jackson libraries.  • Used Core Spring framework for Annotation based Dependency injection.  • Used Spring AOP to handle transactions session aspects and to implement security and achieved transaction using Spring AOP and stored procedures.  • Configured Hibernate session factory to integrate Hibernate with Spring and used JPA/Hibernate to communicate with data layer and XML to read XML data.  • Developed Dashboards and UI pages with JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, and used Bootstrap to create Responsive Web pages.  • Worked on Angular 5.0 by consuming RESTful web services & Used Angular 5.0 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms.  • Used node.js which is event-driven model for data-intensive real-time applications.  • Familiar with MongoDB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures and implemented read preferences in MongoDB replica set.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Good understanding of various types of AWS Elastic Block Storage (EBS) and their utilization based on requirements.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM) and managed network security using Security Groups and IAM.  • Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on Rabbit MQ synchronously and asynchronously, and send JMS message to Apache Active MQ on the edge device.  • Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component Ant projects with Nexus repositories and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD).  • Used Junit and Cucumber framework for Unit Testing of application.  • Used GIT for Source Control and Version Management of all codes and resources.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, JSP, XML, Ajax, Angular5, Node.js, Restful Web Services, Java 8, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring Security, NodeJS, Hibernate, JMS, MongoDB, AWS, Apache Tomcat Server, Maven, Jenkins, JUnit, TDD, Log4j, Eclipse, JIRA, GIT. Full Stack Java Developer Bottom line Technologies, Inc - Portsmouth, NH June 2016 to July 2017 Description: Financial transactions can finally be the most straightforward part of your business with easy and consistent access to parties, payment types and channels. This allows users to search the company data repository through the web. The requested data can be displayed in a summary view or through a detailed view. This project involved the development of a Web based intranet application for employees within the company.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology in the progress of the project.  • Involved in design of Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Event Diagrams as part of Documentation.  • Used SAAS as a software distribution model through which apps are available to the customers.  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop, mobile and tablets using Twitter Bootstrap (HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript).  • Developing the web site for online trading using E-Commerce such as Electronic Data Exchange.  • implementing and integrating Electronic Data Exchange with other monitoring tools (Dynatrace, Splunk etc)  • Work with third party application, hosting and CDN providers to integrate data feeds to a centralized Splunk platform.  • Extensively used Web Storm for development in the front end and used Subversion as version control system and Tortoise client for SVN.  • Developing application design guidance and consultation, utilizing a thorough understanding of applicable technology, tools and existing designs.  • Used Angular2 and Handlebars.js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  • Created Angular2 Controller which Isolate scopes perform operations in UI.  • Using Angular2 created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Converted the pages from XMI (XML Metadata Interchange) to AngularJS and in this process had to deal with converting the XMI request and response in the front end to JSON ( Java Script Object Notation).  • Wrote the controller in Spring MVC which delegates the request from front end to the delegator layer and to make calls with backend systems.  • Managed source control and version control using SVN.  • Project status tracking using JIRA.  • Standardize and implement Splunk Forwarder deployment, configuration and maintenance in Linux and Windows platforms.  • Experienced in problem analysis in both technical system and application programs.  • Essentially involved in all phases of SDLC to structure the unformatted requirements.  • Designed the ER diagrams and structured data in the database with enforcing normalization for a consistent output.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  Environment: Java 1.7, Web storm, AngularJS 1.3, Ext JS, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, XMI, Maven 2, Eclipse Kepler, Eclipse Juno, XML, Silk SVN, Tortoise SVN, SQL Developer, Spring MVC, Oracle DB, Grunt, Jasmine. Full Stack Java Developer ASD Health Care - Frisco, TX April 2015 to May 2016 Description: This project is a comprehensive and integrated Hospital Management System for a Super Specialty Hospital. This package is used to computerize the activities of a servicing system. This package contains four modules. They are Administration, Patient Care System, Health Services and Auxiliary Services. Each module is having sub modules within this sub module will maintains storing, registering, details of joining patient details, and overall day activities maintains one particular database.  Responsibilities:  • Designed & developed the application using Spring Framework.  • Developed class diagrams, sequence and use case diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Designed the application with reusable J2EE design patterns.  • Developed test cases for Unit testing using JUnit and performed integration and system testing.  • Closely worked and supported the creation of database schema objects (tables, stored procedures, and triggers) using Oracle SQL.  • Designed DAO objects for accessing RDBMS.  • Designed & developed Data Transfer Objects to carry the data between different layers.  • Developed web pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL.  • Designed and developed a web-based client using Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, JavaScript, HTML and XML using Struts Framework.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access.  • Business logic is implemented using Hibernate.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  • Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.  • Involved in initial project setup and guidelines.  • Implemented Multi-threading concepts.  Environment: Java, PL/SQL, SQL, HTML, CSS 3.0, Java Script, hibernate, Middleware Technologies, Ajax, Servlets, JSP 2.0, Web logic 10.4, JBoss, WebSphere, XML, XHTML, Eclipse, JMS, Oracle11g, EJB 3.0 Java Developer People Tech Group - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2013 to September 2014 Project Description: People Tech Group one of the top health care providers in India, came up with a requirement to develop a product that supports their executives in processing and maintaining billing details of their customers.  Responsibilities:  • Performed the analysis, design, and implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, XML and XSLT.  • Implemented design patterns like Data Access Objects (DAO), Value Objects/Data Transfer Objects (DTO), and Singleton etc. Developed JavaScript validations on order submission forms.  • Worked with core java concepts such as OOPs, Multi-threading, collection framework and Exception handling.  • Prepared technical document and got approval from client before development.  • Coded Modules in Java, HTML, JSTL, JavaScript, CSS, JSP and Servlets.  • Performed in different phases of the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) of the application, including: requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and deployment of the application.  • Model View Control (MVC) design pattern was implemented with Struts MVC, Servlets, JSP, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS to control the flow of the application in the Presentation/Web tier, Application/Business layer (JDBC) and Data layer (Oracle).  • Developed Action Forms and Controllers in Struts framework.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate.  • JUnit was used to do the Unit testing for the application.  • Utilized various Struts features like Tiles, tagged libraries and Declarative Exception Handling via XML for the design.  • Created XML Schema, XML template and used XML SAX/DOM API to parse them.  • Used Apache Ant to compile java classes and package into jar archive.  • Used Clear Quest to keep track of the application bugs as well as to coordinate with the Testing team.  • Involved in tracking and resolving defects, which arise in QA & production  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JUnit, Apache Tomcat, PL/SQL, Oracle, Apache Ant, Eclipse, Rational Rose. Java developer Mega space IT Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to March 2013 Description: This system is used for assigning the project and to track the status of the project. This has two modules like user module and admin module. The supervisor assigns tasks to the team, approving the timesheet, setting goals for the performance review. The team member will login into the system and enter the timesheet for the assigned task with the tasks completed. This system will help to see the progress and status of the completion of the tasks.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in analysis and design, development, testing and debugging phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings for sprint planning, sprint reviews to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Implemented major concepts of Core Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, and XML.  • System was built using Spring Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Used and implemented the application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations and Hibernate.  • Used Spring API's for wiring components using dependency injection.  • Used spring - ORM to integrate Hibernate and creation of Hibernate POJO's.  • Developed Web Services to allow communication between applications through REST over HTTP.  • Worked on the front-end development using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and ExtJS.  • Used Tomcat as Web server.  • Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse and Maven for development.  • Involved in creating test case classes for business functions using Junit as a part ofTest Driven Development (TDD).  • Strong experience in built Maven Based Projects and use POM file for create complete clean Project documentation with POM file in Maven.  • Maintained the code base using SVN version control system.  Environment: Java, Spring (MVC, IOC, AOP, DAO), Hibernate, ExtJS, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, CSS, MySQL, AJAX, MySQL, RESTful Web Services, Maven, LOG4J, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat. Java developer Persistent Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2009 to April 2011 Description: Persistent Systems is a global company specializing in software product and technology services. For more than two decades, Persistent has been an innovation partner for the world's largest technology brands, leading enterprises and pioneering start-ups.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in preparing the Test Plans for testing to be carried out effectively.  • Developed the core modules for the services by using n- tier architecture.  • Developed Service layer classes to support the business functionality with Spring MVC.  • Building web application using Template Toolkit, JQuery and tested transactions created electronically through message injection using JMS.  • Used JSP, HTML, Taglibs and CSS to create UI pages.  • Used Java script for client-side validations.  • Used JDBC to connect with DB2 data base.  • Effective execution of the prepared Test Cases.  • Developed code for Java Multithreading.  • Build & deployment the code using Ant.  • Wrote Java Servlets to manage an XML-based persistence layer to cut down on server round-trips during development.  • Involved in unit testing JUNIT and in integration testing.  • Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.  Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Servlets, Java Script, CSS, JDBC, Oracle, Java beans, Windows/UNIX, Ant, JUNIT Education Bachelors in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Osmania University 2008 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages JAVA, JavaScript, HTML.  J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java Security, Log4J, JNDI.  Web Technologies Angular 4/5, Node JS, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JQuery, XML, XSD, XSTL, SAX.  Frameworks Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, JSF, Spring IOC, JUNIT, SOAP UI.  Web Services SOAP, RESTFUL, JAX-RS, JAX-WS.  Web Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere.  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL SERVER, NoSQL, MYSQL.  Development Tools Eclipse, Net Beans, My Eclipse.  Design Patterns MVC, Front-Controller, Singleton, Factory, Session Façade, Business Delegate.  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Sun-Solaris Unix.