Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Regions Birmingham, AL ? Sr. Full Stack Java Developer with 7+ years of experience in analysis, development, testing, implementing Web based, Client/Server Applications along with Enterprise and Distributed applications across the entire Software Development Life Cycle using Java and J2EE Technologies.  ? Expertise on advanced software development methodologies such as Agile/Scrum model processes.  ? Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Requirements Specification, designing documents and writing.  ? Good experience in developing applications using Java, JDBC, Java Beans, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Struts, ANT, Log4J, UML, XML, CSS, HTML, and JavaScript.  ? Good experience in Spring framework, extensively used Spring DI, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC templates and Spring MVC.  ? Good experience in Client Side designing using HTML4/HTML5, CSS3 and validations using JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Hands on experience with Integrated Development Environments (IDE's) tools like Eclipse and NetBeans.  ? Experienced in other front-end UI framework such as LESS, Typescript, and Bootstrap.  ? Good experience in developing web interfaces using AngularJS Framework.  ? Good experience in using Hibernate, extensively used Entity Class Associations, Criteria Queries, and Projections.  ? Experience in Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, and Class Diagrams using UML, J2EE Design Patterns.  ? Expertise in back-end procedure development, for Database Applications using Oracle 9i & 10g, SQL, and PL/SQL.  ? Proficient in XML technologies like XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, XPath, WSDL, DTD, XSD, SOA, JAXB, Apache Axis.  ? Experience working with SOAP and Restful Web Service.  ? Extensive experience using MAVEN to build the projects.  ? Comprehensive knowledge of physical and logical data modeling, performance tuning and monitoring.  ? Experienced with IBM WebSphere Application Server, Oracle WebLogic application servers, JBOSS, and Apache Tomcat Application Server.  ? Have good experience in using Version Controlling tools (CVS, VSS, CM SYNERGY, Subversion, Clear Case), defect tracking tools like Clear Quest, Quality Center, and Jenkins Build management tool.  ? Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Views, Functions, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  ? Experience in LDAP for authentication scheme and in middleware technologies.  ? Experience in working as a developer, a team lead and an onsite coordinator  ? Experience in interacting with the client directly at client location  ? Possessing good interpersonal skills which were applied in coordinating with development team, QA team and support team as required. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Regions - Birmingham, AL August 2018 to Present Project Description: Involved in general product delivery, interfaces with internal and external customers to capture software requirements, and definitive solution deliveries. Developed UI components, Server side code like Services, Controllers, DAO, etc.    Responsibilities:  • Performed business and system analysis; provided recommendations for process improvement.  • Consulted with management to provide information regarding software readiness.  • Raised and managed any defects identified throughout the software development life cycle.  • Managed all communications related to QA Status on a daily basis during execution. Reporting potential risks during all any stages of development lifecycle.  • Worked closely with the development team to test systems for defects using Scrum, Kanban and other Agile/Lean methodologies.  • Used existing tools and techniques to execute test cases and build/script new tools for performing testing/validation function.  • Provided daily/weekly reports to managers and team members.  • Involved with Core Java 7, Java 8, AWS, J2EE, Spring Boot, Git, JUnit, etc.  Environment: Angular4, Typescript, JointJS, J2EE, RestFul Web Services, VScode, Eclipse, Mysql, WebLogic Application Server 10.3, Spring 3.0, Spring MVC, Hibernate, RESTful, JSON, CSS, HTML, Junit 4.4, GIT, Log4j, MySQL, Jenkins, Maven Java / J2EE Developer First Data - Omaha, NE January 2017 to July 2018 Description: First Data provides payment, card issuing, mobile commerce, and prepaid and paperless payroll solutions. The company also offers loyalty, bill payment and fraud, risk and cash management solutions. A Global Payment gateway that communicates with card networks to gain approvals to complete cardholder transaction. It acts as the bridge between the issuer bank and acquirer bank.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, component architecture design and sequence activity diagrams for the necessary Service Components.  • Played an active role in development as part of which developed JSP, Servlets and EJB and gathered information from Architect and Business Analysts to design Functional Specifications.  • Performed Requirement Gathering & Analysis by actively soliciting, analyzing and negotiating customer requirements and prepared the requirements specification document for the application using Microsoft Word.  • Developed use case diagrams, business flow diagrams, activity/state diagrams and adopted J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Session Facade and Singleton.  • Developed advanced JavaScript modules such as capture visitor information, browser version, button animation, and timing object. Extensively used JSTL tag libraries. Used JSF Frame Work for front- end design.  • Involved in meetings handled by Architect to review the Design Documents of the Project. Designed and developed Servlets to communicate between presentation and business layer.  • Developed Persistence Framework consisting of components like Persistence Code Generator, Persistence Manager and Data Access Objects which hides JPA complexities and offers transparent access to database.  • Configured faces-config.xml and applicationcontext.xml for JSF and Spring AOP Integration and developed GUI policy forms implementing JSF-lifecycle.  • Involved in developing business components using EJBSessionBeans and persistence using EJBEntityBeans.  • Developed test harness to test the web services which helps test teams to test web service components independently using various request and response xml.  • Followed Spring MVC Framework for the development of the project and used Spring Security to provide authentication, authorization, and access-control features for this application.  • Utilized Agile Methodology for development.  • Developed RESTful Web Services.    Environment: Java 8, Spring, HTML, JavaScript, DHTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, JSP, RESTful, Servlets, Java Server Faces (JSF) EJB 3.0, JUnit, Log4J, XML, XSLT, SQL, PL/SQL, JPA, Oracle 10g, WebLogic, Agile, Maven, SVN, Eclipse Full Stack Java Developer IAI SYSTEM LLC - Alpharetta, GA March 2015 to December 2016 Project Description: Worked on a business management project as a team member. It's a web-based project that can record and summarize the working hours, sick days, and vacation hours for employees and consultants.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements and software specification documents in order to gain better understanding of the system from technical and business perspectives.  • Developed a dynamic, secure web application using Java Spring MVC Architecture.  • Worked extensively on J2EE for developing Web and Distributed Applications using JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, and Struts.  • Developed UI layer from scratch for the application using HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, and Bootstrap.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs using AJAX, JSON, XM.  • Used Eclipse as IDE and Apache Tomcat web server to deploy developed applications.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, Oracle 8i, HTML, AJAX, XML, ANT, Junit, CVS, SOA, Maven and JBoss Application Server QA Engineer Wipro - Daphne, AL July 2012 to February 2015 Project Description: This project involved users, such as, doctors and patients. A doctor could login and insert data relating to a particular disease and prescribe medicine accordingly. A patient could login and give symptoms of a disease and gain immediate feedback from a licensed medical professional.    Responsibilities:  • Supported all efforts to simplify and enhance the customer experience.  • Defined and tracked quality assurance metrics such as the following: defects, defect counts, test results, and test status.  • Independently acquired and analyzed data for software process evaluation and integrated it into business processes to address business needs.  • Performed both back end system and front-end UI triage and troubleshooting when identifying defects.  • Created script test scenarios using automation scripting language including Python and Ruby  • Diagnosed complex issues, evaluated, recommended, and executed the best resolution.  • Developed, modified, enhanced, and implemented test plans designed to support new and existing business initiatives.  • Ensured alignment between business operational strategies and quality assurance of products.  Environment: Scrum/Agile methodologies, AWS, Linux, Jira, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JUnit, Selenium IDE, Selenium Web Driver, Jenkins Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Javabeans, Jaxb, Jbuilder, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Visual studio, C++, Javascript, Reactjs, Jenkins, Python, Visio, Visualizer, Xml, Xsl Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Java, C++, Python  Server Side Servlets, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JavaBeans, Web Services  Client Side AJAX 16,1.0, JQuery 3.1.0, ReactJS, NodeJS, and AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript v1.8  Web Servers Core Java, Threads, Swing, I/O, JavaBeans, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, etc.  Web Technologies  JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JavaBeans, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript v1.8, Web Services, AJAX 16,1.0, JQuery 3.1.0, ReactJS, NodeJS, and AngularJS    Web Servers Apache Tomcat 8.0.22, WebLogic 12.2.1  XML Technologies XML, XSL, DOM, JAXB  Databases Oracle, MS-Access, and MS-SQL Server  Development Tools/ IDE Eclipse 4.6, Net Beans 8.0.2, JBuilder v2008 R2, Sublime Text 3, Brackets v1.7 Visual Studio  Build Tool Ant 1.9.7, Maven 3.3.9, and Jenkins  Tools SQL Developer, DB Visualizer, Visio etc.  Operating System Windows, LINUX, OS X