Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - CAPITAL ONE Richmond, VA • 7+ years of competitive work experience in Software Design, Development, Maintenance, and Enhancement & Implementation of Enterprise applications using Java, J2EE technologies with strong Object-Oriented Programming skills.  • Proficient and strong working knowledge of J2EE Architectural & Design Patterns, REST, Struts, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate.  • Having strong Experience with Web Service Applications using User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, JavaScript & UI Libraries/Frameworks, Angular, HTML5, JSON.  • Expertise in Spring framework, including Spring IOC, Spring DAO support, Spring ORM, Spring Microservices, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring Cache, Spring Integration, Spring Boot, and Spring REST.  • Expertise in Developing applications using Restful Web Services, Java, J2EE, Servlets, EJB, JPA, Hibernate, Spring Framework, JSP, JMS, Struts, XML, Eclipse, NetBeans, JDBC, Maven, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Web flow, Spring Data JPA, HTML and Java Scripts.  • Experience in making Junit and Test NG test cases and executed as part of auto build process from Jenkins Jobs.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in SQL queries, PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and triggers to interact with SQL, MySQL, Oracle databases.  • Experience in Maven pom.xml. Work Experience Java Developer CAPITAL ONE - McLean, VA August 2017 to Present Description: Capital One Financial Corporation, offers a variety of consumer lending and deposit products, including credit cards, auto loans, small business loans, home equity loans, mortgages, insurance, health care finance, and savings products. Capital One Financial Corporation has been included by the Fortune magazine in its list of America's Most Admired Companies in consumer credit category.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Multi-Threaded Environment and used most of the interfaces under the Collection framework by using Core Java concepts.  • Involved in developing code using major concepts of Spring Framework Dependency Injection (DI) and Inversion of control (IOC).  • Used Spring MVC framework for implementing RESTful web services so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  • Used Bootstrap to create responsive web pages which can be displayed properly in different screen sizes.  • Used GIT as version control tool to update work progress and attended daily Scrum sessions.  • Developed Interactive web pages using Angular4, HTML5.0, CSS and JavaScript.  • Build REST web service by building Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end.  • Involved in Stored Procedures, User Defined functions, Views and implemented the Error Handling in the Stored Procedures and SQL objects and Modified already existing stored  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap with MySQL Database as the backend.  • Involved in design and development of a user-friendly enterprise application using Java 1.8, JSF prime faces, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Web services, Eclipse and IntelliJ.  • Developed and enhanced the application using Java and J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB), Web Services (RESTful Web Services), HTML, JSON, XML, Maven and MySQL DB.  • Designed and implemented two micro services for Restful API's using Spring, Spring boot, Java8, Hibernate and following the JAX-RS principles.  • Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that have to communicate with a server.  • Developed the code using Spring MVC dispatcher servlet to transfer on to different Controller classes (components).  • Created JSP, JavaScript & HTML, extensively used various collection classes like Array List, Hash Map, Hash Table and Hash Set.  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.  • Developed the web tier using JSP, Spring MVC. Implemented event handling using JavaScript. Developed WebJava/J2EE application (JSP, EJB) using Struts/Tomcat/Xerces for Sybase, JBuilder.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS and JSP, and developed Business Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects, XML, and JDBC.  • Worked in developing front end technologies such as JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JSON, JSP and Struts. Java Developer Hansen Technologies - Columbia, SC May 2013 to July 2017 Description: Hansen BannerCX enables US utilities and municipalities to manage the full customer service and revenue lifecycle for the provision of electricity, gas, and water services.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Tomcat Server domain using upgraded version& extensively used MVC architecture and Tomcat for deployment purposes.  • Spring MVC and Hibernate was used for developing java REST services on the back end.  • Worked on creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases for each Java class that is being developed for this application using a mocking framework Mockito using Test Driven Development technique.  • Used Spring MVC Model View Controller to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building services and develop Spring based application with minimal configuration.  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.  • Used Spring Configuration Annotation for easy configuration, hibernate JPA Annotation in POJO classes as well as Spring Annotation across the spring boot application.  • Created REST API's Microservices and EJB using Express Router/Model/Controller architecture. ) Java Developer Information Network Security Agency - Addis Ababa, ET September 2012 to February 2013 Description: INSA's vision is to realize a globally competent National Cyber capability which plays a key role in protecting the national interests of Ethiopia.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, implementation, and testing of the projects  • Used Hibernate, Spring MVC, and Spring Beans to create servlets for user interaction with databases  • Developed Rest API to processes the data from DB to another Rest Service.  • Involved in fixing bugs and unit testing with test cases using JUnit  • Develop, Test and Design software using Agile Scrum methodologies  • Adapt existing legacy systems to conform with current programming methodologies resulting in increased profits and better system integration Assistance telecommunication engineer Addis Ababa, ET September 2011 to August 2012 Description: Ethio telecom is an integrated telecommunications services provider in Ethiopia, providing internet and telephone services.    Responsibilities:  • Provide technical support for variety of systems.  • Prepared reports and Documentation for ongoing projects  • Installed new system components  • Repaired and replace components as needed  • Checked and tested new installation and repaired to insure functionality  • Assist senior engineer in working large scale installation and upgrade Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Communication Engineering Addis Ababa University - Addis Ababa, ET Skills J2Ee, Java, Rest, Java J2Ee