Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Core Logic Oklahoma City, OK ? Having 9+ years of professional IT experience in designing and developing Web-based and Enterprise applications using OOA, OOD, OOPS and JAVA/J2EE technologies in Telecom, Insurance, Banking, Financial services, and Health Care domains.  ? Extensive experience in Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD).  ? Designed and developed business applications using JSP, Servlet, JAVA8, J2EE, Threads, Socket programming, EJB, XML, JNDI, Hibernate and JDBC technologies on Windows and UNIX platform.  ? Experienced in developing Client-Server/ N-tier/ Web-Application Development using Servlets, Multi-threading, JSP, Angular4 JS, Node JS, JSTL, Struts, JDBC, Spring, XML, HTML5, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Swing and Event Handling, DOM parser, CSS3, Bootstrap JS and Java Script.  ? Hands on experience in Implementing Graphical User Interface (GUI) pages by using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery with Standard Validations.  ? Familiar with Maven tool building different applications.  ? Have worked with different SDLC methodologies like Agile(Scrum), Kanban, and Waterfall.  ? Experience in applying best-practice Design patterns and Strategies to enterprise applications to reduce tight coupling, maximize performance, and reduce maintenance/extensibility risks.  ? Knowledge in Unified Modeling Language (UML) methodologies and experiences on design tools.  ? Hands on experience with Spring, Struts, Hibernate and JPA frameworks.  ? Experience in developing applications using Model-View-Controller architecture using Spring MVC.  ? Full life-cycle systems development requirements, definition, analysis, design, coding and implementation, workflow driven Component Based Development (EJBs) and Component modeling.  ? Experienced in Micro services, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring cloud.  ? Expertise on entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in Intranet and Internet applications using Web/Application Servers like Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere and WebLogic Application Server.  ? Extensively worked on SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) to implement the services properly in the applications.  ? Good Knowledge of Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the Business logic tier (Business object) and the Persistent storage tier (data source).  ? Experienced in using Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  ? Worked on databases systems like Sybase, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2 using tools like SQL Navigator, Toad for performing SQL and PL/SQL programming.  ? Created multiple numbers of Micro-services to handle specific feature set usually tied to a specific module of the application. Implemented Micro services which contain the shared functionality that all business units inside the application may perform the same.  ? Configured and created application log files using Log4J to trace required application messages.  ? Define and enforce project development standards and best practices that are consistent with enterprise architecture standards and goals.  ? Proficient in writing and handling SQL Queries, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly-motivated team player with the ability to work independently.  ? Extensively worked on Pivotal Tracker and JIRA tools for tracking stories in a Project in a different methodology of Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Designed, Developed and Hosted couple of websites through daily razor hosting services team. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Core Logic - Oklahoma City, OK January 2018 to Present Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Chick-Fill-A - Atlanta, GA September 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using AGILE methodology.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, Angular JS, Node JS, JQuery and Java script.  ? Creating Technical Design documents for MICRO SERVICES Design and RESTful Services design  ? Developing Micro Services and RESTful Services using SPRING BOOT 2 and SPRING CLOUD with Spring Framework 5, Java 8/ Java 10 using STS 3.9.3 (Spring Tool Suite), Eclipse JavaEE IDE 4.8 (Photon) and IntelliJ Idea 2018.2.5.  ? Designing and Implementing MICRO SERVICES based architecture using SPRING CLOUD - Feign and Ribbon, Cloud Config Server, EUREKA Naming Server, Zuul API Gateway, ZIPKIN Distributed Tracing, Spring Cloud Sleuth and HYSTRIX  ? Implementing RESTful Services with Spring DATA JPA, MySQL and designed Authentication and Authorization with Spring Security and OAuth2.0.  ? Designed and implemented Spring Boot RabbitMQ Application with AMQP and connected it with MySQL.  ? Designed and Implemented Currency Exchange Module using Micro Services with Spring Boot and Spring Cloud with Netflix.  ? Designed the applications with Spring Boot using Micro Services Patterns such as CQRS, Event Sourcing, SAGA, DDD, Resource Adapter, and Circuit Breaker.  ? Defined new validations through Angular2JS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  ? Used Spring MVC, Ajax and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  ? To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  ? Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  ? Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate & Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  ? Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  ? Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools.  ? Integrated spring and hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  ? Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  ? Developed Message Driven Bean for asynchronous sending Messages using JMS.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP.  ? Used Rest methodology for the service layer interface and used JSON for the data transformation.  ? Developed various AJAX and JSON calls for the communication between the server and the UI.  ? Using AJAX to request JSON data through third party REST APIs to acquire products data from server and display it in sorted order.  ? Developed web services for produce and consumed the services by making Web Service  calls to remote services in different applications.  ? Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners  ? Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for MySQL Server.  ? Developed the Mapping Resource Files for the database entities.  ? Packaged and deployed the application in IBM WebSphere.  ? Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  ? Playback and technical presentations to the clients on acquired knowledge.  ? Generating reports in PDF using iText Open source and excel file formats.  ? Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  ? Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements  ? Used Rational Clear Case for the version control.  ? Used Maven as the build tool.  ? Used J-Unit Testing and Ant Scripts.  ? Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in AGILE Methodology.  ? Used Tortoise SVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.    Performed Aggregation, Parallel processing, developed Camel Orchestration layers to integrate different components of the application using Apache Camel.    Environment: Java, JDK, J2EE (EJBs, JSP/Servlet, JDBC), HTML, CSS, Angular JS, Node JS, XML, JSON, AJAX, JQUERY, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, MVC design patterns, WebSphere Server, MySQL Server, JMS, JNDI, Ant, Maven, RMI, Eclipse IDE, UML, JIRA, Tortoise SVN, Rational Clear Case, LINUX. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Prudential - Newark, NJ March 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the complete SDLC including design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  ? Documented detailed technical design documents including class diagrams, technical flow diagrams and sequence diagrams.  ? Extensively worked in AGILE development environment.  ? Involved in implementation of the presentation layer (GUI) for the application using HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used Ajax and jQuery to dynamically load the content into the web pages without reloading the pages.  ? Used Spring Framework for dependency injection for Action classes using Application Context XML file.  ? Involved in implementation of MVC pattern using Angular JS, Node JS, JSP and Spring Controller.  ? Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  ? Implemented MVC architecture using JSP, Spring, Hibernate and used Spring Framework to initialize managed beans and services.  ? Designed and integrated the full-scale Spring / Hibernate persistence solution with the application architectures.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the EJB 3.0 using annotations.  ? Used Spring AOP for reporting and used a test-driven approach to development leveraging spring's support for unit testing.  ? Used several J2EE design patterns like DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Front Controller and MVC- Model along with Struts to develop application.  ? Implemented Action classes, Form classes and created Struts-config files, validation files, tiles definitions, resource bundles for the entire application using struts framework.  ? Business logic is implemented using Struts Action Components in the Struts.  ? Developed Struts Forms and Actions for validation of user request data and application  Functionality.  ? Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  ? Exposed spring services as Web Services with REST (Representational State Transfer).  ? Used JAX-RPC Web Services using SOAP to process the application for the customer.  ? Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  ? Interfaced with the My SQL back-end database by integrating Spring with Hibernate.  ? Implemented JUNIT test cases for unit testing and Suites for end to end testing.  ? Used SVN for version control and LOG4J for debugging.  ? Involved in Maintenance and Enhancements for the project.  ? Extensively solved lot of tickets raised by users in Pivotal Tracker tool (Agile Project Management Tool).    Environment: Java, XML, EJB, JPA, HTML, CSS, JAVA SCRIPT, Node JS, DHTML, JSON, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Servlets, JSP, JSF, AJAX, JQuery, REST, JAX-WS, Log4j, TOAD, EnHydra, a, SOAP, PL/SQL, web services, WebSphere Application Server, MY SQL, My Eclipse, SVN, Edit plus, Notepad++, KAWA PRO, KANBAN, Pivotal Tracker. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Viacom - New York, NY January 2012 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in complete software development life cycle including design, development, testing, monitoring logs, debugs and trouble shoot and fix the problems in various environments in AGILE Methodology.  ? Server side programming is done using java servlets, and EJB.  ? Translated the entire business model of the Mutual Funds Operations in to Object Oriented models.  ? Converted XML data in to HTML specification to be displayed in the webpage.  ? Coded Java Beans with Eclipse IDE and implemented the logic for navigation between JSP pages using MVC design patterns.  ? Implemented Struts framework (Action & Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate classes.  ? Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  ? Used Spring Beans to encapsulate business logic and Implemented Application MVC Architecture using Spring MVC framework.  ? Designed & developed various business services and methods utilized by online web applications for fulfilling their functionalities using Spring.  ? Developed Controller's and Validator components using Spring MVC framework.  ? Used REST methodology using HTTP Handlers in developing Web Service replication interface for setting up data feeds for content transportation in XML and JSON formats.  ? Developed the code through different Layers presentations layer using Struts, Business Layer using Spring IOC, Service Layer using Hibernate ORM framework.  ? Worked with Hibernate / JPA Spring MVC Integration using ApplicationContext.xml.  ? HQL queries were developed to retrieve data using Hibernate.  ? Developed Controller Servlets, Action and Action Form objects for process of interacting with MySQL database using Struts.  ? Develop back-end business/application logic through Session EJBs.  ? Developed Database Procedures for updating, Inserting, and deleting table for a complete logical Unit of Work (LUW) using PL/SQL.  ? Involved in system testing and integration testing, and trouble shoot issues in multiple environments.  ? Deployment and developing Enterprise Java Beans with WebLogic Application server in the UNIX Environment.  ? Used Pivotal Tracker Tool for Project Stories tracking in AGILE methodology.  ? Prepared complete documentation for developed portion of the system.  ? Used Rational Clear Case as version control system.  ? Used SVN for version control and LOG4J for debugging.    Environment: Java, J2EE, EJB, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, Angular JS, XML, JSON, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, PL/SQL, JDBC, WebLogic, My Eclipse, MYSQL, Enhydra, ANT, MAVEN, Gen Shell, JUnit, Rational Clear Case, Edit plus, Notepad++, SVN, Pivotal Tracker. Java Developer SUBEX SYSTEMS LTD October 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the risk workflow system.  ? Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support in WATER FALL methodology.  ? Applied OOAD principle for the analysis and design of the system.  ? Applied J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Objects (DAO) and Adapter during the development of components.  ? Developed front-end screens using Struts, JSP, HTML, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and performed action mapping using Struts.  ? Performed data validation in Struts Form beans and Action Classes.  ? Developed POJO based programming model using spring framework.  ? Used IOC (Inversion of Control) Pattern and Dependency Injection of Spring framework for wiring and managing business objects.  ? Used Hibernate framework for Entity Relational Mapping.  ? Implemented Asynchronous messaging between System Integration components using JMS [Spring JMS Template].  ? Used Web Services to connect to mainframe for the validation of the data.  ? SOAP has been used as a protocol to send request and response in the form of XML messages.  ? WSDL has been used to expose the Web Services.  ? Implemented business logic on server-side as Entity Beans and Session Beans.  ? Developed code to call stored procedures using Spring JDBC.  ? Designed and developed access logging using Spring AOP and log4j debugging for services access report and audit purpose.  ? Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions to process the data using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables.  ? Used SAX Parser to parse the xml files.  ? Used JBOSS Application Server to deploy the build.  ? Participated in Code Reviews of other modules, documents, test cases.  ? Implemented UNIX Shell to deploy the application.  ? Used MYSQL database for data persistence.  ? Involved in unit testing, integration testing.  ? Performed defect tracking, bug fixing and enhancements.  ? Log4j framework has been used for logging debug, info & error data.  ? Extensively worked on Windows and UNIX operating systems.  ? Used Pivotal Tracker Tool for Project Tracking in SDLC phases of WATERFALL methodology.  ? Used SVN as version control system.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JAVA SCRIPT, AJAX, JQuery, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, XML, XSLT, EJB, JDBC, JBuilder, Eclipse, MYSQL, JBOSS Application Server, SVN, Enhydra, Gen Shell, Windows, UNIX, Pivotal Tracker, Edit plus, Notepad++. Education business Northwest Missouri State University August 2017 to April 2018 Skills AJAX (8 years), CSS (8 years), Eclipse (8 years), EJB (5 years), HTML (8 years), J2EE (8 years), Java (9 years), JDBC (5 years), JQuery (8 years), JSON (6 years), JSP (8 years), PL/SQL (5 years), SOAP (7 years), SQL (8 years), Struts (8 years), Subversion (8 years), SVN (8 years), version control. (8 years), web services (7 years), XML (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: C, C++, Java, JavaScript, PL/SQL, Apache camel, Mongo DB, Micro-services  Java Technologies: Core Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, J2EE, JNDI, Micro-services  J2EE Frameworks: Struts, Hibernate, spring, EJB, JPA.  Web Development: Web Services, Restful Web Services (JAX-RS), SOAP (JAX-WS, JAX-RPC), APACHE AXIS VERSIONS, AJAX, JQUERY, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap JS, JSON, XML, XSL, XSLT, XSD.    Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX (Solaris), LINUX, HP-UX.  Application/Web Servers: JBOSS, Web sphere, Web logic.  IDE's: Eclipse, My Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, RAD.  RDBMS/Backend: Oracle, DB2, MYSQL Server.  Tools: JIRA, Pivotal Tracker, Unified Modeling Language (UML), Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD), Dream Weaver, TCP/IP, HTTP, ANT, ENHYDRA, Kawa Pro, Gen Shell, Toad, SQL Developer.  Version Control Systems: WIN-CVS, Git, SVN, Rational Clear Case.