Java Lead <span class="hl">Java</span> Lead Java Lead - Bank of America, Jersey City-NJ Phoenix, AZ • Over 9+ years of IT experience (Finance Domain) in design, development, testing and documentation of Enterprise applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Worked extensivelyin COREJAVA, SCALA, Multithreading, WEBSPHERE, WEBLOGIC, DOCKER, HIBERNATE, SPRINGBOOT, IBMMQ, ANGULAR/PLAY,  JMS, MICROSERVICE, XML, MONGODB, ORACLE, EXADATA, SQL, PL/SQL, Elastic SEARCH, PERL/PYTHON, INFORMATICA/Big Data, DB2 and SYBASE.  • Java Developer with experience in Design, Development and Implementation of multi-tier client web-based applications using Object Oriented Methodologies.  • Highly experienced in core java,data structure, algorithmand problem-solving skills  • Proven ability to solve any type of complex problems independently.  • Experienced to produce of high volume, low latency systems.  • Highly experiencedin Multithreading.  • Extensive use of the Java Collection API, Concurrent, Reflection API.  • Well experienced forJMS in creating JMS Topic Subscribers and Publishers and MQ.  • Experienced in usingWEBLOGIC, DOCKERand WEBSPHEREApplication Servers.  • Thorough understanding and hands on experience on Relational Databases like Oracle, Sybase,DB2 and EXADATA.  • Strong Database development experience in writing functions, procedures, triggers, and views in PL/SQL.  • Well experienced in-service development using Service-Oriented Architecture technologies (SOA) like Web Services/SOAP.  • Spring MVCpattern has been implemented successfully in three applications.  • Used Drools/MVEL as rule engine for business logic integration in Java.  • Experience in testing the application with JUNIT. Strong in writing build files with ANT.  • Good experience with Hibernate and Spring JDBC in Persistence layer.  • Developed and deployed REST web service by SPRINGto process JSON data.  • Experienced in Local and distributed caching frameworks (EHCACHE) and Coherence WebLogic cache.  • Worked on migration from java 1.6 to 1.8(function API, Stream API, Lambda Expressions, Collection and Concurrent API, Memory management).  • Experienced in ETL INFORMATICA/CLOVERETL, HADOOP (HDFS, Hive / Impala, SQOOP and Map reduce) SPARK, KAFKA,AVRO.  • Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with Angular JS/PLAY.  • Key role in several assignments reviewing design docs, code reviews, bug fixing, designing QA systems and working with business analysts and shared innovation and automation.  • Ability to quickly adjust priorities and take on projects with limited specifications.  • Effective team player with excellent logical and analytical abilities and passion for technology and self- starter.  • Experienced in capital market, frontoffice, back office, settlement and clearance Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Lead Bank of America, Jersey City-NJ September 2018 to Present Project-PME (Product Master Environment)    It's a global authorized data center for any sort of information about a financial instrument which is required to trade or hold an instrument and properly identifies an instrument, identifies characteristics of an instrument. It is being used across the bank and other outside financial body for regulatory point of view. Holds golden copy of data for bank for all market segments.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the project using Agile and TDD Methodology.  • Implemented Multithreading and Concurrent API for processing.  • Developed java API and functional programming to calculate liquidity ratio of an asset for different market segments using core java (collection, memory management and OOPS).  • Developed and deployed Rest web service to process JSON data.  • Involved inschema design and SQL queries and messaging tuning to increase the through put.  • Enhanced new feature using python.  • Developed various transformations and mapping.  • Involved to implementdata objects for bi-temporal data.  • Involved parsing different code base and published data set into RDF(No SQL) using SCALA for data lineage.  • Involved writing SPARQL query to fetch data from RDF.  • Processed regulatory data for MIFID II for OTC, Fixed Incomeand derivative products.  • Involved to design UI by Play framework using SCALA and AKKA framework for actor model.  • Delivered one module in and out with innovation and automation.  • Participated in store writing, architecture, deployment and code review and mentoring junior.  • Involved solving production issue with no time and message tuning as part of MQ messaging.  • Communicated with multiple BA's and stake holders to understand the business for zero defect deliverables with minimum super vision.    Environment: Eclipse, JAVA, SCALA,SPRING,WEBSPHERE, REST API, ANGULAR,XML, XSD, INFORMATICA/COLVER ETL, UNIX,Log4j, Putty,HADOOP/SPARK ,Hibernate, Oracle, EXADATA, No SQL, Db2, Jenkins,  Perl/Python, TIBCO, MQ, AUTOSYS. Java Lead Amadeus - New York, NY August 2016 to September 2018 Project-Reservation system.  It's a global product which is helping to manage inventory, reservation and payment processing.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the project using Agile and TDD Methodology.  • Implemented Concurrent API for processing.  • Developed java API and functional programming.  • Developed and deployed micro service to process highly volume of JSON data.  • Involved in schema design and SQL queries for new projects along with distributed DB.  • Enhanced new feature using python.  • Involved in design front end and back end communication.  • Provided design to produce of high volume, low latency systems.  • Involved in participating in heap, thread dump and GC log analysis.  • Participated in store writing, architecture, code review and mentoring junior.  • Communicated with BA's and product owner to understand the business for zero defect deliverables with minimum super vision.    Environment: Eclipse, JAVA1.8, SPRINGBOOT, MICROSERVICE, DOCKER, Swagger, XML,XSD,UNIX,Log4j, Putty, Angular5, coherence cache, Goldengate, Oracle, EXADATA, MONGO DB, Jenkins, Splunk, GIT,  Maven, Elasticsearch/SPARK ,Shell/Python,MQ. Java Lead GAP Inc - San Francisco, CA July 2014 to August 2016 Project-CAP (Commission Allocation Program)    It is a very critical web-based application as this application is visible to external clients along with internal use.  Business around this application: CS acts as a broker for institutional client in trading business. There is huge volume trading involved when we are dealing with institutional clients. Hence acting as broker provides huge commission to CS. A deal is finalized between CS and the client on the amount of commission to be owned by CS for execution of each trade done by the client. This commission is split into two parts CS Portion and the client portion (RX (Research exchange/Net commission). CS gives this benefit to the client of giving back some portion of this commission back to the client. This commission is not given back to the client in form of money, but instead CS pays invoices of services used by client from other vendors or vendors provided by CS to the client.  Client sends the invoices to CS and CAPS users upload these invoices using the application. The invoices are then accessed by the clients using the CAPS external website (internet application). Clients will be able to see those invoices and accordingly provide a feedback of either paying the invoices, pay it partially or reject the invoices.  Based on the feedback provided by the client, CAPS users generate a transmittal request and sends to the PeopleSoft account department for clearing.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the project using Agile Methodology.  • Implemented the application using Spring Framework which is based on IOC/Dependency injection design pattern.  • Involved in consuming XML Web Services(SOA) using SOAP, SAX and DOM XML parsers  • Implemented Multithreading and Concurrent API for processing the file and statements.  • Developed shell, Python script, ETL Transformationsand PL/SQL for Control M JOB.  • Developed and deployed REST web service by Jersey to process JSON data  • Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with Angular JS.  • Developed Perl/python script for batch processing.  • Importing and exporting data in HDFS and Hive using Sqoop.  • Extracted files from Oracle Database through Sqoop and placed in HDFS and processed.  • Written Hive UDFS to extract data from staging tables.  • Provided innovation and automation to save maintenance cost.  • Provides support in extended hours and weekends whenever needed.  • Worked on migration from java 1.6 to 1.8(functional interface, Stream API, Lambda Expressions, Collection and Concurrent API,memory management)  • Worked on integration testing and system testing to test the application functionality.  Environment:Eclipse, JDK 1.6, JDK 1.8, JMS, Spring,Angular,WEB LOGIC,Jersey, XML, XSD, ANT, Log4j, Putty, Oracle, SYBASE,Perl/Python, Db2, HADOOP, Jenkins, Visio, UML Eclipse, Soap UI.    Project-IMAN/SMAN Globalization  ISS supports the settlement of non-US equity transactions that are done at Credit Suisse. The equity trades are booked in the NTPA and Vision upstream systems. Every day, staff in the International Operations Group must perform the following actions as part of the settlement process: Capture and analyze open trades. Open trades are trades which have not yet settled.Escalate any unknown trades to Managers and Trade Support. Clear the ISS, MERVA and CAMS queues.ISS is used to format SWIFT messages automatically.MERVA is used to send and track SWIFT messages sent through to other financial systems.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the project using TDD Methodology.  • Used SPRING to decouple Java components, ORM connectivity and transaction management.  • Designing/ Architecting/developing Restful Web Services for all the e-member functionalities.  • Used Hibernate for data persistency.  • Developed response triggering system using CRON trigger of Quartz Scheduler API.  • Used Drools as rule engine for business logic integration in Java  • Tested all the struts2 action using EASYMOCK framework.  • Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with Angular JS.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Reviewing the code to make sure it follows the best practices and the code  • Extensively used the JUNIT testing suite for testing and Log4J for logging.  • Involved in Peer Reviews of the code.    Environment: Java, JSP, Angular JS, JMS, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle 10g, DB2, Sybase, Perl/Python, BEA Web logic,AJAX XML, EASYMOCK, XSD, Maven, Log4j, SVN, Putty.    Project - Allocation & Transaction Processing (ATP) Prime Brokerage    Prime Brokerage processes feeds from customers in different formats such as CSV files, excel documents, xml documents, etc. These feeds are received in different protocols such as FTP and PGP encrypted E-mail attachments. For each new feed, IT is required to analyze the file format and build transformations using custom code to recognize the file format, apply a set of common transformation rules and load the data to an operational data store.This includes new processes for retrieving, parsing, normalizing, and storing client data as well as an interface for CS CSR's to provide greater transparency for internal users.  Scope Includes:    File Mover - The client can send the allocation and reconciliation information files through various delivery channels like FTP, Email attachments move those files to INFORMATICA DX location for further processing. Before moving file to DX location file goes through various rules like decryption, file name renaming, file size check etc. All these rules configured against client profile.  INFORMATICA fetch those files and performs data validation, de-duplication and transformation through various workflows. Once these activities are completed as per record status data will be routed to mentioned destination systems.  GUI screens are developed to show Allocation, Clearing and Exception related data to end user.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and implementation of the architecture for the project using OOAD, UML Design Patterns.  • Developed the code using Test driven Development.  • Interpreting complicated requirements and implementing them in a user-friendly application that meets the needs of the users.  • Used Struts2 in developing user interfaces using UI Components and interceptors.  • Implemented Multithreading for processing the file.  • Implemented Struts 2 interceptors which are responsible for most of the request and response processing.  • Used Ajax for interactive and dynamic interfaces on web pages.  • Developed PL/SQL code for backend validation and processing.  • Reviewing the code to make sure it follows the best practices and the code.  • Setup of Development Environment and Source Control.  • Tested all the struts2 action using Easy Mock framework.  • Extensively used the JUNIT testing suite for testing and Log4J for logging.  • Involved in Peer Reviews of the code.    Environment: Java,JSP,Struts2,Oracle 10g,Informatica,BEA Web logic 10.3, JavaScript,AJAX,XML,ANT, Putty,Rapid SQL,UML Eclipse. Sr. Java Developer Apex Systems, Inc June 2012 to July 2014 Project: Intellect Flow    Description: Workflow driven processing is mainly used to draw the BPM process of a product and for Maintenance Process. It provides flexibility to define the entire workflow as per the existing legacy business requirements and allowing the users to automate several intermediate activities which in turn effectively reducing the total business turnover time. Combined with the imaging solution, it provides the users with a powerful Document Management System.  Indexer:  Helpful for create User defined screen for the maintenance of Transaction and to view the work item details.  Imaging:  Imaging mainly used for maintaining the transactions data of different products.Generally, the documents are coming through different sources like Scanner, Fax and Email from different location into a main server in the imaging (IMG.TFT) format. After that we are uploading the images by linking to the corresponding transaction's that bank user can easily process the transactions by editing the images.We can also crop, print, zooming, magnify and reject the images according to user choice. To perform the operation, it uses RMI socket connection ISS is used to format SWIFT messages automatically.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Technical document design depends on the Business flow.  • Responsible for conducting the technical low-level code and design review process and web navigation, control flow and error handling.  • Implemented Multithreading for clearing the instrument.  • Developed web interface using JSP,tag libraries and JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Designed and developed messaging frameworkand integratingwith IBM MQ.  • Handling the build activity for the environment WEBLOGICand WEBSPHERE.  • Worked on integration testing and system testing to test the application functionality.  • Developed new feature and application enhancement for the current iteration.  • Implemented workflow with other different product  • Involved in SQL queries tuning, database design.  • Used the Ant build script to build and deploy the application in UNIX Server.  • Used various UNIX commands for manipulation of directories and files.    Environment: Windows/Unix, Java, JavaScript, SERVLET, EJB, JMS, Web Service, Oracle, Weblogic, WebSphere, MQ Series,JSP (JSTL, Custom tags), JDBC, JMS, Ant, JUNIT. Java Developer Apple, Sunnyvale CA - Sunnyvale, CA April 2010 to May 2010 Project: K-PAYTRACK    Description:The K-Pay track has developed to enable KLI to track and update statuses of payment and other service requests.  Salient features are listed below: Update Payment Status Description: This module was designed and developed to enable users of K-PAYTRACK to update the payment status for a given remittance type.  All Cash payments are by default considered has cleared. The display layout of the search page and the records that the user can update is Based on the hierarchy of the user (Account Level 1/Account Level  Update Exception Description: This module was designed and developed to enable users of K-PAYTRACK to update exceptions (Tertiary/Secondary/Primary) that are generated when the user uploads an excel in "Upload Payment Status" module.View All Exception Description: This module was designed and developed to enable users of K-PAYTRACK to view all the exception (Primary, Secondary and Tertiary) which may remain unhandled by the user.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of the module.  • Wrote tested components like JSPs, SERVLETS, PROTLETS, Java beans.  • Involved in development java classes using Strings, Collections, Lists and Interfaces.  • Used WEBSPEHRE 5.1 console and web sphere portal server to deploy J2EE components (Enterprise Archive), involved in production support.  • Configured Hibernate ORM methodologies and writing SQL and HQL queries.  • Developed hibernate mapping and hibernate configuration files.    Environment:IBM - Rational Application Developer (RAD),Windows XP,Oracle9i database, web sphere,IBM web sphere portal server, IBM Tivoli Directory Server V 5.2, Java, PORTLET, JSP,JavaScript, EJB, Hibernate, PL/SQL, Log4j,ANT,Toad. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX Additional Information SKILL SET    Languages Java, SCALA,JavaScript, Type script, CSS, PL/SQL, Perl/Python  Web Technologies  JAVA,SERVELT 2.3, JDBC 2.0, CSS,JavaScript,JSP, JNDI,JQUERY, Struts2.0, JMS, Spring Web Flow,Webservice using AXIS2,JAX-RPC,JAX-WS, Java Mail, JSON, ANGULAR    Application Servers IBM Websphere Application Server, WebLogic and Web sphere portal server  Web Server Apache Tomcat  Frameworks / APIs Spring framework, Struts 1.1/1.2/2.0/Tiles,JUNIT4.1, Log4j, Ant, WEB SERVICES (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI), Restful webservices  Development Tools (IDE) Eclipse,RAD  XML XSL, DOM, XML Schema, JAXB/SAX, XSLT and Designing DTDs.  Development Build Tools ANT,Maven, SBT  Database IBM DB2,Oracle, Sybase and EXADATA,MONGO DB.  Operating Systems Microsoft Windows 98/2000/NT/XP, UNIX  Version controlling tools SVN, GIT  ETL INFORMATICA/COLVER ETL  ORM Hibernate  Big Data HADOOP, HDFS, RDF,SPARK , KAFKA,YARN,AVRO  Database query tools TOAD,Oracle SQL Developer, SQLDBX  Development Methodologies Agile Methodologies and TDD  Project Management/Support tools Visio, JIRA, WIKI,JENKINS, SUPERPUTTY,FEDELLER,Crucible