Agile Java Developer Agile <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Agile Java Developer - Confidential, Virginia U.S.A • Having 8 Years of experience as a Full - Stack Java/J2EE Web Developer with diversified exposure in analysis, design, development and implementation of web-based applications.  • Experienced in using build/deploy tools such as Jenkins, Docker and OpenShift for Continuous Integration & Deployment for Microservices.  • Extensive knowledge on Java SE including Collection, Threading and Core Java.  • Good experience on Java EE technologies Servlet, JDBC, JSP, JSTL and JNDI.  • Experienced with Java8 and spring boot 2.0.4, Rest API Micro services-based architecture and deployments  • Experienced with Orchestration technologies like Docker, OpenShift 3 and Kibana  • Experienced with Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Working knowledge of J2EE, EJB 3.0, JPA and Web Services ( Java, SOAP, XML, XSD jQuery JavaScript, HTML)  • Strong Experience with UI Framework JSF 1.x/2.x with Prime faces, Rich faces and Apache My Faces, Spring Thyme Leaf  • Experienced in creating test suites using JUnit Framework, Spring MVC Test Framework, Spock Framework  • Experienced with Agile methodology and delivery tool VersionOne  • Experienced working with a ticketing system such as Service Now  • Experienced working with HP-ALM defect tracking tool  • Experienced with tools such as Maven, Git, Jenkins, SonarQube.  • Experienced with RDBMS technologies MySQL, DB2, Oracle.  • Good technical abilities and skills developed by determining work ethic and self-learning. Work Experience Agile Java Developer Confidential, Virginia U.S.A June 2018 to Present June 2018 - Till Date)    Environment/Technologies:  Java 8, Sprig Boot 2.0.4, Rest API, Hibernate, Docker, Openshift 3, Kibana    Role & Responsibilities: Agile Java Developer  • Designed architecture and developed microservices using Spring boot and Rest API.  • Involved in Iteration Planning, Analysis, Development and Testing phases of the application.  • Used Rest Controller in Spring framework to create RESTful Web.  • Used Hibernate to query the database and perform other CRUD operations.  • Integrated Spring Security to validate the users.  • Involved in deployment of microservice through CI/CD pipeline using Maven, Docker, OpenShift.  • Involved in production support, monitoring server and error logs and debugging.  • Used Postman to test the RESTful API for HTTP requests such as GET, POST, and PUT.  • Used GIT for version control tool for merging branches and solved conflicts.  • Worked with Threads, Multithreading, Synchronization and Collection API Senior Software Engineer April 2010 to Present Agile Java Developer Confidential, Virginia U.S.A June 2017 to May 2018 June 2017 - May 2018)  Environment/Technologies:  Java 1.8, JSF 2.0, JSP, Servlets, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, Webservice, JMS, WebLogic 12.2.1, Eclipse, IT, Version One, HP ALM, Jenkins, Autosys.    Role & Responsibilities: Agile Java Developer  • Understanding the scope of remediation of given application and Prepare design development and Technical Specification for the project.  • Review the application architecture and provide with the remediation changes. Writing Automated Test cases for development environment and Integration environments.  • Configure Jenkins build for the applications and continuously monitor about the build success and failure. Trigger mails and contact L2 support and L3 support if need.  • Perform SAST scanning the application to find out security vulnerabilities and fixing them. Configure Sonar plugin for the application and fix the sonar findings.  • Co-ordinate with various team such as TCM, Middleware, Unix for the application deployment. Good exposure with ticketing system such as ServiceNow. Agile Java Developer Confidential, Virginia U.S.A May 2016 to March 2017 Client: Confidential, Virginia U.S. A (May 2016 to March 2017)    Environment/Technologies:  Spring MVC 4.0, Thyme Leaf 3.0, Bootstrap, jQuery, Spring MVC Test Framework, JBoss 7.0, Eclipse, GIT, VersionOne, HP ALM.  Role & Responsibilities: Agile Java Developer    • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology and followed Scrum sessions.  • Used Spring MVC with Hibernate framework to build the application on server side  • Built interactive and dynamic UI pages as per given wireframes using Thyme Leaf 3.0, Bootstrap, CSS, jQuery and Spring MVC 4.0.  • Used AJAX calls for data updates in UI  • Configured the Dispatcher Servlet, setting up the View Resolver, Transaction Manager.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using Spring MVC Test Framework.  • Used GIT for version control tool, Defect tracking HP-ALM, delivery tool Version One    Company: Hexaware Technologies Limited, India. Senior Java Developer Confidential - DE December 2010 to April 2015 Germany (Dec 2010 - April 2015)  Environment/Technologies:  Java 6, EJB 3.0, JSF 2.2, SQL, WebLogic 10.3, JBoss AS    Role & Responsibilities: Senior Java Developer  • Requirement analysis, Solution definition, Data design.  • Coordinated with business analysts / clients to understand and develop a defect free product.  • Review of technical deliverables, defect tracking, effort estimation for the defects and status update to both onsite coordinator and project manager.  • Followed the Quality standards defined by the company. Done review of code developed to ensure the coding standards.  • Release Maintenance Preparation and Deployment on the servers.  • To work on production, take over /support activities. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology TamilNadu, India Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jsf, Docker, Git, Javascript, Json, Xml, Maven, Ajax, Web services, Weblogic, Db2, Database, Rest, Java J2Ee, MVC, JEE, JSP, Core Java, Soap Additional Information SKILLS PROFILE  Languages/Framework  JAVA, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, SQL, JSF 2.2, Rich faces 3.3.X, Prime faces, My faces 2.0.0, Thyme Leaf 3.0, Ajax, JavaScript, JPA, EJB3.0, Spring Boot, REST Web Services, Java Messaging Service(JMS), JIL, Maven, JSON, XML, XSD    Orchestration Technologies OpenShift 3, Docker  ELK Stack for log monitoring Kibana  Database Oracle, DB2, MySQL  Web/Application Servers JBoss 7.0, WebLogic 12.2.1  Development tools Eclipse, Putty, Toad, Microsoft SQL developer, Rapid SQL, GIT, Intellij Idea.  Operating Systems Windows, Linux.