Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - Fidelity Investments Austin, TX * 8+ years of experience as Software Developer, combining around 5+ years in Designing & Development of Android Applications for Smart Phone & Tablet and around 3 years on Java based Applications.  * Extensive experience in Android application development.  * Good understanding in Android OS, interactive application development and memory management and also worked on Linux kernel level.  * Proficient with common Android Framework API's (Location, Camera, Scanner, Notifications, Maps) and Core Java.  * Developed elegant user interfaces with rich features and also worked on Android open source projects (AOSP) and OTA package tools and Knowledge on multimedia frameworks such as Audio and Video frameworks.  * Expertise building Native Android Applications using (ANDROID SDK, NDK) as well as Hybrid applications using (Apache Cordova, Phone Gap) Platforms.  * Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications and worked on OOD (Object Oriented Designs).  * Experience in working with the latest API's Android Version 5.0 (Lollipop), Android Version 6.0 (Marshmallow), Android Version 7.0 (NOUGAT).  * Experience in using Fragments, Activity Framework, Flow and Motor Framework, Accelerator Framework, Action Bar Navigation, Menu designs and view controls, Loaders, Scroll View, List View and Recycler Views.  * Experience working with MVC (Model View Controller) and MVP (Model view Presenter) frameworks patterns.  * Validated JSON response as per the given REST API'S and worked on Espresso frameworks in building the application.  * Used GSON Library, RETROFIT 2.0 Library and Google Volley for parsing the JSON and Knowledge on Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) to maintain cross platform compatability and also worked on Gradle, Maven.  * Experience in Web services using markup languages like JSON and REST.  * Also worked with Gradle wrapper and dependencies for gradle configuration and has knowledge in working with Embedded devices.  * Experience in using Storage options in Android like Shared Preferences and worked on Near Field Communication NFC which are mainly used for near by transactions.  * Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications, Asynchronous Programming in Android (such as Thread pool, AsyncTasks and Services). Implemented the monetization of apps, which has capabilities to do in-app purchases.  * Good mobile and web design skills using Activities (android), HTML 5, Java Script, AJAX and XML.  * Experience in using Java Native Interface (JNI) and Knowledge in Crashlytics and Fabrics which help in crash reporting and experience in Android performance profilers which helps to measure the application performance.  * Experience with source code control management like subversion (SVN) and GIT, SOURCE TREE, Smart GIT and also experience with Otto and worked on Linux kernel which helps the applications to communicate with the hardware.  * Expert in writing client side validations using validation framework, Java Script and worked on React native which helps in using large web applications and also worked with retail clients in developing customer based applications and developed the application about the retail store information.  * Undertook full life cycle of Android Application Development which includes testing on device and simulator as well and writing JUNIT test cases using Mockito, Robotium, Espresso, Robolectric and CTS testing for android applications.  * Used CLI (Command Line tools) to update and install each package in android studio.  * Working on implementation of OMA-DM device management protocol for android devices.  * Good Experience with ProGuard, DexGuard files and dependency injection such as Dagger.  * Knowledge in designing and developing adaptive UI components, widgets for android phones, tablets using Notifications, Adapters, Content Provider, Services, XML Parsing, SQLite.  * Experience working with JNI which helps to Java code running using JVM for calling and also libraries written in C, C++ code and experience in using C, C++ code.  * Experience in using Storage options in Android like Shared Preferences and also worked on ADB commands and experience in Android profiling for memory and battery performance management.  * Knowledge in working with audio and video codec's like .3GPP, MPEG-4 and worked as Traige Engineer in debugging bug reports and logcat logs.  * Excellent debugging of Android frameworks and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, IntelliJIDEA IDEA and RAD.  * Experience in various methodologies like of SDLC like Agile development and Waterfall development.  * Extensive experience in requirement analysis, functional analysis, excellent conceptual and logical thinking.  * Excellent working experience with variety of operating systems like Windows, (Linux) Ubuntu and Fedora.  * Ability to grasp and master new technologies, excellent analytical and problem solving skills.  * Able to take initiative work independently and also as a team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer Fidelity Investments - Durham, NC August 2018 to Present Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fidelity.android&hl=en_US    Responsibilities: • Involved in requirement gathering, UI design and development.  • Involved in Integrating PayPal feature to the Fidelity application for making the payments.  • Written application logic using Kotlin in Android Studio and followed TDD approach in developing the application and followed Clean View architecture.  • Involved in development and enhancements of features to restrict the usage based on Authorization and Authentication tokens.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and worked on Android Frameworks to implement features for the payment gateway.  • Used sliding side menu library for easy navigation through the app and enhanced the UI design of the application.  • Responsible for design of user interface using custom layouts and different form of widgets.  • Used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  • Worked extensively on local data storage using Shared Preferences, SQLite databases, and File system.  • Integrating RESTful API services with Basic Authentication process and also used PhoneGap for developing the application and worked with unit testing with the help of Espresso and Robolectric frameworks.  • Used SeeTestcloud and Virtual device lab for testing the application changes.  • Constructing http requests, fetching server response and parsing feeds wherever required.  • Involved in working with Location Manager and Restful Web service with JSON and also used Dagger for dependency injection and worked on Linux kernel which helps the applications to communicate with the hardware.  • Integrated Push Notifications (GCM) to notify user about new in-stock apparels and worked on CTS test cases to ensure that the applications support the google standards.  • Used GIT Bitbucket for version control and updating and push the changes in to the application and followed Agile with JIRA for implementing this project.    Environment: Android SDK, SQLite, Core Java,Kotlin, Android studio IDE,Jenkins, Android API's, PayPal, XML, JSON, REST services, Log cat, BitBucket. Android Developer Meijer - Grand Rapids, MI November 2017 to July 2018 Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.meijer.mobile.meijer&hl=en_US    Responsibilities: • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment and Testing of applications.  • Participated in ongoing initiatives to improve processes and establish best practices.  • Implemented full life cycle development of new web applications and modification of existing applications to add new components and features emphasizing maintainability, reliability, scalability and performance.  • Worked on innovative background reflecting the user account status that changes according to user's account.  • Delivered Functional Requirements document after detailed Requirements gathering sessions with Business.  • Assisted in designing the User Interface (UI/UX) and overall look and feel of the app.  • Responsible for designing all the GUI elements by making required modifications to the XML.  • Used MVC pattern to encapsulate client/server interactions helps to illustrate software-pattern roles as well as developer roles by separating object, components, and services into multi-tiers with well-defined boundaries.  • Responsible for working on Custom UI widgets for summary and Worked on memory leaks using DDMS and Leak Canary.  • Responsible in Android profiling for memory and battery performance management and used Dagger as dependency injection and used RX Java in building the app.  • Used Multi-threading to implement parallel processing and implemented in app purchases.  • Implemented client side RESTful call to receive JSON based response and parsed using GSON.  • Utilized a retention fragment technique to avoid losing the AsyncTask.  • Used React Native in creating large web apps which stores the data and can be reused in the application and worked as Traige Engineer on ADB and debugging bug reports.  • Participated in the quality assurance of the app including, testing of the User Interface and testing the app on different mobile devices and worked on Video Streaming Frameworks.  • Used ProGuard for code shrinking, optimizing, and obfuscating the remaining classes, fields, and methods with short names. This helped in preventing the APK from reverse engineering.  • Developed update patches, modules and components to fix bugs, adhere compliance & mitigate security risks.  • Configured security of the app with HTTP and SSL connection.  • Developed connection with server using Open Source libraries, Asynchronous Http Client for Android.  • Contributed in production release deployment, certifying release features, monitoring production logs and fixing production issues on demand.  • Involved in designing user-friendly tool to be used by deployment team on verifying content management Production/Lower environments.  • Used GIT for version control and followed Agile with JIRA for implementing this project.    Environment: Android SDKCore Java, Android studio IDE, Android API's, Action Bar, Custom Dialog Boxes ADT plug-in, Camera, Zebra Scanner, JDK, SQLite, XML, JSON, GSON, REST services, Github, Fragments. Android Developer Time Warner Cable - Herndon, VA June 2015 to October 2017 Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mytwc.common.resource&hl=en    Responsibilities: • Involved in requirement gathering, UI design and development.  • Written application logic using Android Studio and followed TDD approach in developing the application and followed MVP architecture.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and worked on Android Frameworks such as Notifications and Location in developing the application.  • Used sliding side menu library for easy navigation through the app and Used AOSP for development of application with middle ware.  • Responsible for design of user interface using custom layouts and different form of widgets.  • Used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  • Used services, Async tasks and Alert Notification API to implement parking status reminder into the mobile app and Involved in solving Gradle issues.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sharing using Facebook, Email, Twitter, SMS, etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  • Worked extensively on local data storage using Shared Preferences, SQLite databases, and File system.  • Used Parceler for passing Parcelable objects between various components of the app.  • Embedded Google Maps API, GPS Location Data into app with zooming controls for finding out the store and navigation details to the store.  • Integrating RESTful API services with Basic Authentication process and also used PhoneGap for developing the application and worked with unit testing with the help of Mockito, Robotium, Espresso and Robolectric frameworks.  • Involved in working with Location Manager and Restful Web service with JSON and also used Dagger for dependency injection and worked on Linux kernel which helps the applications to communicate with the hardware.  • Used GIT for version control and followed Agile with JIRA for implementing this project    Environment: Android SDK, SQLite, Core Java, Android studio IDE, Android API's, ADT plug-in, Location Manager, JDK 1.6, JNI, XML, JSON, GSON, REST services, GPS service, Log cat. Android Developer WellsFargo - Charlotte, NC November 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities: • Involved in full life cycle of the application including design, development and testing.  • Designed and Developed App screens and its workflow using Activity and Fragments.  • Written application logic using Android SDK and Android Studio.  • Implemented Model-View-Presenter design pattern.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Manage task with within Agile framework, and controlled JIRA workflows.  • Worked on Designing, Enhancements, Bug-fixing, KT Sessions, and Maintenance of the Application.  • Used ACRA-4.3.0 library to send crash reports to the developer.  • Performed on device debugging using ADB and tested application in device using Logcat, DDMS.  • Utilized Async Task, Thread, Handler, Services to provide smooth UI experience.  • Developed rich UI for the applications modules using ListView, Scroll View, View Pager & Navigation Drawer and developed Custom View.  • Customized different widgets that include Buttons, Toast's and Dialog's.  • Worked in Agile environment and handled daily standup meetings.  • Utilized GPS to get one-touch access and directions to ATM / location information.  Environment: Java, Android SDK 4.x, Android Studio, GIT, XML, JSON, RESTful Web Services, GPS, SQLite, Gradle, Maven. Android Developer iTriage - Denver, CO July 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities: • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails from the app.  • Handled XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.  • Used Java Mail API using Gmail authentication to send email without using the default/built-in app.  • Fixed suitable code to capture buttons, text field events & implemented desired action for each of the widgets.  • Used Log Cat, DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server) and trace view for debugging and detecting memory leaks.  • Driven services, Async task and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  • Operated on Webview, ListView & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  • Designed UI using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes and different form of widgets.  • Designed & coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach.  • Embedding Google Maps, GPS Location Data into app with zooming controls.  • Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the XML files.  • Implemented functionality based on the business requirements for major releases.  • Deployed the app to the Android Marketplace and supported the app for different releases of Android OS.  • Saved data module such as personal healthcare facilities, doctors, diseases, medications, insurance information, and health plans in the SQLite database.  Environment: Android SDK 4.1, 4.3, SQLite 3.7.13-3.8, Eclipse IDE 3.8, 4.2, JDK 7.0, XML 1.0, GPS, ADT Plug-in, Logcat, DDMS console. Java Developer Sovereign Bank - Hartford, CT November 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities: • Involved in Development, Integration and Testing of application modules • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, Java Script, JQuery, CSS • Have developed stateless session enterprise java beans.  • Implemented the project using IDE Eclipse.  • Used JSP, HTML, Java Script, Angular JS and CSS for content layout and presentation.  • Created data access layer using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Used JMS for Point-to-Point asynchronous messaging for high transactional Banking operation.  • Worked on JQuery, AJAX, JASON and JSF for designing highly user interactive web pages.  • Implemented AJAX for better user experience by dynamically providing Asynchronous request and response communication between the client and the server.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object persistency.  • Implemented the integration with the back end system with web services using SOAP • Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database.  • Implemented logger for debugging and testing purposes using Log4j.  • Developed JSF components, implemented event handling using Java, JSF and JavaScript for various modules.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers with PL/SQL.  • Involved in the bug tracking and Unit Testing using JUnit framework.  • Developed ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in an application server.  • Involved in peer to peer code reviews and cross checked whether coding standards are being followed.  Environment: Core java, Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Angular JS, Hibernate, SQL, HTML, Springs, JQuery, JNDI, JMS, PL/SQL, JBOSS, ANT, XML, Java Script, CSS, Windows, Eclipse, Log4j Java Developer Lotex Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities: • Involved in various SDLC phases such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Used Rational Rose for Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class & Object diagrams in design phase.  • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP code. Designed UI screens using JSF, JSP, Struts tags & HTML.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for client side validation.  • Used Struts with Spring Framework in the application, which is based on MVC, design pattern.  • Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Actively involved in designing and implementing Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Session Façade, Service Locator and Data Transfer Object design patterns.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information, such as trading status report, between the Brokers.  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.  • Used DAO pattern to retrieve the data from database.  • Used Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using REST.  • Used Maven to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using WebSphere Studio • Application Developer and used CVS for version control.  Environment: Struts 1.1, Hibernate 2.0, Spring 1.0, JSP1.2, Servlets 2.3, JMS, XML, REST, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, JQuery, UML, HTML, JNDI, CVS, Log4J, JUnit, WebSphere Application Server 5.1, WSAD 5.1.2, Rational Rose, IBM DB2 UDB. Education Bachelor's Skills Android studio, Api, Git, Html, Javascript