Mulesoft Developer Mulesoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java & Google Cloud Developer Alpharetta, GA • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing using Mule ESB and Java/J2EE technologies.  • 4 years of experience as Mulesoft Developer.  • Strong knowledge & experience working in teams implementing Agile Methodologies.  • Experience in designing, developing and consuming SOAP and RESTful web services   • Developed Mule Micro Services to deliver solutions in the form of services.  • Mule ESB experience with implementing service-oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise application integration (EAI) using Mule Server 3.x.  • Proficient with Anypoint Studio and Mule Integration Platform that used to interface applications, services, message routing, data transformation and service creation utilities  • Experienced in Designing the REST APIs using RAML and developed flows using APIKIT Router.  • Hands on Experience in using Mule Connectors like HTTP, HTTPS, Database, Web service consumer, File, JMS and VM   • Good experience in using Transformers, Filters, Flow Control, Collection splitters /Aggregators/ Scatter- Gather etc.  • Hands on experience in deploying applications into on premise and cloud  • Expertise in using Mule Data Weave in Data transformations for in Mule Flow.  • Experienced troubleshooting Mule ESB, including working with debuggers, flow analyzers, and configuration tools.  • Strong in Object–Oriented Programming concepts (OOPS) such as; Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts – Collection Framework, Exception Handling, IO and Serialization etc.  • Extensive experience in using Hibernate framework  • Experience in development and maintenance of Spring MVC   • Good knowledge on Spring Boot Framework  • Have been using GOF java designed patterns and J2EE design patterns   • Extensive usage of Maven build scripts for automated build process.  • Experienced in different IDEs like Eclipse, Any-Point Studio, and Spring Tool Suite (STS) for Development.  • Excellent interpersonal, management, analytical, problem solving abilities and communication skills.  • Willingness and ability to quickly adapt and learn new technologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mulesoft Developer It's a Logistics - Atlanta, GA September 2017 to Present domain development project. This project is mainly to integrate customers like GLOBALTRANZ, ESHIPPING with carriers like (AAA Cooper, FEDEX, UPGF and SAIA) to communicate information each other and exposing/consuming REST and SOAP services. It contains Track status, Document retrieval, Dispatch, Pricing and Account management modules.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in the business requirement gathering by interacting with Stakeholders.  • Involved in the design and development of application using Agile Scrum Methodology.  • Utilized integration Patterns, integration tools, EAI, Transformations, XML Schemas, and XSLT.  • Integrated REST API with Mule ESB and performed transformations  • Integrated Mule with Mongo DB.  • Designed Mule APIS using RAML and configured Input schemas and Response Schemas using traits and Schemas.  • Deployed the application in on-premise  • Implemented synchronous and Asynchronous messaging scopes using Active MQ in Mule.  • Used Mule ESB created http inbound and outbound flows to test the functionality.  • Used Mule ESB created JMS Connector as Inbound and Outbound components  • Involved in designing RAML using API Designer and exposed those services using API Console  • Utilized Mulesoft features like Data weave, API designer and various connectors to ensure robust and loosely coupled integration layer every time.  • Preparation of technical design documents.  • Work on reviews of Technical Deliverables during the project verification phase and Quality Control phase.  • Prepare and verify the unit test case and unit test report for developed interface module.  • Perform Regression testing on the deliverables and prepare the test report.  • Perform performance testing and optimize the solution as per SLA.  • Identify the root cause of the issues reported by users and provide a fix for the bug.  • Work with the client in proposing solutions for the overall stability of the developed applications and performance improvements.  • Coordinate with Business Analysts and offshore team during design, development, testing and UAT phases.    Environment: Mule 3.7.5, Java 1.8, SVN, Jenkins, RTC, AnyPoint Studio 5.4.3, Maven, mongo DB Mule Developer British Telecom - London December 2015 to March 2017 CCE is Network as a Service (NaaS) application, which helps customers to create a Virtual Topologies with the Existing Physical Network. The main functions of the CCE is to provide user a CANVAS, where user can draw his required topology and configure it for Network Provisioning.  RESPONSIBILITIES:    • Experience in Mulesoft Anypoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Creating Flows, Sub Flows, Exception strategy, Data Weave transformation in Mule configuration.  • Architected Integrations using Mulesoft ESB environments for both on premise and Cloud hub environments.  • Worked on creating services to interact with Outbound VWAN & R6 systems  • Done with preparation of design document specifications, troubleshoots and testing.  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third-party system and the customer side system.  • Implemented synchronous and Asynchronous messaging scopes using Active MQ in Mule.  • Used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Maven Profiling - Environment based Property files loading    Environment: Mule 3.7.3, Java, GIT, Jenkins, Agilefant, Bugzilla, AnyPoint Studio 5.4, Maven, PostgreSQL Mule Developer Cisco Systems, CA June 2014 to November 2015 Naboo is a network management tool that empowers service provider organizations to access networking tools and systems without restrictions around time or location, dynamically scale up and down their usage of network resources, and pay for only what they use. As the volume of data flowing through enterprise networks continues to explode, and the need for high performance networks and more agile IT systems increases, Cisco's Naboo offers an efficient method to reduce capital and operating expenditure in the telecom and services sector.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Configured Spring beans for importing the Mule flows.  • Developed the Custom Connectors in Mule ESB where all the exception handling logic was implemented in it.  • Worked on GIT Hub for maintaining the Code Repository. Involved in Agile Scrum meetings, Daily Stand up's, Sprint Retrospectives, Sprint planning.  • Used Agilefant for creating the tasks and tracking of the tasks progress.  • Worked on Rest based Web services and SOAP web services for Mule ESB flows.  • Written test cases in JUnit for unit testing of classes.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.  • Used Mule ESB from routing, filtering and aggregating message between application based on content and rules.  • Worked on Mule and Salesforce CRM Integration  • Schedule jobs using Quartz  • Implemented build package tool using Maven and imported all the dependencies from the Artifactory.    Environment: Core Java, Spring MVC, Mule 3.7.2, GIT, Jenkins, Agilefant, Bugzilla, AnyPoint Studio, Maven, Quartz 2.2.1, Salesforce CRM, Sonar, PostgreSQL Java Developer Cisco Sysyems, CA July 2012 to April 2014 CUPM permits standard services such as phone, line and voice mail etc. to be ordered for subscribers. It processes all changes to the underlying Cisco Unified Communications applications as an order. All orders in the system are tracked and viewable, both across orders and by subscriber name or ID. A simple wizard-driven approach is used for ordering services. It permits delegation of the order management capability so that requests for service additions, changes, or cancellations can be done without requiring an underlying knowledge of the voice applications that are delivering those services.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Used Agile/Scrum methodology to develop the application.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Device support  • Authentication throttling to improve performance.  • Supported Provisioning attributes for the unity connection.  • Handled Auto Sync using Change Notifications.  • Mask the Phone number which includes E+164 support.  • Analysing the client requirement and generate the tasks in Web tool Rally.  • Technical document preparation.  • Fixing the defects and related developments.  • Involved in Development of enhancements.  • Installing the Devices such as Call Manager and Unity Connection.  • Interacting with the client team.  • Involved in Unit Testing.    Environment: Core java, SOAP, Restful Web services, web logic and Cisco Proprietary tools. Java/J2EE Developer Catalina March 2011 to May 2012 User creates campaigns and Campaign will be in effect, when one contract with one -to- many campaign design(s) are created for the contract. User can either create an initial contract & then a subsequent campaign design. An initial campaign design that turns into a contract.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Actively involved in requirements gathering, Analysis, Conceptual Design while upgrading the project on Spring framework.  • Design service to create separate endpoints for different operations such that several clients can invoke the service for their business transaction processing.  • Implemented the business logic to process transactions for rule evaluation under the generated java stubs / POJO's.  • Implemented Persistent layer using Hibernate API.  • Integrated Hibernate with spring business components using Hibernate Template.  • Created JUnit test scripts to unit test the code flow. Testing and bug fixing to reach the end to end flow.  • Contribute in all phases of the development life cycle  • Write well designed, testable, efficient code  • Ensure designs are in compliance with specifications  • Support continuous improvement by investigating alternatives and technologies and presenting these for architectural review  • Fixing the defect items and related developments.  • Involved in Development of RESTful Web services.  • Document preparation and produce releases of software components  Environment: Core Java, spring IoC and MVC, Web Services, web logic, TRAC Education Master of Technology in CSE Acharya Nagarjuna University 2010 Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Acharya Nagarjuna University 2007 Skills JAVA (6 years), JENKINS (3 years), WEB SERVICES (4 years), MAVEN (3 years), SOAP (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/Harikrishna-Addanki Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Middleware Mule ESB  Web Services SOAP, REST  Programming Languages Core Java  Frameworks Spring IoC  ORM Framework Hibernate  Web/application Servers Tomcat, WebLogic, Mule Runtime  API Designer RAML  Testing Tools Postman, SOAP UI  Version Controls SVN, GIT  IDE Eclipse, AnyPointStudio  Continuous Integration Jenkins  Web Management Tool RTC, Rally, Agilefant  Build Manager Tool Maven