Senior AEM Developer Senior AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior AEM Developer - Active Health Management Chantilly, VA ? Over 8 years of IT experience with 4+ years of experience in design and implementation of modules on AEM 6.1,6.2,6.3 &6.4 and experience in design, development, deployment, maintenance and support of Java/J2EE applications.  ? Over 4.5+ years of hands on experience in development of content management solutions using Adobe CQ5 Content Management System.  ? Extensive experience in HTL (Sightly), JSP and for User Interface Development. Have a good understanding of Social Collaboration and Campaign Management with AEM.  ? Worked on Use classes and Sling models.  ? Experience in Adobe AEM WCM, CMS, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, JCR, Apache sling, AEM Component Development, template development, Architecture, Administration and installation of Publish and Author instances etc.  ? Experience in developing Templates (Static and Editable templates), Custom Components, creating and launching Workflows and customizing out of the box Widgets.  ? Hands-on experience in implementing features from technologies like Sling, OSGi, Felix, JCR, and current AEM functionalities of integrated products.  ? Domain expertise includes, system developments using CoreJava&J2EE Technologies such as JSP, JDBC, XML, SAML, ANT, Maven, Java Script.  ? Implementation knowledge of i18n on Components and Dialogs.  ? Proficient Experience in working with Event Handling, OSGI bundles, Sling Listeners, Sling Servlets, Sling Schedulers and Sling Configuration.  ? Experience in creating Workflow packages and using Tag Manager for reading tags from pages.  ? Rich experience in Web Services such as SOAP and Restful.  ? Working on responsive designs using Bootstrap and media queries.  ? Created Client libraries on AEM.  ? Well versed in designing presentation layer components using Servlets, JSP, HTML, andJavaScript.  ? Worked as an Admin, Giving permissions to user's and usergroups.  ? Proficient in configuration, implementation and integration of Enterprise Multi-tier Web Application with J2EE Frameworks, such as spring, Hibernate, Struts.  ? Provided author training to business users to familiarize them with the design and usage of the system.  ? Created the blueprints and live copy of the application.  ? Rich experienced in writing SQL queries with RDBMS skills in MySQL, Oracle, etc.  ? Hands-on experience using development IDEs including Eclipse, NetBeans and used MAVEN as build tool. Efficient in using Junit for unit testing.  ? Created multiple versions of same site by using AEMLaunches feature.  ? Used Brackets for Sightly (HTL) coding of components and client libraries.  ? Designing TheWorkflow Structure which involves to automate the Specific Process in AEM.  ? Efficient in Dispatcher configuration and Load balancing.  ? Expertise in building client side Middle Tier Development environment using JSP, Servlet, etc.  ? Experienced in using Adobe DynamicTagManagement (DTM) and integration of AEM with Adobe Analytics and Adobe Target.  ? Experience with SDLC process (Agile, Waterfall models) of performing detailed analysis, collecting use cases, documenting requirements.  ? Experience in version control software such as Git, SVN and in tracking tool as JIRA.  ? Good experience in coordinating and working with developers and End Users in Team based environment. Work Experience Senior AEM Developer Active Health Management - Chantilly, VA April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Configured and installation of AEM 6.3 (2017) on the various development, production, QA and predevelopment servers.  ? Involved in Migration planning for AEM 6.4.  ? Worked on Experience Fragments, Content Fragments and Content Fragment Models.  ? Designed templates of the website using the framework and developing custom components, widgets as per the requirements.  ? Installed CRXDE Integrated development environment and configured the project with subversion control.  ? Performed Administration Tasks to Activate, Replicate and Package the Changes To Publish As Well To Be Consumed By Other Environments.  ? Installed CRXDE Integrated development environment and configured the project with subversion  Control.  ? Created and maintained customer-facing Adobe AEM content management systems.  ? Used OSGI r6 annotations while creating servlets, schedulers, listeners, workflows.  ? Created Resource Resolver rules in Felix console by having a custom URL mapping.  ? Integrated JIRA with Jenkins for ContinuousIntegration testing. Created new build plans and updating dependencies  ? Created components using Sightly/ HTL.  ? Integrated Dialog and DesignDialog for all the content based components which allows to render the content dynamically.  ? Implemented i18n for components and dialogs for translation in to different languages.  ? Created custom OSGi services and Servlets using Eclipse IDE with Maven.  ? Implemented AEM Dev Tools to make development easier.  ? Integrated ACS AEM Commons with AEM 6.3.  ? Experienced in Adobe Day CQ and associated technologies like Sling, OSGi, Felix, JCR, and CRX.  ? Created AEMtemplates and page components with custom dialogs.  ? Developed mobile site Dialog and mobile Template.  ? Created OSGi bundles and resolved dependencies for the project.  ? Managed Users, Groups, and SystemUsersand Access Control Level (ACL) permissions.  ? Troubleshoot of caching issues related to Dispatcher and browsers.  ? Implemented Image renditions for continuous and consistent experience of content across all devices.  ? Integrated JIRA system with Workflow functionalities.  ? Writing activation and deactivation workflow models using various components such as process, participant, and dynamic participant steps.  ? Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) to develop live copy from blueprint, such that the structure and content can then be used on the Live Copy.  ? Created custom rollout actions for breaking inheritance and addressing analytics text fields not to be part of translation.  ? Involved in processing the request through dispatcher by configuring the contextpath of an application in the dispatcher. Any file  ? Created Custom loggers in Felix Console.  Environment: AEM 6.3, AEM 6.4, Java (JDK 1.8), Eclipse, Agile, OSGi, Servlets, Sightly HTML, Maven, Apache Felix, Apache Sling, JSP, JIRA, Web Services, JSON, SDLC, , JavaScript, Brackets, CSS, JQuery, JQuery. AEM Developer Petco, Sandiego , CA February 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Created and maintained AEM 6.1 and AEM 6.2 content management systems  ? Developed Templates and Components using AEM 6.2 Sightly and the Sling Models.  ? Define/Develop Junit for classes testing and Multi Site Management strategy.  ? Verify/Validate testing to ensure that the team generates high quality output.  ? Develop Custom AEM Workflows, OSGI Services and other Dynamic/Static web content management components. Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  ? Involved in content migration from AEM 6.1 to AEM 6.2  ? Development of the static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system.  ? Implemented i18n internationalization in the website.  ? Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  ? GIT is used as a distributed revision control system. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer's machine.  ? Provide estimates, designs, and the specifications for components, AEM templates, and workflows  ? Built various web pages using Java Script, HTML, CSS and JQuery.  ? Setup and configure the Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache landing pages HTML and serve as the static pages from Apache  ? Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  ? Held responsible for designing and implementing cloud-based solutions, including private, community and public cloud deployment models.  ? Server monitoring and implementing automated/custom maintenance tasks.  ? Provided estimates, designs, and specifications for AEM templates, components, and workflows.  ? Setup and configured Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  ? Worked on Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.  Environment: Adobe AEM 6.1 and 6.2, DAM, AEM Tagging, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Java, J2EE, Amazon AWS, Apache Maven, Angular JS, Rally, Restful Web Services, JAXP, JAXB, Axis 2.0, Jersey 1.2, Servlets, JDBC, MS SQL Server, HTML, Angular JS, JSP, AJAX, JUnit, log4j, Linux, Windows, ATTD AEM Developer Genworth - Richmond, VA May 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  ? End to end portal development based on wire frames/mock ups.  ? Design and development of web pages using AEM 5.6.1, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.  ? Developed Adobe AEM 5.6.1 templates and reusable components.  ? Extensively used AEM 5.6.1tagging features in developing components and templates.  ? Worked on implementing home page and other related pages.  ? Developed Adobe AEM templates and reusable components.  ? Extensively used AEM tagging features in developing components and templates  ? Involved in design, develop and support WCM components, integrations, and applications.  ? Developed custom templates, components, and widgets using AEM and integrated Components with Angular JS.  ? Extensively used AEM 5.6.1 tagging features in developing components and templates.  ? Worked on implementing home page and other related pages.  ? Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application in authoring environment.  ? Used JIRA & Mingle for bug tracking and project tracking.  ? Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  ? Created documentation and project specific configuration as wiki pages in Confluence.  ? Used SVN as version control and integrated with Hudson for continuous integration and nightly builds.  ? Involved in building, deploying the code and moving code to different environments.  ? Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  ? Involved in supporting the application postproduction and maintenance.  Environment: Java (jdk1.5), JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, AEM 5.6.1 (WCM), Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector, Windows and Linux, SVN , Hudson. Java/J2EE Developer Bloomberg - Dayton, NJ February 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Designed the applications using Spring MVC framework.  ? Extensively used Spring JDBC Template to implement DAO methods.  ? Working with ATG product catalogue. Involved in Database Design and modeling.  ? Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as  ? MVC, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Data Access Object, Singleton and Factory.  ? Created Unit, Integration and System test cases for different workflows.  ? Used Spring JDBC Prepared Statement with JDBC Template to insert and modify the data in database  ? Developed all the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript and Ajax.  ? Follow the best practices in coding like removing unnecessary casting, using generics in Hash Map, caching, Collections like sort, comparator, list, set and Design patterns.  ? Used JQuery Events to manipulate the elements depends on the user interactions.  ? Performed extensive testing for all three integrations using Unit, Integration and System test cases.  ? Consumed and produced REST based services using Jersey.  ? Implementation of the Business logic layer for Mongo DB Services.  ? Set guidelines and timeframes and monitored the various phases of the project.  ? Consumed Restful web service to handle Json response using Curl and Jacksonframeworks.  ? Used WebLogic application server for deploying the application  ? Used Maven as a build tool and integrated with Jenkins.  ? Taken care of multi threading in back end java beans.  ? Used SVN Version Control for Project Configuration Management  ? Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP 2.0, Spring3, Oracle, HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, Ajax, MS-Visio, Eclipse, UNIX,JDBC Template, LOG4J, CVS, Maven, WebLogic Server. Java Developer Care Hospitals - IN January 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in server side Web development.  ? Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  ? Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  ? Worked on CORE JAVA (Collections of type Generics, Templates) and used the core packages.  ? Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML and CSS.  ? Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Interacted with java controllers (JQUERY, Ajax and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  ? Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  ? Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  ? Used SVN for version control and QC for defect tracking.  ? Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  ? Used Bugzilla for bug tracking.  ? Created Stored Procedures, SQL Statements and triggers for the effective retrieval and storage of data into database.  ? Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers  Environment: Core Java, TDD Methodology, Agile Methodology, J2EE-JSP, Servlets, UML, Web logic Server, Tomcat, Struts2, Spring, Maven, CVS, JUnit, Log4j , EJB 2.0, XML, Eclipse, WebSphere. Education Bachelors K L University 2011 Skills Bea, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsf, Servlets, Struts, C++, Gui, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Svn, Xml, Xslt Additional Information Technical Skills  J2EE Technology Java, C, C++, SQL, HTML, XML, XSLT, XSD, JavaScript, Sightly  Architecture &Framework Client-Server, MVC, J2EE, Servlets, Struts, Spring, Hibernate  Database Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), SQL Server 2008, MySQL  IDE Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM RAD, Builder  Enterprise Web Products AEM 6.4, 6.3,6.2,6.1  Operating Systems Windows 9x/NT/XP/2003/VISTA/7/8, Linux, Unix  Design & Control UML, Rational Rose, CVS, Clear Case  Tools  BEA Web Logic 8.1, JBOSS V7, IBM Web sphere Application  Server6.1, Tomcat 8.0, JUnit 4.0, Log4j,Mercury Quality Centre,  Rational Clear Quest, ANT, Maven, Jenkins, SVN, Toad    Programming Language C, Java  Query Languages SQL, PL/SQL  GUI HTML, Angular JS, XML, XSLT, JSF, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, Sightly, Foundation 5, JQuery, Bootstrap.  Conceptual knowledge Web Services