Sr. MuleSoft Developer Sr. MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. MuleSoft Developer - ARRIS • Over 8 years of experience in IT industry including 4 Years in Java/J2EE and 4 years of experience in Mule ESB over Anypoint Studio, Anypoint Cloud-Hub, API Gateway and Management.  • Implemented ESB Integration Services using MuleSoft ESB and enterprise application (EAI) using Mule Soft 3.x and 4.  • Strong business and technical experience in requirements gathering including Designing, development, implementation and installation EAI using MuleSoft.  • Strong experience on Mule 3.x to 4.0.  • Good experience in using Transformers, Filters, Flow Control, Collectionsplitters/Aggregators/Scatter-Gather etc.  • Expert level skills with REST and SOAP web services, RAML and use of connectors for integration.  • Experience in developing flows, Sub Flows using Mule Anypoint Studio.  • Hands on experience on transformation using Data Weave/Data mapper.  • Ability to troubleshoot Mule ESB (debuggers/flow analyzers), deployment, and tuning and worked with Mule ESB.  • Working on Mulesoft 4.0 POC at current client.  • Proficient in MEL-Mule Expression Language to access and evaluate the data in the payload properties and variables of a Mule message.  • Working with data formats such as includes XML, XSD, XSLT, XML Schemas and XPath.  • Integrated Various systems such as Salesforce, Peoplesoft, SAP, Oracle.  • Experience in using connectors such as Salesforce, HTTP, FTP, SMTP, Database, JMS, AMQPS and File connectors.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing, ActiveMQ and JMS. Data Transformations using Mule ESB  • Use of different Mule connectors HTTP/HTTPS, Data Weaves, Choice, API Kit Router.  • Developed Mule ESB projects for the servers with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Experience in deploying Mule Applications to Mule ESB and Mule CloudHub along with experience in configuring logging and alerting in CloudHub  • Worked on SaaS (MuleSoft), a platform for building and deploying integrations within the cloud and between the cloud and the enterprise.  • Implemented integration flows using Mule Anypoint Studio to connect to REST, SOAP service, Oracle Database, and Active MQ broker, RabbitMQ, AnypointMQ.  • Design and Implemented XML/WSDL/SOAP/RESTFUL Web Services to provide the interface to the various clients running on both Java and Non Java applications.  • Extensively used Mule components that include File, SMTP, FTP, SFTP, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  • Design and document REST/HTTP, SOAP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Strong experience of using IDE tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Rational Application Developer (RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  • Experience in Integration Technologies like Mule ESB integrating various third party systems with the custom made web application also Involved in unit testing and written MUnit Test cases for Mule flows.  • Experience using GitHub as a source control repository.  • Ability to adapt to new technologies, changing business requirements quickly and to correctly apply new tools to build applications. Work Experience Sr. MuleSoft Developer ARRIS - Sunnyvale, CA June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Agile methodology was to emphasize on face-to-face communication over written documents and make sure that iteration is passing through a full software development cycle.  • Business requirements gathering and analysis by interacting with the customer.  • Done with preparation of design document specifications, troubleshoots and testing.  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third-party system and the customer side system.  • Working closely with functional leads/PMs to understand the partner integration requirement  • Used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Experience in developing interfaces between Salesforce and Oracle ERP using Informatica Cloud/Mule ESB technologies.  • Extensively used Mule OOB components like File Transport, SMTP Transport, FTP/SFTP Transport, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  • Designed and Developed Restful API's using API Designer; generated flows using RAML file.  • Used JMS to pass messages as payload to track different statuses, milestones and statuses to implement a workflow management flow.  • Done with integrations using connectors such as Sale force, Database, HTTP, FTP and File Connectors.  • Created the MULE ESB artifacts, created flows and configured the MULE configuration files, install & deployed the application.  • Implemented Mule flows for each entity with retry mechanisms with private flows.  • Created http inbound & outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and Security of MULE ESB application using OAuth.  • Mule data mapping, connecting SOAP and REST web services to Mule and use of Mule connectors and plug-ins for web services, including Mule CXF as well as connectors for direct database access.  • Implemented choice, global, custom exception handling mechanisms based on the business requirement in MULE ESB.  • Used Mule Custom transformers for mapping flat file structures to Salesforce interface structures.  • Used Data Weave for data transformations and data validations within flows & sub flows  • Implemented and consumed SOAP web services and tested using SOAP UI for Mule ESB flows.  • Used Mule ESB CXF component in the Mule configuration file to consume SOAP web services.  • Created REST based service interfaces using Mule ESB Anypoint Platform and delivered fast, reliable and scalable integration API codes.  • Created flows/sub-flows using various scopes, transformers and routers such as splitter and aggregator in Anypoint Studio.  • Used core java concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency to develop business logic.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows, transformers, filtering and Security of Mule flows.  • Experience with integration Patterns, integration tools, EAI, Transformations, XML Schemas, and XSLT.  • Architected Integrations using Mule ESB environments for both on premise and cloud environments.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing and put the data on the Cloud hub.  • Used Cloud Hub connector in the flows to trigger alerts during exceptions and captured the failed records for further recovery.  • Used GitHub for version and source control and Active MQ for Asynchronous messaging.  • Involved in unit testing and writing the MUnit Test cases for the flows.  • Responsible to prepare deployment plan and do the production deployment to CloudHub using Jenkins CI platform.  • QA, UAT & Production issues investigation and supporting business users.  Environment: Any point Studio 6x,7x, Mule ESB 3.8/3.9 MySQL, Mule ESB, RAML, Cloud Hub, SOAP, REST, XML, JSON, SFTP, Active MQ, Agile, Apache-Maven, Windows, GIT, JIRA, JDBC, Maven, Jenkins, Oracle, Web Services- WSDL, XML, JSON Sr. Mulesoft Developer TJ Maxx - Marlborough, MA May 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • AGILE development process has been followed. Experienced with stand-up, Retrospective, Demo, Planning and Code review meetings.  • Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing MQ Series, Http, File system and SFTP transports.  • Implemented data transformation using XPATH, XSLT, Data Weave, custom java classes.  • Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Development. Configured server setting properties and Database drivers.  • Migrated Mule ESB 3.5 apps to Mule ESB 3.7.3 and updated all the dependencies.  • Migrated deprecated Data Mapper mapping to Data Weave in MULE ESB.  • Developed RESTful/SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Design and Implemented XML/WSDL/SOAP/RESTFUL Web Services to provide the interface to the various clients running on both Java and Non Java applications.  • Design and document REST/HTTP, SOAP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Experience in MuleSoft Anypoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API's using RAML.  • Done with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of Mule ESB endpoint through OAuth.  • Have written MUnit test cases to validate the Mule flows. Implemented asynchronous messaging using Active MQ.  • Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database, from ActiveMQ topics and queues, some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Developed interfaces between SAP, Sales Force, REST and SOAP web-services.  • Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Used GIT as a version and source controlling tool and deployed the application on premises as well as on Cloudhub.  • Had experience in using the enterprise security, notifications features provided by Mule.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows, custom java and XSLT transformers and Security of Mule endpoint.  • Responsible for data migration to QA/User and Production region.  • Designed and developed enterprise services using RAML and REST based API's.  • Experience in integrating Cloud applications like SFDC and Cloud Database using Mule ESB.  • Used SVN, GIT as version controlling for software development.  • Used JIRA and Confluence during the life cycle development of the project, also to keep track of the active sprints.  Environment: Java 1.8, Anypoint Studio 6.1, MS-SQL, Mule ESB 3.5.1/3.7.3, ActiveMQ 5.3, Apache-Mave 3.3.9, Log4j 1.2.14, Nexus, Windows 7, GIT, JIRA, Confluence, splunk, Jenkins, postman. MuleSoft Developer Wolters Kluwer - Philadelphia, PA March 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Scrum methodology.  • Analyzed and prepared time estimates for the assigned tasks.  • Develops integration workflows using an ESB framework Created MULE ESB artifact and configured the MULE configurations files and deployed.  • MULE Components & Connectors Used: Database, JMS, Salesforce, Flow Reference, Choice Router, Poll, Session Variables, Flow Variables and Web Services in Mule.  • Extensively worked on AnyPoint Studio and Mule Integration Platform and used it to interface application services by utilizing message routing, data transformation and service creation utilities.  • Implemented choice, global, custom error handling mechanisms based on the business requirement in Anypoint Studio.  • Done with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of Mule ESB endpoint through OAuth.  • Used MMC (mule management console) to monitor the request and response payload. Had an experience in working MULE API manager and RAML.  • Replaced all DataMapper and Dataweave for mapping component to Transform Message component and written new Data Weave code.  • Used Data Mapper and in addition Data Weave for information changes and information approvals inside streams and sub lows.  • Developed Restful & SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Developed a RAML based REST web services API's using Mule ESB and Used Data Base Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Involved in developing interfaces between SAP, Salesforce, REST and SOAP web-services.  • Developed a new application which connects to the client database and interacts with the existing file mover application and process the transfer of files from PeopleSoft system to third party system.  • Used Data Base Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Experienced in using Restful web services for making use of HTTP protocol between client and server.  • Developed enterprise services using RAML and REST based APIs using Basic authentications.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) API to create, send, receive, and read messages.  • Coordinated with the internal teams and involved in all the phases of testing.  • Extensive handling of Object-Oriented programming concepts in developing Java based applications.  • Performed the automatic deployment of the projects by using maven builds.  • Created and developed http, https inbound and outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and security of Mule ESB application using client enforcement.  • Involved in producing & consuming SOAP based web services.  • Involved in deploying applications into MuleSoft on-Premise and Hybrid.  • Implemented error handling by using exception strategies and generated exception flows.  • Worked on MUnit test cases - Before/After Suites, Before/After Tests for automation of testing Mule flows.  • Used MUnit for mocking and unit testing mule flows.  • Managed and deployed Mule projects to Cloud Hub using maven.  • Used GIT as the version control system and Maven build script for building the application  • Used putty for SSH keys and passwords information to access the folders and Recovery of lost or failure records.  Environment: Java1.8/J2EE, Web Services, JPA, MuleSoft ESB 3.X, Anypoint Studio, Anypoint Exchange, API Designer, Active MQ, RabbitMQ, RAML, Salesforce, MMC, XPATH, XSLT, XSD, SOA, Data weave, Mongo DB, JSON, POJO, log4j, CVS, JUnit, Maven, Senior JAVA Developer NCR - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Followed Extreme Programming (XP) concepts one of the method of Agile Methodology to produce high Quality software and satisfy the customers.  • Wrote stored procedures using PL/SQL for data retrieval from different tables.  • Implemented Kerberos Authentication Service to validate users logging into Quill.  • Designed and implemented Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean, and a form set for validation and used JavaBeans to return dynamic information.  • Wrote Entitlement Accessory Classes. Incorporated entitlement checks in the entire session bean. Created and deployed numerous Session and Entity beans.  • Created the UI tool - using Java, XML, XSLT, DHTML, and JavaScript.  • Designed the applications using OOAD.  • Worked extensively on bug fixes on the server side and made cosmetic changes on the UI side.  • Part of performance tuning team and implemented caching mechanism and other changes.  • Recreated the system architecture diagram and created numerous new class and sequence diagrams.  • Created combined deployment descriptors using XML for all the session and entity beans.  • Developed the Login screen so that only authorized and authenticated administrators can only access the application using Site Minder set up.  • Developed various activities like transaction history, search products that enable users to understand the system efficiently.  • Configured Oracle connection pool, which is included in Oracle JDBC driver JAR file, to allow concurrent access to the database and optimize performance.  • Involved in preparing the Documentation of the project to understand the system efficiently.  Environment: JAVA , J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, Java script, JDBC, XML, XSD, JAXP, JAXB, JSON, Web Services-WSDL, SOAP, JSF, JMS, Struts framework, XSLT, Websphere Application Server, Unix, MySQL -SQL, PL SQL, SVN, QC, , Putty. Java Developer 3i Infotech Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Project Design Documentation, design Reviews and Code Reviews.  • Understanding the functional specifications and architecture.  • Implemented MVC-Model 2 architecture using Struts 1.1 and other J2EE design patterns for the application development.  • Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Developing and coding J2EE Components with JSP, Java Beans, and business objects with Hibernate.  • Configured connection pooling using Web Sphere application server.  • Developed and Deployed the Application on WebSphere using ANT build.xml script.  • Developed SQL Server stored procedures to execute the backend processes using.  • Implemented Remote and Home interfaces for the Bean.  • Developed Bean's implementation Class.  • Developed Deployment descriptor using XML files.  • Developed jar file and then deployed the Bean.  • Designed tables to access DB in Oracle and involved in writing PL/SQL, stored procedures, and triggers.  • Created DSN in ODBC for database connectivity.  • Configured the Web Logic Console by creating Connection Pool.  • Used Eclipse 3.0 to develop the Application.  • Integrated other sub-systems through, XML and XSL.  • BEA WebLogic was used as both the Application server in the development and production environment.  • Used SVN for version controlling.  Environment: Windows NT/XP, Java 1.4, J2EE JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, UML, Struts1.1, SVN, BEA Web logic application server, Servlets, JSP, EJB - session beans, entity beans, JMS, XML, XSL, XSD, Oracle - SQL & PLSQL, ANT. Education Bachelors in Computers in Computers Kakatiya University 2010 Skills Ejb, J2ee, Java, Jaxb, Jboss, Jms, Jsp, Html, Xml, Db2, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Udb, Ajax, Css Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:    ESB: Mule Anypont studio (3.5 & up), mule server 3.x, RAML, EJB, Mule ESB flows, Data weave, connectors, message processors, data mapper, deploy to cloud, deploy to MMC, components, scopes, Filters.  Languages: Java, PL/SQL, Bash, UML, XML, HTML, SQL,Unix shell scripts  J2EE Technologies: J2EE, Jsp, MVC, EJB, JMS, JAXB  Databases: Oracle 10g/11g, Db2 UDB, mysql, ms sql server  Web Technologies Java script, Ajax, HTML, XHTML, CSS  Modeling Tools: Rational rose, Rational XDE, UML  App Server/Web Server: Web sphere, jboss, iplanet, Apache tomcat  Testing: Munit, Junit, junit-perf, jmock