AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - Dish Network(Looking for new positions) Englewood, CO • Around 7+ years of experience in analysis, design, development and implementation of large scale, mission critical, web-based internet/intranet applications using Java, J2EE, CMS and related Technologies.  • Worked on design and implementation of modules on CQ 5.5 and 5.6.1.  • Experience in Adobe Experience Manager (AEM 6.0, 6.1, 6.2), WCM, CMS, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, OSGI Framework, JCR, Apache sling, template development, CQ5, Component Development, Architecture, Administration and installation of author and Publish instances etc.  • Have hands on experience with Adobe CQ5 Web Content Management (WCM) server.  • Extensive experience of Front End Technologies: AJAX, JSTL, JSP, HTML, EXT JS, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS.  • Hands on experience in Java 1.7, J2EE, JDBC, Multithreading, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, XML, Web Services, REST services, JSTL, Hibernate, SQL, PLSQL, AJAX.  • Very good at developing custom components, page components, template and workflow components in CQ 5.x.  • Well versed with Application Servers Web Sphere 5.x and Web Server Tomcat 5.5/6.0.  • Proven expertise in building N-Tier Web Applications using Servlets, JSP using MVC and Struts 1.x framework.  • Implemented Java &J2EE design patterns in multiple projects.  • Good understanding of Java content repositories, sling request processing and OSGi bundles.  • Extensive experience in CQ/AEM, DSP, JSP and Display Tag for User Interface Development.  • Efficient use of various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Service locator, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object), and Business Delegate in the development of distributed Enterprise Applications.  • In-depth knowledge in design and development of MVC architecture using spring framework.  • Good knowledge of web services and has technical understanding of SOAP protocol, REST full architecture, UDDI & WSDL.  • Good understanding of J2EE Security framework. Having experience in configuration of SSL on Web Logic server.  • Extensive knowledge and hands on experience with XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, SQL, WAP.  • Experience with Agile process methodology.  • Proficient in using various IDEs like CRXDE, CRXDE-Lite, RAD, and Eclipse. Work Experience AEM Developer Dish Network - Englewood, CO January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created components using Sightly HTML Templating Language by replacing the .NET Platform.  • Integrated AEM with Brackets Extension to provide a smooth workflow to edit AEM components and Client Libraries.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) to develop live copy from blueprint, such that the structure and content can then be used on the Live Copy.  • Implemented Image renditions for continuous and consistent experience of content across all devices.  • Integrated RALLY system with Workflow functionalities.  • Writing activation and deactivation workflow models using various components such as process, participant, and dynamic participant steps.  • Used SCR annotations while creating servlets, schedulers, listeners, workflows.  • Implemented AEM Dev Tools to make development easier.  • Experienced in Day CQ and associated technologies like Sling, OSGi, Felix, JackRabbit, JCR, and CRX.  • Created resource Resolver rules in Felix console by having a custom URL mapping  • Implemented i18n for components and dialogs for translation in to different languages.  • Created custom OSGi services and servlets using Intellij IDE with Maven.  • Created AEM templates and page components with custom dialogs.  • Troubleshoot of caching issues related to Dispatcher and browsers.  • Integrated ACS AEM Commons with AEM 6.2 for Bulk oak indexing.  • Configured DAM and remote asset management.  • Worked expensively on Maven integration with CQ and Continuous Integration Processes (Jenkins).  • Worked on Author instance to help authoring complex components on pages.  • Created OSGi bundles and resolved dependencies for the project.  • Created Custom loggers in Felix Console.    Environment: AEM 6.1, 6.2, Java (JDK 1.8), Intellij, Maven, Jenkins, Log4J, Apache Felix, Apache Sling, JSP, Rally, Web Services, SDLC, OSGi, Servlets, Sightly HTML, JavaScript, Brackets, Jackrabbit. AEM/CQ5 Developer Cisco Systems Inc - Sanjose, CA, US May 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed, CQ5 building blocks including templates, components, dialogs, widgets, workflows.  • Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Developed more than 2 applications that uses JCR content repository in CQ to store information and query the JCR for display and reporting purposes.  • Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Proficient in Adobe CQ foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, the CQ platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix.  • Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system, Adobe CQ5.  • Maintaining OSGI java classes for assets import, validation processes, and to fetch the data from CQ repository obtained from different providers.  • Provide estimates, designs, and specifications for CQ5 templates, components, and workflows.  • Built various web pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script and JQuery.  • Implemented lots of Restful based web services from scratch  • Solid understanding of all Adobe CQ building blocks and the CQ development and deployment process.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, CQ5 dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Worked on CQ5 Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.  • Offer solutions on top of the Adobe WCM, CRX/CRXDE, CQ WCM, DAM.  • Define implementation processes, quality gates and standards.  • Developed message driven web services using Spring Integration.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using with Hibernate.  • OSGI bundle development experience.  • Developed GUI using HTML and JavaScript.  • Performing analysis using Web Analytics tools such as Adobe Site catalyst (Omniture), new relic.  • Effectively communicate design to customers and present design options/considerations.  • Adopt and utilize iterative/Agile methodology as needed or requested.  • Produce quality work even when under extreme time pressure and deadlines.    Environment: AEM5.6.1, Adobe CQ5, JAVA, J2EE, OSGI, Spring Integration, HIBERNATE, MYSQL, AJAX, JSON, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQUERY, Jenkins, Maven, SOAP UI, XPath, XML, LINUX, JSP, Web Services (REST), Eclipse, SVN. CQ5 Developer AT&T - Richardson, TX December 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Utilize HTML, CSS, JQuery and ExtJS for designing and implementing custom CQ components.  • Involve with content management strategies and architecture and multichannel content delivery.  • Implemented the Sling Filter, Felix Filter, Sling Servlet, OSGI bundles for interacting with remote spring webapp, web services and custom business logic in java and deploy as jar files from the Felix System Console.  • Have a complete understanding of CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Worked on Adobe CQ5 CMS end and developed the custom grid components using ExtJS and integrated them with the insight web.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments etc.  • Developed GET/POST sling servlets to provide various services in the CQ system.  • Implemented restful practices while designing and developing components.  • Developed workflow components related to digital assets upload workflow (documents and videos) as per the client requirements.  • Implemented Adobe Experience Manager (AEM/CQ5) Platform including the development of numerous components and integrations.  • Extensive use of CQ Tag Libraries in the components.  • Created POC related to CQ5 design and implementation.  • Assist clients with hotfix, deployment, CQ5 clean upgrade and production issues.    Environment: CQ5.5 (WCM), AEM 5.6, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, jQuery, Hg Mercurial, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector, Oracle 11g. Java Developer Techno soft Limited June 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and implemented the Business Layer which is a container for business objects, using Enterprise Java Beans (Session and Entity Beans)  • Created the Presentation layer that consists of Forms and Visual Objects using Servlets, JSP  • Established the connection to Database using JDBC  • Involved in the Database designing, analyzing requirements, Entity Relationship Mode Creating tables  • Coding PL/SQL procedures, functions and triggers to incorporate all the business rules  • Normalization, development and testing of the application by providing End-to-End solution  • Involved in Object Oriented Design & Programming (OOD / OOP) using Rational Rose for drawing the class diagrams  • Involved in deploying Servlets on BEA WebLogic Server    Environment: Java, Servlets, EJB, JSP, SQL, PL/SQL, WebLogic 5.1, JDBC, Oracle8.0, UML, and Windows NT Java Developer HRD Services - IN July 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Design and develop User Interface using JSPs and HTML.  • Developed the logical portion in Java and user display using JSP, and Servlets.  • Developed Java Database connection pool.  • Writing the JavaScript and designing the JSP GUI frame work  • Implemented the application using Servlets which is based on Model View Controller Design Patterns.  • Developed the POJO classes for database tables and generating the Developing the Business logic in action classes.  • Involved in Writing and reviewing unit test cases using JUnit.  • Involved in Smoke Testing, Testing, bug fixing and documentation of the system    Environment: Core Java, Windows XP, Tomcat 5.0, Java, JSP, Html, JavaScript, CSS, Servlets, MySQL, Jdk1.4, JDBC Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (5 years), Java (6 years), JavaScript (5 years), JSP (6 years), SQL (5 years), Jquery, XML Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: C, C++, JAVA, SQL, PL/SQL  Web technologies: HTML/DHTML/HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSTL, XML, Bootstrap, UML, EXTJs  Content Management Workflow Manager, Adobe CQ5.6.1, Apache Jackrabbit, Apache Sling, Apache Felix Day CQ 5.5, 5.6.1  IDE Eclipse 2.0, 3.0, 3.1, Intellij, Spring  Java/J2ee Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JDBC 4.0, AJAX, Web Services, SOAP, Restful  Frameworks: Jakarta Struts 1.2, 1.3, Spring 1.2, 1.3, 2.0, Spring MVC, Hibernate2.0, 3.0  Application Servers Web Logic 8.1, 10, JBOSS, WebSphere6.1, Apache Tomcat 6.1  Build Tools: Apache Ant, Maven 2.0, Jenkins  Version Control Tool: SVN, GIT, GIT LAB  Logging Tool: Log4j