Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Verizon Wireless New Jersey • Over 5+ years of professional IT experience in Design & Development of web applications using Java SE and J2EE, spring (Core, JDBC, DAO) Restful Web Services, Spring Boot.  • Experience in developing applications using JAVA with various J2EE technologies, Microsevices, Spring Boot JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, JNDI, JMS and Web Services.  • Expertise in framework Spring 4.0. Expertise in all Spring Modules such as Dependency Injection, AOP and MVC.  • Experience in logging the application using Log4j and log back.  • Implemented Design patterns Singleton, MVC, Business Delegate, Session Façade, Factory, DAO, Value Object, Proxy etc.  • Experience in integrating Spring with Elastic search.  • Experience in using different Mock Frameworks like Mock MVC, Mockito to test different layers of the application.  • Proficient in programming with Java SE and J2EE, strong experience in technologies such as JSP Servlets, Struts, spring (IOC & AOP), Spring JPA, Hibernate, EJBs, Session Beans, JDBC and JNDI.  • Experience in deploying web application using application servers like WebLogic web servers like Tomcat 7/8.  • Expertise in coding business components using various API's of Java like Multithreading, Collections.  • Experience in implementing projects using Eclipse and IntelliJ IDEA.  • Experience in writing the MAVEN for building and deploying the working enterprise application.  • Skilled in Test Driven Development and Agile Development.  • Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Apache Axis web services which use REST, SOAP, WSDL.  • Expertise in middle tier technologies like JMS (Point-to-Point & Publish and Subscribe).  • Hands on with CI/CD using Jenkins.  • Expertise in n-tier and three-tier Client/Server development architecture and Distributed Computing Architecture.  • Good work experience on RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL. Creating SQL statements & Subqueries.  • Extensively worked on MULE architecture including mule ESB, any point studio api kit, api gateway flow and various connectors.  • Implemented Unit Testing using JUnit and Integration testing during the projects.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like SVN and GIT.  • Team Player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements.  • Have ability to analyze problems, root causes and develop innovative solutions to business challenges and streamlining operations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Piscataway, NJ November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Utilized the various Java SE and J2EE Design patterns to develop the Business modules based on the required functionality.  • Involved in requirement gathering, System Analysis and Designing.  • Have worked extensively on Java SE and J2EEplatform with Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Multithreading, Hibernate, Spring, Spring boot.  • Worked on database technologies like MySQL, OracleServer  • Experienced working on different layers of Spring MVC architecture such as Spring - Controller, service and repository classes.  • Got experienced in design, development of web-based applications using servers such as Apache Tomcat 8.0.  • Expertiseed in developing SOAP, RESTful Webservices and APIs with JSON and XML  • Involved in developing the application level flow by utilizing Java and Spring.  • Extensively involved in Java coding and performance tuning in Java.    Environment: Java J2EE, J2SE, Spring, Microservices, Servlets, JSP, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, XML, REST, Apache Tomcat, OracleServer. Java Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC September 2015 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the SpringBoot, Spring Data with JPA.  • Extensively working on platform with Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Multithreading, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Boot  • Utilizing and working with database technologies like MySQL, Oracle, MS SQL Server  • Good working experience on different layers of Spring architecture such as Spring - Controller, service and repository classes  • Good experience working on Hibernate Beans & HQL to map to tables and retrieve data sfrom the database  • Implemented asynchronous service calls using multithreded process through runnable and callable interfaces.  • Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs such as JDO ( Java Data Objects) and Hibernate.  • Defined Object Relational Mapping for Hibernate and performed spring integration with Hibernate for data access.  • Handlyning the issues in the production and updatating the new changes required.  • Resolved some of the Critical and escalated issues which are part of Release.  • Responsible for the supporting monitoring issues for the application and should respond immediately for any type of Server and Service Maintenance issues.  • Managed Client relationship effectively by interacting with the business team directly.    Environment: Java J2EE, Spring, SpringBoot, Microsevices, Hibernate, HTML, CSS. Software Developer VSA Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to August 2014 Project#1: Responsible for creating back end Restful web services with Java J2EE utilizing spring Boot in applications that are used by customer service application and generating the reports.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Created Rest based controllers to handle the incoming request and output the response.  • Worked on the design and development of application in Hibernate framework  • Implemented the functionality of fetching of data from different sources and persisted the data through Hibernate and spring JPA, to separate DAO layer from Database layer and using entity classes.  • Implemented business logic over the service layer and backend data in DAO layer of the multi-tier application.  • Used Web Services to extract customer related product data from machines and servers using WSDL, XML and SOAP using Service Oriented Architecture.  • Extensively used oracle queries and used named and named native queries used to run through Spring JPA.  • Worked on Multi-threading and thread pool design pattern.  • Worked on regenerated code, through Hibernate, and created services for existing modules and tested them through Junit.  • Designed developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration  • Performed production support of the application in production and managed daily production issues.  • Configure Maven for project compilation and building.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Deployed the application on Tomcat application server.    Environment: Java SE and J2EE, JSP, Spring Boot, Spring JPA, Hibernate, Restful services, Maven, JavaScript, SVN, Oracle 10G, JUNIT, Linux.    Project#2: Code Enhancement for the real-time report generating scripts to make them compatible with the upgraded business logic and working environments.    Responsibilities:  • Performed analysis and created UML diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using MS-Visio.  • Involved in gathering the requirement and analyzing the requirements and created the use case scenarios.  • Web application is developed using the Spring MVC framework.  • Used JSP to create login page, user profile, and account information pages.  • Wrote Custom tags and Tag Library Descriptor (TLD) for encapsulating dynamic functionality and used JSTL tags for populating data on the JSP.  • Developed server side utilities using Java Beans, XML, and EJB.  • Developed message driven beans (MDB)'s for receiving the messages from other systems.  • Developed DAO layer using JDBC and wrote several SQL queries to store and retrieve results from database. Developed Shell Scripts to perform administrator related tasks.    Environment: Java SE and J2EE, Spring, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, custom tags, TLD, Java Beans, EJB, JDBC, Oracle, XML, JMS, Tomcat, Eclipse. Education Masters in Information Assurance and Management Systems Wilmington University Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Intellij idea, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming: Java, C++  Web Technology: Core Java, Web Services, JSP, Servlets, JDBC,  J2EE, JSTL, XML,  Frame Works: SpringBoot, Spring Framework, Spring MVC  Web/App Servers: HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat  Database: PL/SQL (oracle), MySQL.  Build Tools: Maven  Version Control Systems: Git, SVN.  IDE & Tools: IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse  Debugging Tools: Chrome Developer Toolbar, Firebug, IE Developer  Toolbar, Postman  Operating System: Windows 7/8/10