Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Atlantic Telecom East Hanover, NJ • Senior Java/J2EE Developer having 7+ years of experience in design, development, maintenance and support of Java/J2EE applications.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Service Oriented Architecture.  • Experience in working in environments using Agile (SCRUM), RUP and Test Driven development methodologies.  • Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) experience including Analysis, Design and Review of Business and Software Requirement Specifications. Development, Testing as per the RUP's Iterative Software Development Life Cycle process and Agile software development methodology.  • Application Developer (RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  • Extensive experience in Java/J2EE programming - JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JMS, EJB 2.0/3.0.  • Experienced in web development using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node JS, Bootstrap, Angular JS, JQuery and AJAX technologies.  • Having sound knowledge in AJAX and JavaScript validation framework.  • Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Session Facade, Business Delegate and Data Access Object for building J2EE Applications.  • Experience in installing, configuring, tuning IBM WebSphere 6.x/5.x, BEA Web Logic 12c/11g/10.3, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBOSS 5.x/4.x.  • Experienced in developing MVC framework based websites using Struts and spring.  • Experience with presentation tire development using Apache Struts Frame workusing Tiles and Custom Tag Libraries.  • Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), IOC (Inversion Of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and template classes.  • Experience in using ANT and Maven for build automation.  • Expertise in Object-relational mapping using Hibernate.  • Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC and XML Beans.  • Experience in parsing XML documents using JAXP, which supports SAX and DOM.  • Expertise in developing and consuming Web services including different technologies and standards like DTD, XSD, SOAP, WSDL, and Apache Axis.  • Experience in using SOAP and RESTful web services.  • Experience in configuring and administering MQ-Series and experience in developing messaging systems using JMS.  • Expertise in database modeling, administration and development using SQL, T-SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle (8i, 9i and 10g), DB2 and SQL Server environments.  • Expertise in developing database application using Oracle, Sybase, DB2, MySQL, SQL Server.  • Strong Database (RDBMS) development experience in writing queries, functions, stored procedures, triggers, and views in Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like SVN, GIT, Clear Case, CVS and Subversion.  • Experience in D3.js for Visualizing data using web Standards.  • Hands on experience in UNIX environment, shell scripting, perl Scripting, socket programming.  • Experience in as SDET participating both as a Tester and a developer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Atlantic Telecom - East Hanover, NJ January 2017 to Present Description: Atlantic Telecom deals with selling calling cards globally. The application allows users to use cards to make calls all over the world. It supports VOIP calls over the internet. Users can register and make one time payments or use the option of a monthly recharge. The application supports a set of schemes to attract different age groups with price flexibilities to capture a better market. It supports several features for service subscription and notification.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Use Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for Software Development Lifecycle of the dynamic J2EEproject.  • Designed, coded and tested key modules of the project using java oops concepts.  • Involved in Developing of Application based on J2EE using Hibernate and Spring framework.  • Developed the entire application based on the MVC architecture.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Followed Spring Boot MVC Rest framework to develop the application flow for the project.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS 2, and JSON.  • Developed single page applications, components using Angular JS 2 directives, controllers, view and routing, service modules.  • Responsible for project design, development, and test software for Point of Sale operations using C and C++ in Unix environment  • Implemented user interface coding and styling using Angular JS 2, CSS, Node.js and Bootstrap template.  • The interfaces are built using Apache Camel framework and JMS.  • Configured Maven for Java automation projects and developed Maven Project Object Model (POM).  • Built and Deployed Java/J2EE to a web application server in an Agile continuous integration environment and automated the whole process.  • Develop the pre-processor and post-processor scripts in PERL for the Mercer Funds files to create the index files for the incoming zip files and to update corresponding DB2 tables during the post ingestion process.  • Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications components using RESTful.  • Developed RESTful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  • Designed and developed the RESTFul web services using the JAX-RS API to communicate over the network.  • Implemented XML-based communications protocol using JAXB.  • Implemented Java Web services based on SOA architecture with SOAP and WSDL.  • Implemented SOAP messages for information exchange for Web services.  • Troubleshooting, security, failover and work load management of WebSphere Application Server 5.0 /5.1/6.0, WebServers like IBM HTTP WebServer, Apache Webserver.  • Performed data extraction and migration, data cleaning, analysis, and visualization using SSIS, SSAS, Tableau, and Power BI to support OneCloud Data warehousing solution on AWS.  • Used Maven as the build tool, GIT for version control, Jenkins for Continuous Integration and JIRA as a defect tracking tool.  • Created dynamic HTML pages, used JavaScript, JQuery, NoSQL, Restful and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Extensively involved in the development of backend logic or data access logic using Hibernate and thus creating the object relational mapping with the Java beans in the application.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 11g database, Oracle web Centre and used the stored procedures in the application and wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions on SQL Server as well as PL/SQL on Oracle to support both databases for the application.  • Created all the complex SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from the Oracle database.  • Developed ANT scripts for building application WAR/EAR for deploying on Weblogic server.  • Involved in all the test cases using the framework Junit and fixed any bugs or any issues identified during the testing period.  • Involved in using CVS, Git, for project management and version management.    Environment: J2EE/ Java 1.8, JSP, Spring, Web Center, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Servlets, HTML, Bootstrap, Angular JS, AJAX, Star UML, EJB, Hibernates, Web Services (WSDL, XSLT, XML, SOAP, REST), JUnit, Ant, Maven, Spring Boot, IBM WebSphere, CVS, SVN, JSON, Eclipse IDE, Node.js, Express.js, Oracle 11g, Spring Tool Suite. Java/J2EE Developer Aflac - Columbus, GA March 2015 to December 2016 Description: This is an online insurance quoting and policy application, which enables customers to quote an insurance coverage policy through web. This application delivers online services including customer information, policy premium, and monthly payments, new product offerings and customer correspondence with the company. Auto insurance laws may vary from one state to another.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating Use Cases and Class Diagrams.  • Coordinated with several teams-the Design team, Business analyst and end users of the system.  • Created the web UI using Struts, JSP, Servlets and Custom tags.  • Designed, developed and implemented JSP's in presentation layer for Submission Application Reference implementation. Resolved issues in basic networking components.  • Developed User Interface Screens using Spring MVC, to enable customers obtain auto finance.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  • Partner with product teams, design and build, incident and problem management teams to ensure compliance and quality service delivery  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, and JSON.Used JQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server.  • Developed REST API for test server for Express Router middleware based API's with MongoDB.  • Migrated application to micro-services architecture.  • Worked on Design, implementation and test services using Python in a Microservice-oriented architecture.  • Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the angular JS front-end.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate frame work in conjunction with Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) functionality.  • Developed application framework using struts with design principles of the J2EE using Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Domain object and DAO patterns and developed Stateless Session Bean to Achieve Session façade Design Pattern.  • Performed multiple and consistent deployments using UDeploy to JBoss and WebLogic.  • Developed Spring REST Exception Mappers.  • Developed Authentication layer using Spring Interceptors.  • Used Log4J to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • Build unit test cases using Mockito framework for testing accuracy of code.  • Used Jasmine to test JavasScript code.  • Used Tomcat for application deployment.  • Code repository management using SVN and project build tool used is ANT. Created High Level Design documents, low level design documents using MS Visio and PowerPoint to provide the documentation and guidance for peers and business users.  • Developed Stored Procedures and triggers using PL/SQLto calculate and update the tables to implement business  logic.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, JSP, Hibernate3.5, Spring3/4, Web services, RESTful, Oracle, MVC, Unit Testing, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Spring Boot, IBM Websphere, XML, JSON, AWS, XSD, SQL, PL/SQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Jasmine, Maven, Log4J, Tomcat, SVN, ANT, JBoss, Mockito, MS Visio, Angular JS, MongoDB, D3.js., UDeploy, JBoss, Weblogic Java/J2EE Developer Lawson Products - Chicago, IL November 2013 to February 2015 Description: Lawson products, a business of Lawson products Inc is an industrial distributor of maintenance and repair supplies. Pricing and order entry tool was primarily created for Lawson products website. This website provides information on industry leading products which also includes pricing and order entry tool which provides real time pricing for superior brands and products.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Delivered new and complex high quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements.  • Utilized in-depth knowledge of functional and Technical experience in Java/J2EE and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java.  • Worked on AngularJS custom directives and filters and extensively used AngularJS features like directives, scope, dependency injection and built-in services.  • Designed and implemented customized exception handling to handle the exceptions in the application.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Used Spring validation and wrote validation rules.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects.  • Implemented the application following the J2EE best practices and patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Façade, MVC and DAO.  • Developed Business components using Java Objects and used Hibernate framework to map the Java classes to the database.  • Implemented Singleton, Service Locator design patterns in MVC framework and developed command, delegate, model action script classes to interact with the backend.  • Designed the front end using JSP, JQuery, CSS and Html as per the requirements that are provided.  • Extensively used JQuery selectors, events, Traversal and JQuery AJAX with JSON Objects  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  • Developed Hibernate DAO classes and with the spring frame work manager classes retrieve and save the data from the database.  • Implemented Spring ORM with Hibernate taking advantage of Java features like annotation metadata, auto wiring, and generic collections using plain EJB3's JPA specification that is used to implement the DAO layer with Hibernate Entity Manager's Session Factory, HQL, and SQL.  • Used Spring IOC framework to integrate with Hibernate.  • Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR & dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto the WebSphere Application Server.  • Designed and developed components for order entry using EJB2.0 with a Java Swing client application.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture and coded Java Beans (as the model).  • Developed payment flow using AJAX partial page refresh, validation and dynamic drop down list.  • JQuery library has been used for creation of powerful dynamic WebPages and web applications by using its advanced and cross browser functionality.  • Taken care of complete Java multi-threading part in back end components.  • Implemented log4J for logging purposes and debug the application.  • Involved in developing Unix scripts for a higher level of Automation for the Data loading process of the research database.  • Designed and developed the application presentation layer using JSTL.  • Responsible for the technical direction and implementation of the Spring Batch framework.  • Created POC for Spring Batch for running batch jobs. Documented how Spring Batch is useful for the current project.    Environment: JDK 1.6, UML, Struts 2.2, Spring 2.5, Eclipse 3.5, Oracle, WebSphere Application server, JSP 2.0, JQuery 2.0, JSF Framework, Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate, XML, CSS, DOM, Angular JS, REST, Junit 4.4, SVN, Log4j, UNIX, Ant 1.8, Agile Scrum, JBoss Application Server 6.1, Jenkins. Java Developer Gravitant - Austin, TX November 2011 to October 2013 Description: Business Matrix is a comprehensive product suite and platform that allows businesses to plan, monitor, and govern their enterprise using advanced modeling techniques. Business Matrix it's a web application with a web UI interface (based heavily on Ajax) that is going to provide some business functionality for big organizations, through the main modules of the application. Provide performance management and governance of internal IT operations, customer satisfaction, and vendor operations, and consolidate disparate element management systems into a standardized executive-level view. With the Gravitant Business Matrix, DIR is provided with improved IT and business service management, customer relationship management, and business intelligence across the enterprise.    Responsibilities:  • Used Hibernate and Spring validations to perform validations of front end and thrown all the exceptions.  • Managed day-to-day site design and creation using Java Script.  • Integrated Struts with spring framework to leverage dependency injection and to develop Web Services.  • Analyzed and gathered business requirements from clients for application development.  • Used UML, MS Visio for designing application by creating Sequence and Class diagrams.  • Implemented MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, Data Access Objects, Value Object Design Patterns.  • Developed user interface of the application using JSP, HTML, DHTML, XML and XSLT.  • Mentored co- developer in the application development.  • Developed prototypes for the application.  • Documented the best practices of using Java/J2EE in application development.  • Utilized MDBs, JMS and MQ-Series for integration.  • Used Eclipse IDE for java development.  • PL/SQL developer for database development.  • Used JDBC for Querying data.  • Responsible for mapping the database model into persistence objects using Hibernate Annotations.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using spring, Hibernate, Template support.  • Developed various business logic and reports using HQL and Hibernate Criteria.  • Created various unit test cases and integration tests for the DAO and Service using JUnit.  • Integrated log4J for logging the messages at debug and error level.  • Used Check Style for code formatting.  • Used Apache Tomcat for development  • Used Weblogic Application Server for deployment in production  • Bug tracking and fixing was done using Test Director.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Visio, UML, JSP, Servlet, Struts, JDBC, Hibernate, Oracle PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Ant, Agile, Eclipse, XML, XSLT, MS Visual Source Safe, Tomcat, Weblogic Application Server, MS Windows, UNIX. Jr. Java/J2ee Developer Sconset Softech - IN September 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding and analyzing the requirements of the project.  • Implemented server-side programs by using Servlet and JSP.  • Stored the dynamic data on to Collection Objects and used the predefined methods to perform all DB related operations.  • Created and handled Custom-Exceptions that are related to business operations.  • Created child Threads to improve the performance by running some independent tasks at background.  • Designed, developed and User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.  • Used JavaScript to perform Client-Side Validation.  • Implemented using the MVC Design Pattern.  • Used JDBC to interact with the underlying MySQL Database.  • Deployed Applications on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Involved in JUnit testing for various components.  • Used Log4J for any logging purposes during the development of the application.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Eclipse, JUnit, MVC, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, MVC Design Pattern, Log4J. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (7 years), J2EE (7 years), Java (7 years), JSP (7 years), logging (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Java/J2EE,UML, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++,Python, Perl Scripting, Unix Shell Scripting.  Web Technologies: HTML4/5, DHTML, AJAX, Web-Services, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Node.js, ML, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, D3.js, Angular Js2  Java/J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, Rich faces.  Databases: SQL Server, ORACLE 10g/9i, MYSQL, No SQL, MongoDB.  Web & Application Servers/ Build Automation Tools: Tomcat, Web Sphere, Web-logic, JBoss, Maven, Git, Apache Camel, Ant, CI/CD, Jenkins, UDeploy.  Development Tools: Eclipse, RAD, RTC, JBoss-IDE, TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer, MQ series.  Version Tools/ Logging Frameworks/Testing Frameworks: CVS, SubVersion, Log4J, Junit, Mockito, Jasmine.  Protocols/ web services: TCP/IP, FTP, HTTP, SMTP, WSDL.SOAP, REST.  Frameworks: JSF, Struts 2.0, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, Express.js, Prime faces.    Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, MS DOS,UNIX.  Packet Capturing Tools: Wireshark, Tcpdump