Java developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Java developer - PepsiCo Harrison, NY • Experience in Java, J2EE technologies like JDBC, JSP, Java Servlets, Java Beans, Models, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, XML, JMS, JNDI, Java Reflection API (JRA), Java Persistence API (JPA), Java Transaction API (JTA), Web service like SOAP, Restful, JAXP.  • Experience in developing GUI using web technologies like CSS3, HTML5, Java Script, JSF/Prime Faces, Ajax, JQuery, JSON, PHP, Angular JS, Node JS.  • Experience in writing Data Access Object (DAO) using Hibernate mapping and Hibernate.  • Experience building the design principle Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) software applications in Java.  • Experience on Fortify Static Code Analyzer (SCA) which is used for analyzing the source code for security issues.  • Experiences with Representational State Transfer (REST), Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP), Java Messaging service (JMS) Web Services to expose the business logic.  • Experience working with Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) like MySQL, SQL, Oracle.  • Strong working knowledge on Web Services like REST/Restful, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, to expose the functionality of Business code.  • Expertise in application and web servers such as Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, JBOSS, Glassfish and Oracle Web logic.  • Strong working experience with Integrated Development Environment (IDEs) like Eclipse, My Eclipse, IntelliJ Idea, NetBeans.  • Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring RedHat Linux 3, 4, 5., 6 and 7  • Experiences with tracking tools like JIRA.  • Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  • Experience with Version Control Tools (SVN, Git), Build Tools (Ant, Maven, Gradle), Automation Tools (Selenium, Quick Test Pro), Bug Tracking Tools (Jira), Other Tools like Log4j, Junit, TestNG, Jenkins, Fortify. etc.  • Experience in client-side validations using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular (2,4,5,6) and NodeJS.  • Experience in developing software applications in Java using Object Relational Mapping (ORM) frameworks like Hibernate, Eclipse Link, Ibatis, MVC frameworks like JSF, Struts, spring modules such as Spring MVC/AOP/DAO/JDBC/Security/ORM/OXM/IOC.  • Experience in Unit and Integration testing using Junit, TestNG, Mockito, Jasmine, Selenium.  • Experience in Creation and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Solaris and Redhat Linux.  • Experience in various Hadoop infrastructures such as Map Reduce, Hive, Sqoop, Flume, HBase and Yarn UI to check job status.  • Excellent understanding / knowledge of Hadoop architecture and various components such as HDFS, Job Tracker, Task Tracker, Name Node, Data Node and Map-Reduce programming paradigm.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud computing service it includes Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, AWS Identity and access management, Amazon EBS, AWS CloudWatch and Amazon Cloud Front.  • Experience in modeling, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) architecture and designing artifacts using Rational Rose.  • Experience in Big Data analytics, Data manipulation, using Hadoop Ecosystem MapReduce, HDFS, Yarn/MRv2, Pig, Hive, HBase, Spark, Kafka, Flume, Oozie, Sqoop, AWS, Spark integration with Cassandra, Solr, NiFi and Zookeeper.  • AWS (Amazon Web Services): EC2, VPC, IAM, IAM, S3, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud formation, Glacier, RDS Config, Route 53, SNS, SQS, Elastic Cache.  • Utilized Cloud Watch to monitor resources such as EC2, CPU memory, Amazon RDS DB Services, EBS volumes; to set alarm for Notification or Automated actions, and to monitor logs for better understanding and operation of the system. Work Experience Java developer PepsiCo - Harrison, NY January 2018 to Present • Designed and developed the UI using spring view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript, AJAX, JSON.  • Used Streams and Lambda expressions available as part of Java 8 to store and process the data.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Involved in the analysis, design and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Use Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for Software Development Lifecycle of the dynamic J2EE project.  • Involved in Developing of Application based on J2EE using Hibernate and Spring framework.  • Worked on Restful web services using Node.js and implemented mock services in Node.js with help of modules using Node.js server.  • Design coded and tested key modules of the project using java oops concepts, JSP.  • Experienced in working with Spark Streaming to process real-time data from various sources like Kafka, Flume  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Developed Micro services using RESTful services to provide all the CRUD capabilities.  • Build Micro services for the delivery of Purchase Order module using spring cloud.  • Followed Spring Boot MVC Rest framework to develop the application flow for the project Worked with the Unix Solaris/Linux admin team to perform Oracle migration from Sybase.  • Developed the user interface components using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery & created custom tags.  • Built interfaces using Apache Camel framework and JMS.  • Proficient in TDD (Test Driven Development) by writing test cases using Jasmine, J-Unit Framework Working as a Full Stack developer using JavaScript frameworks AngularJS  • Used spring's test framework to create integration tests for various spring boot and spring batch applications.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS 2, and JSON.  • Used jQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the servers.  • Implemented XML-based communications protocol using JAXB.  • Used Maven as the build tool, GIT for version control, Jenkins for Continuous Integration and JIRA as a defect tracking tool.  • Involved in using CVS, Git, for project management and version management.  • Configured Maven for Java automation projects and developed Maven Project Object Model (POM).  • Developed REST API for test server for Express Router middleware-based API's with Mongo DB integration.  • Planning and setting up of Continuous Integration for various properties on Jenkins with Commit, Component, Assembly, deploy and Smoke jobs.  • Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the angular JS 2.0 front-end.  • Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents  • Created all the complex SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from the Oracle database.  • Developed ANT scripts for building application WAR/EAR for deploying on WebLogic server.  • Involved in all the test cases using the framework Junit and fixed any bugs or any issues identified during the testing period.  • Designed and developed the Restful web services using the JAX-RS API to communicate over the network.  • Identifying the operational problems by observing the monitoring alerts and studying the system functioning and performance results using Kibana.  • Developing ANT scripts for Building the code. Deploying Applications in WebLogic and WebSphere.  • Linux Scripting, Operations and production Support skills.  • Writing the Unix script to automate the monitoring email alerts to reduce the need for human intervention.  • Analyzing the system performance using the elastic search log data for project the visualizations using Kibana.  • Providing the 2nd and 3rd level support to the escalations pertaining to application support.  • Extensive analysis on debugging application for fixing bugs and Production support.  • Automating the deployment of Linux applications, systems configurations and security settings.  • Resolving the Cassandra database issues during data migrations.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Worked on designing and deploying a multitude application utilizing almost all of the main services of the AWS stack (like EC2, S3, RDS, VPC, IAM, ELB, Cloud watch, Route 53, Lambda and Cloud. Java Developer JPMorgan Chase Co - New York, NY August 2016 to December 2017 • Designed and developed Micro services business components using SpringBoot. Used SpringBoot to create stand-alone spring applications.  • Rabbit MQ was used to provide a single unifying transport that reduces cost and maintenance efforts, including support for HTTP, REST and JMS  • Used Agile (SCRUM) and Waterfall methodologies for Software Development.  • Used Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the business logic tier (Business object) and the persistent storage tier (data source)  • Worked with Error, Informational and Conformational error message validations.  • Developed application using JavaScript for Web pages to add functionality, validate forms, communicate with the server.  • Used Spring MVC, Writing Java Bean classes, with get and set methods for each property to be configured by spring.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Develop views with HTML5, CSS, JSON and AngularJS. Retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers using RESTful Web Services, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services and route providers.  • Worked on developing Authentication and Authorization out of the box for the new feature not available inside Liferay.  • Worked on Liferay MVC portlets which is lightweight and highly efficient Java MVC framework.  • Software is built as a web app on Node JS, CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.  • Installing, tuning, troubleshooting and patching of Red Hat Enterprise Linux servers.  • Being a ground up project, we have developed the entire application from scratch, and I have worked mainly on writing code for Kafka Producer and Kafka Consumer as per our requirement  • Implemented network security to various Unix services.  • Used Spring MVC architecture and Hibernate ORM to map the Java classes and oracle SQL server database.  • Developed web services using SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol), WSDL (Web Services Description Language), XML (Extensible Mark-up Language) and Apache Axis.  • Updated the application with new features of Angular 2.  • Created application using responsive web design, Angular4, HTML5 and Bootstrap4.  • Optimized the performance of application using Angular4 new features and packages.  • Used spring's test framework to create integration tests for various spring boot and spring batch applications.  • Converted UI screens from XMI (XML Metadata Interchange) framework to Angular.js  • Build responsive application using AngularJS.  • Used spring framework for implementing IOC/JDBC/ORM, AOP and Spring Security.  • Performed the configuration of admin level settings for Liferay portal application.  • Development and maintenance of Liferay portlet plugins, hook, themes and Ext modification.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and ANT to build the application.  • Used Log4J for logging and Eclipse for Development.  • Used microservice architecture with Spring Boot based service through REST and integrated with Angular JS application.  • Created and managed Micro Services using Spring Boot. Micro Services were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features.  • Interacted with team lead and team members for design improvements.  • Actively participated in daily standup team meetings. Java Developer Indian Eagle Pvt Ltd May 2014 to December 2015 • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  • Involved in the analysis and design of the initiatives using Rapid Application Development.  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using HTML, JSP, Javascript and CSS.  • Implemented MVC architecture by using Struts/Swings to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer.  • Used JDBC calls in the JSP to access MySQL Database. Developed and maintained various substation automated solutions for centralized management  • Experience in automation of test cases using Python, C and Shell script. Experience in AIX, Linux and Windows environments.  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server. Created several custom tags for JSP for maximum re-usability for user interface components.  • Used struts Action Servlet to route the request to corresponding Action Classes. Used Struts Validator Framework to do validations  • Used Commons Logging framework (log4j) utility to log error, info and debug messages  • Performed Unit Testing and interacted with QA for testing. Involved in implementing validations, exception handling.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence. Involved in Spring and Hibernate Integration to perform the CRUD operations on Oracle database  • Used Axis2 to implement Web Services for Integration of different systems. Published APIs using restful services for the consumption through Service Endpoint Interface  • Used Junit test environment for test-based development. Worked with XML, XSLT for building up & transforming the xml files.  • Used waterfall model for the software development process. Programmed client's website and applications - worked collaboratively with clients Teammates and web analysts to complete designs and estimates. Skills Awt, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Angularjs, JEE, JSP, Java J2Ee, Javascript, Spring, Rest, MVC