Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Verizon 8 years of experience in the IT industry with expertise in design development and deployment of Client/Server and distributed N-tier applications using Java/J2EE.  • Participated in entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, Documentation and Support of software applications  • Professional experience in using core Technologies Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JavaBeans, JavaScript, JNDI, HTML, XML, Web services, AngularJS, Angular 2 Bootstrap framework, jQuery.  • Experience in Node environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Groovy Bower.  • Strong in using the Node.js and Require.js and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web application.  • Experience in ReactJS and working with react Flux architecture.  • Experience in using ReactJS components like Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux in creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow.  • Experience as a Java/J2EE Developer, developing applications using JSP, Struts, JDBC, Hibernate and MVC architecture.  • Hands on expertise in developing Angular2 features like Directives, Filters, Services.  • Expertise in using Angular2 components, Forms, Events, Router, and Pipes.  • Experience in JAVA/J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, DAO, Business Delegate, Session Façade  • Experience with Data structures & Algorithms like Stack, Queue, Linked List, Linear-search, bubble-sort, and binary-search algorithms etc.  • Experience in Core Java concepts like JavaBeans, Collections Frameworks, Exceptions handling and Multi-threading etc.  • Experience in developing light weight business components and integrated applications using Spring framework, Spring web MVC.  • Worked with JavaScript libraries like Node.js, Ember.js, Backbone.js.  • Experience in developing applications Groovy and Grails, Hibernate/GORM, and Spring framework.  • Experience in Deploying Oracle SOA Composites and Trouble Shooting Faulted Instances.  • Experience in using Several Application Servers such as Web Logic, Web Sphere, JBOSS and web servers like Apache Tomcat.  • Experience working on UNIX, LINUX and Windows platforms.  • Good Knowledge in writing Ant & Maven build scripts configuring using Log4j and writing JUnit test cases.  • Hands on experience in version control tools like Git, SVN and CVS.  • Extensive experience in writing stored procedures, functions and database triggers using SQL and PL/SQL in oracle.  • Experience in testing and code coverage using TestNG, Mockito, Power Mock.  • Experience working with different SDLC methodologies like Waterfall, Agile (TDD, SCRUM).  • Experience in designing and developing J2EE compliant systems using IDE tools like Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD, Net beans, WebSphere Portal.  • Experience in integrating WebSphere Application Server and Deployment manager with IBM Http server, IBM Directory Server, Sun ONE Web Server, Oracle, DB2 and SQL servers.  • Worked on Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates.  • Developed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized subnets, EC2 instances, ELB, Security Groups. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Verizon - Freehold, NJ October 2018 to Present Project Description:  PRS (Pole Records System) is a Web based application that supports contract administration activities associated with pole attachment agreements covering the joint construction and use of pole lines with electric utilities and pole attachment and conduit occupancy agreements covering the leasing of space on Verizon poles and conduit by CATV, CLECs, and Wireless communication providers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the ecommerce-based web Application.  • The application was developed using Oracle WebLogic server 12 using EclipseMars2.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Involved in all phases of the License portal, vendor portal changes like analysis, development, Production, testing and deployment.  • Involved in all modules of the pole record system related to database and coding adding new changes to the modules.  • Worked on ONEJIRA for defect/issues logging & tracking and documented all my work using CONFLUENCE.  • Integrated services like AWS Code Pipeline, Jenkins and AWS Elastic Beanstalk to create a deployment pipeline.  • Branching, Merging, Release Activities on Version Control Tool GIT. Used Bit bucket as version control to store source code and implemented Bit bucket for branching and merging operations for Java Source Code.  • Achieved business process automation via applications developed using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration Testing, and fixing defects.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Used spring framework features spring framework, spring annotations and Spring IOC.  • Designed and deployed XML files for Dispatcher servlets, Application context and controllers to implement the inversion of control.  • Worked on to setup for the various Jenkins CICD pipeline configurations for all the micro services.  • Generated JSON data from database and coded request handlers for parsing and sending relevant data to client side.  • Experience in automation shell scripting and Python programming.  • Built application using Ant and used log4J to generate log files for the application.  • Consumed SOAP and REST Web Services to retrieve the information from the back end.  • Having experience on Jenkins Jobs configuration and CI/CD pipeline creation.  • Worked on New Relic and Splunk to monitor the sever logs.  • Created Database objects including Tables, Views, Stored Procedures.  • Created playbooks for Start/Stop/restart operations and manage the data.  • Created playbooks to create users in Oracle, MySQL and LDAP.  Environment:Java1.8,JDK1.8.0,JRE8,Oracle12c,PL/SQL,SQL,ANT,Spring,Microservices,Jenkins, Splunk, NewReliac,AWS,Gitlab, SOAP and RESTful Services,EC2,CI/CD,JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, JIRA, Agile MethodologyCSS,HTML,XML,Tomcat,LDAP. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer CVS Health - Richardson, TX May 2018 to September 2018 • The application was developed using IBM WebSphere portal using eclipse IDE.  • Involved in deploying the applications both from the command line using Wsadmin Commands and from the admin console.  • Installed and configured WebSphere Portal Server 8.5.  • Configured WebSphere resources like JVM heap settings, JDBC providers, JDBC data sources, connection pooling, Virtual Hosts, Global Security and SSL.  • Involved with the SSL Certificates missing issues and installed certificates from the backup.  • Deployment and troubleshooting of JAR, WAR, and EAR files in clustered environment.  • Updated application code from JDK 1.3 to 1.4 using WSAD, RAD and redeployed in a clustered environment.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming using Java and J2EE technologies EJBs, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, JMS and JNDI.  • Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Worked on level 2 production, testing and development support.  • Installed, configured and deployed the applications on WebSphere Portal and Application Server with SOA Governance.  • Maintained the business standards and the requirements in EJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  • Experience in designing Test Cases/Test Scripts/Test Conditions for the Unit Testing, verifying and validating Web based e-commerce applications, like Boundary Value Analysis.  • Developed several Webservice stubs using AXIS 2.0 engine, SOAP UI, JAX-RPC, WSDL, Document literal.  • Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC, Spring boot, Microservices & used core Spring concepts like AOP, IOC.  • Used GitHub for efficiently managing the source code versions with the development team.  • Used JMS to place the Import run requests into JMS Queue.  • Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts(OOPS) with C# and Python.  • Implemented and tested python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Developed XSLT files for transforming the XML response from the web service into HTML as per the business requirements and used different XML technologies such as XPATH.  • Developed the UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery, Angular 2.0 and was involved in resolving cross browser JavaScript issues.  • Used Spring JDBC template to perform the database operations.  • Suggested technical advisory procedures for software development programs such as C++, Java and Python.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Implemented design patterns like DAO, singleton, factory to achieve design principles.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration, GitHub for version management & Maven for building the application in the cloud leveraging AWS API's.  • Served as POC for on call support in the production team on a rotation basis.  Environment: Java 1.8, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, Maven, Angular JS 1.X, Spring Boot, Microservices, Spring 4.0, Jenkins, XML, XPATH, Linux, Selenium, Test NG, WebLogic 12.1.3, Hibernate 4.2, AWS, GitHub, MS. Java Developer Pershing LLC - Jersey City, NJ November 2016 to April 2018 • Involved in design and development and support the application.  • Developed the JSPs required for service management and user management modules.  • Worked on spring framework to enhance the existing application.  • Used JDBC to connect & retrieve data from DB using My BATIS  • Designed and developed Struts Action classes and Views using JSP, Struts tag libraries & JSTL.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework Node.js.  • Experienced first-hand the best/worst practices for integrating microservices into existing system architecture.  • Designed and developed Webservices using REST framework and Spring Boot.  • Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.js.  • Used SQL and PL/SQL extensively to talk to Oracle database.  • Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using JSP, HTML and java Script.  • Worked on WebLogic 10 server for building and deploying enterprise Java EE applications.  • Used Docker hub, creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configuration.  • Develop complex arithmetic functions using Groovy.  • Used JIRA for bug-tracking in the project development.  • Creating SOAP Web Services using WSDL to connect with external clients.    Environment Java1.5, WebLogic 10, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, Struts, SOAP and REST, JDBC, JIRA, Angular JS, MY BATIS, Docker. Sr. Java Developer Aptus Health - Reading, MA January 2015 to October 2016 • Involved in analysis of requirements, design, and development, and integration, deployment, testing and supporting existing application.  • Requirement analysis and finding the gap with the existing functionalities.  • Writing front-end code like HTML, CSS, jQuery for assigned User requirements using BackboneJS, AngularJS, various other JavaScript frameworks.  • Manage the integration of Univadis system with QuantiaMD.  • Develop RESTful web services for the application integration.  • Actuated two factor authentications for the administration modules  • Migration from SVN to Bitbucket.  • Enhanced existing sql to improve application performance.  • Redesigning of Message queues and implemented Executor services.  • Involved in creation of test cases.  Environment Java 1.7, J2ee, REST Web services, Json, JavaScript, XML, iText, Tomcat, Maven, Bitbucket, MySQL, Angular JS. QA Analyst Mastek India Ltd India August 2013 to September 2014 • Identified the Test Cases and documented them in Quality Center.  • Worked with the Developers and the test lead to verify the Test Cases.  • Prepared test data for positive and negative test scenarios for functional testing as documented in the test plan.  • Performed Development Integration, System Integration, End to End and User Acceptance testing for the data services.  • Performed Functional testing, Performance testing and Regression testing to see the entire functionality using QTP.  • Used Joins like Inner and Outer joins while testing from multiple tables.  • Performed Automation testing by using Quick Test Professional.    • Performed Data Driven Tests to validate the same scenario with different test data using Quick Test Professional.  • Established connectivity between QTP and Quality Centre and access the functions from QC.  • Responsible for Data driven testing using Quick Test Professional, and written functions using descriptive programming in Quick Test Professional.  • Used Quality Center to store all testing result and for defect Tracking and Reporting.  • Generated enhanced graphs and reports with Quality center.  • Provided weekly management status reports and coordinated meetings between test team and development team to review defects.  Environment: QTP 9.0, Quality Center 9.0, HTML, Windows XP, VB scripting, MS-Office, My SQL Java developer Capital IQ August 2011 to July 2013 • Created the UI tool - using Java, XML, DHTML, and JavaScript.  • Wrote stored procedures using PL/SQL for data retrieval from different tables.  • Worked extensively on bug fixes on the server side and made cosmetic changes on the UI side.  • Part of performance tuning team and implemented caching mechanism and other changes.  • Designed and developed various tools with Perl and recreated the system architecture diagram.  • Created combined deployment descriptors using XML.  • Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  • Created numerous new class and sequence diagrams using rational rose.  • Developed Authentication and Authorization modules where authorized persons can only access the inventory related operations.  • Developed Data Mapping, Data Governance and Cleansing rules for the Master Data Management Architecture involving OLTP and OLAP.  • Involved in preparing the Documentation of the project to understand the system efficiently.  Environment JDK1.2, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XML, J2EE, Tomcat, Rational Rose, Oracle, PL/SQL. Skills C++, Design patterns, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Domain Technologies  Programming Languages: Java 1.8, 1.7, 1.6, C, C++  JAVA Enterprise  Technologies:    Servlets 2.5/2.4, Spring Security, Spring JDBC, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, SOAP and RESTful Web Services, Hibernate 4.2. JDBC 3.0/2.0, JPA, EJB 3.0    JavaScript: Angular JS 4.x/2.x/1.x, jQuery2.x/1.x,  Databases: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, MySQL5.0,4.1,  Frameworks: Struts 2.0, JSF 3.0, Spring 3.x/2.x, Apache Camel  Application Servers: WebLogic 10.0/9.0/8.1/7.0, Tomcat 7,6, WebSphere 8.5, JBoss7.x/5.x  Databases: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, MySQL5.0,4.1,  Front End HTML5, XML, JSON, CSS3, JavaScript, JSP 2.2/2.1, JSTL 1.2, Bootstrap,  Operating Systems Windows 10/8/7/NT/XP/2000/98, Unix, Linux  Design Patterns: Front Controller, Singleton, Observer, DTO, DAO, MVC, Factory, Abstract Factory, Business Delegate.  Design Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall, Scrum, Test Driven,  Cloud platforms AWS,Cloud foundry