Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer Sr.<span class="hl">JAVA</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer - Capital One Dallas-Fort Worth, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer Capital One - Wilmington, DE August 2016 to Present The move money services help general users and investment users, to carry monetary transactions among friends, family and to manage loans and pay bills. The project consisted of developing and maintaining services of Capital One move money services like bill pay, home loan accounts, mortgage accounts etc. the services were developed maintained and tested for the devices and the web. We worked on the architectures, services and the front-end UI for each of the applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  ? Application is implemented using agile methodology where there is a daily SCRUM meeting to understand the status and resolve any issues.  ? Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Bootstrap.  ? Designed, developed a custom, single-page, responsive web application on front end usingAngularJS.  ? Developed reusable components using JavaScript, XML and HTML5.  ? Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in BackboneJS.  ? Developed forms for user event handling and validations using JavaScript's and AJAX.  ? Worked on Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions for making anonymous inline function calls by using Functional Interfaces which makes code readable and concise.  ? Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that must be stored in AWS S3.  ? Utilized Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 to deploy Docker containers.  ? Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, Spring Bootand handled the security using Spring Security  ? Implemented Batch jobs to deal with large amount of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) and Hibernate.  ? Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer usingHibernate/JDBC template, using Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  ? Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller (MVC), Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects, Data Access Objects, factory patterns.  ? Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  ? Used Spring DAO Module along with Struts Framework to deal with Database.  ? Used Hibernate, object /relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  ? Designed and developed a JDBC driver that intercepts a create view DDL parses it, converts it to a relational model, and stores in the database.  ? RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application  ? Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  ? Proficiency in adoption of architecture paradigms such as SOA, Web services, Middleware technologies.  ? Worked with core java concepts like Collections Framework, Multithreading and Memory management.  ? Involved in installing and configuring Maven for application builds and deployment  ? Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities and JUnit for unit testing  ? Automate build process through Maven build framework  ? Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  ? Setup the continuous Integration (CI) process for the application using the Jenkins.  ? Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  Environment: Agile(SCRUM), HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, AngularJS, AWS, Micro Services, Hibernate, Spring, MongoDB, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Servlet, XML, GIT, JSP, Spring MVC, JDBC, JUnit, Maven, WebSphere, BackboneJS, Methodology, Restful, Log4J, SOA, Java ServerPages, JIRA, Spring Security, Jenkins and STS. Java/J2EE Developer Snap-On Business Solutions - Richfield, OH August 2013 to July 2015 Snap-on Business Solutions designs productivity solutions that provide practical access to actionable information. SBS design and deliver electronic parts catalogs, accessory sales tools, warranty process management solutions, and manufacturer network development services. Mapping Tool provides a centralized system for analysis and maintenance of mappings in database. Database Wizard helps in comparing database structures either on same or different platform.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development of business domain concepts into Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Component Diagrams and Implementation Diagrams.  ? Designed and Developed Business Delegator pattern for delegating calls from front end tier, and used Transfer/Value Objects, and DAO Patterns to build the backend tier architecture.  ? Developed and deployed UI layer logics using JSP, XML, JavaScript, HTML /DHTML.  ? Responsible for analysis and design of the application based on MVC Architecture, using open source Struts.  ? Involved in Configuration of XML files according to the Struts framework.  ? Involved in configuring Struts, Tiles and developing the configuration files.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of vital information.  ? Implemented message Translators using Apache Camel  ? Developed Struts Action classes and Validation classes using Struts controller component and Struts validation framework.  ? Designed a light weight model for the product using Inversion of Control principle and implemented it successfully using Spring IOC Container.  ? Exposed Servlet-based Web Services using JAX-RPC with the support of Spring Framework.  ? Involved in the design and decision making for Hibernate OR Mapping and used Hibernate in DAO Layer.  ? Used transaction interceptor provided by Spring for declarative Transaction Management.  ? Used Apache Maven framework for building project artifacts and to manage dependencies.  ? Formulated and analyzed queries in SQL and experienced in writing stored procedures (PL/ SQL) and triggers.  ? Developed interactive web application using Node.js, a pure java script application frame work.  ? Developed and implemented the business logic component in middle tier using JDBC and EJB framework including stateless session classes and Entity bean classes  ? Involved in writing Unit/ Integration Test cases using Junit and Easy Mock frameworks. Also used log4j for logging purposes.  ? Involved in quality review of program specification for peer developers.  ? Performed regression testing, support integration testing, end to end testing and user acceptance testing.  ? Followed Agile Methodology throughout the lifecycle of the project.  ? Used SVN as revision control repository for configuring the source code using the subversion.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts2.0, Spring, Hibernate 3.0, EJB, Tiles, JDBC, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, JAX-WS, SOAP, HTML, CSS, JSTL, Node.js, WSAD, ANT, Web sphere6.0, Oracle 11g, JUNIT and Log4j. Java /J2EE developer Zensar Technologies May 2011 to July 2013 Farmers Insurance offers a variety of insurance products for individuals and businesses with its products ranging from automotive, immovable assets, mechanical coverage, personal lines, and commercial lines including reinsurance. Automotive insurance forms most of State farms operation and revenue. RTR is a real time rating service to get a quote based on the information provided by the user through vendor application or through insurance quoting site.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in full life cycle development of Auto Bind Project where the user can buy the policies for Auto, Home and Life Insurance.  ? Used Spring framework to develop and maintain this application to implement MVC design pattern.  ? Worked with Spring MVC using AOP, DI/IOC and JDBC template.  ? Designed web services, SOA based applications  ? Followed Agile Scrum two-week development cycle to streamline development process with iterative and incremental development  ? Developed JSP screens using Tiles, custom TagLibs, JSP templates and JSTL.  ? Implemented the associated business modules integration using Spring JS API, Spring MVC, Spring and iBatis data mapping.  ? Developed various business components like Session Beans and managed database transactions.  ? Used Hibernate as ORM tool and defined the mapping and relationship of each table in database to java object.  ? Developed PL/SQL statements including stored procedures and triggers to perform the business.  ? Used ActiveMQ to asynchronous communication between modules.  ? Implemented Junit test case for all business methods for unit testing.  ? Used Log4j to implement logging functionality.  ? Written Ant script for build and deployment process.  ? Used Agile scrum methodology to develop and deliver project.  ? Co-ordinate with the QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and those defects are resolved.  ? Involved in testing and deployment of the application on WebSphere Application Server during integration and QA testing phase.  ? Provided the production support and troubleshoot the requests from end-users.  Environment: JAVA 1.7, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, JSTL, JSP, Oracle, Web Services, SOAP, Restful, Maven, Apache AXIS, Jersey, SOAP UI, XML, JAXB, JAXP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JUnit, Eclipse, WebSphere, SVN, Shell Script. Java Application Developer Multi Centric Solutions July 2009 to May 2011 Online billing system (OBS) project provides enhancements to existing online billing application. OBS is a system which basically provides many online features like displaying current bill showing balance, due dates, history information and other stuff. OBS displays bills to customer in selected formats like PDF and HTML formats up to last 12 months and can download.  OBS also contains provision to collect payment information, online order processing and payment processing.  Responsibilities:  ? Assisted in designing and programming for the system, which includes development of Process Flow Diagram, Entity Relationship Diagram, Data Flow Diagram and Database Design.  ? Involved in Transactions, login and Reporting modules, and customized report generation using Controllers, Testing and debugging the whole project for proper functionality and documenting modules developed.  ? Involved in developing Java APIs, which communicates with the Java Beans.  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  ? Implemented MVC architecture using Java Struts, Custom and JSTL tag libraries.  ? Involved in development of POJO classes and writing Hibernate query language (HQL) queries.  ? Implemented MVC architecture and DAO design pattern for maximum abstraction of the application and code reusability.  ? Created Stored Procedures using SQL/PL-SQL for data modification.  ? Used XML, XSL for Data presentation, Report generation and customer feedback documents.  ? Used Java Beans to automate the generation of Dynamic Reports and for customer transactions.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for regression testing and integrated with ANT build.  ? Implemented Logging framework using Log4J.  ? Involved in code review and documentation review of technical artifacts.  Environment: J2EE/ Java, JSP, Servlets, JSF, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, JavaBeans, XML, XSL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CVS, JDBC, Log4J, Oracle, IBM WebSphere Application Server, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (7 years), JAVA (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), JDBC (7 years), JSP (7 years), Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Soap, Spring, Rest Additional Information SKILLS INVENTORY  ? Sound knowledge of J2EE architecture, design patterns, objects modeling using various J2EE technologies and frameworks.  ? Experience in all the phases of software development life cycle that includes Requirement Study & Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, maintenance, implementation and testing of various client/server and N-tier web applications  ? Adept at creating Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  ? Experienced in using Agile methodologies including extreme programming, SCRUM and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  ? Strong experience in developing font end of the system using emerging technologies like Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, JSP, DHTML, JSTL.  ? Experienced in J2EE Programming such as EJB, JDBC, and JNDI.  ? Developed web applications based on different Design Patterns including Model-View-Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator etc.  ? Proficient in integrating and configuring the Object-relation mapping tool, Hibernate in J2EE applications and other open source frameworks like Struts and Spring.  ? Worked on Struts open source framework along with Tiles, Struts Controllers and client server validation.  ? Configured and developed web applications in Spring, employed spring MVC architecture and inversion of control.  ? Experienced on working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon Cloud Front.  ? Experience in building and deploying web applications in multiple applications servers and middleware platforms. Including Web logic, Web sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  ? Experience in using Jenkins for continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD).  ? Good knowledge in Web Services, SOAP programming, WSDL, and XML parsers like SAX, DOM.  ? Experience in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Views, Functions, and Triggers in Oracle 9i/10g/11g and MySQL4.x and 5.x.  ? Experience in writing test cases in Java Environment using JUnit.  ? Hands on experience in development of logging standards and mechanism based on Log4J.  ? Involved in generating reports using Jasper Reports.  ? Experience in building, deploying and integrating applications with ANT, Maven, Hudson and Cruise Control.  ? Good Experience in technical writing and creating clean well documented codes.  ? Excellent communication skills, creative problem solver, positive listener and team player.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java, C/C++, PL/SQL.  J2EE Technology Servlets, JMS, JSP, JDBC, EJBs, JNDI.  Web tools and languages HTML, CSS, DHTML, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, WSDL.  XML Technologies XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, AXIS, Castor, XML Beans and JAXB.  Frame Works Struts, Spring-core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Tiles, CXF, ADF, AXIS  Servers Apache Tomcat, Web sphere, JBoss Application server, WebLogic, AWS.  Web Services SOAP, REST.  Databases Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MySQL 4.x/5.x, DB2.  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, IBM RAD, WSAD, NetBeans, TOAD, SQL Buddy.  Testing Tools/ Build Tools JUnit, ANT, MAVEN, Log4J, Mockito  Revision Controlling Systems SVN, CVS and Clear case.