Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Metlife, Inc New York, NY • Over 8+ years of progressive experience in Software Development including Requirements gathering, Design, Development, Unit Testing, Implementation, Application Support, Maintenance and Documentation.  • Experience in n-tier architecture using J2EE technology including interfacing with Legacy systems.  • Expertise in design and development of various web applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JDBC, Eclipse.  • Having Sound knowledge in JAVA, ORACLE and HTML.  • Strong experience in design & development of applications using Java/J2EE components such as Java Server Pages (JSP), JavaScript.  • Experience in working with Web Services, XML.  • Good experience in implementing the design pattern like MVC.  • Hands-on experience in relational database connections like DB-API connection management and query based access to databases like PostgreSQL and MySQL in Python  • Experience in design and development of Java and Internet/Intranet based applications and Client/Server technology under Windows/Linux Operating Systems.  • Proficient with J2EE Design Patterns and SDLC process.  • Experience in SQL and JSP.  • Implementing Code (Perl/Unix Shell scripts) and writing unit test cases.  • Experience in client-side programming using HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Proficient in mapping client's requirements, conducting business analysis, custom designing solutions for applications and troubleshooting for complex application related problems.  • Worked with Source control tools like Visual SourceSafe, CVS.  • Familiar with Application Servers and Web Servers like Apache Tomcat.  • Familiarity in Waterfall Methodology.  • Strong analytical, presentation, problem solving and excellent interpersonal skills, ability to work independently and active team player with proven work ethics and leadership qualities.  • Worked with ORM tools such as Hibernate and proficient in HQL.  • Designed various modules of application/product with the knowledge of design patterns and OOPS concepts.  • Good experience in writing and performance tuning database queries and stored procedures using Oracle, DB2 and MySQL databases.  • Good knowledge in usage of application and web servers such as JBoss, Tomcat and Web Sphere.  • Having good experience in build tools like ANT/Maven and logging like Log4J/SL4J.  • Extensive J2EE development experience in different IDE tools like Eclipse and Rational Rose.  • Experienced in Coding, testing, analyzing/fixing production defects/issues using Core Java&J2EE technologies and involved in code and design review process of team members.  • Experienced in TDD (Test Driven Development) using Junit, Cucumber, Selenium and created technical design document containing architecture of the application/module/product.  • Experienced in Version Control Systems such as SVN, CSV and used tracking tool JIRA.  • Experienced in Document preparation including Design Documents, Technical help documents, User training documents and Test Cases.  • Working as a team extended across the world at onshore and offshore locations, projects teams included 30+ resources and always keep up with new technology trends with a view to applying changing technology solution patterns. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Metlife, Inc - New York, NY August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented the Spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  • Proven expertise in implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO).  • Windows Server machines running PostgreSQL DBMS, presented with HTML5 and CSS  • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables  • Developed Hibernate mapping files for the Object Relational Mapping while configuring Hibernate, Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integrating JSP with Hibernate and Spring frameworks  • Developed IBATIS config files for SYBASE D.B tables, stored process  • Designed and Developed JavaScript frame work (Angular.js) which is wrapper on top of JQuery frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets  • Created Web Applications with real-time, two-way connection, where both Client and Server can initiate communication by using Angular.js.  • Professional experience in designing, development, testing, deployment and support of applications programmed in Python, Django, Flask, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Apache, Nginx, Gunicorn.  • Performed Coding using OOP PERL, Shell, SED, AWK, Navicli commands.  • Troubleshoot and Maintain Sybase ASE Internal Procedures.  • Configured Sybase ASE sysmon & MDA monitoring queries.  • Implemented various Widget for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture  application using Node.js, Express and Jade on the backend.  • Experience in making Responsive web pages (RWD) using Bootstrap.js, RESTful API web development and media queries and Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Developed a module in PHP and SQL Server with MVC to asynchronously manage various details of tests and plots. Used backbone.js and fat free framework (PHP) to connect client side application to backend with RESFul JSON interface.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Implemented Java Script validation frame work for client side & server side.  • Participated in the design and construction of 2 Proof of Concepts for a CCS end-to-end workflow business process using EMC Documentum Process Management Suite and Oracle BPM JDeveloper.  • Extensively used Oracle programming using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Implemented and Maintained a Multi-Datacenter Cassandra cluster.  • Extensive experience in installation, configuration, management and deployment of Big Data components and the underlying infrastructure of Hadoop Cluster.  • In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design. Open source framework like Jersey used for create REST API  • Migrating SOAP based API to REST.  • Coordinating with team members for developing Flex components using ActionScript and other Java services for WebServices.  • Created an HTML website and mobile applications that students could easily understand and use within Eclipse and Netbeans.  • Designed and developed SOA based enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite and WebLogic  • Administered bot Git and Subversion repositories for an enterprise code off.  • Helped optimize ruby-on-rails based tool used for diagnostics of GitHub Enterprise appliances.  • Used WebLogic, VSS, JUnit and few other Eclipse plug-ins.  • Mentoring of junior members for agile (Scrum) process & Junit testing.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML.  • Developed Hibernate mapping files for the Object Relational Mapping while configuring Hibernate, Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integrating JSP with Hibernate and Spring frameworks  • Worked on XML validations, Marshalling and Unmarshalling XML into Java Objects and vice versa using JAXB.  • Developed web services using Apache Axis2 in Java and SOAP/WSDL on SOA architecture.    Environment: SPRING, HIBERNATE, STRUTS, JQUERY, AJAX, SENCHA EXTJS, JAVASCRIPT, ORACLE, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC,APACHE CXF, REST, ECLIPSE, WEBLOGIC, CLEARCASE, JUNIT, AGILE, UML, JSP, JSTL ( JAVA SERVER PAGESSTANDARD TAG LIBRARY), SERVLET, MAVEN, ITEXT, GOOGLE WEB KIT (GWT), JASPER REPORT, ILOG, WEB 2.0, SOA, Scripting, JMS, JBoss, DBMS, Sybase Sr. Java Developer MetLife Insurance - Seattle, WA February 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool to map the database tables, and wrote DAOs and POJOs to integrate with Spring Framework  • Expertise in developing enterprise applications using Struts Frameworks  • Implement the presentation layer (GUI), based on open source framework, involving Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Beans.  • Responsible for DBMS maintenance and optimization  • • Developed server health check tools for Hardware/Network Monitoring using OOPerl, HTML, SQL  • Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML.  • Design and development of a proof-of-concept real-time notification system using Node.js and Socket.IONGINX  • Designed responsive web page for Mobile using bootstrap.js. framework  • Extensively worked with Asynchronous java scripting AJAX.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Developed HTML5 Mobile application with HTML, Java Script, jQuery, JSON and RESTful web service.  • Wrote JDBC code to connect to Oracle DB  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Developed Ruby on Rails web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis  • Implemented multiple J2EE web service projects using Java, REST, SOAP, Spring, WebLogic and Websphere in production.  • Participated in conversion of Piper Jaffray Investments, Inc into RMA System using Java, J2EE, Servlets/ JSP, EJB, JMS, MQ, ORACLE, JDBC, HTML, Swing, XML, Struts, JavaScript, SOAP/WebServices  • Designed and developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache CXF based WS implementations for consuming TSYS Services. Developed DAO implementations for the database access using simple Spring JDBC Template.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application  • Extensively used Jquery , IBM Websphere Portal APIs for authentication and personalization features  • Designed and developed the JSF, HTML using the WebSphere Studio for Application Developer.  • Performed installation of Sybase servers, configuration and building necessary databases.  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), JIRA/ QualityCenter for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  • Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application.  • Executed project using waterfall model and practiced Agile Project Management & performed the Scrum Master role for specific projects/requirements as appropriate. Used Rally for Agile project management  • Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML  • Created Object diagram, Class diagram and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose Tool.  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Created webservices using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts.  • Configured Hibernate, Spring and MyFaces (JSF) to map the business objects to MySQL Database using XML configuration file.  • Performed Oracle SOA Suite and Oracle BPM Suite configuration, monitoring, and management tasks using Oracle Enterprise Manager Fusion Middleware Control.  • Business layer implemented using Spring MVC and Enterprise layer using JMS - IBM MQ Series which would in turn store the data on AS/400.  • Install, configure, update and troubleshoot Oracle Application Server, IBM Websphere, IIs, Apache Tomcat and the applications installed. Implement bug fixes and IAVA patches. Manage log files, crons and system services. Request/Apply SSL certificates.  • Developed Oracle Stored Procedures to update records on a daily basis and it will invoke using cron job in LINUX; Responsible for the Migration of the application from Web Sphere to JBoss  • Development of web pages in PHP/FX.PHP using Filemaker Pro as the database    Environment: Java, J2EE, JEE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, DB2, JDBC, MongoDB, PL/ SQL, APACHE  CXF, soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Websphere, Subversion, Junit, Scrum, UML, Class diagram, JSP, MAVEN, Xml, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP, Scripting, JBoss, Maven, Swing, PL/SQL, DBMS, Sybase Sr. Java Developer Costco - Columbus, OH February 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Used iBATIS framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Designed MT-Web application using the JSF Framework.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Used Framework., JDBC, Hibernate, Struts, EJB2, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Architected, Designed and developed the product using HTML, CSS, Jquery, Javascript, Sencha, PhoneGap  • Architected, Designed and developed the product using HTML, CSS, Jquery, Javascript, Sencha, PhoneGap  • Developed prototypes using Flex, ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  • Worked on Toad for Oracle for querying the database.  • Strong Database programming using ADO.NET, ADO with MS SQL Server 2000, MS Access and Oracle backend. Extensively used Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in Microsoft SQL Server.  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures  • Integrate Oracle Coherence with Oracle WebCenter  Environment: Oracle WebCenter, ALSB, WLP, Oracle Coherence.  • Designed and Developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2  • Designed and Developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2  • Creates GUI builder using NetBeans.  • Experience in the installation, support, configuration and maintenance of Tomcat, JBoss.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Setup ClearCase server to support CCRC (ClearCase Remote Clients). Evaluated existing software development environment, drafted recommendations for improvements. Worked with GHX and IBM to resolve licensing issues involved with ClearCase software change management solution package. Environment was mixed Windows and Linux, projects written in C++ and Java.  • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium.  • Involved in developing projects as Lead / Senior Developer following traditional SDLC Water Fall Model as well as Agile  • Optimized UML design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Service Locator and Business Delegate  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Integrating Rich Faces and My Faces in JSF, configuring Rich Faces Filter and Faces Servlet in the configuration file  • Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool.  • Integrated with iText and Jakarta POI to generate Test results in PDF and XLS format  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  • Design and implementation of desktop, mobile and web applications in Java and HTML5/Javascript using Eclipse, NetBeans, and Xcode IDE's; Swing, GWT, Vaadin, JPA, Hibernate, PhoneGap frameworks; and SVN, git, maven source code environments.  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  • Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation  • Implemented Security with LDAP and group level security in Cognos Connection Portal  • Installation/Support Apache Tomcat for support of Jasper Reports Server  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Involved in designing the data stage job to implement ILOG JRules Component.  • Implementation of Global Dividend Withholding, Segregation Deficit Tracking (Oracle SOA Suite, BPEL, Oracle ADF)  • Use Oracle BPM to coordinate Business processes and create embedded process for rollback invocation on Adtran - Cooper based Ethernet.  • Implemented Web 2.0 research and trading platforms across product areas with, "single sign on"  • Worked closely with developers and administrators from different infrastructure groups within the company as well with inter-plan companies (IBM MQ Series Support, Solaris Support, DBAdmin, WASAdmin, PDAdmin, DataPower, Network, Security, Shared Services and Vendors).  • Installation/Support Apache Tomcat for support of Jasper Reports Server  • Involved in writing Unix Shell Script for performing automated tasks.  • Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT and LINUX operating systems.  • Generated simulation data using in-house software and Ruby scripts. Developed GUI and data-handling features for in-house analysis software ( Java). Performed server configuration and maintenance to support Git, Active Directory, and OpenVPN. Built and maintained several servers and workstations including Windows Server and desktop variants, Ubuntu Server and desktop variants, Fedora, and CentOS.  • Design & creation of multiple sites using: WordPress, HTML, PHP, XML, CSS, Javascript & more.  • Built custom websites for clients using CMS's (Drupal) by coding custom modules and themes, as well as utilizing e-commerce APIs for secure payment processing.  • Wrote various C++ utilities for different flavors of UNIX servers (Sun Solaris, IBM AIX and SCO)  • Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  • Designed, Coded and documented applications to meet customer requirements where SAS was an integral component of the system.  • Served as lead consultant for MS Access, Excel and Win32 based solutions, responsible for full life cycle development on VB, MS Access apps using forms, controls, XML, ActiveX Data Objects (ADO).    Environment:: Java, J2EE, JEE, Spring, IBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, DOJO, Sencha ExtJS, MYSQL, Toad, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans, Jboss, Mercurial, ClearCase, Waterfall model, UML, JSP, SERVLET, ANT, ITEXT, EMC Documentum, GWT, JIRA, SWING, IBM MQ Series, Ruby, wordpress, drupal, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, JMS, JBoss Java Developer Comcast Corporation - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  Interacted with the stake-holders and gather requirements and business artifacts based on Agile SCRUM methodology.  * Developed web pages by using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  * Used Eclipse to develop source code and debug the application.  * Built a custom cross-platform architecture using Java, Spring Core/MVC, and Hibernate.  * Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications internal and third party components using SOAP and REST services using Apache-CXF  * Configured Queues and Topics as part of application integration and defined Camel routing between queues/topics.  * Reviewed the XML logical data model and developed XML schema XSD to validate the model and used JAX-B for Xml- Java Mapping and XML-XSLT conversion.  * Developed and published web-services using WSDL,SOAP and XML, JAX-B based on top-down and bottom-up approaches.  * Experience in pre-testing the Web-Service calls with SOAP UI using end-points.  * Coordinated Unit Testing by JUnit, Easy Mock, Integration and User Acceptance Testing and developed test cases for bean components.  * Used Subversion for maintaining the component and for release and version management. And JIRA for defect tracking.  * Maven tool has been used for the build and deploy procedure scripts in UNIX, Linux and Windows environment using Hudson.  * Been though Release process for project execution as part of SCRUM.    Environment: Java, J2EE,SOA, Spring, Web Services, CXF, XML, XSD, Shell Script, UML, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, WebLogic, Active MQ, JAX-B, JMS, Axis2, AJAX, Hudson, Maven, Jenkins, Restful, SOAP, JIRA, Oracle, PL/SQL, XPath, XSLT, SOAP UI, JUnit, SVN, Windows, Unix. Software Developer SA Technologies Inc - Santa Clara, CA October 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance  • Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  • Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  • Worked on bug fixing  • Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  • Developing HardwareStoreMarketer.com site using ASP.Net.  • Worked on various client websites that used Struts framework, Hibernate and OGNL  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  • Simulation was developed using C++.  • Implemented real-time patient prescription history verification system using C, Oracle PL/SQL on VMS platform.  • Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  • Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  • Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  • Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  • Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  • Responsible for migrating Websphere server and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  • Use FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  • Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  • Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  • Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance    Environment:  Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, .Net, JIRA, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, VisualSourceSafe, Weblogic, Oracle, OGNL, C, C++, Linux, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid,REXX,ISPF, Mainframe, CICS, IMS, VSAM, JCL Project Developer CITI Bank - New York, NY October 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • The system was designed according to J2EE specifications. Servlets were used as a Front Controller gateway into the system. Helper classes were used to limit the business logic in the servlet. EJB was used to talk to the database and JSP along with HTML, XML were used to control the client view.  • Designed and added new functionality extended existing application using J2EE,XML,Ajax, Servlets, JSP.  • Studied the impact of the requirement and prepared the Requirement functional and technical documents.  • Created different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database.  • Worked on UNIX shell scripting to run the JAR file created for batch program.  • Used Struts framework in UI designing and validations.  • Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework.  • Client side validations are done using JavaScript and server side validations are done using Struts validator framework.  • AJAX forms are created for update operations.  • Data was converted into JSON using JSP tags.  • Enhanced the existing application to meet the business requirement.  • Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool.  • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Participated in the Production support and maintenance of the project.  • Created new tables in DB2 database.  • Used ClearCase version control system.  • Performed usability testing for the application using JUnit Test.    Environment:  JAVA, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Struts, Design Patterns, Eclipse, Apache tomcat server, DB2, UNIX, ClearCase, Junit Education Master of Science Science and Engineering Florida State University Skills Eclipse (9 years), Java (9 years), JUnit (9 years), SQL (9 years), testing (9 years)