Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - JPMorgan Chase Exton, PA LOOKING FOR ONLY WORK FROM HOME POSITIONS    • Information Technology professional with 8+ years of extensive experience in IT Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance/Support of Client Server and Web and Distributed Applications  • Hands on experience in developing High Volume, Critical Enterprise wide systems using J2EE and Java Technologies.  • Experience with Object Oriented Design and Object Oriented Analysis, Complete System Life Cycle, RUP, UML and associated tools such as Rational Rose.  • Excellent implementation knowledge of J2EE Design Patterns such as Session Façade, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Data Access Object and Singleton and also worked on Hibernate, Spring and Struts Frameworks.  • Strong SOA and Web Services experience.  • Design and development skills with Business Logic, Data Access and Presentation layers in n-tier Web/J2EE applications  • Expert in developing Internet based applications using Java (JDBC, Apache-log4j, Thread, Java Beans) and J2EE (EJB-Session/Entity/Message Driven Bean, JSP, Servlets).  • Excellent skills in creating and accessing various Databases using SQL Queries, PL/SQL scripts on various databases (Oracle, MS SQL Server).  • Experience in development, testing and deployments of products in both Windows and LINIX Environments.  • Excellent knowledge in XML related technologies such as XML and DOM.  • Experience in writing stored procedures, Triggers, Queries in PL SQL in  • Expert level programming skills in UNIX and shell scripting and CVS tools used Perforce, CVS and Linux.  • Have exceptional communication skills and can work with in a team or independently with minimal supervision. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for deploying the application in Dev, Test and Production environments  • Written DDL, DML queries to insert, retrieve and modify the data from database.  • Designed tables to access the database in Oracle and involved in writing SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Responsible for testing in all stages (DIT, IST, ILAB and PROD) of application.  • Created UNIX Shell scripts.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate, used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  • Involved in client side application development using JS, HTML, CSS, JQUERY, JSON, Angular JS.  • Extensively used Bower and Node components in the implementation of JavaScript libraries.  • Wrote unit test cases for Unit Level testing.  • Closely worked with QA, Business and Architect to solve various defects in quick and fast manner to meet deadlines.  • Experience in using various Web and Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, Oracle Web Logic  • Used Freemarker Templates to generate the sample request and response templates for the external web service invocation  • Developed build and deployment scripts using Apache ANT to customize WAR and EAR files.  • Developed user interfaces for the application using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Developed User Interface using JSP, Java Script, HTML ,Servlets, Struts  • Used Struts framework for implementing MVC2 architecture.  • Worked on Web Services integrations using WSDL  • Responsible for maintaining 40+ various SOA/Web Services.  • Designed and developed Hibernate components and mappings.  • Developed set of Action classes using Struts for handling business logic and Hibernate API for data logic.  • Built the application using ANT and deployed the application in DEV and QA servers using Websphere application server  • Used PVCS for version controller and Mercury Quality Center as the Defect Tracking System.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK1.4, Apache Tomcat, HTML, CSS, EJB, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Web Services , SOA, Unix, Oracle, WebSpherer, Eclipse, Beyond Compare, ANT, Log4j, SQL Server, Putty, Quality Center, XML, XML Spy. Java/J2EE Web Developer Caterpillar Inc - Peoria, IL January 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in the review and analysis of business requirements, documenting the requirements and design and communicating the development approach to the development team.  • Developed and worked with JSP custom tags.  • Involved in validations using HTML, jQuery and JSP as per user requirements.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery, jQuery Mobile, Backbone.js in on-going projects.  • Designed, developed, tested, integrated, and deployed large numbers of complex rules in rule flows, Drools Fusion and Drools CEP.  • Deployed War files in JBoss Server and SVN for version control.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring IOC and Hibernate to establish the Connection with Database for Stored  • Involved in generating build script using ANT that compiles the code, builds a war file and deploys the application on the application server.  • Used Spring IOC (Inversion of Control)/DI (Dependency Injection) to wire the object dependencies across the application. Used Apache Tomcat as application server to build the web applications.  • Implemented Maven builds for creating JAR'S, WAR'S and EAR'S. Managed the artifacts generated by Maven in the Nexus repository.  • Implemented persistence layer with Hibernate APIs, metadata (annotations) and using HQL.  • Extensively used Hibernate for data retrieval from the database using various querying techniques like Hibernate Query Language (HQL), Query by Criteria, Native SQL.  • Experience in developing front and back end applications using Java Swing, Ajax and DOJO.  • Experience in application integration using Apache Camel and understanding of Fuse ESB.  • Developed FTL (freemarker template language) to convert Object into a XML string to display in HTML Grid.  • Developed messaging module using Spring JMS, Apache Camel and Active MQ.  • Used JBOSS Fuse ESB to normalize number of protocols to a single protocol.  • Worked on AWS, high availability practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.  • Developed various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, SAX, XSLT, JAXP, JNDI, JMS, and Message Queue.  • Experience building RESTful APIs via microservices and decoupled architectures.  • Experienced first-hand practices for integrating microservices into an existing system architecture.  • Developed server side Java codes for JSP web pages running on Apache Tomcat server  • Used Freemarker templates to create XML for large payload and load testing implemented along with Thread Concurrency running large number of parallel threads.  • Used core Java to build new functionality based on requirements.  • Strong in UNIXshell scripts and Perl scripts.  • Developed and executed Unit Test cases using Junit, created mock objects using Mockito framework by supporting TDD (Test Driven Development).  • Extensive experience in development and implementation of ORM framework like Hibernate integration with Struts and spring using HibernateTemplate.  • Implemented database integration with Hibernate with DAO patterns and done the transaction management with Hibernate template and transactions by using sessionfactory utilizing Abstract Factory pattern.  • Involved in Business Rules to implement the Rules Management using JBoss DROOLS.  • Involved in unit testing, code reviews of others work for all functionality implemented.  • Involved in the Agile/Scrum based development phases.  • Utilized Spring IOC to configure all the services and utility classes in spring context file to wire them whenever required in the application using XML and annotated autowiring mechanisms.  • Implemented Restful Web services of JAX-RS using Jersey API for producers andConsumers.  • Used a microservice architecture, with SpringBoot based services interacting through a combination of REST and MQ or Apache Kafka message brokers and leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy Identity microservices.  • Utilized most of the AWS services like S3 as a data store for storing the files that falls into the bucket, IAM roles, Elastic Bean Stalk, generated Lambda Functions to trigger an event that occurs in S3, Code Commit as a Version control service, AWS Cloud Watch.  • Have used DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, DHTML and java scripts.  • Installed and configured JBOSS/Drools server with Oracle persistence. Extracted rules data from the database and decision tables.  • Developed a web-based reporting for monitoring system with HTML and Tiles using Struts framework.  • Experienced in setting up Continuous Integration environment using Bamboo.  • Used the continuous integration tool Bamboo to automate the daily processes.  • Implemented Elastic search as a distributed searching component with RESTful API.  • Used Drools Decision Table using excel sheets with a Spring MVC project.  • Implemented Elastic search for full-context search using LDAP directory service.  • Responsible for all code committed to sub version (SVN) and merging of changes to the latest code from the branch.  • Used Maven to build the application.  • Utilized Spring boot CLI for bootstrapping the application with maven builds dependency.    Environment: core Java/J2EE, JDK, Spring, JSP, Web Services (SOAP, REST), Maven, Agile,Angular JS, Backbone.js, Unix, SOA, MQ, SOAP UI, Freemarker templates, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, TDD, JMS (Apache Camel), SVN, build tool Maven, Bamboo, Elastic search,DB2,Web Sphere (WAS) as application server, SQL, Drools, PL/SQL. Java/J2EE Developer Dow Jones - Monmouth Junction, NJ January 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and implementation/translation of Business User requirements.  • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Developed various UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, interaction diagrams (sequence and collaboration) and activity diagrams and requirement analysis.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • System was built using Spring Model-View-Controller (MVC) framework.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using Tiles, JSP, JSTL and java script, Business objects developed using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object.  • Developed Web services to allow communication between applications over HTTP using RESTful webservices.  • Used AJAX to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the EJB 3.0 using annotations.  • Used CVS version control tool.  • Migrated ANT projects into Maven for better build performance.  • Responsible for deployment of WAR, EAR files along with environment specific properties into QA, Stage and PROD environments.  • Installation and configuration of multiple Apache Tomcat instances as a service on development, staging, preproduction and production environments.  • Wrote HQL, SQL queries, stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using Oracle database.  • Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse for development.  • Used Log4J to validate functionalities and JUnit for unit testing.    Environment: Java 1.7, JavaScript, FTL Freemarker Templates, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 3.0, Struts, AGILE Methodology, SCRUM, JSP, Servlet, XML, Java Beans, Design Patterns, RESTful web Services, Log4J, Unix Shell Scripting, CVS, Oracle 10g, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat 7, Windows and Oracle, HTML, Java Server Pages, DHTML,CSS, JavaScript, Ajax. Java Developer UnitedHealth Group - Newark, NJ June 2013 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in the review and analysis of business requirements, documenting the requirements and design and communicating the development approach to the development team.  • Developed and worked with JSP custom tags.  • Involved in validations using HTML, jQuery and JSP as per user requirements.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery, jQuery Mobile, Backbone.js in on-going projects.  • Designed, developed, tested, integrated, and deployed large numbers of complex rules in rule flows, Drools Fusion and Drools CEP.  • Deployed War files in JBoss Server and SVN for version control.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring IOC and Hibernate to establish the Connection with Database for Stored  • Involved in generating build script using ANT that compiles the code, builds a war file and deploys the application on the application server.  • Used Spring IOC (Inversion of Control)/DI (Dependency Injection) to wire the object dependencies across the application. Used Apache Tomcat as application server to build the web applications.  • Implemented Maven builds for creating JAR'S, WAR'S and EAR'S. Managed the artifacts generated by Maven in the Nexus repository.  • Implemented persistence layer with Hibernate APIs, metadata (annotations) and using HQL.  • Extensively used Hibernate for data retrieval from the database using various querying techniques like Hibernate Query Language (HQL), Query by Criteria, Native SQL.  • Experience in developing front and back end applications using Java Swing, Ajax and DOJO.  • Experience in application integration using Apache Camel and understanding of Fuse ESB.  • Developed FTL (freemarker template language) to convert Object into a XML string to display in HTML Grid.  • Developed messaging module using Spring JMS, Apache Camel and Active MQ.  • Used JBOSS Fuse ESB to normalize number of protocols to a single protocol.  • Worked on AWS, high availability practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.  • Developed various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, SAX, XSLT, JAXP, JNDI, JMS, and Message Queue.  • Experience building RESTful APIs via microservices and decoupled architectures.  • Experienced first-hand practices for integrating microservices into an existing system architecture.  • Developed server side Java codes for JSP web pages running on Apache Tomcat server  • Used Freemarker templates to create XML for large payload and load testing implemented along with Thread Concurrency running large number of parallel threads.  • Used core Java to build new functionality based on requirements.  • Strong in UNIXshell scripts and Perl scripts.  • Developed and executed Unit Test cases using Junit, created mock objects using Mockito framework by supporting TDD (Test Driven Development).  • Extensive experience in development and implementation of ORM framework like Hibernate integration with Struts and spring using HibernateTemplate.  • Implemented database integration with Hibernate with DAO patterns and done the transaction management with Hibernate template and transactions by using sessionfactory utilizing Abstract Factory pattern.  • Involved in Business Rules to implement the Rules Management using JBoss DROOLS.  • Involved in unit testing, code reviews of others work for all functionality implemented.  • Involved in the Agile/Scrum based development phases.  • Utilized Spring IOC to configure all the services and utility classes in spring context file to wire them whenever required in the application using XML and annotated autowiring mechanisms.  • Implemented Restful Web services of JAX-RS using Jersey API for producers andConsumers.  • Used a microservice architecture, with SpringBoot based services interacting through a combination of REST and MQ or Apache Kafka message brokers and leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy Identity microservices.  • Utilized most of the AWS services like S3 as a data store for storing the files that falls into the bucket, IAM roles, Elastic Bean Stalk, generated Lambda Functions to trigger an event that occurs in S3, Code Commit as a Version control service, AWS Cloud Watch.  • Have used DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, DHTML and java scripts.  • Installed and configured JBOSS/Drools server with Oracle persistence. Extracted rules data from the database and decision tables.  • Developed a web-based reporting for monitoring system with HTML and Tiles using Struts framework.  • Experienced in setting up Continuous Integration environment using Bamboo.  • Used the continuous integration tool Bamboo to automate the daily processes.  • Implemented Elastic search as a distributed searching component with RESTful API.  • Used Drools Decision Table using excel sheets with a Spring MVC project.  • Implemented Elastic search for full-context search using LDAP directory service.  • Responsible for all code committed to sub version (SVN) and merging of changes to the latest code from the branch.  • Used Maven to build the application.  • Utilized Spring boot CLI for bootstrapping the application with maven builds dependency.    Environment: core Java/J2EE, JDK, Spring, JSP, Web Services (SOAP, REST), Maven, Agile,Angular JS, Backbone.js, Unix, SOA, MQ, SOAP UI, Freemarker templates, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, TDD, JMS (Apache Camel), SVN, build tool Maven, Bamboo, Elastic search,DB2,Web Sphere (WAS) as application server, SQL, Drools, PL/SQL. Java Developer Century Link - Denver, CO January 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Understanding the functional specifications and architecture.  • Implemented server-side programs by using Servlets and JSP.  • Designed, developed and validated User Interface using HTML, Java Script, XML and CSS.  • Implemented MVC using Struts Framework.  • Handled the database access by implementing Controller Servlet.  • Developed SQL Server stored procedures to execute the back-end processes using.  • Designed tables to access the database in Oracle and involved in writing PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, and Triggers.  • Designed and documented of the stored procedures  • Used JDBC prepared statements to call from Servlets for database access.  • Widely used HTML for web based design.  • Developed Deployment descriptor using XML files.  • Configured connection pooling using WebSphere application server.  • Involved in Unit testing for various components.  • Used Log4J for any errors in the application.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, Eclipse, WebLogic, PL/SQL and Oracle.    EDUCATION BCA Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows 95/98/NT/2000/Server/XP/Vista, LINUX, SOLARIS 2000  Design Patterns &  Frame works: Struts, Hibernate and Spring Frameworks  Sun Technologies: J2EE ( Java, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, MQ Series and JMS) ,Python  Web Technologies: HTML, JHTML, DHTML (Style Sheets), XML and JavaScript, AJAX  Web Servers: WebLogic , Web Sphere , Tomcat  XML Technologies: DOM, Xalan, DTD, XmlSchemas, Xquery, JAXP, JAXB  Apache Projects: Log4j, Log4sql, Apache-Axis, Jakarta Commons, Jakarta Taglibs  Databases: Oracle7i /8i/9x/10G, SQL Server, MYSQL, PostgreSQL  Enterprise IDE: Eclipse 3.X, JBuilder 10.0, RAD  RDBMS: Oracle 10g, 9x, MS SQL Server, Toad, MS Access, Hibernate 3.0  Source Control  Management Tools: PVCS and CVS  Messaging Tools: IBM- MQ Series for Java, JMS  Business Area: Financial, Consumer Finance, Insurance, Banking  Editor& Tools: MS FrontPage, Text Pad, Eclipse, RAD, JBUILDER - Enterprise, Edit Plus, PL/SQL Developer, TOAD etc.  SOA/WebServices: WSDL,SOAP