Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - AT&T New York, NY • 5+ years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle using Agile methodologies.  • Extensive knowledge in IT Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Maintenance/Support of Client Server and Enterprise Applications.  • Experience in broad range of technical skills including Java application development, Database design, PL/SQL and SQL development.  • Hands on experience in developing applications with JDK 1.8/1.7/1.6/1.5/1.4 , J2EE 1.5/1.4/1.3, Java, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JNDI, Web services, JDBC, XML, Java Script and Angular Js.  • Expertise in Spring 4.x/3.x, Struts 2.x/1.x, ORM tools like Hibernate.  • Developed rich and complex Web UI using HTML, JavaScript & CSS.  • Proficient in Core Java concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Serialization, Generics and Java Beans.  • Hands on experience working with GUI frameworks JSF and Swing.  • Exposure to Object Oriented design patterns such as Singleton, Factory, Model View Controller(MVC) architecture, Data Access Object(DAO).  • Experience using XML and JSON as data interchange format.  • Experience with Object Oriented Design and Object Oriented Analysis.  • Extensive experience in SQL programming language using Oracle and MySQL database environments.  • Hands on experience in implementing Stored procedures, Triggers, views and complex queries.  • Strong knowledge of various relational database systems.  • Experience in developing and deploying applications in application servers like Apache Tomcat, JBoss Wild Fly, Glass Fish.  • Proficient in working with leading IDE's i.e., Net Beans, Eclipse and STS.  • Expertise in quickly analyzing production issues and coming up with resolutions.  • Experienced in developing Restful web services, consumed and also produced.  • Hands on experience with Maven and JUNIT for unit testing.  • Experience in working MVC Architecture on AngularJS and also in software configuration management using subversion control (SVN) and GIT.  • Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team. Work Experience Java Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA January 2018 to Present Description:  Project deals with process of conducting a data survey to assess company's data fits to a given purpose. Also profiling the data and inspecting the impact of poor quality data on organization performance and profits. Examining whether existing data can be easily used for other purposes, understand data challenges early in any data intensive project, assess the risk involved in integrating data in new applications, exploring data problems in the project that can lead to delays and cost overturns.  Responsibilities:  • Involve in all phases of SDLC includes areas of requirement gathering, analysis, design, coding, testing and maintenance.  • To Understand the project requirement properly.  • Analysis, design and implement the functionality.  • Develop functionality, write test cases using Junit, debug and run using Net Beans.  • Use Spring Framework for quick development, organizing code and handle dependency injection.  • Make Database Changes in production in Oracle when required.  • Production support - Provided development (quick fixes) and technical support for the application.  • Develop micro-services using spring boot which handles excel import functionality.  • Coordinated with other teams to resolve end-user issues promptly.  • Work with JDBC to connect and execute query in Oracle database.  • Involve in fixing production bugs.  • Involve in implementing the Web services using Rest Api.  • Created maven archetypes for generating fully functional REST web services supporting JSON message transformation.  • Use Java Collections for storing and manipulating group of objects.  • Involving in application on-call support for immediate attention of issues.  • Use Maven to build and deploy application JAR into JBoss Wild Fly server.  • Work in an agile team, 2 weeks sprint.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring boot, Wild Fly, Net Beans, Maven, JUnit, JSON, Log4J, Tortoise SVN, Micro Services - Restful, Agile, Java Swing. Java/JEE Developer AIG -TX January 2016 to December 2017 Life and retirement group has various applications for health care providers, individual members, agents, internal users and various types of customers. There are various teams dealing with data with different technologies. Shared Services API takes care of all data source needs for various applications instead of maintaining redundant databases and API.    Responsibilities:  • Understand client requirement.  • Involve in complete life cycle of software development including designing, developing, testing, and deployment of application.  • Involve in design and development of the application using SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) with Java Web Services / J2EE technologies.  • Work with Hibernate and XML Data Source to connect and execute query for manipulating data.  • Implement Restful Web services for sending and receiving data in JSON Format.  • Implement micro services using REST Api for sending and receiving data in JSON Format.  • Use spring components such as Spring MVC and handle Dependency Injection.  • Work on Spring IOC to develop application service components  • Extensively used Web Sphere application server for building, testing and deploying applications.  • Developed Swing Suite for look and feel as well as binding data to the GUI.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions, monitored error logs and fix the problems.  • Wrote all client side validations using Java Script.  • Work on spring boot to develop application service components.  • Analyze and tune the SQL queries and stored procedures using the Query execution plan.  • Involve in production support to the end user of this application.  • Involve in Bi-weekly Deployment in Production.  • Design, develop and implement document transformation applications using XML.  • Use DOM parsing methodology for serializing and parsing the XML request and response.  • Use Maven to build the application JAR.  • Developed unit test cases and functional test cases using Junit.    Environment: Java 1.5/1.6, Web Sphere, Hibernate, Oracle, Micro Services, Spring boot, Log4J, SQL, Eclipse, Java Script. Java/JEE Developer Fitch Ratings May 2015 to December 2015 Project Description:  The main purpose is to develop a solution for the business people to track the subscriptions and monitor data of all the entities periodically. This system allows users to create portfolio lists with their own interest, search entities with fast approaches, filter entities by various terms appropriately and create their own alert settings for each entity for better monitoring. FDR is a software used by data analyst to capture financial data used to support the determination of credit rating. Data is gathered from different types of sectors like Banks, Corporates etc. FDR Admin tool is used to establish the statement structures with the given data, Excel Editor is used to input periodic financial data, perform comparison analysis and provide data for analytical reports. Raw template is used as input to build business template which actually gives a presentation of data.  Responsibilities:  • Develop application and deploy on Glass Fish application server.  • Implement different Webservices(Restful, SOAP) for sending and receiving data.  • Use Eclipse for implementing the Client's functionality.  • Use Spring IOC to inject the services and their dependencies.  • Implemented Spring Web Flow for defining and executing UI flow in the application for the Order Guide module.  • Involved in writing JavaScript for dynamic manipulation of the elements on the screen and to validate the input.  • Use pair programming model for the development.  • Have used JAXB to marshal and un marshal java objects to Communicate with the backend mainframe system.  • Implement Angular Js1.x to get the JSON data and display on front end.  • Involved in writing complex PL/SQL and SQL blocks for the application.  • Involved in writing Data Conversion Programs for handling the changes to the existing database schema.  • Maintain high-quality of RESTful services guided by best practices found in the Richardson Maturity Model.  • Use SVN as the version management control.  • Work on implementing persistence layer using O/R Mapping tool Hibernate with Oracle Database.  • Use Junit for writing Test Cases.  • Use Maven for managing the application dependencies and build the JAR.  • Used Log4j package for the debugging, info and error tracings.    Environment: Java 1.5/1.6, JSON, Restful & SOAP Web Services, XML, JavaScript, Glass Fish, Log4J, JUnit, Eclipse, Maven, Angular Js, Oracle, Windows. Zulily, Washington October 2014 to May 2015 Project Description:  Project was developed with the aim of providing customers with various online features like creating new accounts, managing existing accounts, and personal or Home loan applications. This project consists of the modules such as Order Submission, Order Processing, Order Review, and Order Authorization. Employees can access customer details and review the loan application and process the application    Responsibilities:  • Extensive use of Spring MVC annotations to build lightweight application and integrate it with hibernate.  • Used Tomcat server to run/deploy the application.  • Use Spring IOC (Dependency Injection) to develop Java Beans.  • Configure & implement Spring Application Context to instantiate all bean classes.  • Develop data access object and CRUD operation to interact with MySQL database through Hibernate framework.  • Use log4j framework for logging the report details.  • Involve in implementing SQL (Procedures/Views/Functions) to handle business functionality.  • Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Angular.js 1.x.  • Taking part of status meetings with clients on daily basis.  • Test all the components using JUnit.  • Develop Front-end system using MVC Architecture Model( Java/JSP/Servlets/JDBC).  • Test and debug all the components in Eclipse IDE.  • Use Maven to build and deploy into Tomcat Server.    Environment: Windows, Java 1.5, Angular JS 1.x,J2EE 1.5, Spring, Hibernate, SQLJ, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat 6.0, log4j, Junit, PL/SQL. Java/J2EE Developer ICICI - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to December 2013 Project Description: Syndicate Loans  Responsibilities:  • Assisted in setting up the environment with the CWF Framework Which is a combination of Struts and Hibernate, SQLJ etc.  • Used JSF to Develop the User Interface of the Application Client.  • Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate and created the mapping files.  • Use spring to separate an application's configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  • Used Apache's STRUTS 1.x framework for designing of the complete Web tier.  • Handled development and deployment of Session Beans (EJB) for each module to their respective instance of app server.  • Involve in design patterns such as Singleton, Front Controller, Factory pattern, Data Access Object.  • Involved in writing and consuming Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, deployment, configuration and testing.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedures using PL/SQL.  • Involved in preparing the use case diagrams, sequence diagrams and class diagrams using RAD.    Environment: Windows, Java 1.5, J2EE 1.5, Struts 1.2, Spring, SOAP web service, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate3.1, MS SQL Server, IBM RAD 6.0, WebSphere 6.0, log4j, Junit, PL/SQL Education Masters in Computer Science Engineering Texas A & M University-Kingsville 2015 Bachelor Of Technology in Technology Acharya Nagarjuna University 2013 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Jdbc, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Jira, Junit Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: Java, SQL, PL/SQL,HTML, Java Script & Angular Js, XML and JSON.  J2EE Technologies: JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, JNDI, Rest & SOAP Webservices, JSF.  Frameworks: Spring, Junit, log4j.  ORM Tools: Hibernate.  Tools: Maven, Eclipse, STS, NetBeans, Atlassian JIRA, SQL Developer, Jenkins.  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server.  Web/Application: Apache Tomcat, Jboss Wild Fly and Glass Fish , Web Sphere.  Servers  Version Control: GIT, SVN.  Methodology: Agile Scrum, TDD, Waterfall.  Platforms: Windows, LINUX & UNIX.