AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - University of Phoenix ? Having 7+ years of experience in IT industry with strong experience in Web content management (WCM) & J2EE development technologies with solid experience of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) as well as Test-Driven Development (TDD) in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).Specialized in developing end-to-end websites using AEM 6.5,6.4,6.3,6.2,6.1 and 6.0/5.6.1.  ? Over 4+ years of hands on experience in development of content management solutions using Adobe CQ5 Content Management System.  ? Excellent work experience in AEM 6.5, AEM 6.4, AEM 6.3, AEM 6.2, AEM 6.1, AEM 5.6.1.  ? Experience in developing Templates (Static and Editable templates), Custom Components, creating and launching Workflows and customizing out of the box Widgets.  ? Hands-on experience in implementing features from technologies like Sling, OSGi, Felix, JCR, and current AEM functionalities of integrated products.  ? Implementation knowledge of i18n on Components and Dialogs.  ? Good Conceptual knowledge of Adobe AEM and Java/J2EE.  ? Working on responsive designs using Bootstrap and media queries.  ? Created Client libraries on AEM.  ? Working of Migration of project from AEM 6.2 to AMS 6.2 and From AEM 6.2 to AMS 6.5.  ? Used Brackets for Sightly coding of components and client libraries.  ? Designing the Workflow Structure which involves automating the Specific Process in AEM.  ? Efficient in Dispatcher configuration and Load balancing.  ? Created Experience Fragments by customizing XF template.  ? Proficient Experience in working with Event Handling, OSGI bundles, Sling Listeners, Sling Servlets, Sling Schedulers and Sling Configuration.  ? Experience in creating Workflow packages and using TagManager for reading tags from pages.  ? Rich experience in Web Services such as SOAP and Restful.  ? Worked as an Admin, Giving permissions to user's and usergroups.  ? Proficient in configuration, implementation and integration of Enterprise Multi-tier Web Application with J2EE Frameworks, such as spring, Hibernate, Struts.  ? Provided author training to business users to familiarize them with the design and usage of the system.  ? Created Content Fragments by creating custom content fragment model.  ? Experience in version control software such as Git, SVN and in tracking tool as JIRA.  ? Well versed in designing presentation layer components using Servlets, JSP, HTML, and JavaScript.  ? Created the blueprints and live copy of the application.  ? Rich experienced in writing SQL queries with RDBMS skills in MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle, etc.  ? Experienced in using Adobe Dynamic Tag Management (DTM) and integration of AEM with Adobe Analytics and Adobe Target.  ? Experience in Adobe Target content optimization systems.  ? Created multiple versions of same site by using AEM Launches feature.  ? Hands-on experience using development IDEs including Eclipse, NetBeans and used MAVEN as build tool. Efficient in using Junit for unit testing.  ? Expertise in building client side Middle Tier Development environment using JSP, Servlets, Java Mail, etc.  ? Good experience in coordinating and working with developers and End Users in Team based environment. Work Experience AEM Developer University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Configured and installation of AEM 6.5 on the various development, production, QA and predevelopment servers.  ? Worked on migration of project from AEM 6.2 to AMS 6.2. Also involve in Migrating AEM 6.2 to AMS 6.5 environments.  ? For Migration of AEM 6.5 created a new standalone project of Archetype 19, copied code and made all components work.  ? During the process of migration changed some of slightly Html files from context unsafe to safe.  ? Develop new PDF styling using latest version of "iText" on top of old version and providing functionalities like readability for PDF.  ? Worked on many Research Spikes (POC) for further development, these POC can act as guidelines for team in upgrading to latest versions of Adobe AEM.  ? Worked on performance related issues like versioning ClientLibs which allows css and js served via clientlibs to be cached client side along with TTLS.  ? Worked on server side setup and VIPs for the new environment by working closely with Networking Team.  ? Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in AEM to control over blueprints and live copies and work on rollout configurations.  ? Extensively used AEM tagging features in developing components and templates. Used JavaScript for writing listeners in the dialogs.  ? Develop Custom AEM Workflows, OSGI Services and other Dynamic/Static web content management components. Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  ? Have followed safe agile process during development and collaboratively discussed several issues with business and QA team in the standup meeting.  ? Experience in Integration of the System modules, Writing Test Cases, Bug Fixing and Enhancements, very conversant with Quality Management and System Support. Performed Test Driven Development using JUnit. Participated in preparing test plans, test scenarios and Involved in integration testing and QA testing support.  ? Created components using Sightly HTML Templating Language by replacing the Traditional Java Server Pages (JSP).  ? Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) to develop live copy from blueprint, such that the structure and content can then be used on the Live Copy.  ? Writing activation and deactivation workflow models using various components such as process, participant, and dynamic participant steps.  ? Used SCR annotations while creating servlets, schedulers, listeners, workflows.  ? Experience in developing application on OSGI, Apache Sling and Apache Felix Frameworks.  ? Integrated Dialog and Design Dialog for all the content-based components which allows to render the content dynamically.  ? Involved in processing the request through dispatcher by configuring the context path of an application in the dispatcher. any file  ? Created custom OSGi services and servlets using Eclipse IDE with Maven.  ? Created AEM templates and page components with custom dialogs.  ? Integrated JIRA with Bamboo for Continuous Integration testing. Created new build plans and updating dependencies.  ? Developed mobile site Dialog and mobile Template.  ? Created OSGi bundles and resolved dependencies for the project.  ? Managed Users, Groups, and System Users and Access Control Level (ACL) permissions.  ? Created Custom loggers in Felix Console.  Environment: AEM 6.5, Java (JDK 1.7 &JDK 1.8), Eclipse, Maven, Apache Felix, Apache Sling, JSP, JIRA, Web Services, JSON, SDLC, Agile, OSGi, Servlets, Sightly HTML, JavaScript, Brackets, JackRabbit, CSS, Node.js, jQuery.  Adobe Marketing Cloud Products: Analytics, Social, Target, Campaign, Dynamic Tag Management (DTM), Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) AEM Developer Verizon - Basking Ridge, NJ June 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Configured and installation of AEM 6.3 on the various development, production, QA and predevelopment servers.  ? Integrated AEM with Brackets Extension to provide a smooth workflow to edit AEM components and Client Libraries.  ? Created components using Sightly HTML Templating Language by replacing the Traditional Java Server Pages (JSP).  ? Integrated JIRA system with Workflow functionalities.  ? Migrating project from AEM 6.3 to 6.4.  ? Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) to develop live copy from blueprint, such that the structure and content can then be used on the Live Copy.  ? Writing activation and deactivation workflow models using various components such as process, participant, and dynamic participant steps.  ? Used SCR annotations while creating servlets, schedulers, listeners, workflows.  ? Implemented AEM Dev Tools to make development easier.  ? Spearheaded development and implementation of front end views and pages utilizing HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Flex box, JavaScript, and JQuery.  ? Implemented Image renditions for continuous and consistent experience of content across all devices.  ? Implemented OSGi services for interacting with remote spring web app services and custom business logic in Java.  ? Created Resource Resolver rules in Felix console by having a custom URL mapping.  ? Integrated Dialog and Design Dialog for all the content based components which allows to render the content dynamically.  ? Involved in processing the request through dispatcher by configuring the context path of an application in the dispatcher. any file  ? Worked on stories related to Adobe CQ/AEM in sprints which include feature development and production issues (Agile Scrum methodology)  ? Implemented i18n for components and dialogs for translation in to different languages.  ? Created custom OSGi services and servlets using Eclipse IDE with Maven.  ? Created AEM templates and page components with custom dialogs.  ? Integrated JIRA with Bamboo for Continuous Integration testing. Created new build plans and updating dependencies  ? Troubleshoot of caching issues related to Dispatcher and browsers.  ? Integrated ACS AEM Commons with AEM 6.1 for Bulk oak indexing.  ? Developed mobile site Dialog and mobile Template.  ? Created OSGi bundles and resolved dependencies for the project.  ? Managed Users, Groups, System Users and Access Control Level (ACL) permissions.  ? Created Custom loggers in Felix Console.  Environment: AEM 6.3, JCR, JAVA, J2EE, POJO, JSON, Sightly, HTML5, Ext JS, CSS3, Maven, GITHUB, Restful Web services, Agile, SCRUM, Akamai, JIRA, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON. AEM Developer McAfee - Santa Clara, CA June 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Created and maintained AEM 6.1 and AEM 6.2 content management systems.  ? Developed Templates and Components using AEM 6.2 Sightly and the Sling Models.  ? Define/Develop Junit for classes testing.  ? Working on Multi Site Management strategy and working on custom roll out actions.  ? Verify/Validate testing to ensure that the team generates high quality output.  ? Develop Custom AEM Workflows, OSGi Services and other Dynamic/Static web content management components. Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  ? Involved in content migration from AEM 6.1 to AEM 6.2.  ? Development of the static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system.  ? Implemented i18n internationalization in the website.  ? W Created AEM Components with Custom Dailogs(Classic UI and Touch UI) and with cacheable responses.  ? Existing Tag libraries in AEM were used in tagging the pages.  ? Managed OSGi configuration within the CRX repository.  ? Calling the forms automation engine using web services and API'S.  ? Workflows are configured with custom steps and implemented in the project.  ? Worked on UI designing, data modeling, and reviewed the design documentation.  ? Worked with QA team in preparation and review of test cases.  ? OSGi bundle containing components is created and OSGi services are accessed from AEM components.  ? Dispatcher is configured to cache responses from an AEM publish instance, to increase the responsiveness and security of the externally facing published website.  ? Working knowledge on Importing, Exporting CQ Packages using package manager.  ? Users and groups were created and permissions to them were managed.  ? Proficient in Adobe CQ foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, the CQ platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix.  ? Managed SDLC processes and associated artifacts.  ? Configured replication agent and dispatcher for caching and load balancing.  ? Used Client libraries to minify JavaScript and CSS into one common file and load it on page load.  ? Maven is used to build and deploy OSGi bundles.  ? GIT is used for version control and JIRA is used for tracking.  Environment: Adobe AEM 6.1 and 6.2, DAM, AEM Tagging, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Java, J2EE, Apache Sling, CRXDE, WCM, JIRA, JAXP, JAXB, Axis 2.0, Jersey 1.2, Servlets, JDBC, MS SQL Server, HTML, Angular JS, JSP, AJAX, JUnit, log4j, Linux, Windows, ATTD. Java/J2EE Developer Allianz global Investors, NY January 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively involved in different stages of Agile Development Cycle including Detailed Analysis, Design, Develop and Test.  ? Implemented the Back-End Business Logic using Core Java technologies including Collections, Generics, Exception Handling, Java Reflection and Java I/O.  ? Wrote and specified Spring Annotation Configuration to define Beans and View Resolutions to configure Spring beans, dependencies and the services needed by beans.  ? Used SpringLoc to implement dynamic dependency injection and Spring AOP to implement crosscutting concerns such as transaction management.  ? Wrote Mapping Configuration files to implement ORM Mappings in the Persistence Layer.  ? Using Hibernate DAO support extended Dao Implementation.  ? Hibernate Configuration files were written to connect Oracle database and fetch data.  ? The Hibernate Query Cache which is a Second Level Cache to load objects using cached identifiers was implemented using Ehcache to improve the performance.  ? Implemented web services with RESTful standards with the support of JAX-RS APIs.  ? Confirmation of registration and monthly statements are sent to users by integrating and implementing JavaMail API.  ? Used SSO(Single-Sign-On) Framework and implement access control that enables user to log in once and gain access to the resources of multiple pages without being prompted to log in again  ? Manipulated database data with SQL queries, including setting up stored procedures and triggers.  ? Implemented front-end developments such as webpages design, data binding, Single-Page Applications using HTML/CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  ? Used JQuery libraries to simplify the frontend programming works. Performed users' input validation using JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Developed front-end UI (User-Interface) with XML, HTML, CSS, Node JS and Angular JS.  ? Performed JUnit test cases to test the service layers of the application.  ? Used JIRA to track the projects and Git to ensure version control.  Environment: Java, Spring, JavaMail, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, Junit, JIRA, Oracle DB, MySQL, Git, SSO, JAX-RS. Java Developer Reliance Retail - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2012 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with Agile development Methodology with a Test-Driven approach.  ? In case of application development to be loaded, modular approach was used.  ? Depending on the business requirements, Class and Sequence diagrams were developed.  ? Developed UML diagrams for analyzing the business requirements and designing the system.  ? Worked on developing JSP's, Action Classes and delegating the tasks to the corresponding session parameters.  ? Involved in Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design and Development of the project.  ? Hibernate was the ORM (Object/Relational Mapping) tool used to relate the objects to the database. Annotations in Hibernate were extensively used.  ? Worked on designing screens using Swing and Ajax.  ? Most parts of the code developed were integrated using the Struts and Spring Framework.  ? Involved in developing Hibernate mapping definitions for the required persistent layer.  ? Implemented validations for both client side and Server side using the Struts2 Validator Framework.  ? MVC design pattern and TDD was used in the application to make it more modular.  ? Was responsible in generating Maven Script for faster and easier deployment.  ? Configurations and Deployment was implemented using the IBM WebSphere Application using Maven Script.  ? Deployed Web Services, JSP's, Servlets, and Server-side components in Web Logic Application Server.  ? Worked on running integrated testing using the JUNIT and XML for building the data structures required for the Web Service.  Environment: Core Java, TDD Methodology, Agile Methodology, J2EE-JSP, Servlets, UML, Web logic Server, Tomcat, Struts2, Spring, Maven, CVS, JUnit, Log4j, EJB 2.0, XML, Eclipse, WebSphere Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Git, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Scripting, Svn, Xml, Css, Tomcat Additional Information TECHSKILLS:  Languages Core Java, J2EE(JSP, Servlets)  Scripting/Markup Languages HTML, XML, Sightly HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, AngularJS  CMS Platforms AEM6.5, AEM6.4, AEM6.3, 6.2, 6.1, 6.0 AEM 5.6.1.  Framework Spring, Struts, EJB, Hibernate.  Build Tools Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Bamboo.  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans.  Tracking Tools JIRA.  Version Control SVN, GIT.  OS Windows 98/XP/7/8/10, Linux, Mac OS X.  App Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere 6.1, JBoss, WebLogic.  Web Server Apache 2.2.  Database Oracle, MySQL.  Domain Health Care, Food Industry, Retail, College.  Design UML.