UI / JEE Developer (Full Stack developer) UI / JEE <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Full Stack <span class="hl">developer</span>) UI / JEE Developer (Full Stack developer) - Capital One Plano, TX • 8 plus years of software development experience involving object-oriented analysis, design, development and support of web based and n-tier client/server applications based on J2EE technologies.  • Expertise in design and development of web applications using JSP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, DOJO, XSL, XSLT, Node.JS, Angular.JS, bootstrap.  • Knowledge of developing SPA web UI using Angular 2, Typescript and Jquery and also expertise in developing, maintaining and debugging.  • Built rich prototypes and applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Proficient in developing web pages and effectively using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, CSS Pre-Processors and also experience in making web page cross browser compatible.  • Developed specialized search system using MongoDB, AngularJS, Node-JS and Express-JS.  • Good experience in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOAD) using different design methodologies/ process frameworks like SDLC, Rational Unified Process (RUP) and tools like UML, Rational Rose.  • Expertise in using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Java Beans, JMS, RMI JNDI, XML and Web services (RESTful and SOAP).  • Created docker images and ran the docker containers in various environments.  • Experience in developing Web-Centric applications using AngularJS, NodeJS, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, and Photoshop.  • Implemented online distribution system engine for company website, including frontend, middle tier and backend in full MEAN stack (MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS and Node.js).  • Successfully designed and developed Java MultiThreading based collector parser and distributor process, when the requirement was to collect, parse and distribute the data coming at a speed of thousand messages per seconds.  • Good Experience in software configuration management using CVS, GIT and SVN.  • Experience in using frameworks and tools like Struts, Hibernate, spring, ANT, JUNIT, LOG 4J and JSF framework.  • Experience in Web Design, SOA, AJAX, CSS, XML, WSDL, SOAP, Restful, Dojo, JQuery, Java/J2EE, Struts2.0, Spring 3/4, Hibernate 3.0/4.0.  • Good Knowledge of Web Application Development Technologies such as HTML, DHTML, CSS, XSLT, XML (SAX, DOM), Custom Tags, JAVA SCRIPT.  • Expertise in using IDE tools like RAD, WSAD, Eclipse, Spring STS and Borland JBuilder and Oracle Jdeveloper.  • Worked with Maven, ANT Builder for application building, scheduling, mailing and automation.  • Efficient in deploying applications using IBM Web Sphere, Web logic App Server, JBOSS and Tomcat Web Server.  • Experience in designing and developing enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JAXR, JMX, JAXB, WebServices - SOAP, RESTfulWS.  • Extensive Experience in using various design patterns such as MVC (Model -View-Controller), Singleton, Session Façade, Factory, DAO, Front Controller and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Possess expertise in designing and developing web applications using HTML 5, CSS3, Less, JavaScript, jQuery, nodeJs, AngularJS.  • Experienced in developing and running application in cloud environments such as ca.  • Experience in developing SQL, Stored Procedures, functions, triggers using Oracle and comfortable working with databases like SQL Server, DB2, No-SQL (Mongo DB, Cassandra) and MySQL.  • Familiar with all aspects of technology projects including Business Requirements, Technical Architecture, Design Specification, Development and Deployment.  • Extensive experience using spring framework and using Hibernate as ORM/OGM.  • Extensive experience in JSON, JAXB, JAXP and hands on experience creating Web Services based on REST framework.  • Experiences with build tools include Maven, Gradle and Jenkins Version/Source Control tools including SVN.  • Extensive experience using Junit for unit /integration testing of application components.  • Fast learner and highly analytical with excellent interpersonal and communication skills.  • Extensive experience and actively involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Coding and Code Reviews, Unit and Integration Testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI / JEE Developer (Full Stack developer) Capital One - Plano, TX September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology, Wrote Technical design documents, Implementation plans and testing documents for the requirements.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, BackboneJS, Bootstrap and used CSS Pre-Processer LESS for an improved organization of Style sheets.  • Added a jQuery, simple-color picker plugin in the BackboneJS view profile preferences for users to select and save for highlighting note-text in the BackboneJS view document-viewer page of the Sidekick project.  • Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture application using Node.js, Express on the backend, BackboneJS on the front end.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using BackboneJS and jQuery.  • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with BackboneJS, CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.  • Heavily worked on BackboneJS to structure the code in MVC pattern where Model data was fetched via REST services and Views were generated using Handlebars.  • Created RESTful services using the web API2.0 and consumed other subsystems RESTful WebServices in SOA architecture.  • Experience on HTTP specifications and REST standards and expertise in integration of RESTful Services with UI applications.  • Worked on the UI Customization, modifying the HTML as well as JSP Pages and applied patches and written consolidated Shell Scripts to apply all the DB patches.  • Designed all JSP pages using custom designed tags to populate web page content from Content Management Systems (CMS) and deployed them on JBOSS Application Server.  • Developed RESTful Web Services on HTTP Handlers with POST, GET Methods for XML and JSON requests and developed SOAP WebServices and REST Web services (JAXB, JSON, JAX-RS, JAX-WS).  • Analyze Cassandra database and compare it with other open-source NoSQL databases to find which one of them better suites the current requirement.  • Written Storm topology to accept the events from Kafka producer and emit into CassandraDB  • Developed a series of protocols and modules to enable multi- tenancy in NodeJS + Express Projects.  • Developed Custom applications using various technologies and stacks such as JavaScript, NodeJS/Express.  • Worked on Node JS Application with Express Framework. Familiar with Node Package Manager (NPM), EJS Templating Engine, Bower and Gulp.  • Implemented various design patterns - Singleton, Business Delegate, Value Object and SpringDAO.  • Built ASynchronized Notification REST web service to send mess email with Spring, Hibernate, Tomcat.  • Designed and developed Data Access Objects (DAO) to access the database. Used Hibernate design patterns to organize and integrate the Java objects.  • Involved in the upgrade process of Spring2.0 to Spring 3.0 and Hibernate2.x to Hibernate3.0 to take advantage of new Spring and Hibernate features.  • Created and modified build configuration files including Ant's build.xml, POM.xml, used Jenkins as build management tool and auto move.  • Involved in writing Maven scripts for automated deployment of the application and managed GitHub Projects  and migrated from SVN to GitHub with merge and version.  • Involved in designing and building automation frameworks in support of continuous integration in a test-driven development (TDD).  • Authored a story grooming development workflow process for Acceptance Test Driven Design (ATDD).  • Designed continuous Integration model for and all products, includes complex integration of process for plan, build, deploy, test and reporting based on Jenkins.  • Wrote Junit test cases to test the SpringDAO layer and created Batch Services to generate reports using Spring Batch.  • Developed automated unit test cases (BDD) using Selenium, Cucumber with Jenkins.  • Supported the application on different environments from Test to Production environment. Analyzed the issues and fixed the defects assigned to me by the users.    Environment: J2EE/J2SE, Java 1.6, Spring Frame Work, Spring Batch, Hibernate 3, CSS3, XML, HTML5, Backbone-JS, RESTful, Tomcat, Maven, Web Services, Windows 7, Sub Version, Eclipse Kepler, Selenium, Cucumber, Jenkins, Cassandra. UI / Java Developer (Full Stack developer) Mutual of Omaha - Phoenix, AZ October 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used Angular-JS to design and develop the user interfaces and followed Agile Methodology for application development.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using Bootstrap, HTML5, AngularJS, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Involved in requirement gathering, customer interaction, analysis of the requirements and project module designing.  • Built a complete content management (CMS) in AngularJS as Front end and java (using REST) as backend for creating web applications.  • Used the basic principles of MVC to incorporate the AngularJS to build client-side application and Spring for building server-side API's.  • Used Spring MVC, jQuery, JSP to create various views in the application. And defined Spring MVC validators to perform custom validations for the model data.  • Developed templates for multiple screens by using AngularJS markup and expressions.  • Created AngularJS Controllers, Model, View, Services which isolate scopes to perform operations in UI.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5 by using ng-messages, ng-required,ng-if etc.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, ApacheCXF, and JAX-RS.  • Worked on core java development for different components and developed the application using Core Java, Multi-Threading, Collections in abundance, REST for backend APIs, My SQLas DB server, Maven.  • Using Spring XML configurations, annotations, wrote controllers to handle incoming requests and send output to the UI.  • Worked to secure our RESTful web services with Spring security to authenticate any third-party requests coming in.  • Worked on Spring application framework features IOC container and AOP and integrated Spring with Hibernate using the Hibernate Template.  • Extensively used Java Collections APIs &MultiThreading in handling batch service requests  • Securing REST services with Oauth 2.0 authorization specification.  • Implemented Hibernate and Spring'sDAO layer together offer a high performance, productive approach to persist Plain Old Java Objects (POJOs).  • Developed Spring DAO's to connect to MongoDB using Spring Mongo Template and created document and collection mappings.  • Created/managed Mongo DB/NoSql collections and handled CRUD operations on using Java libraries/API's.  • Composed and executed Mongo DB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database; automating data changes and reporting.  • Designed and Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in Oracle to cater the needs for the entire application.  • Developing scripts for automated tasks using Shell scripting  • mongoAnalyzed code coverage report from Jenkins to improve code coverage and configured multiple plugins in deploying applications onto Tomcat.  • Managing and working on Attlasian products such as Confluence, Jira and Stash (Git).  • Created Prototypes using MEAN (Mongo- db, express, Angular and Node) stack and involved in deploying the application to AWS environment.  • Involved in configuring builds using Jenkins with Git, configured and used Jenkins to deploy the applications onto Dev, QA, UAT environments.  • Worked in implementation of UNIX shell scripts for file transfer and processing.  • Performed system administration of UNIX servers by using Operating Systems of Solaris 10/11.  • Developing scripts for automated tasks using Shell scripting  • Work experience in Maven build tool, Jenkins continuous integration continuous deployment tool.  • Reviewed existing code and recommended effective coding standards for code reuse and performance by making effective use of various designs patterns.  • Used Maven as the building tool and involved in designing database schema changes and J2EE software upgrades to support new feature.  • Implemented testing measures by writing unit and automation testing (Selenium, Mockito, Cucumber, Junit).  • Developed, Tested and Deployed application in IBMWebSphere application server.  • Worked with Oracle database system to write simple and complex SQL and PL/SQL statements for implementing database operations.  • Developed various reusable helper Java classes, which can be used across all the modules of the application based on the requirements.  • Have done code reviews, debugging, bug fixing, performance tuning and unit testing.  • Involved in technical mentoring, production system support and customizing solutions.    Environment: Java 1.7, Spring MVC, JMS, Hibernate 4.0, Spring 4.2, Angular-JS 1.5, Eclipse, UML, HTML5/CSS3, Java Script, Bootstrap, Multithreading, JSON, WebSphere, Ajax, JNDI, Oracle, JUNIT, Jenkins, Jira, Apache CXF, JAX-RS, Maven, GIT, AWS UI / Java Developer (Full Stack developer) StubHub - SFO, CA October 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in writing the application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, REST AND SOAP.  • As a team we migrated the application from SVN to GIT including the history of the files and application. Used source tree and bitbucket UI tools to interact with the GIT.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typesrcipt, NG-REDUX, Angular Material, Angular 4.0 excessively to achieve the lot of functionalities throughout the app.  • Designed dynamic client-side Javascript codes to build forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation using Angular 4.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST api's using component-based architecture by Angular 4.  • Created Angular 4 components, services, directives and forms to collect different user data and implemented editable tables and form validations using Angular.  • Implemented Bar charts, pie charts etc using high charts API to graphically represent the data on UI pages and provided the links to different pages within the app when user clicks on any charts.  • Implemented MyBatis and Spring'sDAO layer together offer a high performance, productive approach to persist Plain Old Java Objects (POJOs).  • Worked with Java 8 Streams, functional interfaces, Lambda Expressions and Time package.  • Used spring security on both client side and server side throughout the app to provide restricted functionality access for different roles.  • Worked on the migration of angular 2.0 components to angular 4.0 components.  • Used Spring Boot for developing microservices and used REST API to retrieve data from client-side.  • Used Spring Boot at the backend for easy application development including plugins, jobs, server configuration, etc.  • Developed REST webservices using Spring Boot and consumed REST services using Spring REST Template.  • Developed custom validators and created REST exception handling advices to handle server-side errors.  • Worked with setting up OAUTH2 authentication and authorization using Spring Security.  • Integrated the JIRA with the app to pull the information of user stories, features, sprints, etc.  • Used Java mailing API to generate automated e-mails as part of the batch processing which runs twice a day and which send to a specific group based on the environment.  • Implemented excel download using xlsx API on different web pages throughout the application and used commons IO library.  • Worked on development for different components and developed the application using Core Java, MultiThreading, Collections in abundance for backend APIs, ORACLE, Maven, Ant and Swing.  • Used Mockito extensively to achieve the code coverage goals and introduced selenium to build the regression testing suite.  • Used log4j logging framework to log traces of application in debugging the issues and later on upgraded the version to log4j2.  • Used MyBatis to automate the mappings between the SQL database and the Java Objects by packaging the SQL statements in XML configuration files.  • Implemented the batch processing and CRON job, which runs twice a day to refresh the data used by the app from the firm's external database.  • Deployed the application to cloud foundry as part of the firm wide cloud migration and used lot of services offered by the cloud environment.  • Deployed the app on different nodes on cloud foundry and used the blue green deployment process to deploy the app to different environments using the Jenkins without any outage if there is no DB change.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, JMS, MyBatis, OAUTH2, REST Template, Mockito, Eclipse, UML, HTML5/CSS3, Angular 4, Angular 2, TypeScript, Multithreading, Bootstrap, JSON, Tomcat, Ajax, JNDI, JUNIT, Jenkins, Maven, Oracle 11g, GIT, SVN, Cloud, Maria DB Java/J2EE Developer Mangstor LLC - Austin, TX June 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used OOAD for building applications. Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating use Cases and Class Diagrams.  • Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, usecases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  • Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern and developed front end using Struts framework, business components using EJB's.  • Implemented Tiles based framework to present the layouts to the user and has an experience on developing UI using Struts view tags (HTML, Bean, Logic and Nested), JSP, HTML, CSS.  • Implemented GenericDAO using Spring JDBC to handle database operations on Similarly Constructed Tables.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Struts Tag libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed RESTful API with Spring Framework for benchmarking purposes.  • Implemented Struts framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Worked on SpringWeb Flow on Spring MVC to build an application from scratch using Spring XML configurations, annotations. Wrote controllers to handle incoming requests and send output to the UI Configured.  • Coded different action classes in struts responsible for maintaining deployment descriptors like struts-config, ejb-jar and web.xml using XML.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles, Interceptors, and Validations provided by struts framework.  • Wrote authentication and authorizationclasses and manage it in the frontcontroller for all the users according to their entitlments.  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using EJB 3.0.  • Developed and deployed Session Beans and Entity Beans for database updates and Used Struts-Validator frame-work for all front-end Validations for all the form entries.  • Developed SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier.  • Worked Gradle build scripts to compile Java classes and create jar, performed unit testing and package them into ear  files and SVN as version control.  • Design and development of JAXB components for transfer objects and Prepared EJB deployment descriptors using XML.  • Wrote Action Classes to service the requests which are coming from the UI, populate business objects and invoke EJBs.  • Used JAXP (DOM, XSLT), XSD for XML data generation and presentation and Wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.    Environment: Java/J2SE 1.5, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JAXB, XSLT, DOM, XML, EJB 3.0, Web Services, JNDI, J2EE, RSA, JBoss6.0, Rational Rose, Spring, CVS, XML, Log4J, Oracle9i, Gradle, Junit, Rational Rose, JavaScript, DHTML. Java Developer Yana Software Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Using RUP and Rational Rose, developed Use Cases, created Class, Sequence and UML diagrams.  • Involved in developing the complete process flow of PNG system for all the layers and Developed JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages.  • Participated in all the phases of the development namely Web Component Creation, Enterprise Bean Creation, Application Assembly and Application Deployment.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, JDBC, JSP, JSF, EJB.  • Developed Web-tier authentication consisting of HTTP basic authentication, form-based authentication, and HTTP mutual authentication.  • Enriched UI using JSFUI Components and BackingBeans, JSF, JMS involved in configuring faces-config.xml for navigations, controllers.  • Involved in fixing defects in application- worked in JSF managed beans, converters, validator and configuration files.  • Used Framework and JSF with Facelets at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance.  • Developed Add, Edit and profile view web pages for the monitor module using JSP, JSFHTML, JSFCORE tags library.  • Used JSF for internal report generation by fetching data from database with customized view using CSS and AJAX for form processing. Implemented Message Driven Bean Using JMS. Implemented enterprise applications with JQuery and SpringMVC.  • Developed pages using JSF features like converters, validators, action Listeners, custom components, etc.  and created conditional logics in pages using JSF tags and JSTL.  • Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using JSF, Prime Faces, Apache My Faces  Components, Ajax4JSF framework (Ajax).  • Used Java classes, EJB, Spring, Spring Dependency Injection, and XML for developing the complex business rules.  • Developed WebServices in the service layer and implemented Web Services based on SOA architecture with RESTful.  • Worked mostly on back end MYSQL, designed database structure and created persistent objects.  • Updated legacy Ant build infrastructure to new Gradle based build system, enabling more robust test, build and release procedures.  • Worked on the UI Customization, modifying the HTML as well as JSP Pages and Applied patches to Plateau LMS, and written consolidated shell scripts to apply all the DB patches.  • Also involved in fixing the bugs, prepared the release notes, and also involved in the delivery of the customization to the customer.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection along with the Spring Web Flow for the Presentation Layer of the HR Modules.  • Involved in writing the Control Files and used SQL Loader to load the data from flat files to Intermediate Tables.  • Involved in writing the XSL Transformation files, which transform XML data.    Environment: Java/J2SE 1.5, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Gradle, Springs, HTML, Java script, Agile, Rational Rose, Oracle, Eclipse, SVN, UML, XML, MYSQL, EJB Education Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology in Information Technology JNTU KAKINADA - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Skills Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Application server, Design patterns, Gradle, Html Additional Information SKILL SET:    Programming Language Core Java APIs (I/O, Thread, Collection, Multithreading, Streams, Lambdas)  J2EE Technology Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JSF, JMS, Web Services  Architecture & Framework NodeJS, MVC, J2EE, Struts, Spring, JSF, Hibernate  UI Technologies HTML, XML, AngularJS, BackboneJS, JSF, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, Angular JS 2.0,Angular 4  Database Oracle 11g, SQL server, MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra  Query Languages SQL, PL/SQL  IDE Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM RAD, JBuilder, Net Beans, Brackets  Design Methodology UML, Waterfall, Agile  Design patterns  Business Delegate, Business Object, Value Object, Front Controller, Database Access Object, Factory, Singleton, Session Façade    jaxbTools  BEA WebLogic 8.1, JBOSS, IBM WebSphere Application Server 6.1, Tomcat 6.0, JUnit 4.0, ANT, Log4j, Mercury Quality Centre, Rational Clear Quest. ANT, Maven, Gradle, SVN, Toad, No-SQL, TOAD.    Design & Control UML, Rational Rose, CVS, Clear Case, SVN