Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - ThermoFisher Scientific Pittsburgh, PA ? Around 8+years of experience in development and implementation of customized software and developing these applications using my development experience in Java, J2EE/JEE technologies Object Oriented Applications analysis & design principles.  ? Working Knowledge on Web Technologies using Java, spring, Hibernate, HTML4/5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular JS, JSON, and AJAX.  ? Experience using jQuery, Bootstrap and Angular JS for changing styles dynamically, creating animating effects and manipulating DOM structures.  ? Strong development skills in Core Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, Java Beans, EJB, JSF, JMS, Kafka, XSLT, HTML, XML, CSS3, HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS.  ? Extensively worked on core java concepts like Multi-Threading, Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Exception handling, and Collections Framework.  ? Proficient in design and rapid development of web and J2EE applications using Core Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JDBC, XML, Struts, Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  ? Strong experience in building web application using various Spring Framework features like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, and Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Data, Spring Batch  ? Extensively involved in design and development of database systems using Relational database management systems and No-SQL databases technologies including Cassandra, Mongo-DB, Oracle and programming with technologies like SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Good knowledge and Working experience in using JMS provider and sound knowledge in developing Asynchronous Modules build on top of Message Driven Beans.  ? Expertise in using IDE like WebSphere (WSAD), Eclipse, NetBeans, WebLogic Workshop and Production Support Experience.  ? Experience with SVN Source Control, TFS and GITHub for code management.  ? Experience in Build and dependency management tools like Maven and Gradle.  ? Extensive experience on build management through Jenkins using Maven.  ? Good knowledge and working experience in using ANT and Maven build tools in building and deploying the application in web/App servers and using log4j and writing Junit test cases.  ? Wrote application level code to interact with backend and consume the JSON data by making AJAX calls.  Experience with SVN Source Control and GITHub for code management.  ? Experience in managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, Auto-Scaling, AMI and API Integration.  ? Experience in Cloud computing infrastructure such as AWS Lambda, Dynamo DB, Elastic search.  ? Experience in working with multi/ multiple Operating System like Windows, Linux.  ? Ability to work independently and in a group with effective communication and quantitative skills. Energetic, Quick learner, a good Team Player and committed towards the goal. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer ThermoFisher Scientific - Pittsburgh, PA November 2017 to Present Description: Thermofisher Scientific is the biotechnology product development company. It also a leading service provider in the sales and distribution of the medical and laboratory components. Thermofisher Scientific mainly supports to accelerate the life sciences research, improve patient diagnostics and increase laboratory productivity. There are multiple brands which are accumulated like Thermo Scientific, Applied Biosystems, Invitrogen, Fisher Scientific and Unity Lab Services which offers the combination of innovative technologies.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Spring MVC design pattern and front controller pattern to this project using Spring Boot.  • Used Microservices using Spring boot with Spring Cloud stack like Apache Kafka Spring Cloud Netflix stack patterns like Service Discovery.  • Used AngularJS controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings and events.  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Used java8 Lambda expressions along with Streams for creating internal iteration and performing chain operations such as Filter, Map, Collect on a collection.  • Developed web Application Using Core Java, spring, Hibernate, HTML5, Angular-JS, Node.js, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s.  • Developed Batch processing application, which reads data from different files and loads the data to underlying Oracle database, using Spring Batch, Hibernate.  • Used Spring Model View Controller (MVC) 2 architecture. Used JSPs in front-end, Used XSL/XSLT for transforming common XML format into internal XML format.  • Implemented enterprise applications using WSDL, SOAP and XML schema.  • Used Spring Framework modules such as Spring Integration, Spring Boot, Spring JDBC/ORM, Spring ORM.  • Implemented various multi-threading concepts in server environment.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework for developing J2EE based web application.  • Used Mongo Java driver to convert java to Mongo query in the application  • Worked on the SOAP UI, Restful web services clients to interact with the third-party service vendors.  • Used Active MQ for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications.  • Involved in Junit testing, debugging the code, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, code reviews.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture, Hibernate and EJB deployed on WebSphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  • Created applications, connection pools, deployment of JSPs, and EJBs in WebSphere.  • Hands on experience with CI/CD tool Jenkins. Used Jenkins as a primary tool for implementing the CI/CD during code releases.  • Provided Junit test cases for the application to support the Test Driver Development (TDD).  • Used log4J to log debug and exception statements.  • Worked with Java libraries to access AWS (Amazon Web Services) facilities as Simple Storage Service (S3), Simple Queue Service (SQS).    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets 2.5/3, JSP, Hibernate 4.3, Spring 2.5.6, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, REST, JPA 2.0, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Drools, AngularJS, JQuery, Eclipse, WebSphere, XML, JAXB, JBoss, REST, JSON, Junit 4.9, Kafka, Maven, log4J, JIRA 5.2. Java Developer Travelport - Denver, CO September 2015 to October 2017 Description: Travelport is a UK-headquartered tech company. It is a travel commerce platform provides distribution, technology, payment and other solutions for the travel and tourism industry. Travelport is headquartered in Langley, U.K. Technology Services through which it provides critical IT services to airlines, such as shopping, ticketing, departure control and other solutions, enabling them to focus on their core business competencies and reduce costs.  Responsibilities:  • Wrote application front end with HTML5, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax/JQuery, Spring Web Flow, XHTML, DHTML and CSS3.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • This includes custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering. Used JQuery for UI centric Ajax behavior.  • Experience with MVC JavaScript framework (AngularJS).  • Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP) and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  • Developed Angular JS custom directives with the Attributes, Class, Element restrictions.  • Extensively worked on developing UI components using Angular JS and JSON to interact Restful web services.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, frameworks like Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP and EJB concepts.  • Worked on Spring MVC for implementing Client application services by using REST Web Services.  • Implemented JAVA/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, DAO, Session Façade and Singleton.  • Worked on DAO and Data Services, application performance tuning with RDBMS (DB2, Oracle).  • Used Hibernate in persistence layer and developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) to handle all database operations.  • Construct and optimized SQL queries in DB2. Wrote Stored Procedures and complicated queries for IBM DB2.  • Developed server-side services using Spring Web Services (SOAP, WSDL).  • Backend application layer is implemented using EJB (Enterprise Java Bean) in WebSphere Application Server environment.  • Used Maven as a build tool to build the application also for automated deployment.  • Used Log4j to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  • Developed MVC design pattern-based User Interface using JSP, XML, HTML and Struts. Used XML to transfer the application data between client and server.  • Implementation of XSLT processing on server with JSP and WebSphere. Developed Server-side programs using EJB Helper beans and deployed on WebSphere App Server.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS  • Develop and execute Unit Test plans using JUnit ensuring that results are documented and reviewed with Quality Assurance teams responsible for integrated testing.  • Provided extensive pre-delivery support using Bug Fixing and Code Reviews.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets 2.5/3, Hibernate 3.5, Spring 2.5.6, Spring MVC, Web Services, Maven, SOAP, WSDL, UML, Web Sphere, HTML5, WebSphere, JavaScript, Rabbit MQ, JQuery, CSS3, Spring Web Flow, XML, Resin, Log4j, NoSQL, SOA, JUnit 4, drools, Eclipse 3.5, SVN, JIRA, DB2. Senior Java Developer Prudential Financial - Roseland, NJ July 2014 to August 2015 Description: Prudential Financial is an insurance, investment management, and other financial products and services to both retail and institutional customers throughout the United States and in over 30 other countries. Principal products and services provided include life insurance, annuities, mutual funds, pension- and retirement-related investments, administration and asset management, securities brokerage services, and commercial and residential real estate in many states of the U.S. It provides these products and services to individual and institutional customers through distribution networks in the financial services industry.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing of presentation layer for the application modules using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX and Angular 2.  • Used Micro service architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Developed applications using Angular2, Java8 and new features of java (lambda expressions).  • Used spring framework like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Spring Boot.  • Implemented Restful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular and parsed the data to client.  • For application logging, notification, tracing mechanisms used Log4J and executing unit test cases using JUnit.  • Developed Application to asses JSON from Restful web service from consumer side using Angular 2.  • Heavily used Spring Inheritance, Auto-wiring, Core Container, Security, AOP and Spring Quartz for scheduling tasks to generate reports.  • Created and injected spring services, controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection.  • Developed Persistence layer using Spring Data to interact with the Database.  • Worked on Creating Kafka topics, partitions, writing custom partitioned classes.  • Extensively used oracle sql and MongoDB along with spring data for mapping repository.  • Worked with Spring Cloud in creating Rest API's and exposing them using Eureka service registry.  • Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Restful/Micro Services and implemented Spring Eureka as part of Services Discovery.  • Implemented Authentication & Authorization with Spring security.  • Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider and consumed using HTTP services from angular 2 modules.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, S3, cloud watch and Elastic Bean Stalk for code deployment.    Environment: Java, J2EE, PL/SQL, Spring, Spring Data, Spring MVC, Javascript, Angular Js, JMS, JNDI,  Oracle, XML, DOM, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat, WebSphere, JDBC, MS SQL Server, Git, RESTful Web service. Java developer Creative Technosoft Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2012 to June 2014 Description: Creative Technosoft Systems is a premier IT services firm, distinguished in the field of rendering Web Development Services, IT Services & Solutions. Creative Technosoft Systems has been providing offshore and onsite services to its global clientele successfully through a team of Certified and Committed Professionals with extensive technical and domain expertise, which strengthens its ability to provide innovative solutions to customers, clients, and business partners.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis and Design of the Project, which is based on MVC (Model-View-Controller) Architecture and Design Patterns.  • Involved in developing prototypes of the product.  • Extensively used Core Java concepts and implemented collections, I/O, Exception handling and Generics in logic design and development.  • Developed activity, sequence and class diagrams using Unified Modeling Language and Rational Rose.  • Designed GUI Components using Tiles frame work and Validation frame work.  • Developed interactive web page using Struts, Hibernate, XML and Java Script.  • Developed Controller Servlets, Action and Form objects for process of interacting with Oracle database and retrieving dynamic data.  • Responsible for coding SQL Statement and Stored procedure for back end communication using JDBC. Experience in Data ware housing and ETL  • Worked on performance tuning on existing stored procedures and existing reports for the faster processing of reports.  • Used Eclipse as the IDE and Struts Framework for developing the application.  • Developed the JSPs for the application.  • Created Struts -Config file and resource bundles for Distribution module using Struts Framework.  • Implemented Action Form classes, Action classes for the entire Reports module using Struts  • Experience in migrating applications from JBoss 4.0 to Web Sphere Application Server v6.1.  • Used Apache Log4J logging API to log errors and messages.  • Developed XML parser for File parsing.  • Involved in writing Detail Design Documents with UML Specifications.  • Involved in unit testing and system testing and responsible for preparing test scripts for the system testing.  • Designed and developed web services like SOAP, XML schemas, JAXB and XSL and Involved in activities like code review and performance improvement.  • Provided development support by resolving application defects and communicating defect status on a regular basis.  • Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in IBM Web Sphere.  Environment: Java, J2EE, WSDL, Web Services, Struts, WebLogic, Log4J, JSP, Servlets, JUnit, Clear Case, DHTML, JavaScript, Oracle 9i/10g, Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, IBMWebSphere6.0, JavaScript, Servlets, JDBC, XML. Java Developer Fortuna PIX - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to September 2012 Description: The primary responsibility will be to design and develop these applications, and to coordinate with the rest of the team working on different layers of the infrastructure. You will be responsible for Java/ Java EE application development while providing expertise in the full software development lifecycle, from concept and design to testing.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlet, Struts under J2EE Environment.  • Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  • Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  • Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  • Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  • Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  • Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  • Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  • Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  • Development of GUI using AWT  • Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  • Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  • Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.  Environment: J2ee, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Struts, Junit, Log4j, JavaScript, WebSphere Application Server, Axis, Wsdl, Xml, Ant, SQL, Windows XP Education Bachelor's Skills Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets 2.5/3, JSP, Hibernate 4.3, Spring 2.5.6, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, REST, JPA 2.0, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Drools, AngularJS, JQuery, Eclipse, WebSphere, XML, JAXB, JBoss, REST, JSON, Junit 4.9, Kafka, Maven, log4J, JIRA 5.2. (8 years) Links http://Virat.CH