Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - TD Bank Falmouth, ME Over 7+ years of software development experience around 4years of exclusive experience in Android and Application development with Android SDK, Android NDK, Eclipse IDE, along with Android ADT plug in developing Native, WEB and Hybrid applications and 3+ years in Java Development.    ? Extensive experience in Android application development.  ? Good understanding in Android OS, interactive application development and memory management.  ? Proficient with common Android Framework API's (Location, Camera, Notifications, Maps).  ? Experience in implementing native libraries in application by using Android NDK.  ? Good understanding in OOPS Design Patterns.  ? Experience in using Fragments, Activity workflow, Action Bar Navigation, Menu designs and view controls.  ? Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications.  ? Asynchronous Programming in Android (such as Thread pool, Tasks and services).  ? Good understanding and experience with C/C++ and familiarity with JNI.  ? Good mobile and web design skills using Activities (android), HTML 5, Java Script, AJAX and XML.  ? Good experience in Object Oriented Design (OOD), analysis (OOA), modeling (OOM) based on Unified Modeling Language (UML).  ? Familiar with mobile-based and advanced web-based applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, Struts, spring, Hibernate, JDBC, UML, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JDBC, and Oracle.  ? Worked on with AndroidAPI's (SMS, Content Provider, Google Maps API, SQLite, and WebView).  ? Experience with source code control management like subversion (SVN) and GIT.  ? Experience of Google Cloud Messaging (GCM) service for Android to register and receive Push Notifications.  ? Confidence in working with other iOS developers to complete detailed projects.  ? Extensive experience in using REST and SOAP web services with XML and JSON parsing.  ? Expert in writing client side validations using validation framework, Java Script and usage of Shared preferences  ? Knowledge in working with audio and video codec's like .3GPP,MP4, MPEG-4.  ? Experienced in programming skills in Java including Plug-in Architecture, HTML, CSS and XML.  ? Designing and implementation of User Interfaces and Navigation elements.  ? Excellent debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, IntelliJIDEA, Android Studio and RAD.  ? Experience in various methodologies like of SDLC like Agile development and waterfall development.  ? Experienced in developing apps involving RSS feeds.  ? Strong analytical and problem-solving skills coupled with excellent documentation, verbal and technical skills, strong skills of communication and ability to acquaint to fast changing skills.  ? Passionate on learning and exploring new skills and strong willingness to learn new technologies  ? Experience in performance optimization of Android applications and exposure to tools such as Trace View, Lint, and Hierarchy Viewer.  ? Ability to grasp and master new technologies, excellent analytical and problem solving skills.  ? Able to take initiative; work independently and also as a team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer TD Bank - Falmouth, ME April 2017 to Present Description:TD BankN.A is fastest growing bank in north eastern parts of US and prominent bank in Canada. TD Bank Mobile Application is a stable Android mobile application in Google play store which also has its financing and trading versions in the store. The mobile application is known for its convenience banking, deposit on the go send quick find features. TD Bank Mobile App is most secure mobile banking application made for commitment to online security.  Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in all the phases of SDLC like Design, Development and Testing.  • App supports Android Version 4.0 and up.  • Worked on bug fixing and improving application performance.  • Responsible for design of user interface using various Custom Layouts, Buttons, Dialog Boxes, Alert Boxes and Edit Boxes.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Used WebViews, Custom Listviews& populated lists to display the lists from database using simpleAdaptersand CustomAdapters.  • PerformedJ-Unit Testing and interacted with QA for testing.  • Creating Intents (explicit, implicit), Multi-threading and Creating Linear, Relative and Table Layout.  • Implementing Datepicker, Timepicker and surfaceview.  • Defining elements like Listview and webview.  • Used Android Content Providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc. from the app and designed GUIs for these applications.  • Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Used effectively All Android Applicationcomponents.  • Worked on latest Android OS versions on Marshmallow.  Environment: Android Studio, Android SDK, SQLite, JSON, PHP, Web Services, Eclipse, Oracle. Android Developer Thomson Reuters - Minneapolis, MN February 2015 to March 2016 Description: Reuter's app delivers breaking news, analysis and market data from the world's most trusted news organization. Explore a seamless stream of articles, pictures, and videos on your phone or tablet.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for Proper Analysis, Development, Testing, Deployment and Enhancementof the code.  • Discussed the requirements with the client and analyzed the requirements.  • Design screens using MVC pattern for the application with AndroidStudioIDE.  • Used ContentProvider to get the data from the Contact on the device.  • Worked on linear, frame and relative layouts.  • Implemented RESTfulAPI calls to communicate with server.  • Implemented Fragments, Activities.  • Added support for downloading and opening photos, PDF.  • Used AsyncTask for multithreading.  • Worked on Linear, Frame and Relativelayouts.  • Worked on Toast, Dialogand Notifications.  • Followed Agile and Scrum methodologies in the project implementation.  • Implemented Notification Manager to display updates on the notification bar.  • Implementing Broadcast Receivers for Android.  • Added Face book SDK to post the hangout event using Oauth2.0 Protocol.  • Used shared preferences to store data.  • Designed the SQlite database to store the articles information offline.  • Test and error logging on different versions and devices of Android.  • Used adblogcat, DDMS for Debugging.  • Used Apache Subversion (SVN) for version control.    Environment: SDLC, MVC, Content Provider, linear and relative layouts, Fragments, Activities, Async Task, Agile, SQLite, Scrum, adblogcat, SVN, DDMS, Toast and dialog notifications, shared preferences. Android Developer Denver, CO September 2013 to January 2015 Description: This application helps to evaluate symptoms and explore the possible causes for a disease. The user can find the physician, hospital and emergency room in nearby area. The application also enables the user to check-in from phone and can save their Personal healthcare facilities, doctors, diseases, conditions, procedures, medications and insurance information.  Responsibilities:    • Designed and coded application components in an agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach.  • Responsible for design of UI using various customlayouts, buttons, dialogboxes, alertboxes and different form of widgets.  • Implemented functionality based on the business requirements for major releases.  • Responsible for inserting suitable code to capture the various button and textfield events and implemented the desired action for each of the widgets.  • Worked on webviews, listviews& populated lists to display the lists from database using simpleadapters.  • Used logcat, DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server) and traceview for debugging and detecting memory leaks.  • Worked with an offshore team and had to attend meetings on daily basis to keep track of different tasks and to receive updates on the project.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails from the app.  • Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the XML files.  • Used JavaMailAPI using Gmail authentication to send email without using the default/built-in app.  • Worked on Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc., from the app.  • Worked on services, Asynctasks and AlertNotificationAPI to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  • Responsible for Embedding GoogleMaps, GPSLocation Data into app with zooming controls.  • Responsible for saving data module such as personal healthcare facilities, doctors, diseases, medications, insurance information, and health plans in the SQLite database.  • Handled XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.  • Responsible for deploying the app to the Android Marketplace and supported the app for different releases of Android OS.    Environment: Android SDK 4.1, 4.3, SQLite 3.7.13-3.8, Eclipse IDE 3.8, 4.2, JDK 7.0, XML 1.0, GPS, ADT Plug-in, Logcat, DDMS console. Android Developer Caterpillar Inc - Peoria, IL February 2012 to August 2013 Description: Caterpillar is the world's most leading manufacturer of Construction and Mining equipment, Diesel and Natural Gas engines, Industrial gas turbines and diesel -electric Locomotives. The project involves working on the CAT Sales app which is available in Google Play Store. The App is mainly related to Caterpillar dealer and Seller Personnel.    Responsibilities:  • Assisted in designing the User Interface(UI/UX) and overall look and feel of the app.  • Implemented Fragments to make the app usable on both Smart phones and Tablets.  • Involved in adding the gestures to the app to show the Top Level view, Categorized View and the detailed view of the RSS Feeds.  • Worked on Generic Grids and Custom List Views to list the XML feeds.  • Developed the app to adapt to different orientations (Landscape/Portrait) and various resolutions (ldpi/mdpi/hdpi) based on the device.  • Implemented the XML Parser class to parse the XML feed from the URL.  • Developed and implemented the XML Parser for feeds from various sources and displayed the parsed data in the app.  • Responsible for design of user interface using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes and different form of widgets.  • Inserted suitable code to capture the various button and text field events and implemented the desired action for each of the widgets.  • Used web views, list views&populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like integrating the Dealer Contents into the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.    Environment: Android SDK 3.x, Eclipse IDE 3.6, Java, XML, emulator and Base device (Google Nexus 7). Java Developer HP - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2010 to November 2011 Description: Benefit Illustration System is Insurance based web application which helps the user to select the product and get the quote illustration for the details given by them. The Product can be created by the Sales/Partner from the Product Configuration section. While declaring Product from admin section, need to map the data elements and section details which correspond to it. Version Management, Channel Management, Cloning Product, Role Management are the additional features available in application.    Environment: Java, J2EE 1.5, JSP , Servlets , XML, Spring2.5, Hibernate, Oracle11XE,JDBC, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, ANT, UML, Eclipse, MySQL, JBoss, Java Script & JQuery.    Responsibilities:  • Developed all the User Interfaces using JSP and spring MVC  • Writing Client Side validations using JavaScript  • Extensively used JQuery for developing interactive web pages.  • Developed the DAO layer using the hibernate and for real time performance used the caching system for hibernate  • Web Services interface for provisioning the Subscriber configuration and inventory configuration  • Designed the applications using multithreading concepts  • Mainly multi-threading is used to perform time consuming tasks in the background but UI is still active and available for the users  • Designed class and sequence diagrams for Modify and Add modules  • Followed Spring MVC Framework for the development of the project  • Developed the user interface presentation screens using HTML, XML,CSS  • Experience in working with Spring MVC using AOP, DI/IOC and JDBC template.  • Hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework.  • Developed many Java Interfaces to integrate the Web Services with the database transaction tables.  • Experience in developing web services for production systems using SOAP and WSDL.  • Co-ordinate with the QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and those defects are resolved.  • Involved in testing and deployment of the application on WebLogic Application Server during integration and QA testing phase.  • Maintained the existing code base developed in the Struts, Spring and Hibernate framework by incorporating new features and doing bug fixes.  • Used ANT tool to build and deploy applications.  • Involved in configuring web.xml and struts-config.xml for workflow  • Wrote SQL queries and Stored Procedures for interacting with the Oracle database.  • Was part of solving the issues that came in production  • Documentation of common problems prior to go-live and while actively in a Production Support role Java Developer ICICI Bank Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2008 to February 2010 Description:ICICI Bank is India's second-largest bank with total assets of about US$ 38.5 billion. It provides all kinds of finance needs from securities to auto finance, banking, corporate and retail.CMD Issue Collection Application was developed for Collection of Application money in respect of IPO/Bonds/Debt instruments by Capital Market Division (CMD) branch and other identified branches of ICICI Bank Ltd. The software application facilitated data entry for generating various Reports.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects  ? Worked closely with Photoshop designers to implement mock ups and the layouts of the application.  ? Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  ? Involved in writing the Properties, methods in the Class Modules and also consumed web services  ? Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.  ? Used JavaScript for custom client-side validation.  ? Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface with various controls.  ? Worked with View State to maintain data between the pages of the application.    Environment: HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, AJAXand Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills Android (4 years), Android SDK (3 years), Eclipse (5 years), Java (4 years), XML (6 years), Android Studio, Android SDK, SQLite, JSON, PHP, Web Services, Eclipse, Oracle. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Technologies Android SDK, Android NDK, J2EE, JavaBeans, JSF, WebServices-API, Springs, Hibernate, JDBC, JavaScript, REST, SOAP, JUnit, JSP.  Programming Languages Java, C, C++, C#, Python, R.  Markup Languages HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, JSON.  Debugging and Testing Tool Logcat, DDMS, ADB, JUnit.  Operating Systems Windows XP, 7, 8, 10, Ubuntu, Fedora, Mac OSX.  RDBMS SQLite, Microsoft SQL 2005/2008, Oracle 10g, 11g, MySQL 4.0/5.0  IDE Android Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans.  Version Control/Continuous Integration Tools Mercurial, GitHub, SVN, Jenkins.  Scripting languages JavaScript, JQuery  Servers Amazon web server, Web Logic 8.1/9.2, Apache Tomcat 6.0.