PRPC Sr. Developer PRPC Sr. <span class="hl">Developer</span> PRPC Sr. Developer - Bank of America Simi Valley, CA • Having 7 + years of experience in IT Industry including 5+ years of experience in PEGA PRPC in Analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance/Support, Integration and Deployment and 2+ year experience working on Java, J2EE technologies.  • Good experience in PRPC for defining hierarchy based class structure and security based on roles and privileges, configuring agents, connectors, data models, process flows, business logic definition and user interface Design.  • Worked on multiple projects covering all the areas of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements Analysis, Application Design, Technical Design, Development, Testing Debugging along with Implementation, Documentation and incorporation of user feedback to plan enhancement in the Application system.  • Configured and managed Flows, Harnesses, Assignments, Data properties.  • Designed and implemented Decision Rules, Declarative Rules, and Validation Rules.  • Strong knowledge in implementing various PRPC components like Decision Tables, Decision Maps and Declarative Expressions.  • Very good exposure in Insurance, Financial and Banking industries.  • Experience in Agile / Scrum Methodology.  • Excellent understanding of various types of Rules like Product rules, Correspondence rules, Integration rules, Rule set management and associated tools such as export-import tools.  • Experience in troubleshooting & performance tuning of PRPC applications using  Clipboard, Tracer and Performance Analyzer (PAL).  • Extensive debugging skills in PRPC using TRACER, Clipboard, PAL and Rule Inspector.  • Strong development base in defining Class Structure and Hierarchy adapting PEGA best practices and guardrails.  • Experience in designing Class Structure, Workflows, Rule set management and utilities, Decision, Spin-off and Split- Join shapes in PEGA PRPC.  • Experience in designing and Developing Business Rules Engine (BRE) and Business Process Management (BPM) applications using PRPC.  • Thoroughly worked on reporting wizard, list view, summary view, activities, Obi-Validation.  • Extensively used Connectors and SOAP Services in PEGAPRPC to integrate with external systems  • Experience in developing web pages using HTML, JavaScript, DHTML and CSS.  • Extensively worked with JAVA, J2EE, HTML, and XML.  • Expertise in full life cycle development of system, requirement elicitation, making Use Cases, Class Diagram, Activity Diagram, Deployment Diagram, Sequence Diagram and Subsystems.  • Experience with various Application Servers, Web sphere Application Server and Apache Tomcat.  • Familiar with Operating Systems like Sun Solaris, UNIX, and Windows.  • Team player, result-oriented, fast learner and excellent communication skills. Work Experience PRPC Sr. Developer Bank of America - Simi Valley, CA March 2017 to Present The main focus of this project is automation of filing post-petition fees in the court for the borrowers in the specific bankruptcy chapters. PPFN Pega application objective is automation of applying business rules to determine eligibility criteria for filing a PPFN for the bankruptcy cases, automates case management features to create and assign cases which need user review or actions, provide communication channel related to the PPFN cases between bank users and attorneys responsible for filing PPFN in court by integrating PPFN Pega application with external systems.    Responsibilities:  • Provide technical input for creation of Business Requirement Documents  • Created Application profile and executed Application Accelerator using Pega DCO tools and assisted in creating use cases and HLD documentation.  • Participated in creation of application specific Class structure and Rule set structure.  • Created Draft Flows, mockup screens in Pega for business demo and LLD documentation.  • Involved in technical discussions related to integration with external applications.  • Developed business rules in PPFN Pega application to identify PPFN eligible loans using activities, decision rules.  • Developed application specific integration tasks to intake loan and case details for bankruptcy cases from iSeries using MQ.  • Exposure in Configuration of Agents, JMS MDB listeners, Service and parse rules to intake data from iSeries, receive and process feedback on PPFNs received from attorneys using LPS application.  • Responsible for creation and updates of activities, flows, workbaskets to intake PPFN eligible cases, create cases and assign for BAC user review in case of exception as per business requirements.  • Responsible to create eForm file, eForm map rules to generate PDF of the PPFN work object and refer the PDF to attorney.  • Created the flows and UI - flow actions, section, harness and controls to allow BAC user to perform different tasks of including/excluding a fee on PPFN, approve or stop a PPFN, Create a manual PPFNs etc.  • Attended Status calls with Business, Technical and Infra structure Teams to discuss and update project status.  • Extensively used Pega Clipboard and Tracer for debugging of processes developed.  • Participated extensively in designing application security which involves setting up Access groups, Access Roles, Operators, Application ID, Work groups, Work basket and SLA rules.    Environment: Pega PRPC V7.1, Web Sphere, iSeries, MS Visio 2007, Oracle 11g. Java Developer Infosys October 2014 to February 2017 The CRM Tracker is a Resource Tracking tool for tracking the details of all the employees in CRM practice in Infosys. The CRM Tracker provides users i.e. the employees an UI to view/edit/update their details. It allows the Manager level employees to book an employee for a particular project .Along with this it also provides the users the growth statistics of CRM practice and its revenue details per each quarter.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis & Design of User Interface/screens using Java and Jsp.  • Entire analysis and design of databases from the scratch using SQL, MS-Access.  • Created and supported database connections and database issues.  • Enhancements/bug fixing in the database level.  • Worked on the entire life cycle of the project including analysis, design, development, unit testing.    Environment: Java, JSP, SQL, MS Access, JavaScript, HTML. Java/Clarify CRM Developer Infosys June 2011 to September 2014 Neo is the strategic Amdocs Clarify Service Management Platform for fulfilling the requirements of BT's 21CN vision, by unifying Service Management onto a single, next generation, product-independent platform.    Responsibilities:  • The customization of wBBC service management layer.  • Created/customized different save beans, load beans, and xbeans for various requirements.  • Deployment of customizations onto the Unix/on-site environment.  • Created process on the Clarify CRM thick client.  • Done JSP changes for UI part.  • Customization of Clarify CRM Thin Client and billing modules.  • Used Spring (IOC) frame work for wiring of components through Dependency Injection.  • Created the required views and tables using SQL & DAT files  • Configuration and creation of different processes.  • Designed unit Test Plans and internal testing using JUnit and Log4j.  • Developed Detail Design and Technical Design Documents.    Environment: Clarify CRM 13.1, Java, JSP, SQL, XML, HTML and Java Beans, Spring Framework. Education Bachelor's Skills ANALYSIS DESIGN (Less than 1 year), Apache (Less than 1 year), Clarify (3 years), CRM (5 years), CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (5 years), HTML. (5 years), Java (5 years), JavaScript (2 years), JMS (2 years), Jsp. (5 years), MICROSOFT ACCESS (2 years), MS-Access. (2 years), Oracle (2 years), Pega (2 years), SQL (5 years), testing. (5 years), Unix (3 years), Visio (2 years), Web Sphere (2 years), XML (3 years)