Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Allied Insurance Denver, CO • Software Professional with 8+ years of experience in Object Oriented programming, design, developing and testing of Client/Server, Enterprise and Web Applications  • Expert in developing enterprise web-based application based on Java technologies using J2EE, J2SE, EJB, Java Servlets, Struts, Java Beans, JMS, JNDI, ANT and Apache Maven.  • Extensive work experience in JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JDBC.  • Proficient in the development of Client/server and web applications using JAVA, J2EE, J2SE, technologies and Web technologies for enterprise applications.  • Expertise in developing web based GUIs using Java Applets, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, XML, DOJO, AJAX, JSF, & spring form tags.  • Seasoned professional in various frameworks: Struts, Hibernate, Spring 2.0, JSF.    • Strong understanding and excellent skill in developing, designing, professional, Ajax driven elegant enterprise web application using Ajax, Flex, Action Script and JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Custom Tag Libraries, JSF, JQuery, Dojo, ExtJs and various java design patterns  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment  • Extensive Knowledge on databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Developed ANT scripts, and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications  • Proficient in working with JavaScript Frameworks like AngularJS, Backbone.js.  • Working Knowledge on XML, XSLT, XPATH, XQUERY, and XSL-FO.  • Hands on experience in configuration and deployment of multi-tier applications using servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat.  • Extensive experience to SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and experience in developing web services using Axis, WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, WSSecurity, XML-RPC and JAXB/JAXP.  • Extensive experience working in Spring 2.5/3.0 framework, Struts framework, O/R Mapping Hibernate 3.x framework and web services (SOAP and RESTful)  • Strong experience in writing SQLs, stored procedures, joins and Triggers.  • Good working knowledge of database tools like TOAD, PL/SQL, Db Visualizer and SQL Navigator.  • Very good experience in OOAD, UML, Rational Rose Methodologies.  • Working experience in relational databases like ORACLE and SQL Server, DB2.  • Very good knowledge in writing Shell, ANT scripts for building the projects.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Data bases and hands on work experience in writing application on No SQL databases like Cassandra and Mongo DB.  • Good working knowledge of Ant for project build/test/deployment, Log4j for logging and Junit for unit and integration testing.  • Strong knowledge of IDE's Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD 7.0.0), WebSphere studio application developer.  • Extensive experience in software development methodologies Agile.  • Good Work experience on RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL. Creating SQL statements & subqueries.  • Development web components using JSP, Servlets and server side components using EJB 3.0 under J2EE Environment.  • Design and development of web-based applications using different web and application servers such as Apache Tomcat, WebSphere 8.0, JBoss, 7 and WebLogic.  • Implemented Unit Testing using Junit and Integration Testing during the projects.  • Exposure to tools such as ANT and hands on experience on SQlyog and SQL developer.  Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Allied Insurance - Denver, CO April 2016 to Present Web-based Java application which provides rates for the insurance policy premiums based on customer information.  Responsibilities:  • Implementing RESTful web services architecture for Client-server interaction and implemented respective POJOs for its implementations.  • Designed and implemented business logic using Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Implementing Hibernate framework for the project and working in hand with Oracle 10g access.  • Designed and implemented multiple ORM mappings for the security locking enhancement module and parts of customer authentication module.  • Involved in injecting dependencies (DI) into code using spring core module.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in Spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  • Used HQL and SQL for fetching and storing data in databases.  • Developed an Asynchronous AJAX based rich client to meet the user requirement.  • Involved in writing complex SQL queries and stored procedure with data team.  • Have worked on Oracle 10g database for storing and retrieving the application data.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Used jQuery UI widgets to create date pickers, dropdown/select menus and tabs.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Developed the application using Angular-JS, Node-JS, Express-JS, Mongo-DB, Angular-UI, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Refactored and enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance which resulted in significant percentage of code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spin up and enhanced performance.  • Developed unit case testing scenarios with JUnit.  • Implemented logging mechanism using Log4j.  • Configured and Deployed WAR files into Tomcat Application Server.  • Configured connection pooling using WebSphere application server V8  • Build automation done and tested primarily using Apache Maven.  • Subversion SCM tool was used with Jenkins for continuous Integration.  • Involved in code review and deployment of the application on development, testing of production servers.  • Drafted User Testing and Regression Testing using Selenium and JUnit.  • Involved in writing EJBs (Stateless Session Beans) and Web Services for building the middleware  • Distributed components and deployed them on application servers.  Environment: Java/J2EE 1.6, JSP, Servlets, Spring 4, Hibernate 3, REST, Windows, Oracle 10g, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Node-JS, Express-JS, Mongo-DB, Angular-UI, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3 and JavaScript, jQuery, XML, Eclipse IDE, AJAX, Apache Maven, SVN, Jenkins, Windows, Websphere, JUnit 3.8, Log4j, Apache CXF. Full Stack Java Developer Bed bath and Beyond - Union, NJ January 2015 to March 2016 Project involved in developing a Web-based Inventory. The application allows the client to manage its inventory to achieve a lower inventory cost. The client shares the application with its suppliers to manage supply orders and status of the order  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and implementation of web tier using Servlets and JSP.  • Worked closely with internal clients to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various knowledge research applications.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web  • Application and developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Extensive use of Angular JS for developing the SPAs (Single Page Applications) for internal application/tool. Worked on Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events, and Injectors also created the angular custom directives, Filters, and Services.  • Developed the application using Angular-JS, Node-JS, Express-JS, Mongo-DB, Angular-UI, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Developed the user interface using JSP and Java Script to view all online trading transactions.  • Testing and production support of Core java based multithreading ETL tool for distributed loading XML data into Oracle11g database using JPA/Hibernate.  • Created client side validation tool using Angular JS and Javascript.  • Writing Asynchronous code on the server-side for fetching data and communicating with the front-end application using AJAX calls from Front-End application using jQuery.  • Built the reusable service components using Angular JS services with Object Oriented JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS3 based on the visual designs.  • Developed various AngularJS directives to help build the functionality and UI behavior using JavaScript with extensive knowledge of and use of Angular JS directives to bring additional functionality to HTML.  • Used Angular libraries like angular-UI-router, angular-resource to create the effective single page application and used angular-cookies to temporarily store the data used in this application.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL.  • Developed the service layer, a layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with spring framework.  • Developed applications using Application Lifecycle Management to deliver reliable applications.  • Implemented Spring Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface and AOP for Logging  • Configured development environment using Weblogic application server for developer's integration testing.  • Optimized using responsive design techniques to work equally well at both full and mobile screen sizes. Implemented best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques for designing webpages.  • Used Gulp as a build tool in this project for the tasks like building scripts, minifying and bundling the JavaScript files.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  • Used Tomcat as web server to store the static contents and Jboss as application server.  Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Client and Server layer. Java/J2EE Developer Systems Automation Inc - Columbia, MD October 2011 to December 2013 Project is developed for regulation management that combines all of the agency's licensing & enforcement functions into an integrated solution. It provides features for processing initial applications, renewals, accounting, enforcement, inspections & reporting/document generation.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering with clients and prepared the data dictionary.  • Assisted in moving the components from Development to TEST to Production, troubleshoot and resolved issues.  • Involved in coding front end using Swing, HTML, JSP, JSF, Struts Framework  • Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using ORM tool Hibernate  • Worked on Hibernate persistence tier. This involves developing Mapping files and Hibernate (POJOs/DAOs)  • Involved in working with J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Factory, DAO, and Business Delegate) and Model View Controller Architecture with JSF and Spring DI.  • Design and Development of Spring service classes and JSF pages.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL and stored procedures as part of database interaction.  • Extensively used Hibernate for Object relational Mapping for data persistence.  • Unit testing, bug fixing in multiple environments (DEV/INT/CERT/PROD) and reproduce bugs for fixing and code review of individual modules in the application.  • Developed customized Exception classes for all modules to display user friendly messages  • Responsible for complex queries using JDBC and also implemented JPA using provider as Hibernate at the Persistence layer.  • Used web services to retrieve information from remote services using SOAP, WSDL and Axis Webservices  • Worked on Java APIs like Collections, Generics, exception handling, etc.  • Leveraged Ant, JUnit (Test Driven Development) and log4j open-source projects.  • Coordinate with the off shore team and client for resolving the queries and finalize the timelines. Responsible for data modeling and database design in Oracle 10g.  • Involved in resolving Integration Test, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Production Issues.  • Created Hibernate DAO component for persistence logic [CRUD operations]  • Implemented JUnit test cases.    Environment:J2EE 6, Hibernate, JSP, JSF, JMS, MQ Series, XML, JavaScript , HTML, CSS, Tomcat, Eclipse 3.7, JUNIT, CVS, Oracle 10g, Windows 7. Java Developer Birla Sun Life - IN February 2009 to September 2011 Birla Sun Life is one of the leading financial services company in India offering life insurance and other investment solutions.Customers receive access to a broad range of products and services that can help meet their financial goals.  Responsibilities:  • Designing JSP using Java Beans.  • Involved in Design, Development, Testing and Integration of the application..  • Implemented Struts framework 2.0 (Action and Controller classes)for dispatching request to appropriate class  • Developed using simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Design and implementation of front end web pages using CSS, DHTML, Java Script, JSP, HTML, XHTML, JSTL, Ajax and Struts Tag Library.  • Designed table structure and coded scripts to create tables, indexes, views, sequence, synonyms and database triggers.  • Involved in writing Database procedures, Triggers, PL/SQL statements for data retrieve.  • Developed using Web 2.0 to interact with other users and changing the contents of websites.  • Implemented AOP and IOC concept using UI Spring 2.0 Framework.  • Developed using Transaction Management API of Spring 2.0 and coordinates transactions for Java objects  • Generated WSDL files using AXIS2 tool.  • Developed usingCVS as a version controlling tool for managing the module developments.  • Configured and Tested Application on the IBM Web Sphere App. Server  • Used Hibernate ORM tools which automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Developed usingXML XPDL, BPELand XML parsers like DOM, SAX.  • Developed using XSLT to convert XML documents into XHTML and PDF documents.  • Written JUnit test cases for Business Objects, and prepared code documentation for future reference and upgrades.  • Deployed applications using Websphere Application Server and Used IDE RAD (Rational Application Developer).    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.4, Servlets 2.4, EJB 2.0, JMS, JSF, JDBC 2.0, JAXB, Struts 1.1, DAO, HTML, Java Script, XML, CSS, XHTML, DHTML, Ajax, SOA, SOAP, LDAP, Web Services, JSP1.2, JSTL, IBM Web Sphere 5.0, Oracle 9i, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 2.0, DOJO, PL/SQL, SQL, Windows XP Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Regions Bank - Austin, TX March 2004 to May 2004 Environment: Java/J2EE 1.6, JSP, Servlets, Spring 4, Hibernate 3, REST, Windows, Oracle 10g, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, Angular-JS, Node-JS, Express-JS, JSON, MongoDB, RESTful Web service, Jasmine, Docker, Jenkins, SEO, SASS, Gulp, Grunt, Agile, JIRA, GIT, AWS.    Client: Regions Bank, Austin TX  Position: Sr. Java/J2EE Developer  Duration: Jan 2014 - Dec 2014    The project involved developing online banking application, which provides several features to bank customers such as Manage accounts, Apply for new account, view balance, transfer funds, view summary etc.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for writing functional and technical specifications  • Extensively used J2EE design Patterns.  • Implemented the DOJO API for powerful scripting.  • For updating the new modification and issues AJAX scripting is used.  • Implemented JSP, spring, Java Script and CSS for developing User Interfaces.  • For exchanging the text and communication with web service JSON is used extensively.  • Developed Rich UI applications using JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Used the JavaScript alert dialog boxes with my Perl CGI program  • Implemented Collection Framework and used the Thread, I/O functionalities for meeting access.  • Used Hibernate for database and also to manage Transactions.  • Hibernate as an ORM tool for OR mappings and configured hibernate.cfg.xml and hibernate.hbm.xml files to create the connection pool.  • Hibernate Persistence Strategy is used for database operations and Developed Hibernate as the data abstraction to interact with the database.  • Developed Session and Entity (CMP) beans (EJB) for crucial business logic  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous ordering process.  • Worked on XML Parsing (DOM/SAX), XML Schemas/DTD and XMLBeans.  • Extensively used JUnit for Unit Testing  • Added support for multiple Java Native Threads calling the same Perl interpreter  • Integration with the J2EE Services layer of Unity Platform, using Spring application context.  • Introduced the spring based architecture for the newly designed UI Infrastructure services to interact with the legacy services.  • Maven is used to download the Java Plugin for developing the applications.  • Developed PL/SQL stored procedures in Oracle.  • Extensively used Eclipse 3.2 with Debugging and Development.  • Used wireframes and Rational Rose for Software design.  • Managed Source Control and Version Control using CVS.  • Followed the standards of the CMMI for the risk assessment and analysis process.  • Deployed the project in the Web Logic Application server.  Environment: J2EE 6, Java, JSP, JMS, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (REST), EJB, JSON, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, XML, AJAX, JMS, DHTML, Tomcat, Eclipse, Web logic 10.3.1/10.3.2, PL/SQL, Oracle, DB2, Windows, CVS. Education Bachelors in EEE JNTU Skills JAVA (7 years), JSP (7 years), TESTING (7 years), XML (7 years), J2EE (6 years), Java/J2EE 1.6, JSP, Servlets, Spring 4, Hibernate 3, REST, Windows, Oracle 10g, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Node-JS, Express-JS, Mongo-DB, Angular-UI, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3 and JavaScript, jQuery, XML, Eclipse IDE, AJAX, Apache Maven, SVN, Jenkins, Windows, Websphere, JUnit 3.8, Log4j, Apache CXF. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems: Windows XP, 2000, Win- NT, Linux  Programming Languages: Java, J2EE, SQL, C, C++, Python  J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Security, Spring WS, Drools, RMI, Rich Faces, Birt Report, Crystal Reports.  Framework: Struts, Spring, Hibernate  Databases: DB2, Oracle, 10g/9i/8i, SQL, MY SQL and MONGO DB, Sybase, MS Access.  Development tools: RAD 7.5.3, IDEA 8.1, Eclipse 3.5, STS, WSAD.  Web/Application Servers: JBoss, Web Logic [ ] Apache Tomcat 6.X, 7.1, WebSphere.  Web Development: JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, XSD, AJAX, GWT, JAX-WS.  Build/Testing tools: ANT 1.7.1, Maven 3.0, Junit 4.7.  Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, Rest  Others/Tools: Swing, Agile, RUP, Subversion, Jasper, Reports, JMock, Microsoft Visio.  Methodologies: SDLC, RUP, Agile (Scrum/Extreme Programming)  Design/Version Control: Rational Clear Case, CVS and Tortoise SVN and PVCS  Message Service: MQ series, JMS