AEM Senior Developer AEM Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Senior Developer - Apple New Orleans, LA • Seven plus years of IT experience majorly in software design, development, implementation and maintenance of enterprise web applications using Adobe Experience Manager, Core Java, JSP, Servlet, JAXP, JAXB, REST & SOAP services, Oracle, Tomcat, WebLogic  • Having 3+ yrs. experience in AEM and currently working on 6.3version.  • Extensively worked on AEM features like Templates, TouchUI Components, Sightly, Sling Servlet, Filter, Observation framework, Run modes, Sling Models, MSM, i18N, DAM, JCR API, Eclipse AEM Developer Tools, OSGI, Workflows, Dynamic Media, etc.  • Strong hands-on experience in knockout.js, Angular 2/4,jQuery.  • Have thorough knowledge on design patterns, non-functional requirements and best practices.  • Good exposure in Agile, Scrum and Iterative methodologies.  • Havestrong functional expertise in Web Content Management domain  • Have good exposure on front end web technologies HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular, CSS, CSS3, Bootstrap, RSS, XML, XSL, AJAX, JSON, etc.  • Worked on Adobe Omniture & Tealium site analytics integration.  • Played a major role in setting up site search using Google Search Appliance (GSA) and integration.  • Hands on experience with build and deployment tools ANT, Maven and Jenkins. Have knowledge on Gradle.  • Worked on different hosting models like on-premise, SaaS, and cloud.  • Broad experience with Apache HTTP (rewrites, proxy, reverse proxy, etc ) and PHP.  • Hands on experience with application servers Tomcat, Spring TC& WebLogic.  • Worked on CVS, SVN and Git code repositories. Work Experience AEM Senior Developer Apple - Sunnyvale, CA July 2018 to Present • Retail Content Manager Application is used to create content for Learning and Hello Apps which are used internally in Apple.  • Involved in performing inline upgrade from AEM 6.1 to AEM 6.3.3  • Converted jsp components to Sightly along with Sling Models  • Improved the Code quality and followed the best practices.  • Implemeted Touch UI Dialog Validations using Foundation Validation  • Performed AEM Devops tasks like configuring Aem with MongoDb and datastore  • Integrated Sonar and AppDynamics to anlayse the performance of the Application AEM SeniorDeveloper The Irvine Company - Santa Ana, CA March 2018 to July 2018 The Irvine Company has diversified operations throughout coastal California, maintaining sustainable communities with a full range of housing, job and retail centers through their websites  www.irvinecompanyoffices.com for offices and www.irvinecompanyapartments.com for apartments.    • Followed AEM best practices like using minimal number of templates for all the pages, reusable components, using AEM 6.3  • Involved in the development of the components and templates in touch using Coral UI 3  • Enhanced Apis for Enterprise DAM integration.  • Worked with ACS AEM Commons Named Transform Image Servlet which allows specific image transforms to be defined centrally via OSGi configurations  • Worked with Adobe Search and Promote  • Configured Dynamic Media feature for image renditions and Scene 7 for publishing dynamic rich content.  • Worked on Image Optimization to improve page performance. AEM Developer Hyundai AutoEver America - Fountain Valley, CA March 2017 to February 2018 Location Fountain Valley, CA  Duration March 2017 - February 2018    Description:  Hyundai CPO is existing website for Hyundai certified pre-owned cars inventory, and the project is reimplementation using AEM 6.2, Angular 4 and Bootstrap 4. The site includes features like Inventory search, vehicle detail, CARFAX, CarStory, Window Sticker etc    • Involved in functional requirements understanding and technical design.  • Developed POCs for AEM and Angular components integration strategy.  • Developing Angular components using TypeScriptv 4 and using features like bootstrap, module, component, service, routlet, lifecycle hooks, events emitter, etc..  • Followed AEM best practices like using minimal number of templates for all the pages, reusable components, etc  • Developed components in TouchUI flavor  • Custom multifield component using ACS Commons.  • Developed content activate workflows.  • Implemented i18n and MSM for both English and Korean.  • Developed solution to consume third party SOAP and REST services using GET and POST method with AEM OSGI bundles.  • Configured AEM run modes, custom log, etc..  • Implemented custom solution for multiple renditions to images in DAM and viewport based display in front end.  • Used desktop companion tool to bulk upload assets to DAM.  • Configured VanityURLs solution on AEM and dispatcher with admin team assistance.  • Integrated ApacleSolr with AEM for site search.  • Configured Dynamic Media feature for image renditions for different viewports.  • Configured Sling Dynamic Includes feature not to cache dynamic sections of pages but rest all.    Environment:  AEM 6.2 (Templates, Components, i18n, Sling, OSGI, wokflows, jobs, JCR, HTL/Sightly, etc.), Angular 4, Java, Junit, Maven, Eclipse, Angular 4, AJAX, Bootstrap 4, HTML5, CSS3, etc.. AEM Developer Hyundai AutoEver America - Fountain Valley, CA January 2016 to February 2017 Location Fountain Valley, CA  Duration January 2016 - Feb 2017    Description:  Genesis.com is existing website for Genesis cars from Hyundai Motors. The project is to add set of new significant features to the website like request a quote, schedule test drive, payment calculator, events, vehicle compare, new vehicles inventory, certified vehicles inventory, etc with responsive design and no impact to existing features already existing on the site.    • Involved in functional requirements understanding, technical & infrastructure planning discussions.  • Write Technical design documents and coordinate with both offshore and onsite teams for deliverables on time.  • Responsible for AEM entire frontend and backend modules implementation and releasing them to higher environments.  • Developed components in both ClassicUI and TouchUI flavors to support authoring work on both desktop and smart devices.  • Implemented i18n for more than 60 countries  • Developed config solution to keep environment level variables separately using run modes.  • Developed multiple workflows.  • Worked on dispatcher and Akamai configuration along with admin team.    Environment:  AEM 6.x (Templates, Components, i18n, Sling, OSGI, wokflows, jobs, JCR, HTL/Sightly, etc.), Java, Maven, Eclipse, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, etc AEM Developer Sears.com/Kmart.com July 2015 to December 2015 Description:  The ASAP project contains the development of the components/templates related to the pages of Sears/Kmart. The pages include the integration with the third party API services, which renders the dynamic content.Enhancements are being made to the components/templates, as part of this project.    • Involved in the development of the Components and templates  • Enhancements to the existing components.  • Used Agile practices during the development  • Followed the Test Driven Development for price API/Store front API consumption  • Worked in exposing the REST APIs for feeds which include articles of the products  • TDD approach in the API development.  • Unit testing and development of the selenium test scripts for the pages    Environment:  Java 7, Adobe Experience Manager 6.0, RESTful Web Services, GIT, Maven, Bamboo/Nexus, Log4J and jQuery/ExtJS. Java Developer Macquarie Bank Ltd January 2015 to June 2015 Description:  Global Exchange Matching System (GeMS) is the software to automate the middle office operations of the Futures Clearing Division of Macquarie Bank Limited (MBL).  The middle office operations to be addressed by GeMS are currently being performed by a collection of software's developed (or acquired) at different points in time working as a disjoint collection of systems rather than an integrated system. GeMS, is to reengineer the functionalities contained in these wide and varied systems and to present an integrated solution to the middle office requirements of MBL Futures Clearing Division.    • Coding of different reporting modules using Java, Hibernate, JSP, Struts, Spring, HTML pages.  • Integrating the different modules and Delivering the build to the testing team.    Environment:  Java, JSPs, Struts, JavaScript, Hibernate, Spring, Sybase, DB2,IBMWebsphere Application Server Toolkit 5.0    Client VMS  Project VMS Java Developer September 2012 to December 2014 Description:  VMS deals with providing the data related to the media which covers the magazine, internet, broadcast and TV channels. The privileges given to the user as part of choosing the media is  mainly based on the Segments. Segment is nothing but an article which has been telecasted or printed in the media as a clip with different durations. The user has the options like searching the articles based on a key work and they have the facility to buy the article.    • Business requirements and change requests analysis and scoping.  • Effort and scheduling of work.  • Involved in the new features development and maintenance of the project  • Involved in the developing the components using Struts, jsp,Servlets.  • Prepared use case, class and sequence diagrams.  • Designed and developed requisitions, role, skills and round module.  • Feasibility study and implementation of new Release management system.  • Involved in the creation of test cases and performed the Junit tests.    Environment:  Struts2.0,Jsp ,Servlets,JSTL, oracle10g, Tomcat ,Eclipse and Java Script. Java Developer IBS S/w Services PVT Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2011 to August 2012 Description:  RSMS is a web enabled, platform independent, GIS supported, accident database management solution with a powerful data analysis engine. Both recording and analysis of accident data can be facilitated by the use of RSMS. Standardized reports generated through this application are useful in providing statistics for traffic researchers and specialists.    • Participated in project planning sessions with business analysts and team members to analyze business IT Requirements and translate business requirements into working model.  • Developed web application using Struts Framework  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML and CSS  • Used JavaScript and struts validation framework for performing front end validations.  • Developed DAO design pattern for hiding the access to data source objects.  • Used Hibernate framework for the backend persistence  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application    Environment:  Java, Eclipse, HTML, CSS,JSP, Struts, JDBC, Tomcat, Oracle Education Indian Institute of technology Varanasi - Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES, SPRING, JAXB Additional Information Technical Skillset    Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux  Java Technologies JDK 1.7/1.8, JDBC 3.0, Servlets 2.4, JSP 2.0, Java Beans, JSP Taglibs, JUnit, JAXP, JAXB  Front end Technologies HTML, HTML 5, CSS, CSS 3, Bootstrap, Javascript, JQuery, XSL, Angular2  Data Formats JSON, XML  Web/Application Servers Apache 2.3, Tomcat 8.x (Spring TC)  Databases Oracle 9i/10g, MySql 3.x  Products Adobe Experience Manager (AEM 6.2), Documentum, Oracle Web Center, Jive  AEM Features  Template, Classic/TouchUI Component, Sling Servlet, Config, WCMUse ( Java/JS), Tag Management, MSM, i18N, DAM, JCR, Eclipse AEM Developer Tools, OSGI, Workflows, Dynamic Media, etc..    Build Technologies Ant 1.8.3, Maven 3.x, Gradle, Jenkins, Cruise Control  Protocols HTTP, HTTPS, TCP/IP, SOAP  B2B Integration RSS, WebServices, Webhooks  Version Control CVS, SVN, Git  Misc Tools  Eclipse, Brackets, Spring Tool Suite (STS), MS-Office, PuTTY, WinSCP, TOAD, SQL Navigator, XML Spy, VMWare, MS-Visio, Fiddler, TamperIE, SoapUI, etc..