Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer 9 years of professional experience in all the phases of software development lifecycle including Design, Development, Integration of Client/Server environment, Maintenance, Implementation and Testing of various software applications using Java/J2EE related technologies.    * Expertise in developing applications using Java, J2EE Technologies, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, XML, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX.  * Experience in GUI development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS 4, Bootstrap, JSP, and XML.  * Proficient in the implementation of frameworks like Struts, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, JSF and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  * Good knowledge of Design Patterns like Singleton, DAO, Factory, MVC, Service Locator Pattern, Builder Pattern, Proxy Pattern etc.  * Expertise in Core Java, HTML, XML with strong experience in developing the GUI for desktop and Web-based applications.  * Experience in working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo-Classes and Pseudo-Elements.  * Proficient in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, Pair Programming and Waterfall software development processes.  * Expertise in developing Web pages using jQuery plug-ins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Bootstrap, and JavaScript.  * Extensive experience in using various design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  * Experience in developing client/server and Web Applications using JAVA, J2EE, J2SE technologies and Web Technologies for enterprise applications.  * Experience in Microservices using Spring boot with Spring Cloud stack like Apache Kafka Spring Cloud Netflix stack patterns like Service Discovery (Eureka), Circuit Breaker (Hystrix), Intelligent Routing (Zulu) and Client-Side Load Balancing (Ribbon)  * Proficient with multiple packages of the Core Java API, collections and generics.  * Extensive experience in different IDE's like Net Beans, Eclipse - Indigo, Kepler, Neon& Mars.  * Experience in building integration with CRM and Access Management Systems.  * Expertise in working with SOA architecture and developing Web services using SOAP & REST.  * Experience in Microservices Architecture with Spring Boot and Docker.  * Good Knowledge and experience in coding Java applications on both client-side and server-side using JDBC and advanced multithreading.  * Experience in Designing End to End, B2B and B2C application using JEE & J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, EJB, JNDI, JPA, REST, Jersey, JTA, JMS, JDBC, JAXP, JAXB.  * Hands on experience in configuring and deploying multi-tier applications using servers like WebSphere, Web Logic, Tomcat and JBoss.  * Proficiency in working with all databases like Oracle, MySQL, SQL, DB2, MongoDB, Cassandra.  * Working experience in AWS (Amazon Web Services) and its features like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, EBS, ESB, CloudFront, and VPC.  * Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots of the data that have to be stored in AWS S3. Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets. Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  * Wrote Ansible Playbooks with Python and SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python.  * Architected and designed Rapid deployment method using Ansible to auto deploy servers as needed.  * Written Ansible playbooks which is the entry point for Ansible provisioning, where the automation is defined through tasks using YAML Format. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  * Worked on Ansible Playbooks and Ansible Tower to automate repetitive tasks, to deploy critical applications quickly, and proactively manage the changes.  * Created the whole Application of Jira with AWS Cloud Formation Template and running this through Ansible.  * Managed the AWS cost cutting by writing the Ansible playbook for auto start/stop of AWS resources at a particular time of the day by triggering it from Jenkins.  * Used Ansible Playbooks to automate in AWS services like Launching EC2, Provisioning IAM, Configuring VPC, EBS, Monitoring using CloudWatch and CloudTrail.  * Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline consisting of a Jenkins infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven.  * Experience in Web Services Technologies like SOAP with WSDL and RESTful with JAX_RS, Jersey, Spring, Apache CXF and Node-JS and implemented SOA architecture with web services.  * Good experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML based Web Services SOAP.  * Hands-on experience in AWS cloud environment and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF)  * Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for the reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  * Experienced in developing messaging module by using Spring JMS, Apache Camel, Active MQ and Rabbit MQ.  * Experience in understanding and using Relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server and NoSQL databases like Mongo DB, Cassandra and Couch DB.  * Experience with Application Servers and Web Servers such as Web Logic Server 9.2/10, J Boss Server 7.x, IBM Web Sphere8.5 and Apache Tomcat8. x.  * Good experience in developing test cases with JUnit, MOCKITO for Unit testing and using Log4j to determine application functionality.  * Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software CVS, SVN, GIT and Perforce.  * Expert in Software Requirement Specification Documentation and gathering all the requirements related to the product.  * Ability to learn and master new technologies and to deliver outputs in short deadlines with excellent communication and inter-personnel skills.    Technical Sills:    Languages Java, J2EE, Scala 2.12.1, Python 3.6.0, Java 8  Web Technologies SERVLETS 3.1, JSP 3.0, JavaBeans 3.0, Java Servlet API 3.0  Frameworks Spring 4.3, Hibernate 4.3, AngularJS 1.0/1.5/2.0/4.0, Ext JS, node JS, Spring Security 3.2  Application/Web servers Apache Tomcat 8, IBM WebSphere 8.x/9.x, Jetty, Jenkins 2.50, WebSphere MQ 7.5 Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Intuit - San Diego, CA April 2016 to June 2017 Description: Intuit Inc. is a business and financial software company that develops and sells financial, accounting, and tax preparation software and related services for small businesses, accountants, and individuals. The company is headquartered in Mountain View, California. More than 95% of its revenues and earnings come from its activities within the United States. As a part of designing team, our goal is to enhance the website and other applications and make them more user friendly.    Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in Object Oriented Analysis & Design sessions of the Project, which is based on MVC Architecture using Spring Framework.  • Followed the Agile Scrum software development methodology.  • Responsible for gathering and analysis of business requirements.  • Involved in all SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) Phases of the project.  • Used Factory, DAO, and Singleton and MVC Design patterns.  • Developed the application using JSP, Spring MVC for front end, Spring 4.0 framework to manage business layer components and JDBC for performing database transactions.  • Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  • Involved in writing application-level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, andXML.  • Experience working with PHP scripts to extract EXCEL data.  • Designed and developed many single page web applications using BackboneJS.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JSP, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Converted existing JavaScript code into MVC pattern using the Angular.js framework.  • Used handlebars.js for templating client-side presentation logic and separate data.  • Implemented Selectors and Attributes to update the DOM nodes and elements.  • Developed Branding features in the Portal using CSS3 and to give the Portal a standardized and custom look and Feel.  • Developed Rich web user interfaces using HTML elements such as Command, Navigation, progress, Summary, Article and other formatting elements.  • Followed agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development and scrum status meetings.  • Involved in design, analysis and architectural meetings. Created Architecture Diagrams, and Flow Charts using Microsoft Visio.  • Leverage knowledge of W3C standards, cross-browser development techniques.  • Worked on tools like TortoiseSVN and JIRA for bug tracking.  • Developed an effective HTML User Interface using new HTML form elements  • Developed a jQuery based front end including forms, controls, event handlers and effects  • Development the whole application module using technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery and more.  • Wrote a combination of jQuery plugins, as well as completely custom JavaScript to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  • Involved in writing application-level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, andXML.  • Experience working with PHP scripts to extract EXCEL data.  • Implemented spring controllers with annotations, validations using model attributes to pass the request from presentation layer to helper classes.  • Implemented transaction management using spring 4.0 framework declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts.  • Developed numerous services and controllers for the consolidated client portal utilizing Groovy and Grails.  • Used spring 4.0 framework web flow to navigate between pages.  • Created connections to a database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data in the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Involved in the development of Page Flows, Business Objects, Hibernate database mappings and POJOs. Used xml style syntax for defining object-relational metadata. Application developed in MVC architecture using Struts, spring 4.0 framework, Hibernate, EJB.  • Used spring 4.0 framework for building the application based on MVC design paradigm. Provided Integration for Spring MVC module.  • Involved in creating Front end screens using JSF, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node JS, ReactJS, Bootstrap, Angular JS UI-Router, Grunt, & Gulp and parsed data from XML.  • Worked on implementing the responsive web design to the website by developing the Bootstrap techniques, AJAX, AngularJS, and jQuery technologies.  • Used JSF, HTML5, CSS3, React JS, Angular JS, jQuery and Bootstrap to build this SPA Single Page application.  • Used React JS to develop responsive application specified by conditions.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility implemented Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Used GWT in developing the UI design for the website to increase the performance through the browser.  • Designed and developed JSPs, Servlets based on user requirements.  • Exposed Business service layer as REST Web Services.  • Developed Oracle Stored Procedures and Functions using SQL Developer.  • Developed internal application using MongoDB (NoSQL Database), spring 4.0, Rest Web Services, JavaFX, and Java.  • Building RESTful APIs in front of different types of NoSQL storage engines allowing other groups to quickly meet their Data needs and remain insulated from rapid technology changes in the NoSQL field, evaluated system performance and validated NoSQL solution and managed, administered all NoSQL database systems.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for hosting some of the client-side applications.  • Used Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) from Amazon Webservices (AWS) cloud resources to the scalable deployment of applications by providing the configuration as a web service.  • Used JMS like ActiveMQ for messaging between the applications.  • Involved in CQ5/AEM related design and framework development using templates, components widgets, CQ5 bundles, JCR/Sling API, configuring Cloud Services, publish and author set-up.  • Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.  • Interacted with clients directly on project status and requirements.  • Implemented Junit test cases for all the modules developed to ensure complete code coverage.  • Wrote automated test cases for a web application using Selenium.  • Configured Selenium Web Driver, TestNG and created selenium automation scripts in java using TestNG prior to agile release.  • Used Apache camel for integrating the messaging models like ActiveMQ and JMS services.  • Used UNIX commands and Shell scripting for production maintenance activities of the servers for the organization.  • Used JIRA for defect tracking and project management  • Used Sencha for automating unit scripts of the built applications.  • Involved in preparing the documentation and logic flow charts of the process.  • Used version control through SVN.  • edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  • Involved in writing application-level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, and XML.  • Experience working with PHP scripts to extract EXCEL data.  • Designed and developed many single page web applications using BackboneJS.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JSP, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Converted existing JavaScript code into MVC pattern using the Angular.js framework.  • Used handlebars.js for templating client-side presentation logic and separate data.  • Implemented Selectors and Attributes to update the DOM nodes and elements.  • Developed Branding features in the Portal using CSS3 and to give the Portal a standardized and custom look and Feel.  • Developed Rich web user interfaces using HTML elements such as Command, Navigation, progress, Summary, Article and other formatting elements.  • Followed agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development and scrum status meetings.  • Involved in design, analysis and architectural meetings. Created Architecture Diagrams, and Flow Charts using Microsoft Visio.  • Leverage knowledge of W3C standards, cross-browser development techniques.  • Worked on tools like Tortoise SVN and JIRA for bug tracking.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring MVC, Struts MVC, Spring Web Flows, JavaScript, React JS, Node JS, Angular JS, J Query, Hibernate, Spring 4.0, Web services (SOAP/REST), Oracle 10G, XML, AWS, WebLogic9, Eclipse, SVN, No SQL, Rest, SQL Developer, Selenium, IBM RAD, JIRA, IBM BPM, Apache CXF, Apache Camel, Maven, Unix, Linux, Shell, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Twitter Bootstrap, JSF, Active MQ, LISA and Junit. Java Full Stack Developer Sparta Systems - Township of Hamilton, NJ December 2014 to March 2016 Description: Sparta Systems is a Diversified bank that offers a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete software development lifecycle tasks (design, coding, testing and documentation)  • Extensive knowledge and experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS.  • Developed the single page application following Agile Scrum, participated in daily standups, sprint reviews, Kickoffs and used Jira for project management.  • Responsible for preparing the use cases and for designing and developing object models, class diagrams with UML Specifications.  • Designed and Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using Angular2.0, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery Created web application prototype using JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Implemented nested views and routing using AngularUI Router as per the requirement. GUI was developed using JSP, HTML, and AngularJS and created reusable components in Angular2.0 using Custom Directives Filters, Services, and Partials.  • Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and developed HTML templates with various Angular directives such as ng-app, ng-controller, ng-repeat, ng-if, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-change, ng-blur etc.  • Used various Angular UI Bootstrap components such as calendars, masks, uploaders, sliders, alerts, modal dialogs etc. for developing the UI.  • Developed pages using Angular2.0 directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and AngularUI components such as grid, buttons, carousels, date pickers, modal dialogs and other input components.  • Integrated Apache Kafka for data ingestion.  • Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using angular UI router.  • Load data from various data sources into HDFS using Kafka.  • Involved in batch processing using Spring Batch framework to extract data from database and load into corresponding Loan App tables.  • Install KAFKA on the cluster and configure producer and consumer coding part in java to establish a connection from twitter source to HDFS with popular hashtags.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC intensively that leverages classical MVC architecture and JavaScript for major data entry that involved an extreme level of data validation at the client side.  • Integrated Single sign-onusing LDAP and Active directory on Spring security layer, successfully maintained users and groups integrity in the application.  • Documented how Spring Batch is useful for the current project.  • Exposed Stateless session beans as RESTful web services using JAX-RS. Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Rest API for various requirements.  • Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Developed components of web services (JAX-WS, REST, JAX-RPC) end to end, using different JAX-WS standards with a clear understanding on WSDL (type, message, port Type, bindings, and service)  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma as unit test runner for various application modules.  • Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins, AWS: Code Deploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Worked with Java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage Service (S3), Simple Queue Service (SQS) and Simple DB.  • Used Junit and Mockito framework for unit testing of application and Log4j 1.2 to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions  • Used SVN version control to track and maintain different versions of the application.    Environment: Jdk1.6, HTML5, Angular2.0, jQuery, JavaScript, Spring Batch, Node.js, Bootstrap, Spring 4.0, Apache7.0, log4j, Hibernate, Kafka, Maven, Tortoise SVN, Rest web services, AWS, maven, jQuery, JIRA, Eclipse Kepler, XML, MySQL. Java Full Stack Developer Avon Products Inc - New York, NY March 2014 to November 2014 Description: Avon is the Company that for 130 years has proudly stood for beauty, innovation, optimism and, above all, for women.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the overall layout design, the color scheme of the website using XHTML and CSS, creating detailed wireframes and process flows.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, Share point in ongoing projects.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plug-in for Drag and DropJQValidator, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript.  • Used AJAX & JSON communication for accessing Restful web services data payload  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of life cycle using AGILE methodology - Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Developed the dynamic User Interface using JSP utilizing Custom Tag Libraries, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Interacted with the Graphics design team in the use of Photoshop CS3, MS Visio, PowerPoint, Dreamweaver, and Flash.  • Used SQL queries & PL/SQL-Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes etc.,  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Involved in using CVS for project management and version management.  • Used Angular.js to create maintainable and testable single page application and Implemented 2-way data binding and used ng-filters across the applications.  • Implemented MVC architecture developed custom directives, controllers, views and filters using Angular.js.  • Conducted unit testing on the supported browsers using Jasmine framework and Karma task runner.  • Used Ajax Controls, Web forms, JavaScript and HTML for Commission, Payment and Inventory reports.  • Used Chrome Developer's tool for debugging the website and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions.  • Customized the Node.js server to pick the local Package JSON and run the applications without changing the local paths and variables.  • Developed Web API using Node.js and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Used JavaScript to handle validation and sorting of data.  • Cleaned up and rewrote front-end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements.    Environment: Agile, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, JSON, XML, JAVA, JSP, PL/SQL, CVS, JASMINE, Wireframes, Adobe Dreamweaver, Photoshop, MS VISIO, REST, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat server, web sphere app server. Software Developer March 2010 to July 2013 Description: InfoTech Enterprises IT Services Pvt. Ltd. (InfoTech IT), part of the $ 260 million InfoTech Enterprises group, leverages its business process knowledge, technological competence, strategic alliances and strong global presence to offer innovative IT solutions to the Retail Industry.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing, Designing and Developing the User interface of a B2B e-Procurement portal using Web 2.0 Technologies for easy lookup of order details information including Searching Order data by Vendors.  • Developed an effective HTML User Interface using new HTML form elements  • Developed a jQuery based front end including forms, controls, event handlers and effects  • Development the whole application module using technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery and more.  • Wrote a combination of jQuery plugins, as well as completely custom JavaScript to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  • Involved in writing application-level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, and XML.  • Experience working with PHP scripts to extract EXCEL data.  • Designed and developed many single page web applications using BackboneJS.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JSP, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Converted existing JavaScript code into MVC pattern using the Angular.js framework.  • Used handlebars.js for templating client-side presentation logic and separate data.  • Implemented Selectors and Attributes to update the DOM nodes and elements.  • Developed Branding features in the Portal using CSS3 and to give the Portal a standardized and custom look and Feel.  • Developed Rich web user interfaces using HTML elements such as Command, Navigation, progress, Summary, Article and other formatting elements.  • Followed agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development and scrum status meetings.  • Involved in design, analysis and architectural meetings. Created Architecture Diagrams, and Flow Charts using Microsoft Visio.  • Leverage knowledge of W3C standards, cross-browser development techniques.  • Worked on tools like Tortoise SVN and JIRA for bug tracking.  • Used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) in entire project development.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Java, Eclipse3.5, Subversion. Education Bachelor's in Computer Sciences and Engineering SRM University Chennai - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2010 Skills CSS (6 years), ECLIPSE (6 years), HTML (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information Relational Databases Oracle 10g/11g, SQL server 2012/2014/2016, My SQL 5.7, DB2 11.1  No SQL Databases Mongo DB, Cassandra, Couch DB  Internet Technologies HTML 5, JavaScript 1.8, XML 2.0, CSS 3 and CSS 4, JQuery 2.11, Angular JS 2.0, BackBone.JS 1.3.1, Polymer.JS, Node JS 6.0.  Cloud Environments Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka, Mesos, Kubernetes.  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans 8.0.2, IntelliJ 2017.1, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3  Operating system Windows 10, Linux Mint 18.1, Unix  Bug tracking Tools JUNIT4.12, JIRA 7.0, Bugzilla 4.4.12, Curl 7.36, JMeter  Reporting Tools Jasper Reports 6.0, Crystal Reports XI, SSRS 5.0    Methodologies Agile, waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven-Development), Scrum  Developer IDE Platforms Eclipse, Edit plus, Notepad ++, TEXT PAD, JBuilder, Net Beans 8.0.2, IntelliJ 2017.1, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3, GITHUB 2.12.0  Build Tools Ant 1.10, Maven 3.3.9, Gradle 3.4.1  Web Services SOAP 1.2, REST 2.0, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS,