TIBCO Developer TIBCO <span class="hl">Developer</span> TIBCO Developer - Vectren Evansville, IN • Having 7+ years of IT experience in Analysis, design, development, Support and deployment of Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) applications using Tibco products.  • Expertise in TIBCO Active Enterprise Suite of applications TIBCO Business Works, TIBCO Designer, TIBCO EMS, TRA, TIBCO Active Database Adapter, TIBCO File Adapter, TIBCO Administrator.  • Strong expertise in JMS, EMS Messaging and applications Integration.  • Developed XSD's using XML Spy and TIBCO Designer.  • Hands on Experience designing and developing Web Services using WSDL, SOAP using SOAP/HTTP and SOAP/JMS with TIBCO Business Works.  • Experience in USING SOAP UI to Test SOAP Over HTTP and SOAP Over JMS Web services  • Designed various Business Processes by using the JDBC, File, FTP, JMS, XML and General Activities palettes etc.  • Worked on integrating various applications with TIBCO Active Database, File adapters using TIBCO Business Works.  • Developed Hawk Rule bases using HAWK Display and HAWK Web Console.  • Deployed TIBCO Application using App Manage and TIBCO Admin UI.  • Experienced in TIBCO EMS and Creating queues, topics, bridges and Destination Properties.  • Experienced working with databases like Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, SQL Server.  • Strong knowledge in working using relational databases including Oracle and SQL.  • Has good knowledge in UNIX scripting.  • Have given production support on the Tibco products, in various operating platforms like Windows and UNIX.  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of all the applications. Experience in all facets of Project Life Cycle. Work Experience TIBCO Developer Vectren - Evansville, IN June 2018 to Present CSI:-Customer Support Interface  At Vectran the Customer Support Interface was being upgraded to provide an Effective Resolution Date for all the Tickets raised by Customers. Tickets assigned to ground Support staff have Standard SLA date assigned to it during Ticket creation. New Customer Support Portal has an Option to have got an effective resolution date once the ticket has been created. TIBCO Interfaces have been developed for Calculating and Updating the Effective Date to help in better customer satisfaction.    Responsibilities  • Actively involved in gathering and understanding business requirements.  • Created Technical Design Documents based on Business requirements.  • Conduct design, code and implementation reviews with team members.  • Configured ADB Adapter in Publication Mode to Send out Updates to Customers.  • Developed TIBCO BW Processes to achieve Business Functionality.  • Involved in the end to end testing process and creating the unit test plans.  • Performed load testing and performance analysis for Business Works engines and Adapter instances.  • Created EAR Files for the developed BW components and deployed them using Tibco Administrator  • Used Custom or Inhouse Built CLE Framework for logging and Exception Handling  • Actively helping develop integration testing scenarios and test scripts.  • Identifying defects in deployed code and those raised by testing team and providing resolutions.    Environment: TIBCO Business works 5.x, ADB Adapter 7.2, TIBCO EMS 8.3, Tibco Admin, and Oracle. TIBCO Consultant All State - Charlotte, NC March 2017 to May 2018 This project implements an automated workflow solution for Email Communication for Expired Policies, New Polices and updates to any Existing profiles or policies. Data is received via Layer 7 for data flowing through front end systems and ADB adapter has been used for all alert flow/mechanism to send out updates via Email and Mobiles. For Mobile Communication External Systems from Vibes is partnered with All State.    Responsibilities  • Implemented projects using agile methodology  • Analyzed Existing code and Performed Unit testing to understand the business flow.  • Used Altova XMLSPY for XSD generation and XML Generation.  • Configured ADB Adapter on Policy Profile List Tables to capture changed data and send out alerts to existing customers.  • Updated existing Interfaces to migrate from SOAP Based Services to query data to Stored Procedures.  • Enhanced the existing error handling and alert management process  • Created EAR file and deployed in DEV/TEST environment.  • Worked on Production support after go-live for 2 weeks  • Configured Fault tolerance, Load balancing for Tibco BW applications.  • Generated various schemas as per the mapping involved in the process flows.  • Configured TIBCO EMS Server in Fault tolerance in Non-prod environment.  • Created Acceptance test cases upon development to support the testing team in performing their testing.  • Used CLE logging framework to handle all the exceptions in a Business process.  • Implemented queue level, log level monitoring for all the EMS queues and deployed services, respectively.  • Used Tortoise SVN for source control and version repository.    Environment: TIBCO Business works, TIBCO EMS, TIBCO Admin, TIBCO Adapters, Putty, SQL Developer, WinSCP, SVN Tibco developer Fidelity Investments - Durham, NC October 2013 to February 2017 Fidelity Investments is one of the world's largest providers of financial services. It offers investment management, retirement planning and brokerage. As a part of FMIT Pass Global support team is responsible for sending real time market data, batch feeds from leading financial institutions to various business units within Fidelity Asset Management including Equity, Fixed Income. My Role here was to support integration team with Design, Development, Testing, Deployment Support, Monitoring and performance tuning of Tibco Solutions.    Responsibilities  • Actively involved in requirements gathering, business analysis and technical design.  • Estimate, plan and Setup new Tibco environments for Tibco development, Testing and production purposes.  • Installation and configuring Tibco products (Business work, TRA, Admin, EMS, Adapters etc.)  • Design & build of Tibco EMS Servers in Windows and UNIX servers.  • Configured the processes and EMS servers for fault tolerance for high availability and load balancing.  • Designed, coded, tested, debugged, and documented the new application to process the third party pricing requests.  • Developed business processes by configuring shared resources, creating process definitions, creating activities and configuring message transports using TIBCO Business Works.  • Worked on several pallets including JMS, PARSE, JDBC, Http, Soap, WSDL, File, Ftp, General, etc.  • Implemented various business processes with TIBCO EMS, FTP, and secure transportation protocols.  • Designed the Starter processes and sub processes by using TIBCO BW.  • Developed the Business Works processes as per the test cases and deployed in UAT environment.  • Worked with Global variables, shared variables, Job shared variables as part of the process definition for Integrations.  • Created XML Schema Definitions (XSD) for validation in business work processes.  • Performance tuning and monitoring enhancement.  • Involved in performing all types of health checks for different environments.  • Creating the required EMS components (Queues, topics, bridges, routes and destination acl's).  • Involved in technical design of the message flows and EMS infra-structure design.  • Involved in the development and configuration of TIBCO BW business processes to various components such as Oracle database and also performing various data mapping and manipulation.  • Worked on Queries Performance & Stored Procedures while fetching information from Oracle 10g database through Tibco BW.  • Design and development of database interfacing using PL/SQL over JDBC.  • Handling all kind of incident tickets based on priority.  • Involved in writing various HAWK rule bases and UNIX shell scripts to monitor  • The health of the processes and to manage log files.  • Administer user's permission on Tibco Administrator.  • Created EAR Files for the developed BW components and deployed them using TIBCO Administrator GUI in DEV, TEST, QA and UAT environments using Appmanage and Perl scripts.  • Error Handling and logging was implemented to debug the process for synchronous service and to reprocess the transaction in case of asynchronous service.  • Developed the unit test cases and tested the interface and participated in integration testing.  • Support of enterprise wide GR infrastructure for production/test/development environments.  • Monitoring/comprehensive support and troubleshooting of any and all issues that are related to Claims.  • Coordinated with offshore Team to manage delivery.    Environment: TIBCO Designer, TIBCO BW, TIBCO TRA, TIBCO Administrator, TIBCO RV, TIBCO EMS, TIBCO Hawk, GEMS, Oracle, Windows 2003/XP Professional, UNIX, PL/SQL, SOAP. Tibco developer MINDZONE TECHNOLOGY August 2010 to February 2011 India  Mind Zone service based organization which works for Multiple Client. AXA is Insurance Company is one of the nation's largest insurance Company held personal lines insurer. AXA sells major lines of insurance including auto, property, life and commercial. Where we supported integration and pre-production and UAT deployment and support for auto, insurance application monitoring and performed related tasks.    Responsibilities  • Designed complex XML schemas to facilitate communication with legacy inventory management system.  • Created multiple processes using TIBCO Designer to facilitate the batch integration of suppliers and vendors.  • Developed Web services using WSDL, HTTP, SOAP and other general BW pallets for the SOA based module.  • Designed various Business Processes by using the JDBC, File, JMS, XML and General Activities palettes.  • Involved in Unit testing and QA Testing.  • Fix Defects raised by QA Team and UAT Testing Team.  • Support Production Deployments    Environment: TIBCO Designer, TIBCO BW, TIBCO TRA, TIBCO Administrator, TIBCO ADB Adapter, TIBCO EMS, Oracle, MSSQL, SVN, UNIX. Java developer MINDZONE TECHNOLOGY March 2009 to July 2010 India    Responsibilities  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML,CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Dependency injection in Spring for service layer and DAO layer.  • Written Servlet and deployed them on Web Sphere application server.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Development of the java classes to be used in JSP and Servlets.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse.  • Worked with PL/SQL scripts to gather data and perform data manipulations  • Used JDBC for database transactions  • Developed stored procedures in Oracle  • Used Test Driven Development approach, and wrote many unit and integration test cases  • Onsite coordination for developing various modules    Environment: Java, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.4, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Web sphere 3.5.6, Eclipse, Oracle 9i. Education Bachelor's Skills .net (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Cvs (Less than 1 year), databases (Less than 1 year), Documentum (Less than 1 year), Html (1 year), Http (3 years), J2ee (Less than 1 year), Java (1 year), Jms (3 years), Oracle. (6 years), Perl (3 years), Pl/sql (4 years), Soap (5 years), Sql (6 years), Subversion (1 year), Tibco (6 years), Unix (3 years), Unix shell (3 years), Xml (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  TIBCO Suite: TIBCO Business works 5.x, TIBCO Administrator, TIBCO Hawk, TIBCO EMS, TIBCO ADB, and File Adapter.  Languages: XML, XPATH, XSLT, XSD, WSDL, UML, C, C++, JAVA, J2EE, SOAP/JMS, SOAP/HTTP, HTML, C#.NET, VB.net, PL/SQL, Perl, Unix Shell Scripting  Databases: Oracle 7.x, 8.x, 9.x, 11.x, MySQL Server and SQL Server 2005/2008    Operating Systems: MS-Window NT, XP, Linux, UNIX and SUN Solaris 8.0  Version Control and other Tools: CVS, VSS, Subversion, Documentum, Share point.