Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Manhattan Associates Atlanta, GA • Around 8+ years of IT experience in Systems Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Web and Client/Server and Enterprise Application development using J2EE Framework.  • Experience in Designed &developed several Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications  • Developed applications using Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, and EJB, Struts, spring, Java Beans node.js, Hibernate, API, JPA and MVC architecture.  • Expertise in design and development of various web- and enterprise-level applications using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle.  • Experienced in MVC Architecture Web Frameworks include Struts, JSF, and Spring 3.0 (Dependency Injection, Data Access Objects, and MVC Framework).  • Experienced in developing UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, Exception handling, Multi-Threading, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO, Garbage Collection and Serialization.  • Expert with spring modules like Spring Core, Spring DAO and Spring AOP, Spring MVC.  • Expertise in Spring Framework using components like MVC, Transactions, ORM and JDBC. Also used Hibernate ORM, JSF and Struts MVC frameworks.  • Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Security and Spring Boot.  • Implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts  • Experience in Web Services, Java/J2EE Design Patterns including singleton, Factory, MVC.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, and worked on AWS Toolkit for Eclipse to develop, deploy, and debug Java applications using Amazon Web Services.  • Used AWS SDK for connecting it to amazon S3 buckets, were it is used to store object service and retrieve the media files.  • Experience in development of microservices and deploying in Docker  • Good understanding of all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in large scale enterprise software using Object Oriented Analysis and Design.  • Experience in SOAP based Web Services, REST Web Services, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, SOA, AJAX, RMI, JNDI, MVC Custom development.  • Deployed Services in Jenkins, Meson Marathon, Docker Swarm.  • Good Experience in designing Front End pages using scripting languages like HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery, JSF, AJAX, External JS and Angular JS, BOOTSTRAP, Prime Faces.  • Expertise in applying JMS ( Java Messaging Service) for reliable information exchange across Java applications  • Implemented Microservices Registration and Discovery with Spring Cloud and Netflix's Eureka  • Experience with RDBMS concepts like writing Queries, Functions, Stored Procedures, Cursors and PL/SQL Packages.  • Expert knowledge on SOA architecture and SOAP & REST Web Services  • Experience in persistence frameworks, Hibernate and JDO to map POJOs to a relational database.  • Extensive of server-side development experience using the technologies EJB, Web Services, XML, JAXB, Oracle, MySQL Server, SQL, PL/SQL also have  • Expertise at using frameworks and tools like spring, Hibernate, JSF, ANT, Junit.  • Research and development on scalable Linux deployments on AWS via Docker  • Good experience in working with Spring Boot, Spring MicroService, discovery service like Netflix Eureka Server.  • Experience in developing applications using WebSphere Application Server with J2EE and integration with MQ Series/WebSphere MQ.  • Experience with Netflix OSS stack, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Docker, and Github.  • Experience in configuring and deploying web applications in Tomcat Server, Web Logic, and Web Sphere.  • Good Work experience on various IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, WebSphere Studio Application Developer, RAD.  • Experience in development methodologies such as Test Driven Development (TDD) and Waterfall model.  • Expert in using version control tools such as such as SVN, CVS and GIT. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Manhattan Associates July 2018 to Present Description: A leader in enabling supply chain, inventory transformation , Developed an application that provides users a web interface to the Accounting Application and to view the fund data in various formats. It also validates the various transactions and activities and generates alert messages. Users can log on to the system to research, and resolve the alerts.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Implementation of Multi-Tier distributed applications using JAVA/J2EEArchitectural and Design patterns.    • years of experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object Oriented Applications and Web based Enterprise Applications using JAVA/ J2EE technologies.  • Experience in Web Application Development, Client-Server based Enterprise Applications, System Analysis, Technical Design, B2B Implementation, Performance Tuning and Testing.  • Expert level skills in developing applications using Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), Collections, JDBC, XML, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, Ajax, Design Patterns, XSL/XSLT and JQuery.  • Extensively followed software development, test driven development (TDD), water fall and prototype development methodologies.  • Good exposure to the full software development lifecycle and Agile/Scrum methodology.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Garbage Collection, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Hands on experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS, backbone.js and Node.js.  • Strong exposure working with J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Data Accessor, Value Object, Singleton and Session Facade.  • Experience in web application design using open source frameworks like Spring MVC, JSF and Struts Framework.  • Designed and developed application in 3 tier architecture, user interface is developed in Spring which uses MVC Model2 framework, persistence layer is developed in hibernate in combinations of Spring IOC which provides loose coupling between user interface server layer and persistence layer.  • Evaluated different frame works, developed proof of concepts for JSF and Spring MVC.  • Developed UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Automated the build process by using ANT and MAVEN build tools.  • Used Spring IOC/Dependency Injection to couple different layers of application such as Web, business, and system and DAO layers.  • Redesigned Web front-end to scheduling system using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, with the jQuery library.  • Build test cases using Junit and carried out unit testing.  • Used Spring Batch for batch processing of files and database.  • Built spring based Java Microservices to support web application.  • Involved in PKI certification Management.  • Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements.  • Utilized Eureka Client, Eureka Server, Eureka Instance, and Eureka Service through Spring Boot board.  • Built applications for scale using JavaScript, NodeJS, and React.JS.  • Developed the Spring Features like Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, and Spring Security.  • Developed server tier using EJB, JMS, and spring modules. Worked on Security.  • Involved in writing EJBs (Stateless Session Beans) and Web Services for building the middleware distributed components and deployed them on application servers.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Business Delegate, Singleton, and Data Access Object (DAO).  • Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in Agile Methodology.  • Deployment/Delivery as an iterative process and Automation of Infrastructure as Code Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, RDS, EBS, ELB, and RDS through AWS Services/Packages.  • Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to stored and retrieve the files related to the application and also worked on one of the container technologies such as Docker.  • Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide automated builds based on polling the GIT source control system.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Database Server.  • Used J-unit Testing and Ant Scripts.  • Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the files related to the application.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Used core java concepts such as Multi-threading, collections, garbage collection and other JEE technologies during development phase and used different design patterns.  • Involved in Waterfall SDLC such as Requirement gathering, System Analysis, Design, Coding and Testing the Account Information.  • Developed J2EE Services, JMS components for messaging communication in Web Logic Application Server.    Environment: Web logic, Web sphere, Eclipse, Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, EJB, JMS, Java Script, AJAX, Web Services, Spring Micro services, SOAP, Maven, Clear Case, Easy Mock, Mock Objects, HTTP Unit, JProfiler, RDS, Oracle, AWS, EC2,RDS. Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC November 2015 to June 2018 Description: Bank of America is an American multinational banking it is the largest bank in the U.S holding by assets, market capitalization. Design and developed of an application allows online banking for Bank of America customers to view their account balance, view monthly statements and to transfer fund to within Bank of America or other bank customers.    Responsibilities:  • Software professional with years of extensive Web Application Development experience using cutting edge technologies implementing Traditional Iterative and Agile Development methodologies.  • Extensive experience in Object Oriented Analysis, Design, Development and deployment of distributed, scalable and transactional applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experienced in developing web based applications using Model View Controller architecture, good exposure and experience in MVC frame works like Spring and Struts.  • IT consultant with extensive experience in design and development of distributed web applications using JSP, Servlets, JNDI, Web Services, JMS, XML, Java Beans and JDBC.  • Experienced in working with ORM frameworks like Hibernates.  • Expertise in designing and developing J2EE compliant systems using IDE tools like Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD and using J2EE compliant application servers like BEA WebLogic, IBM Web Sphere, and JBoss.  • Highly skilled in establishing communication between distributed systems using Java Messaging Service(JMS)  • Good understanding of Object Oriented Analysis and Design and UML notations. Good experience in using design tools like Rational Rose for creating class, use case and sequence diagrams.  • Familiar with all phases of software product and project development life cycles.  • Experienced working with XML in transferring data across various platforms, performing data validations, reading and writing data using XML parsers.    • Developed Various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, SAX, XSLT, JAXP, JNDI, LDAP, JMS.  • Implemented business layer using Core java, Spring Beans using Dependency injection, spring annotations, and Spring Web-flow components.  • Used Spring Boot for building applications along with Spring Initializer and bootstrapping the build configuration for a Boot-based web application.  • Developed ESB system using Java, Apache, spring and Hibernate.  • Developed the Services using Restful Services using JAX-RS and Java.  • Developed JSP pages using Spring MVC 3.0 framework and also created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Used micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting of REST.  • Involved in design and development of server side layer using JSP, JDBC, EJB and DAO patterns using Eclipse IDE.  • Developed server-side services using Java, spring, Web Services (SOAP, Restful, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RPC).  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module and Spring IOC.  • Developed the application using Java Beans, Servlets and EJB's.  • Redesigned Web front-end to scheduling system using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, with the JQuery library.  • Designed and build document tracking/workflow system with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript using jQuery, JSON and a REST architecture.  • Developed Struts Action and Form classes to access Java Beans and UI and deployed various Sessions beans.  • Involved in the Development of reporting system using Struts, spring, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Used Hibernate to access database and perform database updating.  • Implemented Spring Boot and Spring Security features  • Developed the application using RAD as the IDE and used its features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation and version control (CVS).  • Wrote test cases in Junit for unit testing of classes and implemented the logging using Log4j.  • Built data access subsystems using Hibernate and Spring against stored procedures on a DB2 database  • Resolved database inconsistency with better design and efficient SQL queries.  • Used JMS ( Java Messaging Service) Publish/Subscribe model for asynchronous communication between different modules  • Design Client side architecture for UI development using AngularJS.  • Development of modules using AngularJS and HTML5    Environment: Java, JDK 1.7, J2EE, Servlets, MVC, WebLogic, EJB, JSP, Struts, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring AOP, Spring Microservices, JPA, Hibernate, XML, NetBeans, Multi-Threading, Web Services, WebSphere HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, SOAP, Log4j, JUNIT, Eclipse, Angular JS. Java Developer Hotel Marriott Maryland January 2011 to October 2015 Description:  The main objectives of our application is to issue the implement the real time Content Management, based on the Content Retrieval, and Testing the content. Also, another primary objective of this application is to issue the Financial Application involving the Budget analysis and to issue the budget to whomsoever eligible, based on some discounts on some particular products.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application development using Agile methodology  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Used REST Template and IBM MQ for Messaging  • Design Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Spring Web Flows.  • Development of test cases for unit and integration testing and end to end testing of the system as part of Integration testing.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into the DB2 database.  • Fixing defects identified during Testing and resolving testing environment issues.  • Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate & Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  • Developed many JSP pages, used JSON plug in for asynchronous communication.  • Worked on Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.  • Developed UI navigation using JSP and Spring MVC architecture.  • Developed and deployed various Sessions beans.  • Experience with SSL communication.  • Participated in Functional Document reviews and create Technical documents.  • Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  • Worked with SSL communication and involved in PKI certification management.  • To create customer certificates worked with Key management tools  • Create Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Database Server.  • Used Junit Testing and Ant Scripts.  • Worked with JIRA for tracking the Stories in Agile Methodology.    Environment: Java SE 7, J2EE, JPA/Hibernate, Web Services (REST and SOAP), , JSP, XML, JIRA, JavaScript, Jenkins, AngularJS, SoapUI, Oracle 11g, SQL, SQL Developer, Eclipse, Log4j, Spring, Spring Boot, Micro Services, Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JBOSS, jQuery, JSF, JSP, RMI, SERVLETS, STRUTS, WSAD, C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, FRONT-END, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY:    Languages Java (J2SDK 1.4/1.5/1.6 & J2EE 1.4/1.5/1.6), C, C++, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies EJB, Servlets, JSP, Maven, JDBC, JSF, RMI, Web Services. JIRA, JSON.  Frameworks & Tools Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Rabbit MQ, JUNIT  IDE Tools IBM WSAD, RAD, Eclipse, Net Beans  Application/Webserver& Services IBM Web Sphere, JBoss, Tomcat, Web logic, EUREKA  OS & Environment Windows , UNIX, Linux, OSX  Databases Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, Mongo DB  Methodologies Waterfall.  Version Control Tortoise SVN, GIT  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, AJAX, XSD, AngularJS  Design Patterns MVC, Factory Pattern, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns  Cloud Platform AWS, EC2, RDS, ELB  Unit Testing Tools JUnit, Mock objects in Spring.  Front-end Technologies HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, jQuery, DOJO, GWT