Sr Java/J2EE Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer- Charter Communications New York, NY 8 yrs of experience in the IT industry. Involved in all phases of SDLC and worked on software applications using Java, J2EE, spring and Hibernate. Competent in acquiring new challenges and adaptable to any cultural and business environments. Versatile team player with good analytical, communication and interpersonal skills.  • Experience in Internet, client/server technologies using Java, J2EE (JSP, JDBC), Struts, spring, Hibernate, Servlets, HTML, CSS, XML.  • Expert in developing enterprise web-based application based on Java technologies using J2EE, J2SE, EJB, Java Servlets, Struts, Java Beans, JMS, JNDI, ANT and Apache Maven  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOAD).  • Experience in Analysis and Design using Software Engineering/SDLC, UML Methodologies.  • Excellent experience in the design, development, and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) inculcating with different J2EE frameworks.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web services - JAX-WS using SOAP, WSDL and XML Technologies.  • Experience with messaging tools like JMS.  • Hands on experience using jQuery, Node.js, Bootstrap and Angular JS 2 for changing styles dynamically, creating animating effects and manipulating DOM structures.  • Experience in deploying the applications using Docker container services and building continuous integration and deployment pipeline using Jenkins with GitHub.  • Experience in Microservices, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, and Engagement using Spring Boot.  • Extensive hands on experience in HTML and JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Good knowledge and experience in DB2, PL/SQL, SQL Server, My SQL and Oracle Database.  • Experience in unit testing using JUnit. Involved in preparing and reviewing Testing strategy, Master Test Plans, Integration Test Cases.  • Experienced with Middleware Technology Messaging Brokers like JMS, Active MQ, and Apache Kafka.  • Experience in developing application with use of different Architectures and Frameworks like Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), Data Transfer Object and POJO.  • Experience with the features of Angular 2 such as directives, modules and routing.  • Good experience with configuration management tool - SVN, GitHub.  • Hands on experience using Hibernate ORM.  • Experienced in the asynchronous processing of messages using RabbitMQ,ActiveMQ.  • Experience with deployments having worked on build automation tools like Ant Script, Maven.  • Strong experience with using agile management tools like Rally and JIRA.  • Expertise in working Environment of Tomcat, JBOSS, IBM WebSphere Application Server, Weblogic Application Server.  • Extensive experience working in Spring 2.5/3.0 framework, Struts 1.0/1.1/2.x framework, O/R Mapping Hibernate 3.x framework and web services (SOAP and RESTful).  • Worked on different operating systems like Windows and UNIX.  • Intermediate experience in developing queries using PL-SQL and creating Tables, Views and Procedures.  • Experience on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB and EBS for installing and configuring.  • Also involved in troubleshooting various pre and post implementation issues.  • Experience in collaboration with cross-functional teams and involved in the Agile process for planning, estimating, and execution.  • Expertise in developing Web applications using Swing java, HTML5, DHTML, Java Script, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX and worked on creating & consuming different format of data such as on XML and JSON.  • Expert in Spring Boot in building cloud Microservices and develop Spring-based applications with very less configuration.  • Experience in working with ANT and Maven build tools, to automate the build process for the entire applications  • Involved in unit testing of web services using SOAPUI.  • Experience in utilized Log4j logging API framework for logging Java applications for debugging and monitoring purposes.  • Experienced in all stages of Software Development lifecycle (SDLC) as well as Agile/Scrum workflow.  • Strong Communication, Team player, Managerial, Planning skills and Organizing with the ability to meet the deadlines effectively. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java/J2EE Developer Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO December 2018 to Present Project Description: Charter Communications, Inc. is an American telecommunications and mass media company that offers its services to consumers and businesses under the branding of Spectrum.  In this project we are using JAVA/J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring modules, Rest web services, SOAP services, hibernate and other java technologies. Customer Information service will display customer's information to the buy flow for a better user experience when purchasing a Phone and Plan. Customer information includes account ID, name, email, address and the users on the account.  Roles/Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and Bootstrap.  • Developed applications using JAVA 1.7, 1.8, Spring MVC, Apache Camel, and Oracle.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, and Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Implemented Micro Service architecture by using spring boot with Docker.  • Used Docker Compose file to manage environment variables and every service in this project run inside a Docker Container. Used Spring AOP to do error handling and logging.  • Designed and Implemented producer and consumer architecture using Kafka where backend services as Consumer and frontend services as producer.  • Involved in creating UI interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Material-UI.  • Used Core Java technologies like Collection API, Multithreading, Java 8 - Lambda Expressions and Streams.  • Developed application layer and business logic using Spring Boot 5.0 to deploy them as microservices and used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and Spring Batch for running Batch jobs.  • Also used Spring JDBC template for easier access to datasource and for defining POJO's.  • Developed micro services architecture using Spring Cloud Config pattern for Service Discovery (Eureka).  • Created and consumed RESTful Web Services for interaction between different modules using JAX-RS, Jersey framework.  • Developed the Micro services as springboot application compatible with Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS EC2, manage documents in S3, providing IAM access to S3 buckets.  • Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Used Microservice architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and other message brokers.  • Involved in the creation of responsive web interface using JQuery, BootstrapCSS and AngularJS.  • Experience in creating and consuming SOAP based Web Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAXB) in the payment module to secure the payment processing of claims.  • Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap3, jQuery and Angular 2 to create single page application.  • Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  • Developed user-friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing system by using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JQuery and developed Single page applications using Angular 2.0 and MongoDB.  • Used Hibernate 3.0 module as an Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tool for back end operation over Oracle Database.  • Used BitBucket for Repository and controlling the code without any conflicts and Log4J to log both User Interface and Domain Level Messages.  • Used Jira as ticketing system for logging and monitoring tickets.  Environment:Java1.7/1.8,JDK1.8,Spring5,SOAP,REST,JDBC,JavaScript,AngularJS,Microservices,webservices, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, spring 4.x, Spring Framework, Spring Boot,Kafka,Hibernate 4.x, Restful Web Services JSON, Mockito, Maven 3.0, Bit Bucket, Oracle, JUnit, AWS, Cloudbees, Docker, Jira, Agile Java/J2EE Developer IHG - Alpharetta, GA April 2017 to November 2018 Description: Global Reservations System (GRS) is a new reservation that IHG has started using for reserving hotel rooms for guests. Using this system Users across the world will be able to reserve rooms from the IHG portfolio of hotels.  This project involves integration of the GRS system with Amadeus Reservation system. There is also a system where Use ACLs were generated for Reservation agents and are sent to Amadeus via Restful API calls.  Roles/Responsibilities:  • Involved in all stages of SDLC including system analysis, design, development and post-implementation activities.  • Actively participated in SCRUM's and Sprints of Agile Methodology.  • Used Apache tomcat server for building the project.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework to achieve Dependency Injection for loose coupling, modularity, easy unit testing.  • Building cloud microservices and implementing back-up using Spring Boot.  • Created a few interfaces and classes to develop enhancements to the existing code.  • Created SQL queries for the team to debug the code faster.  • Used Tortoise SVN for version controlling.  • Utilized Angular-JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models). Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins, AWS: Code Deploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.  • Near-real time data stream processing workflow developed using Apache Kafka.  • Designed and Developed UI for Portfolio Review Dashboard application using Angular-JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, LESS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created middleware web services (SOAP/REST) and integrated them with different end systems.  • Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Provided support during deployments.  • Used Node js, Angular js, Backbone js, React js and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web application.  • Implemented AngularJS 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  • Implemented Batch jobs to deal with large number of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  • Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller.  • Developed Micro Service to provide RESTfulAPI utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Hibernate, object relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation  • Developed Microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each Microservice in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  • Experience in handling code in different MVC layers.  • Created Custom Directives in Angular-JS, making use of Modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement  • Used Hibernate for entity mapping, managing database queries and data persistence  • Involved in Hibernate mapping for mapping the entities to the EDP tables.  • Experience with TOAD for Oracle.  • Created test cases and perform unit testing using JUnit, for the new services added to the project.  Environment: Java, Spring 3.1/STS, Eclipse-Kepler, Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, CSS, TOAD, SVN, Tomcat 7.0, Oracle 11i, JSP, MAVEN.,J2EE/J2SE, Java 6.0,JQuery, SQL,Kafka,Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Multi-Threading, Batch, Hibernate 3, CSS3, XML, HTML, JSP 2.0,JBoss,Mysql, Microservices,Node jS, Groovy, IBM MQ, Mongo DB, React JS-Red ux, AWS, Windows 7, Sub Version, Rally, AJAX Java/J2EE Consultant State Street Corporation - Boston, MA January 2015 to March 2017 Project Description: State Street Corporation is an American financial services and bank holding company headquartered at One Lincoln Street in Boston with operations worldwide. It is the second United States bank on the list of oldest banks in continuous operation  Roles/Responsibilities:  • Involved in all stages of SDLC including system analysis, design, development and post-implementation activities.  • Maintained CSS and HTML, JavaScript, JSON, JSF, AngularJS, Bootstrap for designing Web Pages.  • Developed user interface using Bootstrap UI, AngularJS.  • Actively participated in SCRUM's and Sprints of Agile Methodology.  • Worked on creating and accessing web-services using SOAP and REST.  • Involved in Review Design & Requirement documents with the SE  • Responsible for developing enhancements, within the scope of the project across LPP component using Spring and Hibernate architecture.  • Good understanding of REST API's extensive experience of integrating services via Ajax using JavaScript, jQuery, and AngularJS  • Used AngularJS and jQuery for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Involved in testing using SoapUI, to ensure successful deliverables.  • Developed and coded Components with JSP, Java Beans and Servlets.  • Provided fix for issues raised during build and testing.  • Worked on creating JUNIT test cases, for the existing code and for the additional enhancement code, to achieve 100 percent code coverage.  • Worked on UNIX environment to update code and ensure the builds are successful and to read the logs during bug fixing.  • Strong experience of developing data models using WORKSHOP POJO's and configuring in persistence configuration File.  • Created Entity using JPA and SPRING and used Top link to connect to the Oracle database to store and fetch data from database.  • Extensively Used Ant tool to build and configure J2EE applications and used Log4J for logging in the application  • Worked on Eclipse Kepler for the ANT project and STS for accessing and working on the MAVEN project.  • Used SVN version controlling for maintaining the different project versions.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA), which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Implemented UI text and location info consume using REST APIs.  • Participated in developing view pages using HTML5, Java Script, AJAX, jQuery, JSP and Tag Libraries.  • Involved in building the code & deploying on Apache Tomcat server 7.0.  • Worked on TOAD for Oracle, to access DB, for CRUD operations and code analysis.  • Module and Unit Level Testing with JUnit and log4j.  • Used Apache Ant for building the application.  Environment: Java, Spring 3.1/STS, Hibernate, SOAP/REST, SOAPUI, JUnit, TOAD, log4j, UNIX, Eclipse-Kepler, Spring Tool Suite(STS), SVN, Servlets, Tomcat 7.0, Oracle 10g,Angular JS, MAVEN, ANT. Java/J2EE Developer Venmo by Paypal - New York, NY November 2012 to January 2015 Project Description: Venmo Transaction System- Venmo is a mobile payment service owned by PayPal. Venmo account holders can transfer funds to others via a mobile phone app; both the sender and receiver have to live in the U.S. -Venmo is a type of payment rail. As a simple SMS platform to send and receive money has evolved into a social payments app allowing people to pay, split and share their experiences.  Roles/Responsibilities:  • Involved in Full Life Cycle Development in Distributed Environment using Java and J2EE framework.  • Used the Spring Framework to integrate the service layer containing several services to supply the main functions of the web application developed using Eclipse.  • Implemented major concepts of Core Java, J2EE, Servlets3.0, JSP, JDBC, MVC, Spring Framework, Hibernate5.0.x, and XML.  • Used and implemented the application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations modules and Hibernate.  • Used different spring modules and wired different layer components using Dependency Injection. Used spring - ORM to integrate Hibernate and creation of Hibernate POJO's.  • Developed Web Services to allow communication between applications through REST over HTTP.  • Was initially part of developing front end components using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AngularJS. Developed dynamic and rich UI using HTML, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Worked extensively with Core Java, Multithreading, and Collections.  • Used JSON, XML, XSL and XSLT for consuming RESTful Web Services.  • Used Spring Boot -spring MVC Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate.  • Used Spring REST template to consume Restful web services.  • Participated in configuring and deploying the builds on WebSphere Application Server  • Involved in the Performance Tuning of the Application on client side.  • Wrote notification service that executes daily, sends emails and escalations to participants.  • Wrote build & deployment scripts using Maven.  • Did the application support on different environments from QA to Production. Was responsible for analyzing the issues, providing technical & functional support to the users and fix them.  Environment: Java 5.0, Struts, Spring 2.0, Hibernate 3.2, WebLogic 7.0, Eclipse 3.3, Oracle 10g, JUnit 4.2,Maven, Windows XP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and XML. Java Web Developer Seasia Infotech, Punjab India June 2011 to August 2012 Project Description: This project provides clients with the ability to retrieve reconcilable credentials. It deals with online payments, user management, balance and transaction reporting. After using various service providers, the customer validation details are provided after the change in credentials. It also provides automated processing through phone menu options to check the account balance, pay bills and also can make an appointment for the technician  Roles/Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile SCRUM development process was used for the product life cycle management.  • Used waterfall methodology for application development.  • Involved in the analysis and design of the application.  • Created several Web services to transfer the data between two different application using SOAP.  • Used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Designing and Developing web forms using java script for all the Modules.  • Developed model classes and DAO classes.  • Involved in understanding the functional requirements and converting into technical design document  • Implemented the presentation layer based using Servlets, JSP, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed JSPs and Servlets to provide a mechanism for obtaining electronic and printed pricelists for list prices, regional prices and customer-specific prices.  • Maintained several user management activities such adding users deleting users refreshing the user data and synchronizing the user data.  • Writing stored procedures and database triggers in SQL Server  Environment: Java/J2EE, java script, XML, SOAP, SQL Server, Eclipse IDE, Ant. Education Master's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES