Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Wells Fargo Los Angeles, CA • Highly motivated, creative & versatile IT professional with 5+ years of experience in design and development of client/server applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Extensive experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, deployment and support of applications.  • Strong database connectivity skills which include Oracle, MYSQL, and DB2 and in programming with SQL, PL/SQL.  • Participates in Agile and Scrum Methodology with daily stand-ups, weekly planning games and retrospectives.  • Insight into Java/J2EE technologies such as Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, spring, Hibernate.  • Broad knowledge and hands on experience in Web development using HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, Bootstrap.  • Expertise in frame works like spring, Hibernate, Flyway, Struts and JSF.  • Executes Restful Web services using Spring MVC Rest frameworks.  • Involved in creating and consuming SOAP based and Restful web services using WSDL, Kubernetes, JAX-WS, SOAP UI, JAX-RS and JERSEY framework.  • Experienced in working with Jenkins for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD).  • Involved in automated testing using Selenium, JUnit, TestNg frameworks.  • Experience in using application servers like Tomcat, Web sphere and Glass Fish.  • Experience in implementing persistence layer using JDBC, Kubernetes, Spring Dao and Hibernate.  • Implemented MVC Frameworks such as spring MVC.  • Extensively working on XML, DTD, XML Schema, XSL, XPath, DOM, and SOAP.  • Exposure to different IDE's like Eclipse, IntelliJ and Net Beans.  • Supported Testers with Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing.  • Familiar with JBoss Web Application server.  • Significant knowledge of Google Web Toolkit.  • Highly organized with the ability to prioritize workload, manage multiple tasks and meet project deadlines by following project standards and routines as per customer specs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Wells Fargo - Richmond, CA June 2018 to Present Description: Project Ole is focused on building API's across Card Holder Services. Offers and rewards to enable feature bundling. It serves as an abstraction layer to front internal loyalty components and enable external services to produce and consume.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Designing front end development using JavaScript, Angular JS Framework.  • Worked on configuring Spring MVC with Angular JS using Request Mapping.  • Used Spring Security to implement Single Page Application functionality.  • Developed the Web Interface using Angular-JS, Java Script, HTML5, CSS.  • Used the Spring Rest Services to interact with Business Objects.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate/JPA to perform data base activities and transactions  • Implemented Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files.  • Written test plans and test cases, setup test configurations and executed the tests for different modules and TestNG used for unit testing.  • Request and Response mapping using Spring (AOP) from and to the application server by annotation-based spring configuration in Eclipse IDE.  • Used Eclipse as IDE for development.  • Used WebStorm to develop Angular JS Pages and integration with the server.  • Used JIRA for creating tasks, sub-tasks and also for defect tracking.  • Performed end to end testing using Protractor and UI testing using Jasmine.  • Module testing using TestNG and Mockito  • Involved in peer to peer code reviews and cross checked whether coding standards are being followed and performed integration testing of the module.  • Involved in code versioning, Check-In, Check-outs and code merging using Sub-Version.  • Used Maven to build and deploy application onto JBOSS Application Server.  • Used Java Messaging Services for developing messaging services to interact with different application modules    • Involved actively in Application Production Support.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.7, Spring 3.2, Angular-JS 1.5, HTML, CSS, JSON, Bootstrap, MS VISIO, Restful Webservices, Hibernate, JMS, MAVEN, SVN, Oracle 10g, XML1.1, JBoss EAP 6.4.5, Eclipse Juno, TestNG, JIRA Java Backend Developer Vecna Technologies - Cambridge, MA November 2015 to May 2018 Vecna Medical's patient self-service products include a Patient Portal, Patient Kiosk, and Patient Queuing. The Patient Portal is an online application that patients use to complete administrative tasks such as scheduling appointments, registering for appointments, paying bills, and exchanging secure messages with providers. Patients can also view clinical information such as lab results, medication, and patient problem lists. A data exchange platform supports bi-directional data exchange with any brand of hospital EMR/EHR system via a range of interfaces, including HL7, X12, XML and web-services.  The Patient Kiosk is a hospital kiosk that lets patients review their demographic information, verify insurance coverage, pay bills, and check in at the point-of-service. It uses the same data exchange platform as the Patient Portal, which allows patients who have completed registration activities online to check in with a barcode    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile - Scrum methodology for development of the product. Using Atlassian Jira Agile for Agile scrum project management/update.  • Implemented the application with XP methodology as Agile process, refactoring the existing code and writing new code.  • Developed the web pages Java, JavaScript, jQuery, Angularjs, HTML5, CSS and J2EE technology framework using Spring 2 (MVC, JDBC), Hibernate, and Web Services with J2EE design patterns using Eclipse.  • Developed and consumed restful web services using Apache CXF Framework.  • Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  • Involved in creation of Test Cases for JUnit Testing.  • Performing code deployments to local Tomcat server for testing in Ubuntu Linux environment.  • Worked on Git Repository for code integration and version control.  • Continuous integration using Jenkins on tomcat.  • Used Maven and Ant for Build Automation; ensuring proper settings, avoiding/solving any errors.  • Participating in and performing Code Reviews and/or Pair programming of peer development.  • Executed tasks on XML registry, XSLT/XQuery and transformation capabilities.  • Worked on AJAX implementation for retrieving the content and display it without reloading the existing page. Worked on JSON to populate required modules in jQuery.  • Worked on designing and executing the automation scripts using Selenium.  • Involved in improving the site tuning and performance of webpages by HTTP profiling in chrome and Firefox.  • Developed an HTML parser and then build the DOM tree with that and using this DOM tree one can split out the XML document.  Environment: J2EE, Eclipse 3.x, Java Script, jQuery 1.x, Angularjs 1.4, node.js, Apache CXF, Tomcat 6.x, CSS, AJAX, XML, XSLT, ANT, JUNIT, WSDL, PostgreSQL 9, log4j, Jenkins, Git, JSON, Ubuntu Java/J2EE Developer MetLife Insurance - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2012 to October 2013 Project Description:  • Disability Income Application is used for the Underwriting and Administration of Disabilities products. This is a Maintenance and Enhancement Project for Individual and Institutional policies of MetLife.    • Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Core Java, Servlets, JSP, XML and spring in presentation tier.  • Generated the Hibernate XML and Java Mappings for the schemas  • DB2 Database is used to store the system data  • Eclipse was used as Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Unit testing for all the components using JUNIT.  • Apache Log 4j Logging framework for logging of trace and Auditing.  • Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) for better and faster interactive Front-End.  • Worked with IBM Web-Sphere as the Application Server    • Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JQuery, Eclipse, WebSphere 6.0, AJAX, Oracle 9i, log4j. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES, SPRING, jQuery, JSF, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, JAVASCRIPT, XML, DB2, JDBC, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, SQL, AJAX, JEE, Angularjs, Java J2Ee, Rest, MVC