MTS and Broker MTS and Broker MTS and Broker - Fifth Third Bank Cincinnati, OH • Software Developer over 5+ years of Experience in application development and support on different technologies.my expertise is in Core Java, J2EE, Structs, Spring, Hibernate, web services and relational databases such as Oracle and MySQL.  • Effective Hands -on experience for building Rich UI Applications using HTML, CSS, Boot Strap, Java Script, jQuery, Angular JS, CSS3, XML and XSL/XSLT, AJAX.  • Extensive experience in different spring modules such is Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring AOP, security.  • Implemented ORM applications with hibernate and mapped database tables with model POJO classes.  • Experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) ESB, BPEL, Web Services, Restful interface and J2EE development using SOAP, UDDI, XML XSL/XSLT XPath, Ajax, GWT, Servlets, Java Server Pages (JSP), JSTL.  • Designed and developed Databases, Create, implemented and has knowledge on SQL queries, stored procedures, Joins, Triggers, Views, Common Table Expressions, functions, Indexes in relational databases such are Oracle, MS SQL Server, and My-SQL, DB2.  • Well experience knowledge on data base connects like joins, indexes, views, procedures and functions.  • Sound RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL etc.  • Familiar with designing and coding Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursers and Functions using PL/SQL  • Proven knowledge and Experience working within various Rapid Application Development flavors like Agile, SCRUM and Test-Driven Development (TDD)  • Exposed to web development with emphasis on all stages of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using design patterns.  • Effectively addressed functional, usability and performance requirements in balance. Proficient in object and data (logical and physical) model development using UML and ER diagrams.  • Co-ordinated with team for analysis and requirement gathering for different Software Methodologies Agile (SCRUM/TDD), Waterfall.  • Experience in Software Configuration Management using Version Control Software such as SVN, CVS, GIT.  • Developed applications in IDE tools such are Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, Intellij Idea.  • Experience in deploying applications in WebLogic Server, WebSphere, JBoss, RedHat Enterprise Linux environments.  • Experience build tools such are Apache Ant, Maven and SBT.  • Experience in deploying applications through CICD tools such are Jenkins and Dockers.  • Extensive domain knowledge in Banking, Healthcare, and E-Commerce.  • Handled several techno-functional responsibilities including estimates, identifying functional and technical gaps, requirements gathering, designing solutions, development, developing documentation, and production support Work Experience MTS and Broker Fifth Third Bank - Cincinnati, OH November 2017 to Present Cincinnati, OH Nov 2017 - Present  Full StackDeveloper    Responsibilities:  • The initiative of this was processing payments via wire transfers.  • Implemented and enhanced RAFT, MTS and Broker applications.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed Spring Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database  • Implemented different Design patterns like DAO, Singleton Pattern and MVC architectural design pattern of spring.  • Used SpringMVC framework at the front end and configured many beans and wired (dependency injection) them as per the requirement  • Lambda expression, functional interface, Stream API is used from core java 8 features, writing soap test cases.  • Used all core java concepts like OOPS, String, Collections, exception handling, multithreading  • Developed REST APIs for Broker application to process transaction between RAFT and MTS.  • Communicated with business users to gather requirements and designed UML diagrams for application development.  • Developed JavaBeans with Hibernate for necessary transactions like fetching the required data, updating the customer information.  • Implemented performance techniques by choosing appropriate collection structures.  • Built and accessed the database using Hibernate with Oracle.  • Developed PL/SQL procedures and triggers to perform operations on database which utilized by an application.  • Developed cross browser compatible web pages quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Lambda expression, functional interface, Stream API is used from core java 8 features and used Unix Commands to see logs for to track the issues in different environments  • Maven is used to build the application and used almost all data Structures, collections are used for to store the objects and used iterator, list iterator to fetch the values from collection. Good at sorting the objects by using the comparable, comparator object.  • Used spring AOP for declarative transaction management, perforce is for repository management.  • Used Splunk to identify the root cause of issue in UAT environment.  • Performed JUnit Testing and made sure majority code coverage.  • Used Maven as a build tool and GIT as versioning control tool.  • Deployed applications using CICD Jenkins and Dockers.  • Bug fixing and JIRA defect tracking and agile scrum model development    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring BOOT, Micro-Services, Hibernate, Angular JS, Ajax, JavaScript, UML, Restful, Micro-services, Log4j, PL/SQL, DB2, JUNIT, Power-Mock, Maven, Jasper report, Jenkins, GIT, Agile. Java Developer Marathon - Findlay, OH January 2017 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Enhanced existing UI applications with stack HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap and Angular JS4.  • Implemented applications on Spring MVC and Sprint boot.  • Developed multi-threaded applications to allow multiple transactions at same time.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) and Hibernate, used Spring AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  • Used java API for xml web service (JAX-WS) and restful web service (JAX-RS) as provider to give the service to the end users  • Used spring boot for creating new module to fit into micro service-based architecture and run the applications and java8 features used.  • Developed applications on different design paradigms.  • Developed REST based web services for client side to send query request to Elastic Search and auto generated documentation for REST.  • Designed and developed Micro-services business components using Spring Boot, Restful Micro-services using Spring Rest and MVC, for OSS services.  • Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications components using Restful web services by using Jersey.  • Used JBOSS server to route our JMS queue messages to different business floors and configured routes in Web Sphere and used Web Sphere in e-mail notification.  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J.  • Used BITBUCKET confluence to assign, track, and report and audit the issues in the application.  • Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and Maven as built tool.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Angular JS, JavaScript, Elastic Search, Mongo DB, JMS, Restful, Log4J, SOA, AWS, Micro-services, JIRA, Jenkins, GIT, Agile. Java Developer Multi-Plan - Chicago, IL February 2016 to December 2016 • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Involved in converting business requirements into developer understandable use cases by developing Use Case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and object diagram in the design phase  • Implemented Spring Framework for Model View Controller (MVC) and IOC  • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  • Prepared the Technical Design Document for both Presentation Tier, as well as Middle Layer  • Involved in the development of the controller tier using Spring framework and spring server-side validation  • Contributed in design and development of Struts/MVC web-based application  • Involved in the requirement analysis, design and development of the application built in Java/J2EE using Struts, JavaScript, JSP, JDBC  • Involved in writing JSP components Used JSTL Tag library (Core, Logic, Nested, and Bean and Html tag libs) to create standard dynamic web pages  • Worked on Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Struts, JDBC, HTML and other web-based development tools.  • Provide ANT build tool for building and deploying the application.  • Writing the JDBC quires to interact with MySQL data base  • Implemented UI applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, XML, Node Js and Bootstrap.  • Designed and Developed web services using JAX-WS, SOAP, JAXB, Apache CXF, Restful.  • Developed a suggest box using Ajax to make an asynchronous drop down of all business units using both XML Http Request objects and ActiveX objects.  • Generated required XML files to transfer data between the server and the web pages.  • Used DOM parser for validating the XML files against their respective XML schemas.  • Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database (DB2)  • Developed Message Driven Bean for asynchronous sending Messages using JMS.  • Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Build, configured and deployed Web components on Web Logic application server.    Environment: Java, Structs, Hibernate, JSP, JSON, Ajax, JMS, JSTL, JSP, JavaScript, DB2, Jenkins, SVN, ANT, WebLogic server, Waterfall. Java Developer Red Bus - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to December 2015 • Developed UI presentation and validation layers using HTML5, CSS, Boot Strap and JSP custom libraries.  • Designed the back-end server, build web service to provide a result and generate a report and the front-end user interface.  • Involved in developing applications in J2EE, used JDBC to connect relational database and stored transactional data.  • Retrieved data from the Restful web service for calculation using AJAX call.  • Implemented procedures, triggers, created tables and performed queries as part of application through JDBC.  • Developed JUnit test cases for applications and followed code coverage.  • Used ANT tool, SVN as version controlling tool and deployed on Web Logic server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Junit, Restful, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Ajax, SVN, ANT Education Education Details University of Central Missouri May 2017 Electronics and Communications JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 Skills HTML5 (6 years), J2EE (6 years), JAVA (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java, SQL, PLSQL, XML, WSDL, C, C++  Java Technologies  Java, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JavaBeans, JMS, EJB, JNDI, Custom Tag Libraries, Tiles, Applets, JUnit, ANT 1.7, Log4j, Maven, MOCKITO, JUnit    Frame Works Spring, Struts, Hibernate, JPA and IBATIS  UI Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Node JS.  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, Jersey Restful web service  Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i, MySQL, DB2 and Mongo DB (NoSQL)  XML technologies DTD, XSD, XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, JAXP, JAXB  Version Control Subversion (SVN), CVS, Git and IBM clear case  Tools& utilities Eclipse, WSAD 6.0, RAD, Net Beans, STS, SQL Developer, SOAP UI, Putty, REST client, TOAD  Web/App Servers Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS  CI tool Jenkin, Hudson.  Design and MODELING UML Rational Rose, MS Visio