Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Best Buy New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer Best Buy - New York, NY June 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework. Designed and Developed a Web Application based on Multi-Tier Architecture using the current most popular web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and RESTful Web Services.  • Configured the web.xml file for REST server injection to enable the REST web services by using JAXB API and implemented both server-side code and DHTML web pages.  • Used Cloud environment for deploying the applications and involved with Elasticsearch for logging as well as worked on Elasticsearch, Kafka, MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Angular 4, Angular 6, typescript, web pack and grunt.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  • Lead major activities like promoting Docker Swarm, Kubernetes to design images/containers for microservices architectures production, Cloud SSL management & AWS deployment automations  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using java with Web Frameworks using Git and worked with testing frameworks like Junit and participated in debugging.  • Responsible for creating and managing users and group accounts and access privilege setting on Unix/Linux servers and installed, configured Linux systems to the network.  • Developed a batch processing system with REST based APIs, using Spring Batch 3.0, integrated with Quartz scheduling.  • Lead architecture and design of data processing, warehousing and analytics initiatives.  • Created RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Designed and implemented data integration modules for Extract/Transform/Load (ETL) functions.  • Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, Jfrog, Maven & Nexus in Linux Environment. Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plug-in to deploy into AWS.  • Support activities involving the use of virtualization management software products that provide management, administration, provisioning and automation of Linux virtual servers.  • Performed data extraction and migration, data cleaning, analysis, and visualization using SSIS, SSAS, Tableau, and Power BI to support OneCloud Data warehousing solution on AWS.  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2/6 components for more responsive and less dependency. Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2/6 and typescript.  • Implemented Spring MVC, IOC, Spring Boot, Spring JDBC template, Spring MyBatis, JSON features.  • Used Maven to manage dependencies and developed test cases and performed unit testing and deployed the J2EE applications to Application Servers using Ant, Maven & Shell Scripts for creating Build Scripts.  • Spring Data MongoDB was used to integrate MongoDB document database with application.  • Created alarms in Cloud Watch service for monitoring the server's performance, CPU Utilization, disk usage, maintained user accounts IAM, RDS, and Route53 services in AWS Cloud.  • Experienced in React Js and working with React Flux architecture.  • Working with React Router for developing Single Page Applications SPAs.  • Have good understanding of various Devops ideologies bringing together CI/CD methodologies along with tools like Puppet, Ansible, GIT & Jenkins in making build/release operations teams more efficient and to compete along with Dev Teams in Agile environments and deliver Ops task on time  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JSTL, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX and Node JS. Sr. Java Developer First Federal Bank - Lansing, MI February 2014 to April 2018 Responsibilities  • Created alarms in Cloud Watch service for monitoring the server's performance, CPU Utilization, disk usage, maintained user accounts IAM, RDS, and Route53 services in AWS Cloud. Used Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Used JBOSS and Tomcat for application deployment and stage testing and Created Junit test cases to test the codes and validate the release.  • Implemented Java/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, Template, MVC, and Singleton.  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design Pattern such as Command, State, Template, Composite, Strategy and Observer.  • Experienced in React Js and working with React Flux architecture.  • Working with React Router for developing Single Page Applications SPAs.  • AWS Cloud management and Chef Automation. Experience in Infrastructure Development and Operations, involved in designing and deploying utilizing almost all the AWS stack like EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, LDAP, VPN, RDS, SES, ELB, Autoscaling, CloudFront, CloudFormation, Elastic beanstalk, CloudWatch, SNS, Route 53, LDAP, VPN.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, web pack and grunt.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React Js.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JSTL, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX and Node JS.  • Worked on migrating the old java stack to Type safe stack using Scala for backend programming.  • Developed DAO layer using Cassandra and expertise in CQL (Cassandra Query Language), for retrieving the data present in Cassandra cluster by running queries in CQL Annotations were used in hibernate mapping instead of XML mapping.  • Develop cross browser compatible web pages quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Developed UI components that interact with data exchange web service using Node.js,  • ReactJS, and Bootstrap.  • Developed business process execution language processes and deployed them using Oracle SOA Suite 11g.  • Used Http, router, data binding, Forms and Services of Angular 2 using typescript.  • Followed Java/J2EE design patterns and the coding guidelines to design and develop the application.  • Created web services and desktop applications to access and display data needed by support teams using AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, Backbone JS, Node JS, Java/J2EE, CSS and HTML.  • Responsible for implementing the business requirements using Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data and Spring Security.  • Created customized AMIs based on existing AWS EC2 instances by using Packer, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  • Java/J2EE, SVN, Git, Chef, Maven, Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, Apache Webserver, Tomcat,WebLogic, Nexus, Power Shell, Shell Scripts, Python, Apache Tomcat, AWS, JIIRA, Splunk, VMware ESXi.  • Used Scala collection framework to store and process the complex consumer information. Based on the offers setup for each client, the requests were post processed and given offers.  • Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework and handled the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Granted security and configured user access and limits using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) by creating new profiles and policies for user management in JSON.  • Automation of various administrative tasks using AWS Lambda services.  • Used Http, router, data binding, Forms and Services of Angular 2 using typescript.  • Used slick to query and storing in database in a Scala fashion using the powerful Scala collection framework.  • Worked on Spring Security for providing access to various level of users. Developed test cases using Node.js and AngularJS for the UI.  • Experience in Struts, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Boot, Spring Security and other spring frameworks implementation and integration.  • Used spring framework to inject the DAO and Bean objects and for auto wiring the components and implemented application security using spring security API.  • Collaborated with the team using GIT, GitHub, and Source Tree version control platform.  • Managed the code versioning and releases versioning through SVN, GIT.  • Worked in both UNIX and Windows based development environments.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM. Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  • Implemented jQuery based accordion styles and handled complete jQuery in showing Rich Internet Application.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON. Java Developer Deutsche Bank - Cary, NC May 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities.  • Designed and developed customer registration and login screens using HTML, Bootstrap, Servlets and JavaScript.  • Simplified client-side scripting of HTML 5 using JQuery, a cross-browser JavaScript library.  • Developed various APIs to be consumed by other modules of the application using RESTful web services and Used Junit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the logs.  • Managed Patches, Upgrades and Licensed Products for System software on all flavors of UNIX and Linux Servers.  • Involved in setting up Grails project and its configuration and Implemented Grails Services and controllers to perform actions and creating portlets from ADF Task flow in Oracle Web center.  • Closely worked and supported the creation of database schema objects (tables, stored procedures and triggers) using Cassandra, SQL/PLSQL.  • Implemented the project by using spring Web MVC module  • Devise or modify procedures to solve complex problems considering computer equipment capacity and limitations, operating time, and form of desired results.  • Implement, integrate and maintain the client server and web related applications.  • Implemented the project using Ajax, Java Script, HTML, JSP and DHTML as UI components.  • Implemented the project using SAX, DOM and JAXB to retrieve the data from the xml documents.  • Implemented the project using Web Services, WSDL, UDDI, and SOAP to communicate with other systems by using apache Axis.  • Communicated with other system by using the Restful web services by using Jersey API  • Used spring framework for the business layer using Spring Core, DAO, Spring ORM, and Spring Web MVC.  • Used Maven, Ant and Junit extensively  • Provided the JUNIT test cases for important modules  • Implemented the project using the Hibernate framework to communicate with database.  • Designed and developed base framework classes, common re-usable component  • Implemented Singleton, factory design pattern, DAO design Patterns based on the application requirements.  • Used SVN as version control tools to maintain the code repository.  • Deployed the application using the Web Logic as application server.  • Collaborated with vendor to build an Ansible Playbook and Role to standardize system setup and Ruby on Rails application deployment; enforced application configuration, security settings, and user management.  • Developed the UI for a rugged scanner using NodeJS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle JET and jQuery  • Deployed projects into Heroku using GIT version control system and implemented Action classes (Action Servlet, Action) and Form beans (Action Form) using Struts Framework.  • Developed Web pages to display account transactions and details using DHTML and CSS.  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns, such as Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Spring Batch, Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Developed helper classes using Core Java multi-threaded programming and collection classes.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server.  • Developed Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL/Streaming for faster data processing.  • Involve in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data Specifications for application development. Education Bachelor's Skills GIT (5 years), JAVA (5 years), JavaScript (5 years), jQuery (5 years), JSON (5 years), Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Hibernate, Spring, Rest Additional Information Technical Proficiency    • Languages: C++, C, Java, Shell Script  • Framework: Django, Flask, Apache Airflow  • Monitoring Tools AWS Cloudwatch, Nagios , Zabbix , Splunk, AWS typescript.  • Python Libraries: Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, Tableau, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, Angular JS, jQuery, Pandas, Numpy, Mat Plot Lib, Pickle, Py Side, Scipy, Wx Python, Py Tables, Pdb, Json, Node Js.  • Amazon Web Services, DevOps tools like Docker, Kubernetes, ansible, Jenkins and also Scala, spring, spark and Kafka  • AWS EC2, Volumes, Snapshots, AMIs, ENIs, Tags, IAM , Roles, Policies, IAM users and IAM groups, AWS RDS, Snapshots, RDS subnet groups, S3 Buckets, AWS VPC, AWS subnets, Security groups  • Storage: MySQL, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  • Cloud: Amazon Cloud EC2, Amazon S3  • Web Technologies: JavaScript, HTML, JSON, XML, and Load Balancers  • Protocols: HTTP, ACL, IPv4/v6, TCP/IP  • Versioning Tools: Git  • Operating systems: Linux/Unix, MAC OS, Windows  • Tools: Hadoop, Hive, Sparkwww.InstantResumeTemplates.com