Integration Java developer Integration <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Integration Java developer - The TJX Companies, INC Marlborough, MA, MA • Over 8+ years of extensive experience in designing, developing, and debugging web-based and enterprise applications using OOA, OOD, OOPS and JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Experience with an Agile, Scrum methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work with two-week iteration.  • Expertise in developing multi-tire Enterprise applications using Core Java, JAVA/J2EE & related web technologies that includes JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate, Struts, spring, JNDI, JMS, and exposing those with SOAP, RESTful Web Services.  • Strong programming skills in Java, developing standalone application usingMulti-Threading.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using JAVA, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JFS, JAXP (DOM/SAX), Spring Core, Spring MVC, Hibernate, and Web Services.  • Expertise in developing GUI using Web-based technologies like DHTML, DOJO, HTML5, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, JSF and jQuery.  • Expertise in developing multi-tier Enterprise Applications using Apache Tomcat, JBoss, and OC4J, Web Sphere, and Web logic application servers.  • Strong experience in Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL, and DB2, database programming using PL/SQL and standard built-in Oracle Packages.  • Good experience with various NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Expert in understanding with XML, XSD, DTD, SAX, DOM technologies.  • Worked on XML Schema, XML template and XSL. Developed Web Services Application using SOAP and WS-Security.  • Worked on various ORM Frameworks (Hibernate, JPA) and integrated with spring (Spring MVC, spring boot, Portlets)  • Expert understanding of Test Driven Development (TDD) Environment, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Worked with various versioning controls like VSS, CSV, SVN, MKS, RTC, and GIT.  • Experience withbuild tolllike ANT and build automation tools like MAVAN.  • Experience with various logging frameworks, testing frameworks, and mocking frameworks like log4j, Junit, and Mockito respectively.  • Worked on various bug tracking tools like JIRA, and HP-ALM.  • Extensively used Appdynamic (APPM) for performance monitoring of application.  • Experience in all Software Development Life Cycle like, waterfall, interactive and agile development with the ability to work and communicate effectively.  • Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows 98 / 2000/7/8/10/NT / XP, Linux, UNIX, AIX, Knowledge in UNIX Shell Script.  • Experience in Integration tools Oracle SOASuite/BPEL/Fusion Middleware, web-methods and ApacheCAMEL.  • Team Player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements. Work Experience Integration Java developer The TJX Companies, INC - Marlborough, MA March 2016 to Present Project Description:  TJX is an American apparel company into retailing, e-commerce, home goods in many countries like USA, Canada, now and their primary focus is to establish their business in Europe and Australia. This project Global Merchandize Initiative-II is a mainly focusing on the USA and Europe. We have developed various enterprise services for TJX. Merchandising, Supplying, Site, Purchase Order, and Organization Hierarchy for TJX Transactions and handling the end user, this project is to handle the Web services and exposing this services to the internal clients. All the services provide by the client applications like online transaction and payment system to customers.  Being part of TJX & Wipro, worked with GMI-II enterprise services team which focuses on developing SOAP /REST bases services to interact with information MDM (Master Data Management), SiteHub. And providing services to the various internal clients like ADM, BTK, and POEM from Information database and SQL server. Closely working with infrastructure team and integrating directly with the TJX Clients as a part of requirements to deployment. Worked as an individual contribution for development of SOAP web services to interact with Information data storage (IDS) database.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in study of various Functional Specifications like ISA, IHTD, STD and IMD for the project.  • Interacting with the Business Analyst and Host to understating the requirements using the Agile methodologies and SCRUM meeting to keep track and optimizing end client needs.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tool in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, have used HibernateAPIs for retrieval of data using Hibernate Transaction Control.  • Used context and dependency injection (CDI) for removing hard coded dependencies (Dependency injection), and integrated with Hibernate.  • Worked on various database queries, relationaltypes and created storedprocedures and test stored procedures.  • Designed and created DAO using data modelling in the integration layer.  • Exposed all the enterprise services to the clients using SOAP and REST based web services, and tested using SOAPUI.  • Modified WSDL documents for the internal clients and deployed on WSRR.  • Implemented request and response objects using SOAP web services and JAXB for converting WSDL to java classes.  • Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application.  • Exposed Stateless session beans as restful web services using Jersey JAX-RS.  • Created virtual host and configured baes on the IP configuration for all enterprise services.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Façade, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator.  • Involved in installation of fix packs, e-Fixes, and cumulative fixes for IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.5/8.2.5.5, IBM HTTP Server products.  • Migrated database to the NoSQL databases MongoDB from Oracle database.  • Worked on WebSphere liberty profile to migrate JPA to hibernate ORM shifting.  • Configured JMS and JDBC Data Sources, namespaces for all the enterprise services.  • Used JSON marshallerfor marshaling and unmarshalling the JSON Objects.  • Worked and configured with MKS and RTC versioning tools for keep track of source code.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration with maven built in to generate the EAR files and sanity4j code quality testing reports.  • Hands-on a service-oriented approach (SOA) using WebsphereMQ for integration.  • Worked on HP portfolio Management software to create the PPM packages and deploy the various environments.  • Used ApacheCamel for Integration with JMS and web services.  • Develop integration techniques using the Apachecamel technologies.  • Updated the WSDL in WSRR for the governance &storing, accessing, and managing information.  • Setup meeting to configure and understand the Datapower for security, for accessing the application.  • Used Log4j for logging for debugging, warnings, errors etc.  • Created log back file based on time based triggering policy and application based triggering policy.  • Used HPQC for defect tracking and working on the defects and created Triage process (Microsoft Visio) to track the defects in the application.  • Migrated MKS Source control to RTC and created JENKINS builds for all enterprise services.  • Worked closely with the infrastructure team to create the performance environment for enterprise services.  Tools: Core Java/J2EE, SOAP, WebSphere, MKS, REST, JAX-RS, XML, JUnit, Apache camel, IBM RAD, RTC, JPA/Hibernate 2.0, Oracle, PL/SQL, MYSQL, Maven, HP PPM, HPQC, and WebSphere MQ. Integration Java developer The TJX Companies March 2016 to Present Team Player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvementsTeam Player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements Integration Java developer The TJX Companies March 2016 to Present Team Player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvementsTeam Player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements Java/J2EE developer State of Michigan - Lansing, MI August 2015 to February 2016 Project Description:  State Farm is a mutual company that into insurance, finance and claims and its primary focus on the policyholders now it is focusing on the various consumer driven Health Care and Insurance products. It offers different Plans to suit the needs of the customer. This project is to handle the Web services and the data transfers between clients and servers. Services offer online transaction and payment system to clients and customers. Specialty operations include General/Behavioural Health, Dental, supplemental plans and Health Insurance and Medical Management through our web based management system.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in study of various Functional Specifications of project to understand the flow.  • Interacting with the Business Analyst and host to understating the requirements using the Agile -Scrumto keep track and optimizing end client needs.  • Extensively used Spring MVC and Hibernate Framework for data handling.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, have used HibernateAPIs for retrieval of data using Hibernate Transaction Control.  • Designed and created DAO using data modelling in the integration layer.  • Implemented Spring MVC application framework to create and configure of java beans using Spring IOC.  • Used spring framework for removing dependencies (Dependency injection), integrated with Hibernate, Spring Service Bean and Spring MVC controllers.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration using xmlfile and Annotations that contains object declarations and dependencies.  • Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client side validations to achieve other client-side event handling.  • Developed user interface to satisfy the business requirements usingjsp, java script, AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, jQuery, HTML, CSS, and XML.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Bean Factory, Singleton, facade, and Data Access Object.  • UsedSOAP and Rest web services to retrieve provider's data. used SOAPUI to test the web services.  • Created WSDL and shared for the various clients using UDDI registry.  • Exposed Stateless session beans as restful web services using Jersey JAX-RS.  • Customized RESTful web service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between frond-end and middle tier controller.  • Implemented Apache Camel routes using Camel-Spring XML and Camel-Spring processor beans.  • Involved in integrating Web Sphere Server with WebSphere Process Server involving SOAP Web Services using JAX-WS, and JAXB.  • Developed Message Driven Bean (MDB) components in WebSphereMQ Series for e-mailing and Data transfer between client and the providers.  • Developed Maven build scripts for generating the deployment files for continuous integration.  • Created detailed service technical design documentations (STD) for all enterprise services to feature understanding of flow.  • Used SQL developer of the database development and unit test purpose.  • Used JSONMarshaller for marshaling and Unmarshalling the JSON Objects.  • Used GitHub repository as a version control for managing the code. Worked on GitHubfeature branch, once everything is tested then merge code with master code.  • Extensive use of Jenkins as CI server to build the backend and runtime services.  • Involved in designing the front-end using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Java Scripts, and AngularJSper the instruction they provided.  • Identified defects and solved all prod and non-prod cases.  • Used Log4j for logging to identifying the various server logs to debugging, warnings, errors etc.  • Developed the unit test cases Test Driven Development (TDD) and mock testing using JUNIT and Mockito frameworks.  Environment: Core Java/J2EE, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, JUnit, Eclipse IDE, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring IOC, SQL, oracle, Hibernate 3.0/4.0, mockito, andmaven. Java Developer State Farm Insurance Company - Bloomington, IL August 2014 to July 2015 Project Description:  Bridges is the main application used by State of Michigan. It provides many features and Unlicensed Child Day Care center is one of the applications. When a provider wants to be registered for an unlicensed child day care center, he needs to be checked for Adult Household Members (AHM) and all of them need to undergo background check from the agencies like CPS CR, OTIS, PSOR and ICHAT which is currently a manual process. This process is automated and the background check will be done at the time of adding a provider.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing and designing business and Functional requirements and created data mapping documents.  • Involved in user requirements and created SystemRequirement document, functional requirement documents.  • Involved in developing user interface using STRUTS.  • Designed and developed applications with Eclipse in java using STRUTS Framework running on JBoss application server.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used wereBackbone.js, and JQuery.  • Implemented Hibernate/JPA for data persistence.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using spring, Hibernate, and developed various logics and reports using HQL and Hibernate criteria.  • Developed the presentation layer GUI using JavaScript, JSP, HTML, CSS, Angular.JS, Custom tags and developed Client-Side validations.  • Developing all database elements, including, tables, stored procedures, triggers, views, schemas, roles, imports, exports, security administration, OLTP, OLAP, etc..  • Configured and deployed web application in JBoss Application Server using Maven.  • Used Design Patterns such as Singleton, Factory pattern, Session Façade and Service locater.  • Worked on Web Services (SOAP, WSDL and AXIS) with agencies to perform user criminal history check.  • Handled various defects in all environments and verified with ISA, implemented the changes.  • Exposed all the services using SOAP over HTTP, and developed (WSDL) contract for internal clients.  • Customized RESTful Web Service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Involved in integrating Single sign on which is provided by OIT as a web service. Developed Restful web services using JAX-RS, JAXB technologies.  • Used log4j framework for logging.  • Implemented test driven development using JUnit and mockito.  • Expertise in using ANT and Maven for building the projects and deploying the projects in servers and also using log4j and Junit for debugging.  • Used Sub version as versioning system.  • Developed EJBs for handling the business logic.  • Used JMeter for load test functional behavior and measure performance.  • Performed deployment of applications on web sphere application Servers.  • Worked with WebSphere Portlet Factory 6.1, IBM Rational Application Developer.    Environment: RAD, EJB, JSP, XML, HTML, Java Script, AJAX, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, Maven, JUnit, Mockito, Log4j, Oracle, PL/SQL, SQL developer and Apache Tomcat and JBOSS. Java developer Capital One Bank - San Jose, CA August 2013 to July 2014 Project Description:  A portal to maintain information about employee's loan application, and KRA (Key Resource Areas) . This application is an automated web enabled system for the Appraisal process. Each employee of the organization was supposed to complete the Self-Assessment in order to get the variable compensation. They also need to complete and submit the Self Documentation Form, KRA Review Form and Competency Form. These forms are common for all employees based on different levels.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the business structure and fundamental requirements.  • Involved in UML diagrams like interaction diagrams (sequence diagram and collaboration) and use cases, class diagrams, activity diagrams.  • Developed the Appraisal and KRA form using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used AJAX and Java Script to handle asynchronous requests, and CSS was used to keep uniformly in look of the application.  • Designed Data Model and developed stored procedures using PL/SQL.  • Used JDBC API for interaction with the SQL Server Database.  • Translated client's business requirements into Use case models.  • Implemented Business components such as user authentication, Account Transfer using spring beans.  • Implemented the application using several design patterns such as Singleton, Factory, MVC, Template, Observer, Transfer Object and DAO.  • Developed JSCH based utilities to transfer the files to shared file server over secure connection.  • XML was used to transfer the data between different layers.  • Worked on Web Services (SOAP, WSDL and AXIS) with agencies to perform user criminal history check.  • Building the portlet application pages using spring portlet and JSR.  • Maven was used to manage dependencies in the application and deploy it on Glassfish server. Git Pro was used for the version control.  • Used agile software development methodology which helps to develop project plans.  • Have used Glassfish 2.1 application server in running the applications.  • Deployed application and created Data sources in WebSphere Application Server.  • Implemented the user interface using the Angular.JS, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Worked on database interaction layer for insertions, updating and retrieval operations on data.  • Fix defects raised by testing teams based on the business use-case requirements.  • Developing all databaseelements, including, tables, stored procedures, triggers, views, schemas, roles, imports, exports, security administration, OLTP, OLAP, etc.  • Guided team members on StrutsFramework.    Environment: J2EE, Servlets, Web Services, Glassfish 2.1, WebSphere, XSD, Agile JSP, XML, HTML, CSS Struts, JavaScript, Angular JS, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, JDBC, and Windows 2007. Java/J2EE developer Siemens - Washington, DC January 2012 to July 2013 Project Description:  A web based application which provides online and several interfaces to manage user accounts, so as to view and pay bills, set payment reminders, add/change the bundles, request policy changes, pending cancellations, report a claim and check on a claim.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented Java Classes, Interfaces, Model design, and interface layer design with other team members.  • Used Struts framework to develop application based on MVC architecture and modularize the application.  • Developed the Business Logic using Plain Old Java Objects (POJOs)  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using HTML and JSP's for user interaction.  • Created dynamic HTML pages, used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Created set of classes using Spring DAO pattern to decouple the business logic and data.  • Design Patterns implemented are Singleton and DTO.  • Developed the GUI to check credit history of applicants using Swing Module.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering Servlets and JSP components to be deployed on a WebLogic Application server.  • Implemented Hibernate in the data access object layer to access and update information in the Oracle10g database.  • Wrote PL/SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using log4j framework.  • Good Experience in using Maven and ANT for building projects and Log4j for logging and debugging purposes.  • Developed user interface using HTML, Java Script, JQuery and JSP.  • Used SQLite to cache the data received from the RESTful web services.  • Consumed Web Services to check the credit history report of the applicants.  • Wrote test cases in JUnit for unit testing of classes.  • Used Ant to build the J2EE application.  • Used Eclipse3.5 IDE for developing code modules in the development environment.  • Used Clear Case version control to track and maintain the different version of the application.    Environment:JDK1.4, JSP, JavaScript, Struts1.1, Spring, Hibernate-3.0.5, JMS, EJB, JUnit, DBUnit, XML, CSS, DHTML, Taglibs, Web Logic 8.1, log4j, Ant, Rational Rose, Perl, HTM, Cassandra, DB2. Java developer HSBC - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to December 2011 Project Description:  The FNS is low cost internet and mobile banking based delivery channel solution which allows intuitions to greatly enhanced customer service levels and to streamline banking services offered to customers and allows customers the flexibility to take control of banking activities via the internet via leveraging the rich functionality and uninterrupted 24/7 availability of the core banking. The rich functionality of Financial Connect include business banking, payroll scheduling and international funds transfer, together with standing payments-pay, domestic funds transfers, account enquiries, online loan simulations and loan applications.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Controllers for request handling using Spring framework  • Involved in Command controllers, handler mappings and View Resolvers.  • Designed and developed application components and architectural proof of concepts using Java, EJB, JSP, JSF, Struts, and AJAX.  • Participated in Enterprise Integration experience web services  • Configured JMS, MQ, EJBand Hibernate on Web sphere application server.  • Focused on Declarative transaction management  • Developed XMLfiles for mapping requests to controllers  • Coded Spring Portlets to build portal pages for application using JSR  • Hibernate templates were used to access database  • Use the DAO in developing application code  • Developed stored procedures.  • Extensively used Java Collection framework and Exception handling.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, JSP, XML, Servlets, Hibernate Criteria API, XSLT, Web service, AXIS Server2, XML, EJB, Hibernate, SQL, Junit. Education Btech jntu Skills JAVA (8 years), SQL (8 years), WEB SERVICES (8 years), XML (8 years), STORED PROCEDURES (7 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Hibernate, Rest Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Java (JDK 1.6/1.7), J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JMS, RMI, JPA, EJB3), Java Beans, JDBC and JavaScript), and WebSphere MQ.  Development / Design Skills: OOAD and J2EE Design patterns, Rational Rose, RUP, extreme Programming, UML, OOP, MS Visio.  Web Technologies:  Struts 2.0, Spring MVC 3.0, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.x/5.x, DHTML and HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, Python, Angular JS, Backbone.js, Node.js.    Frame Works Struts 2.0, Spring core, Spring MVC, Hibernate 4.0, JPA, JSF andSOA, WSAD and  Databases/ RDBMS: Oracle 11g/8i, MySQL, and DB2, SQL /PL SQL, Stored Procedures and triggers  Web Services: SAP, REST, WSDL, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Jersey, and Soap UI 3.0 for test.  Servers: Apache Tomcat7.0/8.0, Glassfish, Web Logic 8.1, Web Sphere 8.5, and JBOSS.  XML/HTML: HTML 4.x/5, XML, XSD, XSL, XSLT, XPath, JAXB and JAXP.  Build /Test Tools: Ant, Maven, JUnit, JUnit, Http Unit for Junit, and Jenkins.  SDLC Methodologies Agile Methodology, Waterfall and iterative.  Platforms: Sun Solaris 9, Unix/ Linux, Windows 2010/XP  IDE/Tools: Eclipse Kepler/neon, NetBeans 8.1, RAD 8.5, JDeveloper, and Putty