Sr.Full Stack Java Developer Sr.Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Full Stack Java Developer - ADP Roseland, NJ • 8+years of extensive IT experience in developing, design, analysis, testing of various web based, SOA based and client/server applications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in various Agile Methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SOA, SCRUM and Waterfall.  • Proficient in OOAD Technologies developing use cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using case tools like Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose.  • Highly proficient in using OOPS for building n-tier architecture systems with hands on development expertise in front-end UI layer, core business frameworks and Back-end database layer integration.  • Experience in Front-End UI development skills using scripting languages like HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Angular JS, React, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL.  • Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  • Experience with jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Nodejs, React.js, Backbone.js, Angular.js, Angular 2.x/4.x and Client-side validations.  • Expertise in implementation of J2EE Technologies: JSP, JTS, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation, JMS, Struts, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Swing, Serialization and Externalization.  • Experience in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like Spring, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, and Spring MVC.  • Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Microservices and Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Netflix Eureka.  • Experience in development of REST and SOAP based web services using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AJAX technologies and Jersey frameworks.  • Experience using J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Façade Pattern, DAO, MVC, Abstract Factory and Factory Pattern.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as DTD, XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Expertise in Back-end/server-side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), RabbitMQ, Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JND).  • Expertise in open source framework Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate and used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  • Expertise in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, Maria DB, and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  • Experience in AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Dynamo DB and Auto Scaling Groups.  • Experience with JUnit, Mockito, Log4j, SLF4J in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  • Experience in scripting deployments to AWS, Monitoring infrastructure like Nagios, AppDynamics, New Relic etc.  • Experience in development, deployment and troubleshooting Web based and enterprise-based applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Experience in building applications using ANT, Maven, Jenkins and Gradle.  • Knowledge on developing search components using Apache Solr, which includes custom search handlers and custom handlers.  • Experience in using code repository tools - Tortoise SVN, CVS, GitHub, and Visual Source Safe. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Full Stack Java Developer ADP - Roseland, NJ February 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Gathering requirements on sprint planning meetings and working with business analysts for resolving design issues.  • Using Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Have worked on AWS for fetch the pictures and Videos from AWS to UI.  • Developed REST web services to expose the Middleware services.  • Implemented initial setup of angular4 application with node and npm modules.  • Implemented layout of front end web page with angular components and created angular services to interact with backend java application.  • Written Map reduce and Spark codes in Java to run a sorting application on the data stored AWS.  • Good knowledge in deploying the application jar files into AWS instances.  • Interfaced with the My SQL back-end database by integrating Spring with Hibernate.  • Developed angular forms, routes, injectable services, 2-way binding attributes, event emitters.  • Written Type scripts for UI logic and written type scripts for unit testing of UI components.  • Involved in Construction of UI using jQuery, Angular4, Node JS and JavaScript.  • Configured Spring boot restful web services application and enabled actuator to monitor application health status.  • Worked with Object-Oriented JavaScript such as Backbone.js, Knockout.js, Ember.js, Handlebars.js.  • Used Scala collection framework to store and process the complex consumer information.  • Integrated NoSQL database like HBase with Apache Spark to move bulk amount of data into HBase.  • Have worked on AWS to integrate the server side and client-side code.  • Modified existing and created new Hibernate objects-based Queries for data storage, retrieval, tuning and mapping.  • Used NPM for installing required node.js modules and other published Angular NPM modules • Configured Mongo repository and developed persistence objects with Spring Data Module.  • Developing business logic with Java core, collections and java 8 lambda expressions, streamers, Local Date objects.  • Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP.  • Created modal objects to integrate request and responses between front-end angular and java web services in JSON format.  • Created DTO objects, JPA repositories and created native SQL queries to persist data to database.  • Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Configured Maven and resolved life cycle dependencies and generated artifacts for deployment.  • Developed Test Driver components with TDD added code in crucible to find defects and resolve them before quality testing performed.  • Attending daily scrum meeting, sprint planning meeting, backlog refinements.  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM process, attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  • Involved in code review meetings and updating components as suggest by tech leads.  • Developed and executed test strategy and coordinated QA testing in Agile Environment.  Environment: Java 8, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, AWS, Spark, Scala, XML, GWT, Ajax, Angular4, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, AWS, Restful Services, Node JS, Mongo DB, Docker, Grunt, NPM, Jasmine, Jira. J2EE Engineer Peninsula Regional Health System - Salisbury, MD March 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities: • Involved in SCRUM process of AGILE methodology in Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development through iterations.  • Involving Servlets, JSP, CSS, XSLT, JavaScript for client-side validation, AJAX for Interactive client GUI with Form Beans and EJB.  • Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Involved in creating a reusable component using React JS for DOM manipulation.  • Working experience on integrating back-end technologies (NodeJS) with JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, React JS) and jQuery by using AJAX and JSON.  • Used AngularJS with JSON Object returned by Spring MVC Controller.  • Used AJAX in the JSP side to retrieve the records dynamically from the database and displayed on the front end, it avoids refreshing of total page.  • Writing Restful APIs in Express.js and return logic on Angular data binding.  • Designed and developed Graphical User interface using JSF, HTML, XHTML, jQuery and CSS.  • Worked on Bootstrap CSS framework for Responsive Web Design.  • Using D3.js, developed map for specific area and some of the charts that easily make it easy to compare data.  • Created server and handled requests and responses from controllers by using Express.js.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements • Developed Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  • Used Spring core annotations for Dependency injection and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in WebLogic Server and Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere server.  • Implemented SOA architecture for EVS with web services using SOAP, WSDL, and XML.  • Designed DAO and service layer for ORM mapping with hibernate which can be easily changed to other ORM tools.  • Configured data sources, DAO classes and integrated with iBATIS through spring.  • Wrote Hibernate configuration files, mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist data into MySQL Database.  • Updated legacy Ant build infrastructure to new Gradle based build system, enabling more robust test, build and release procedures.  • Used Eclipse 3.2 IDE for developing code modules and deployed on Apache Tomcat.  • Using UMLRationalRose, designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application.  • Used Test driven methods to improve the code and find defects in the code.  • Wrote test cases for unit testing JUnit and used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Involved in discussions with the testing teams to see the tasks accomplished meets the Acceptance Criteria of the product owners.  • Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problems and used SVN (Subversion) for source control along with Tortoise integration.  Environment: Java 7, AngularJS 1.4, HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Core Java, jQuery, Bootstrap, SOAP, WSDL, REST Web Services, AJAX, D3.js, JSON, Spring(IOC, AOP), XML, Maven, iBATIS, SOA, JIRA, MySQL, JMS, Agile/Scrum, WebLogic Server, Gradle, SVN, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat. Java Developer Union Park Automative Group - Wilmington, DE May 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities: • Involved in preparation of functional definition documents • Gathered the requirements and designed the application flow.  • Used HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and JSP to create the user interface.  • Extensively worked with struts for middle tier development with Hibernate as ORM and Spring IoC for dependency injection for the application based on MVC design paradigm.  • Developed Action classes for the systems as a feature of struts.  • Performed both server side and client-side validations.  • Created struts-config.xml file to manage with the page view.  • Developed EJB components to implement business logic using session and message bean.  • Used spring framework to integrate with struts web framework, Hibernate.  • Extensively worked with Hibernate to connect to database for data persistence.  • Integrate active catalog to get parts using JMS • Used Log4J log for both user interface and domain level messages Performed unit testing for modules using JUnit. Implemented spring framework dependency injection for defining objects.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions • Used JIRA tool to communicate with other team members in QA and production.  • Used agile methodologies, test driven development and automated builds • Responsible for the complete design and development of the User Administration module • Involved in developing the customer form data tables, stored procedures and triggers • Written SQL queries and PL/SQL stored procedures Participated actively in application production launch Helped production support team to solve trouble reports • Participated efficiently in the Development and Testing phases of the project Create program specifications and unit test plans for software programs.  Environment and Tools: Core Java, J2EE, Design Patterns, GUI, HTML, CSS, Servlets, JMS, JSP, Web Service (SOAP), ANT, Maven, JDBC, Springs AOP, Hibernate, CVS, WebSphere 5.1, IBM Rational Application developer, JavaScript, XML, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, JUnit, UNIX, Windows 7 Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC September 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities: • design, develop, test and implementation of application systems using SOA architecture, Micro services will be a plus • Review and analyze existing system structure to provide solutions to enhance and improve the system. Identify and address interfacing functions and applications.  • Perform application systems development tasks which include working with users to define system needs, analyzing and designing applications to meet user needs, translating logic diagrams into program statements, deploying and implementing packages and conducting research in emerging technologies.  • Provide computer program, system development and technical support for very complex, highly critical programs and systems. Plan and coordinate tests, resolve production problems, identify opportunities to improve systems and architecture.  • Initiate system analysis defines of user requirements and assesses impacts.  • Develop and maintain systems documentation such as design specifications, user manuals, technical manuals, and description of application operations, methodology documentation; • Provide system software support and necessary user training to end users.  • Involve in the database design to generate and read XML messages that are exchanged with the Third Party MISMO 3.4 Knowledge will be an added advantage. Java Developer BNY Mellon - New York, NY October 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities: • gathering and BRD/SRD preparation. Has thorough knowledge of the Software Development Life • Cycle. Conducts reviews of the test Plan and test Data. May allocate/ coordinate work within a • team/project. Analyzes, defines and documents requirements for data, workflow, logical • processes, hardware and operating system environment, interfaces with other systems, internal • and external checks, controls, and outputs using BNY Mellon's standard development • methodology. Coordinates coding, testing, implementation and documentation of solution.  • Ensures that expected application performance levels are achieved. Contributes to defining time • tables and project plans. Analyzes and estimates feasibility, cost, time, and compatibility with • hardware and other programs. Conducts analysis of organizational needs and goals for the • development and implementation Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (4 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript. (4 years), testing (6 years), XML (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java 1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8, J2EE, C, C++  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, DHTML, XML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSF, JavaScript API 3.0, AJAX  Frameworks Spring 4.3 Hibernate 4.3, Angular JS 1.0/1.5/2.0, Struts 2.x/1.x, Log4J, Angular 2and 4, React,  Application/Web servers Apache Tomcat 8, IBM WebSphere 8.x/9.x, Jetty, Jenkins 2.50, JBoss, Tomcat 5.0/6.0/7.0, Glassfish  Relational Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL server 2012/2014/2016, MySQL 5.7, DB2 11.1  NoSQL Databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Couch DB  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, REST, SOAP UI  Cloud Environments Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka, Mesos.  Operating systems Windows, MS-DOS, UNIX, Mac OS, Linux and Ubuntu  Testing Tools Junit 4.12, Win Runner, Jenkins, Selenium WebDriver/Grid, JIRA 7.0., Bugzilla 4.4.12, Jasper Reports 6.0  Methodologies Agile, waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven-Development), Scrum, SDLC  Developer IDE Platforms Eclipse, Edit plus, Notepad ++, Intellij 2017.1, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3, GITHUB 2.12.0  Build Tools Ant 1.10, Maven 3.3.9, Gradle 3.4.1