Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> New Jersey • 5+ years of professional IT experience in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Integration, Deployment and Supporting Web Applications, Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE related technologies, and Web Services in Retail, Financial, and Banking domains.  • Expertise in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) from feasibility analysis to user acceptance testing.  • Exposure to Software Engineering methodology like Agile methodology, Waterfall methodology and Scrum Methodology.  • Experience with Object Oriented Design (OOD) and Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), UML associated Tools such as Rational Rose.  • Extensive experience with Core Java concepts like Exception Handling, Collections, Multithreading.  • Proficient in JAVA (Core Java), JSP, JDBC, Servlets, XML, HTML DHTML, CSS, EJB, Web services, Java Beans, JSON, JavaScript, JSF, AJAX and Struts.  • Extensive experience in Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Security, Spring LDAP, Spring JMS, Spring Boot and Spring Batch.  • Experience in developing data models using Hibernate POJOs and configuring Hibernate with persistence layer.  • Developed web services in Java. Experienced with SOAP/WSDL. Have also designed and developed REST interfaces in Java.  • Experience in creating, validating and parsing XML documents.  • Experience in DOM (Document Object Model) as I used it in interacting with objects in HTML, XHTML and XML documents.  • Extensive experience in Database Design, Data Modeling, Data Cleaning, Data Migration and SQL.  • Good experience in UNIX, Linux Operating Systems.  • Experience in VXML, Java, J2EE, Web Services, Struts, Natural Language applications & Oracle.  • Specialist in working on different kinds of Application Servers & web tiers including Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere and BEA Web Logic and JBOSS.  • Experience in designing and developing Object Model, State, Usecase, Class and Sequence diagrams using Visual Paradigm and Rational Rose software modeling tool.  • Performed Integration and deployment of applications done using tools like ANT and Maven.  • Experience in unit testing the applications using JUnit Framework.  • Experience with version control tools like SVN, CVS, and GIT.  • Coding to the standards, easily maintainable and with good documentation.  • Reporting several bugs, change requests and service requests using ALM and JIRA  • Exceptional problem-solving skills and the ability not only to drive to root causes, but also to correct issues caused in other areas by the original problem  • Proven ability to work in tighter schedules and efficient in meeting deadlines.  • Self-starter, fast learner and a team player with strong personal and group communication skills.    Authorized to work in the US for any employer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Freddie Mac, VA June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, detail analysis, estimates, functional design, technical design and development.  • Developed and supported front end screens to be cross-browser & cross-platform based application while using JSP, Angular JS, XML, XHTML, CSS, JSON, DOM and AJAX.  • Good working experience in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, and Pair Programming.  • Responsible for implementing the dynamic page titles, UI refresh in the new UI using AngularJS and created the directives, services using AngularJS which can be re-used for the further development of the new pages and modules.  • Extensively involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements analysis, design and implementation in agile environment.  • Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, Angular JS and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface.  • Responsible for Post production activities like logging activities and monitoring the code using log element of VXML  • Integrated the Application to the Genesys CTI using VXML  • Worked on the enterprise application to make it compliance by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG).  • Worked with App-scan people to co-ordinate plans and guidelines for SQL Injections, Cross-site Scripting (XSS) and Cross-Frame Scripting (XFS) and Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) vulnerability.  • Implemented RESTful web service for the bulk loading of market data packages from database to in-memory cache.  • Used Spring Security and Spring LDAP for authentication authorization.  • Used Spring AOP for performance logging.  • Involved in consuming, producing SOAP based web services using JAX-WS and tested them using SOAPUI tool. And responsible for creation and consumption of Web services using SOAP, created WSDL files using XML Spy and integrated with Spring Web Services.  • Used spring core container to implement IOC concept to avoid tight coupling.  • Developed Controller classes and defined spring configuration mappings. And developed authentication, access control services, SSO and other Security features for the application using Spring security and Spring LDAP.  • Used Spring Async in a Stand-alone application for sending account balance or Client information via SMS, E-mail, Push notifications to users.  • Developed JSP pages using spring frame work, Custom tags and JSTL and Used the components of SPRING Framework like SPRING MVC.  • Performed unit and regression testing in the application for bug fixing and better code review sessions.  • Created the DAO's to access the database using JDBC calls and Hibernate.  • Involved in writing SQL, Stored procedure and PL/SQL for back end. Used Views and Functions at the Oracle Database end. Modified the PL/SQL scripts for rebuilding the application Oracle Database.  • Implemented logger for debugging using Log4j. Performed Bugs/defects tracking and resolution using the IBM Rational Clear Quest.  • Worked on Web Logic application server for deploying the project.  • Fixed various browser compatibility issues to support the different versions of IE, Mozilla and Chrome.  • Prepared the functional-design document for the various modules in the development. Responsible for documentation and implementation of Multi-language to support the application    Environment: Java 1.7, MS SQL Server 2005, Rapid Application Developer, WebSphere Application Server 8.0, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Sync, JNDI, Hibernate, JSP, Tiles, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JSF, JQuery, JUnit, Toad, Oracle 10g, SOAPUI. Java Full Stack Developer Progressive Corporation February 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various stages of the project life cycle mainly design, implementation testing, deployment and enhancement of the application.  • Involved in designing the system based on UML concepts which include Data Flow Diagram, class diagram, sequence diagram, state diagram.  • Involved in designing and developing web pages using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript and Implementation of MVC Architecture using Spring framework.  • Worked with custom tag libraries - Logic tags, Bean tags, HTML tags.  • Used Spring IOC- Dependency injection to build service and data access layers.  • Developed J2EE Web Service and SOAP Message components using Sun JAX-RPC and JAXB.  • Developed session beans to implement business logic and message-driven beans for processing messages from JMS.  • Used session façade and service locator patterns to delegate requests to appropriate session EJB.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with Oracle.  • Devised logging mechanism using Log4J.  • Developed applications using Rule Engines, Drools.  • Built AngularJS framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters.  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using AngularJS framework, JavaScript, jQuery and JAVA in conjunction with HTML5 and CSS3.  • Extensively used WebSphere Studio Application Developer for building, testing and deploying applications.  • Solid experience of web service using AJAX call for processing JSON/XML format files between front-end and back-end.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring framework, Hibernate, DAO, DTO, XML, JDBC, Transactions, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic Application Server, SOAP, WSDL, JMS, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, CVS, JUnit, log4j. Java Full Stack Developer Metro Transport Authority, NY September 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using JSF Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Involved in analysis, design and development and testing phases of the application development using Scrum Agile methodology.  • Used the Spring framework features like spring modules (IOC, MVC, Batch, Web Services, and Integration).  • Designed the user interfaces using JSPs, developed custom tags, and used JSTL Taglib. Implemented AJAX calls for improved customer experience.  • Developed Business layer using EJB.  • Developed Message driven beans (MDB) for asynchronous processing.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tuples in DB2.  • Used JavaScript and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and RESTful web service calls.  • Developed the application using industry standard design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate Factory Pattern for better maintenance of code and re-usability.  • Used RAD for writing code for JSP, Struts and EJBs.  • Deployed the applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report to Server.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP protocol to transfer the amount to other application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Used SoapUI for web service testing.  • Utilized ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Used CVS as version control    Environment: Java 1.5 , Rapid Application Developer 7.5, WebSphere Application Server 7.5, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Hibernate, Tiles, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JSF, JQuery, JUnit, Toad, SQL Server Management Studio, SOAPUI.  Systems Engineer ( JAVA/J2EE) Systems Engineer( JAVA/J2EE) HSBC Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and followed Agile Software Development Methodology throughout the software development lifecycle.  • Designed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams using Visual Paradigm to model the detail design of the application.  • Developed User Interface using JSP standard tags and Java script, HTML, CSS for Presentation layer.  • Used the spring validation for Web Form Validation by implementing the Validator interface.  • Application was built on Spring MVC framework and Hibernate as ORM  • Used Spring-Core module for Dependency Injection and integrated view using Apace Tiles.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers using CXF Framework  • Used JMS Queue communication in authorization module.  • Mapped (one-to-many, one-to-one, many-to-one relations) DTOs to Oracle Database tables and Java data types to SQL data types by creating Hibernate mapping XML files.  • Oracle database was used, wrote stored procedures for common SQL queries  • Used ANT for building the enterprise application modules, Used CVS for Version control, Log4J to monitor the error logs and performed unit testing using J Unit.  • Deployed the applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server 5.0.    Environment: Java 5, IBM Web Sphere Application server, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, ANT, AJAX, Log4J, JUnit.    Java/J2EE developer Java Developer Sun life Insurance - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2012 to March 2013 Project: Digital Channel and CRM Applications  Responsibilities:  • Design and develop the user information fill up pages by following the MVC architecture.  • Develop the dynamic promotional jsps by taking the xml pages data to be appeared to the users by following the MVC architecture and JAXB.  • Develop the web services to support this application 24*7 by uploading the latest promotional data at backend xml files.  • Modifying the web services by adding some other external fields those existing services.  • Support to check whether the backend systems like schedulers and servers are running properly or not.  • Involved to solve problems while the applications are running in the production.  • Involved in Unit Test the applications by using JUnit framework and provided the unit test reports also.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, Struts, JQuery, JavaScript, Web services, eclipse, Tomcat. Education Masters in Computer Science Virginia International University - Fairfax, VA Bachelors in Computer Science of Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Skills JAVA (5 years), JUNIT (5 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (5 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (5 years), MVC (5 years) Additional Information Skills  JAVA (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), JUNIT (5 years), TESTING (4 years), J2EE (5 years)    Technologies  JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Java Beans, MVC, Struts, EJB, JSF, Spring/SpringBoot, SOAP, JavaScript, Ext JS, JQuery, AJAX, HTML, CSS, CSS 3, XML and HTML 5    Development Approach Agile, Scrum, TDD, OOAD, SDLC  Testing Tools JUnit3.8/4.0,Jmock,Mockito,TestNG,Test Driven Development (TDD)  Defect Tracking Tools HP Quality Center, JIRA, Rally  Application/Web Servers Apache Tomcat 6.x, 7.x, 8.x,  Ide Eclipse, My Eclipse 6.0, IBM Rational Application Developer 6.0, 7.0 and Net Beans IDE, RCP  Message Oriented Middleware Apache Active MQ, IBM MQ Series/Web Sphere MQ.  Cache Implementations Eh cache, and JBoss Tree Cache  Frameworks Struts, Spring, JSF, Angular JS, Node JS and Hibernate  Web Service Protocols SOAP, REST, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAXB, WSDL  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Hudson  Database IBM DB2, Oracle, SQL Server, NoSQL, MongoDB and MySQL  Logging Tool Log4J