Mainframe/ Java Developer Mainframe/<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mainframe/ Java Developer - Genworth Financial Lynchburg, VA Passionate Software developer with 5+ years of experience in complete SDLC process. Proficient in IBM Mainframe technologies JCL, COBOL, DB2, DB2/400, CICS. Proficient in Tools like Fileaid, Xpediter, Changeman, Abendaid. Skilled in Java technologies Java SE 8, Spring MVC, JBOSS, Java APIs. Basic experience in DevOps tools including Jenkins, Maven, GIT. Strong business domain knowledge in Banking, Financial and Insurance. Seeking to leverage career as a Senior Java/Mainframe developer. Work Experience Mainframe/ Java Developer Genworth Financial - Richmond, VA February 2018 to Present - Primarily worked in migration of legacy Mainframe based Policy administration system to distributed environments like Unix, Java technologies  - Implementation of various financial reports to downstream systems using Spring batch, XML, Java, Maven etc.  - Maintain existing policy administration system and work directly with end users to resolve application related issues.  - Implementation of various insurance products in Genworth Financial in Mainframes using COBOL, IMS, COBOL/400, CICS.  - Implement and upgrade existing System to launch new Insurance products in various geographies  - Lead and co-ordinate 10 offshore team members and responsible for end to end delivery. Mainframe/ Java Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ February 2016 to February 2018 - Work directly with Business users in understanding requirements and build codes using COBOL, DB2, JCL  - Work in migration project to move various core mainframe jobs into distributed environment using Unix, Dollar universe.  - Design and implement existing Mainframe application and reporting tools using Java/J2EE, Spring batch, JBOSS.  - Support and enhancement of existing application system.  - Prepare unit test plan and execute as per business requirement  - Provide support in QA and UAT phases of projects in Credit authorization system.  - Prepare implementation documents, user manuals for end-users  Senior Java/Mainframes Developer  - Lead and co-ordinate offshore team members and responsible for end to end delivery.  - Conduct training programs on Amex core banking systems to new team members. Mainframe Developer Metropolitan Life Insurance - Kolkata, West Bengal February 2014 to February 2016 India    - Analysis of business requirements, change requests in existing Insurance administration system.  - Develop codes in COBOL, COBOL/400, CL/400, DB2 & JCL to address the requirements  - Prepare functional and technical analysis documentations.  - Design exhaustive list of Test cases for a particular defect or new functionality as a part of Unit Testing.  - Provide UAT support and deployment of new insurance products for MetLife across the globe.  - Attend various training programs in Insurance domains.    Technical Skills:  - IBM Mainframes, AS400, COBOL, CICS, JCL, DB2, DB2/400, CL/400, CLLE  - Core Java, Maven, Spring MVC, Spring batch, JBOSS, REST Web services, SQL Server  - Agile methodologies, DevOps tools like Jenkins, GIT, CI/CD Education Bachelor's in computer science engineering in computer science engineering Biju Patnaik University of Technology 2009 to 2013 Skills JAVA, SPRING, JBOSS, JCL, COBOL