Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Capital One Tysons Corner, VA • Over 9+ years of extensive development experience specializing in an environment building n-tier applications for web deployment using Java, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, JavaBeans, node.js,JavaScript, HTML & XML.  • Strong experience in Agile, Waterfall, Scrum Software Development Life Cycle methodology like Gathering requirements, Designing, Developing, testing, Implementing the web based applications and UI applications  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) based on Unified Modeling Language (UML) architecture using Microsoft Visio.  • Servlets, JDBC, JSF, JavaBeans, JMS, XML, XSLT, Oracle, SQL, and MVC architecture.  • Developed different Web components such as JSPs, Servlets, Filters, Custom Tag Handlers and Business components such as RMI, EJB, JMS, and Web Services like SOAP,REST,Microservices  • Extensively worked with frameworks like Struts, Hibernate, and spring, Tiles, EJBs, RMI and JUnit.  • Hands-on experience of Angular 4, Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern, designing and developing Single Page Application (SPA)  • Had experience with popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Restify to mock a RESTful API  • Expertise in using Bootstrap and used CSS Media Queries to create Responsive Web Designs (RWD)  • Extensively used Spring IOC, configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using Hibernate annotations.  • Provided production support for the application and coordinated with cross functional teams.  • Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript and HTML  • Worked on multithreading to perform many operations together so it saves time and reduce the communication cost.  • Hands on experience on AWS with Docker, Redhat instance creation with data warehousing and other application services  • Worked on working with IBM WebSphere 6x, 7x application server technologies, and Apache tomcat.  • Experienced in working with XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT and DTD.  • Possess strong working knowledge of Database Programming using SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  • Expertise in using Development Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans.  • Strong working experience of relational database management systems (RDBMS) like SQL Server 2005/2008/2012.  • Experience of relational database management systems (RDBMS) like SQL Server 2005/2008/2012.  • Proficiency in IDEs such as Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text, Notepad ++, and Visual Studio code etc.  • Good team player with excellent communication skills and highly motivated analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with more attention  • Ability to learn and adapt to emerging technologies and implement them in the current projects Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Capital One - McLean, VA April 2018 to Present Project Description: ServiceNow API Development project which provides integration for Capital One ServiceNow and make available to other systems as REST API at Capital One  Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete development of 'Agile Methodology', developed and tested the application during various iterations.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design, development, testing, and monitoring  • Developed Swagger documentation defining API architecture and onboarded them to API Gateway for approval  • Develop application and Web services in Eclipse IDE in Java Programming language, JavaScript language, Spring framework.  • Integrated ServiceNow application with Java application by displaying form views into API payloads  • Worked on Java 8 for the API standanrds of date and time format  • Worked in docker build and deployment in AWS cloud platform and effectively created EC2 instances, stacks, managed cloud watch  • Assist with production support issues as needed and working on getting the root cause of reported production issues.  • Worked in node.js framework,Restify to mock REST API's  • Worked on SQL Developer tool to make changes and write query to database.  • Continuous upgrade and maintenance of Restful and SOAP Web services.  • Work with Architects and end users to define and document business requirement.  • Working on new Infrastructure with latest Software and OS versions. Moving the application to new machines.  • Working with platform team to bring the new Infrastructure to live into production.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring boot, Restful API, Spring AOP, Maven, JDBC,Postman, JSON, Log4j, Node.js, Java Script, Bootstrap, ReactJS, HTML, CSS, SOAP, Tomcat, JIRA, Eclipse, Git, SoapUI, Micros Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Baxter Healthcare - Round Lake, IL January 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Conducted analysis of organizational needs and goals for the development and implementation of the application systems by involving with business personnel  • Mainly working on employee accounts, courses and all the topics within those courses along with the daily schedule using multithreading in Java with DB  • Used Spring Boot for developing individual component and deployed them individually on AWS using Docker. Writing the code using Lambda Expression on JDK 8 ( java 1.8)  • Developed Client-side code in Angular JS, integrated with REST, processed the JSON response  • Developed single page application using Angular JS created services, factories, models, controllers, views  • Worked with Hibernate framework to interact with the backend  • Used ORACLE database and wrote HQL query to access the data from the database Effectively used Annotations in Hibernate mapping  • Used Apache Camel to implement Java Message Service (JMS) API for sending and receiving email notifications to the employee about notifications to their portal  • Worked on implementing and consuming RESTful web services using JAX-RS annotations  • Also worked on node.js tools like Grunt tasks and build project properly  • Created new library with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot and pivotal cloud fundry  • Spring Security was implemented in the project  • Interacted with UI team in developing GUI using HTML5, JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, JSON, and CSS3  • Presentation layer was developed using JSP, Ajax, and JavaScript  • Used Spring Form for Employees registration  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's  • Created a new github branch gets started, Jenkins, our Continuous Integration server, automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it  • Used JENKINS continuous build path for Continuous Integration  • Worked with the JIRA tool for Quality Center bug tracking  • Involved in the planning process of iterations under the Agile Scrum methodology  • Involved in Unit, Integration and Performance Testing for the new enhancements  • Using Load Runner, execute multi-user performance tests, used online monitors, real-time output messages and other features of the LoadRunner Controller  • Test cases were created using JUnit framework and JUnit for front-end UI testing  • Used Maven Dependency to include all the jar files, Logging of Application was done using Log4J  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring BOOT, JSP, Apache Camel (JMS), AJAX, Angular JS, JSON, Servlet, JENKINS, JIRA, Tomcat Application Server, Docker, XML, HQL, Hibernate, IntelliJ IDEA, Core Java, Multithreading, Rest API, JAX-RS, Web services, HTML5, Node.js, JavaScript, CSS3, Oracle database, Apache Cassandra, JDBC, Maven, GIT, OOD, Unix, Linux, Log4J. Sr. Lead Java Developer BCBS - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Online Application using Spring MVC Framework and Spring Core  • Developed and enhanced the application using Java and J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB),  • Web Services (RESTful Web Services), HTML, JSON, XML, Maven, Log4J and MySQL DB  • The project was developed agile software development methodology  • Involved in working with J2EE Design Patterns (Singleton, Session Façade, and DAO)  • Involved in creating Use Cases, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using UML  • Worked on Hibernate ORM. Created Hibernate XML files and Java class files to map the object relation mappings  • Worked on Hibernate caching using Ehcache  • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Custom Queries to query data from Oracle database in DAO  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using HQL queries, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, and packages on Oracle database using Toad Software  • Used CRUD operations using JPA query language  • Analyzed changes in online transactional processing, business processes, and modifications, to improve quality of applications and meet additional requirements through MongoDB  • Developed and maintained the Application Context files for the service layer using Spring Framework  • Used SOAP (WSDL 2.0) Web Services for secure extraction of client related data from database using Apache CXF  • Hand on experience with Java microservices in Spring Cloud and Spring Boot  • Used RESTful in conjunction with Ajax calls using JAX-RS and Jersey  • Developed Node.js scripts in implementing responsive web design  • Multi-Threading and Caching we used to improve the performance and user experience  • Implemented Marshalling and unmarshalling using JAXB  • Created Docker container which leverages Linux containers and has the AMI baked in. Converted our staging and Production environment from a handful AMI's to a single bare metal host running Docker.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI using CSS3, HTML5, and JQuery  • Involved in Performance tuning of the application and documentation of troubleshooting.  • Used ANT to build, run and create JARs and WAR files  • Used SVN for version control  • The application was logged using Log4J, and exceptions were logged into the database using JDBC  • Used JUnit for testing the entire application, rectified performance bottlenecks and eliminated critical bugs  • Created numerous test cases using JUnit framework and JUnit for testing modules  Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE (JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB), Spring 3.0, HTML5, CSS3, Node.Js Hibernate 4.x, Ehcache, SQL, PL/SQL,TOAD, MongoDB, JSP, AJAX, jQuery, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, Maven, ANT, SVN, XML 1.x, JAXB 2.x, Log4J, JUnit, JBoss, SOAP, Web Services, WSDL 2.0, JAX-RS, JAX-WS. Java Developer Ford - Dearborn, MI October 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the deployment of full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the tracking systems Requirement gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detail design, Development, System Testing, and User Acceptance  • Used Agile methodology and effectively took part in Scrum gatherings to deliver quality deliverables within time  • Designed and developed all the user interfaces using JSP, Servlets and Spring framework  • Developed the DAO layer using Hibernate and used the caching system for real-time performance  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, Spring MVC architecture using IOC, AOP concepts  • Implemented JMS API for the communication  • Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and Spring AOP for cross-cutting concerns like logging, security, transaction management  • Developed Web Service provider methods (bottom-up approach) using WSDL and RESTful for transferring data between the Applications  • Used AJAX for developing asynchronous web applications on client side  • Used Shell Scripting for file manipulation, program execution  • Used JDBC for accessing database (DB2) to track all credit aspects of accounts, which include financial review details, security held, actuarial exposure data and receivables  • Wrote JSP& Servlets classes to generate dynamic HTML pages  • Adopted Spring framework for the development of the project  Involved in fixing bugs and unit testing with test cases using JUnit framework.  • Used Maven for create the project archetype and build the interface modules for customizing WAR and EAR files  • Used Spring ORM module for integration with Hibernate for persistence layer  Developed Session Beans and Entity Beans (JPA).  • Involved in writing Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for persistence layer  • Used Log4j for application logging and debugging  • Used GitHub as Distributed version control system and branching for creating a new feature and making bug fixes  Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, JMS, HTML, AJAX, Servlets, Spring MVC, Hibernate, EJB (Session Beans), IBM DB2, RESTful based Web Services, Log4J, WebSphere, JNDI, Maven, GitHub, JPA, Oracle, Windows XP, UNIX, Shell Scripting, Eclipse. Java Developer Discover Financial Services - Chicago, IL June 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding requirements, Software Requirements Specification (SRS) and translating them into Detailed Function Specification document (DFS) for IDS  • Responsible for representing design discussions and Architecture discussion for the IDS Mini and Major releases  • Coding using Struts 2, Spring (Boot, Security, DAO, AOP) Hibernate, JPA, Restful Web services, Servlets, JSP, JSON, XML, and HTML  • Used Hibernate, JPA Entity Manager and Spring JDBC templates for DAO layer.  • Developed the application using Eclipse IDE and spring tool suite.  • Architected, Designed and implemented few of the key REST APIs which facilitated a huge data flow  • Designed and implemented the database startup scripts  • Used SAX, DOM Parsers, and XPath for parsing XML  • Identify the older modules/ code stack that can be reusable with minimal changes and define the interfaces that allow the communication with those modules  • Used Git, Bitbucket for Design & Development of Project Build System and version control.  • Worked on preparing test cases and executing unit testing and Integration testing.  • Involved in developing Presentation layer using JavaScript.  • Worked on NetBeans IDE, and Web Logic Server 11gR  • Worked with the automation team to understand the selenium scripts and review the code, run the tests and review the results and provide inputs to the team.  Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, JPA, Spring AOP, Struts, Restful Web services, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, JSON, XML, DOM, SAX, HTML, HTTP client API, NetBeans, Web Logic, Ant, Git, and Bitbucket. Jr. Java Developer Siemens - Piscataway, NJ November 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Implemented the User Login logic using Spring MVC framework for implementing the application  • Developed the presentation layer of the application using Spring Framework and created the config.xml file, resource bundles for distribution module  • Implemented Swing Frames in developing user interfaces  • Used Spring Framework for the application, and integrated with Hibernate HQL, Hibernate mappings and created DAO's mappings in Hibernate  • Involved in SQL-development using Stored Procedures, Views and Queries with MS SQL  • Used Junit to test the web application internally  • Configured and deployed the web application on Apache Tomcat Application Server  • Used Git version control to push and pull common source code used by developers  Environment: Java 7, J2EE, Swing, Linux, HTML, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Eclipse, MS SQL, Apache Tomcat, Gradle, Git. Web Developer HSBC, Visakphapatnam India May 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Effectively involved in project Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Developed the web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  ? Involved in CSS layouts, Positions, Padding, Pseudo Classes, Box Modeling, and Media queries  ? Responsible for designing mock-ups to W3C standards and developing web pages using HTML, CSS  ? Effective in handling client side validations, hide, and show controls, dropdown menus and Involved in fetching data from web services using jQuery Ajax via JSON response and updating the HMTL pages,  ? Implemented tab navigation using jQuery  ? Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application  ? Interacted with Business Analyst and Business owner to give up the best designing features for the product users  Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, JSON, and Eclipse. Education Master's in Information System Management Virginia International University - Fairfax, VA May 2014 to December 2015 B.Tech in Mechanical Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2006 Skills J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Git, Node.js, Json, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Security, Tomcat, Web services, Websphere, Database, Rest, Soap, Core Java, Java J2Ee, Angular Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages Java 7& 8, SQL, PL/SQ  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript1.8,node.js, JQuery, Ajax, Angular JS, Angular 4, JSF, JSON, JSON, Angular 2.0, Backbone-JS.  Tools & Frameworks  J2EE, Client-Server, Spring2.x/3.x, Hibernate 2.x/3.x/4.x, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, and Spring Security, JMS, JSF, Junit    Web services SOAP, Restful, Micro Services.  Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat 8.x/9.x, IBM WebSphere 9.x, IBM BPM 8.5/8.0/7.5, JBoss  Database: Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL server 12.0, MySQL.  Development Tools (IDEs): IntelliJ, Eclipse8.x/7.x/6.x/3.x/2.1.1, JBuilder, Spring Tool Suite (STS).  Testing Tools: Junit 4.x, JIRA, Soap UI, Postman scripts, Mockito, Rational Clear Quest  Version Control CVS, SVN, Rational clear case, GIT & Bitbucket  OS & Environment Windows Vista/XP/2000/NT, Linux, UNIX