Full Stack Java, J2EE Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span>, J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java, J2EE Developer - Federal, Mogul LLC Southfield, MI • Over 6+ years of IT experience developing in Client/Server and Web-based, distributed architectures using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Strong experience in the entire Software Development cycle (SDLC).  • Experience in implementing Agile/Scrum development of Software development.  • Experience in implementing Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based applications using Spring Frameworks.  • Experience in implementing SOA architectures with web services using SOAP/ Restful  • Experience in implementing IOC/Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework.  • Extensive experience in developing and developing User Interference using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX, jQuery.  • Experience in working with Application servers like BEA Web logic, IBM Web sphere, JBoss and Web servers as Tomcat.  • Good experience in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers and data connectivity and data integration of Oracle.  • Good Experience in software configuration management using CVS, GIT and SVN.  • Experience in test driven development (TDD).  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and inter-personal skills with ability to interact with individuals at ease. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java, J2EE Developer Federal, Mogul LLC - Southfield, MI March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved Followed AGILE Methodology and participated in SCRUM Meetings.  • Designing and developing user interfaces using JSPs, AJAX and jQuery.  • Understanding functional specifications and documenting technical design documents.  • Maintained CSS and HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap for designing Webpages.  • Involved in client installation and supported change requests and enhancement.  • Implemented MVC architecture by using Spring framework, Hibernate in terms of JSPs and Servlets.  • Created and modified SQL Queries whenever required for change requests.  • Managed Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC), and integrated with Hibernate.  • Implemented Rest and SOAP web services.  • Implemented Stored Procedures and triggers using PL/SQL in order to calculate and updated the tables in Oracle database to implement business logic.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Implemented Micro services-based Cloud Architecture on AWS platform.  • Used XSL/XSLT for transforming common XML format into internal XML format.  • Used GIT for version controlling, JUnit for unit testing and Log4j for writing the log files.  • Application deployment suite to deploy in Tomcat.    Environment: Java, Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC, JSPs, AJAX, jQuery CSS, HTML, XML, JavaScript, Angular JS, Rest and SOAP Web services, Oracle, PL/SQL, AWS, Tomcat, Log4j, GIT, JUnit. Java, J2EE Developer TD Auto Finance - Farmington Hills, MI April 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Used Spring Beans to encapsulate business logic and Implemented Application MVC Architecture using Spring MVC.  • Used the Spring modules of DI/IOC, AOP and Spring MVC.  • Used Spring XML configuration for Dependency Injection.  • Used spring JDBC Template to do CRUD operations with Database.  • Involved in creating internal and external services, Entity services and handlers.  • Written SQL queries and PL SQL - Stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursors, sequences, and indexes, which are going to be invoked by Batch processes.  • Created continuous integration builds using Ant and Jenkins. And deployed the application on Web Sphere application server.  • Developed UI screens using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed RESTful Web services using JERSEY API.  • Used design patterns like Factory Pattern, Singleton.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Spring, AOP, MVC, REST, UAT, JIRA, Web Sphere Application Server, JMS, Ant, Jenkins, JUnit. Java Developer Liberty Mutual - Portsmouth, NH April 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed and maintained web services using SOA protocol.  • Used Agile methodology named SCRUM for all the work performed.  • Implemented business layer using Spring MVC framework  • Implemented the application using Execution Services Framework, which is based on MVC design pattern as a presentation layer.  • Developed the Hibernate mapping files and Domain objects in persistence layer.  • Implemented design patterns like Singleton.  • Worked with Java Script events and functions.  • Performed extensive test-driven development-using JUnit for unit testing.  • Used Maven for build code.  • Deployed the application on JBoss application server.  • Created JUnit test cases and ran the Test Suite.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Java Script, XML, SOAP, Maven, Hibernate, Web Services, Spring Framework, JBoss Application Server, Eclipse, JUnit. Java Developer Global Enterprise Tech Resources, Inc - Troy, MI June 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Comprehensive knowledge of Web design patterns and front end technologies like HTML5, JQuery and MVC framework like Struts/Spring.  • Solid understanding of the java collections framework.  • Object-oriented and service-oriented design concepts, including knowledge of data transfer objects and associated design patterns.  • Knowledge of UML.  • Excellent communication skills with the ability to solicit and formalize requirements and work with end users/customers.  • Ability to work in a semi-structured environment where requirements and priorities are dynamic.  • Experience with agile development methodology.  • Good understanding of junit testing and continuous integration environment.  • Recent experience with Oracle Weblogic 10.3.x or greater.  • Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, Information Systems, Engineering or a related field. Education Bachelor's Skills Java (6 years), JUnit (6 years), Model View Controller (6 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (6 years), MVC (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL:    Languages: C++, Java, J2EE, PL/SQL.  Java Technologies: J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Web Services (SOAP/REST).  Web/App. Server: Tomcat, WebLogic, Web Sphere, JBoss.  Frameworks & Tools: Spring, MVC, Hibernate, JUnit, Log4J.  Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX, jQuery.  Databases: Oracle, SQL Server.  Design & Modelling: UML, Design Patterns, Agile SCRUM.  Tools/IDES: RAD, Net Beans, Eclipse.  Operating System: Windows, Unix.  Integration Tool: Jenkins.  Build Tools: ANT, Maven.  Version Control Tools: CVS, SVN, GIT.