Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Blackstone & Cullen Alpharetta, GA • Over 6+ Years of professional experience in Design, Development, Testing, Deploying of Object Oriented, and Web based Applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experienced in developing Service Oriented Architecture using Web Services, SOAP, Spring REST, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS.  • Experience developing applications using Model View Controller Framework.  • Efficient in deploying applications using IBM Web Sphere, Web logic App Server, JBOSS and Tomcat Web Server.  • Developed Service layer classes to support the business functionality with Spring MVC.  • Extensively used Java 8 features such as lambda expre  • Ss  • ions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Hands on experience in writing Unit Tests using JUnit, TestNG, Mockito. Working experience on Selenium, Cucumber, RSpec and other Test Automation Frameworks.  • Experience in developing SQL, Stored Procedures, functions, triggers using Oracle and comfortable working with databases like SQL Server, DB2, No-SQL and MySQL.  • Developed Business logic using Session beans using IBM Web Sphere Application developer and deployed them using IBM web sphere Application server.  • Experience in creating custom directives for data manipulations using AngularJS and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Developed a personal portfolio website using React, Redux, ES6.  • Developed UI/UX and JEE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, Seam, Net beans, and J Builder, J Developer, RAD, Sublime Text.  • Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC and XML Beans.  • Hands on experience in building and deploying tools like ANT and MAVEN as well as version control using SVN/Subversion, Rational Clear Case, CVS, and VSS.  • Extensive experience using spring framework and using Hibernate as ORM/OGM.  • Extensive experience in JSON, JAXB, JAXP and hands on experience creating Web Services based on REST framework.  • Competent Spring with JDBC / Hibernate modules and Hibernate for ORM frameworks.  • Expert knowledge and strong hands on experience with AJAX frameworks (Ext-JS/DOJO) and JavaScript libraries.  • Extensive experience working in a Test-Driven Development and Agile-Scrum Development.  • Experience in using Open Source frameworks like Log4J, Jasmine, ANT and Maven. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Blackstone & Cullen - Alpharetta, GA June 2017 to Present Description: business, Blackstone Cullen has provided services and talent for clients in almost every industry and every vertical. Below is a matrix which crosses our solution services with our clients by vertical    Responsibilities:  • Extensive experience in Internet, client/server technologies using Java 8.0, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JDBC, RESTFUL and SOAP based Web Services, Struts, Hibernate, Spring.  • Designed and developed the application using JSP's, Servlets and EJB's.  • Used Java 8 features such as Lambda Expression, Functional Interfaces, Stream API, etc.  • Used Annotation based Spring Boot extensively for handling the frontend AJAX requests  • Designed and integrated the full scale Hibernate / Spring.  • Involved in design of the application using UML and designed the application as per Object Oriented (OOPS) concepts.  • Developed application on spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security and Spring MVC.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Used Micro service architecture, with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers  • Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services, used Mongo DB (NoSQL) for database services.  • Created User Controls, Custom Controls, Data Access Layer, Business Logic Layer classes using C#.NET for web pages.  • Developed a new NodeJS middleware by integrating AngularJS into the new API micro services through the EAN stack. These NodeJS apps will be within Docker containers.  • Identified and created indexes, mappings and data in Elastic search and used Elastic Search REST API's both single and multi-document API's. API's like Index, Multi Get, Bulk etc.  • Supported springs and Struts integrated with Hibernate and SOAP web services applications along with development activities.  • Created AWS Launch configurations based on customized AMI and use this launch configuration to configure auto scaling groups and Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, and MongoDB.  • Experiences with build tools include Maven, Gradle and Jenkins Version/Source Control tools including SVN.  • Expertise on UI testing with Karma, Mocha, Jasmine and Chai.  • Participated in Agile and Scrum Methodologies for design and development of the applications.  • Successfully executed the entire test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles. Participating in group sessions, design reviews, and code analyzing.  Environment: Java-J2EE, JDK, JSP, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, RESTful Web services, JSON, Hibernate, Agile, Eclipse, Maven, Mongo DB, Apache Tomcat, Angular.js, Node.js, React.js, AWS, Microservices, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, XML, Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Visa - Foster City, CA November 2015 to May 2017 Description: Visa Inc. is an American multinational financial services corporation It facilitates electronic funds transfers throughout the world, most commonly through Visa-branded credit cards, gift cards, and debit cards    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing user interface with HTML5, CSS3, SAAS, JSON, AJAX, Angular 2, Type script, Es6 and on server-side Technology with Node JS.  • Proficient in developing web-based applications, and client-server distributed architecture applications in Java/J2EE technologies using Object Oriented Methodology.  • Developed Modules for the Front-end applications and integrating them to Back-end using Spring MVC & Hibernate framework.  • Developed the Web application using Spring MVC, Ext-JS, Html and JavaScript.  • Worked with Express.js for development of RESTful web services and middleware configurations.  • Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat, Glass Fish and JBoss application Servers.  • Published and consumed Web Services using REST and deployed it on Web-sphere Application Server.  • Worked on developing GUI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript ( Jquery ).  • Expertise in building Microservices using Spring boot as well as Node (Express JS or HapiJS).  • Bottle micro-framework implemented with RESTful API with MySQL database. Building cloud Microservices using Spring Boot.  • Developed Microservices using spring boot, spring security and deployed to JSON web token cloud.  • Automated build system for User interface using Node.JS.  • Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Developed AWS lambda function to send a request for internal service end points through API Gateway using apache Http Client.  • MySQL database used to load the application data and written PL/SQL procedures, complex queries to perform various data operations.  • Worked on writing minimal code in building re-usable forms with their validations using React JS with Redux Architecture.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB to perform asynchronous operations.  • Created unit test with Jasmine, Karma for front end and Junit tests for Presentation, Business, and Data Access layers.  • Actively involved in the DevOps streamlining process through Jenkins CI and CD Release Automation.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Used Maven to Build and Deploy Application on to JBOSS Application Server.  • Experience in using testing Tools J Unit, Selenium, and Cucumber/Gherkin.    Environment: JavaScript, ReactJS, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap, jQuery, Spring MVC, NoSQL, (MongoDB), Spring Security, Hibernate, Spring Data, Spring Boot, Microservices, Node.js, Express.js, Restful services, Netflix OSS, Eclipse Java EE IDE Neon.3, Jenkins, Git, Log4j, Mango DB, MySQL. Java Full Stack Developer Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company - Columbus, OH July 2013 to October 2015 Description: Nationwide's IT teams deliver consistent, high-quality services and sustained high performance. Opportunities in information technology careers range from business consulting to application development to architecture. I worked with application development team to build applications which are easily interact with users and full fill their needs.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the end-to-end implementation project-requirements gathering, analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Proficiency in adoption of architecture paradigms such as SOA, Web services, Middleware technologies.  • Followed Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology.  • Created in Spring Controllers classes based on the existing Struts Action classes.  • Extensively involved in developing Restful Web services using Jersey framework (JAX-RS) and REST annotations  • Used in Hibernate ORM for mapping Java classes to database tables and data querying.  • Developed static and dynamic pages using JSP, Servlets and java script.  • Worked on Angular JS, which combines web applications with Model View Controller capability to make development and testing of code efficient.  • Designed, developed and consumed Java Restful web services implemented using Spring MVC and Spring core modules.  • Developed the JSON response from Ajax calls like GET and POST.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns like Data Access Objects (DAO).  • Build and configure web sphere portal components including Navigation, Menu and Content View Portlets.  • Quickly prototyped and created applications interfaces from the PDF are given by the UX using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller and DAO.  • Produced and Consumed in RESTful Web services in JSON.  • Developed internal application using Angular js and Node.js connecting to Mongo DB on the Backend.  • Used Karma and Jasmine for testing and structure our project.  • Developed Front end GUI using JavaScript frameworks to single page application.  • Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP's, Servlets, Java Web Start, EJB's and Web logic.  • Installed WSO Developers studio and Maven plugins in eclipse  • Used Session Beans and CMP Beans to develop business logic and coded reusable components in Java Beans.  • Expertise in writing and executing scripts along with deploying the projects in UNIX environment    Environment: Java-J2EE, Jira, JDK, JSP, Spring MVC, RESTful Web services, JSON, Hibernate, Agile, Eclipse, Sybase, Maven, Subversion, Amazon S3, PL/SQL, Web logic Server, Apache Tomcat, Angular.js, JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, XML, Node.js Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC September 2011 to June 2013 The Bank of America Corporation is an American multinational investment bank and financial services company based in Bank of America was formed through NationsBank's acquisition    Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing the Test Plans for testing to be carried out effectively.  • Developed the core modules for the services by using n- tier architecture.  • Developed Service layer classes to support the business functionality with Spring MVC.  • Building web application using Template Toolkit, JQuery and tested transactions created electronically through message injection using JMS.  • Used JSP, HTML, Taglibs and CSS to create UI pages.  • Used Java script for client-side validations.  • Used JDBC to connect with DB2 data base.  • Effective execution of the prepared Test Cases.  • Developed code for Java Multithreading.  • Build & deployment the code using ANT.  • Wrote Java Servlets to manage an XML-based persistence layer to cut down on server round-trips during development.  • Involved in unit testing JUNIT and in integration testing.  • Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.    Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Servlets, Java Script, CSS, JDBC, Oracle, Java beans, Windows/UNIX, Ant, JUNIT Education Bachelor's Skills architecture (7 years), CSS (7 years), Java (7 years), Model View Controller (7 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (7 years), Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Rest, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, ASP.NET, Javascript1.x, XHTML, Bootstrap, XML 1.0, JQuery, Log4j, Logback and JSON, Apache Camel.  Languages Java (6/7/8), J2EE 1.5/1.4, SQL, PL/SQL.  Java Frameworks Servlets (3.x), JDBC (4.x), Java Server Pages (JSP 2.x), JSF, JPA.  Libraries Angular.js, React.js, JQuery, Node.js, Ajax, Express.js, Extjs  Frameworks Hibernate ORM (3.x/4.x), Spring MVC (3.x/4.x), Spring (IOC, AOP), Spring Boot.  Databases Oracle 10g/11g/12c, MySql, DB2, Mongo DB, Couch DB, Cassandra  IDE and Tools Eclipse, RAD, Visual Studio code, Atom, Ant (1.x), Maven (3.x), Gradle (3.x), Junit (4.11), JIRA and Rally.  Web/Application Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Sphere (9.x), Web Logic (9.x).  Servers  Debugging Tools FindBug, Jacoco.  Project Build,Project Grunt, Gulp, Web Pack, Jenkins, DOCKER.  Management Tools  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN and CVS  Operating Systems Windows and UNIX  Unit Test Framework Jasmine, Karma, Chai, Mocha, TestNG, Selenium and Protractor    OTHER SKILLS:    • Experience in developing applications using Core Java, J2EE,JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Hibernate, Web Services ( SOAP, WSDL, UDDI),NodeJS, JMS, JDBC, XML, HTML,BOOTSTRAP,XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML,XSLT, JSON, Ajax, Angular JS, React JS and JQuery.  • Solid Understanding of RDBMS concepts and experience in working with Oracle, DB2and MY SQL.  • Experienced in using Java IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, JBuilder, and JDeveloper.  • Strong experience in implementing MVC framework like Struts 2.0, Spring 2.x and ORM tools like Hibernate in J2EE architecture.  • Gained further experience in Core Java, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Worked on MVC Architecture like Struts, Spring, MVC, JSF.  • Experienced in deploying J2EE applications on Apache Tomcat web server and WebLogic, WebSphere, JBOSS application server.  • Experienced in using Flex based Remote Object, SOAP-based Web services & HTTP service.  • Developing new user-facing features using React.js.  • Expertise in building Spring Microservices with Spring Boot.  • Involved in writing Multi-Threading Synchronization concepts in Java Programs.