Sr.Full Stack Java Developer Sr.Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Full Stack Java Developer - Bank of the West Phoenix, AZ ? Over 8 years of experience in designing &developing enterprise, distributed web applications using Java/ J2EE, Struts, JPA, Hibernate and Spring.  ? I have good experience working with Java7/Java8 and Restful Webservices.  ? Developed the J2EE application based on the Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  ? Involved in Full SDLC cycle which involves architecture, analysis, design, development, testing, Implementation, deployment, Enhancements, and production support using Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  ? Followed Behavior driven development (BDD) and Test-driven development (TDD) approach using SCRUM framework under Agile Methodology.  ? Expertise in implementing applications with Model-View-Controller(MVC) pattern and implementing various Java/J2EE design patterns including Singleton, Factory, MVC, Front Controller, DAO, Data Transfer Object and Session Facade.  ? Good knowledge on Object Oriented Analysis, Design and Object modeling using UML like Class diagrams, Use cases, Sequence and Test Cases.  ? Experience in developing the User Interface (UI) Applications and professional web applications using HTML 4.0/5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS 2.0,Angular JS 5,Node JS, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XHTML, XML and Bootstrap.  ? Proficient in Core Java concepts like Multi-threading, Collections and Exception Handling concepts.  ? Extensively used Java 8 Streams, Lambdas and Filters to process Order data.  ? Good experience in spring modules like Core, AOP, Spring security, Spring Boot and Spring MVC.  ? Extensive experience in developing scalable reliable and efficient enterprise applications using in JAVA/J2EE Technologies which includes Servlets, JSPs, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, JPA, JNDI, EJBs, JMS, SQL, PLSQL.  ? Proficiency in Web services applications both producing and consuming REST (Rest Easy, Jersey) API. Strong understanding of REST(JAX-RS), SOAP (JAX-WS) based web services and WSDL, UDDI.  ? Good knowledge on messaging services like JMS Queue, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ, Kafka which are used to establish the connections between the applications.  ? Implemented Angular JS Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented Angular Service calls Factory. Testing all application controllers extensively with Angular JS's built-in testing facilities.  ? Good experience with Cassandra NoSQL Database.  ? Experience in UI-UX design with the proven know-how to combine creative and usability viewpoints resulting in world-class Web and mobile applications  ? Experience in using Hibernate, as ORM tools and Java Objects.  ? Exposure building Java applications using tools like ANT, MAVEN and Gradle.  ? I have good knowledge on hibernate which is an ORM.  ? Experience in version control tools like SVN, GitHub and CVS.  ? Experience in Logging and tracing tool like log4j.  ? Experience in using MVC, SOA architecture and Micro services for implementing the client server business applications.  ? Deep understanding of Micro services architecture, including professional experience in the design, build, and operations of micro services in a production environment.  ? Exposure in implementation of different Database management tools (Oracle [ ] SQL Server, DB2, MySQL 5.x) and experience in NoSQL Databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  ? Worked closely with app developing, which delivers across the entire app life cycle -build, deploy, test, release for distributions to Pivotal Cloud Foundry PaaS.  ? Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services ( Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon EBS).  Excellent Interpersonal, Communication and Presentation skills, Self-starter, Detail Oriented, Research Oriented and Customer Focused. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Full Stack Java Developer Bank of the West - Phoenix, AZ December 2016 to Present Description: Bank of the West, Phoenix, AZ  Java/J2EE Developer  Description: Bank of the West offers a broad array of financial, banking services etc. The system developed provides personal savings details of Bank of the West Customers. It offers a broad array of financial clients and as per the users account status offers him to take up the new schemes enrolling with the bank. Upon the user's request it generates the reports of user details and submits it to the user. Advertises other mutual benefits and keeps track of the contact details of the users and updates them on an event if requested.    Responsibilities:  ? Technical design, review and implementation across the project. DevelopedUML diagrams like Use case, class and sequence diagrams.  ? Used spring framework and J2EE components, Utilized Spring MVC, IOC, AOP and DAO modules. Developed controller classes, backend processes,complex services and database interaction.  ? Extensively involved in the integration of the Front End web interface with the Spring MVC, Angular JS, JSP, HTML, CSS and JQuery.  ? Involved in developing Web interface using JSP, JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) using spring Framework.  ? Implemented and developed the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  ? Developed pages using Angular.JS directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and Angular UI components such as grid, buttons, carousels, date pickers, modal dialogs and other input components.  ? Used GIT as version control system,to keep track of all the works and all changes,allowing several developers to collaborate.  ? Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was also involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.  ? Creating Angular JS controllers, directives, models for different modules of the application.  ? Working on creating new modules for application and responsible for working on full stack development of it including designing Angular JS Controllers, routes.  ? Developed JMS message listeners using Spring JMS Template to consume messages from queue.  ? Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering EJBs, Servlets, and JSP components to be deployed on a WebLogic application server.  ? Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, Generics and Collections whenever necessary using JSE.  ? Developed REST API for test server for Express Router middleware based API's with MongoDB.  ? Migrated application to micro-services architecture.  ? Developed a cross-device/cross browser web application utilizing Angular JS , JavaScript API in conjunction with Bootstrap.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking,transactions,indexes,replication,schema design etc.  ? Used Micro-services to ensure the scalability of application on cloud infrastructure.  ? Refactored existing monolithic application by identifying components that needs to be transformed to Micro-services architecture, with Spring Boot based service, interacting through a combination of REST and AWS API-Gateway.  ? Involved in building and maintaining cloud based infrastructure on AWS.  ? Used Jenkins for continuous integration, Maven for building the application in the cloud leveraging AWS API'S.  ? Designed and developed User interface screens using Angular JS and followed Agile Scrum for application development.  ? Designed, developed and integrated Spring DAO layer with Hibernate. Generated Hibernate XML files for the configured beans.  ? Orderly logged the whole process using log4j for auditing,debugging and error logging purposes.  ? Used Jenkins for Build process and continuous integration.  ? Developed Hibernate with Spring Integrationas the data abstraction to interact with the database and used dependency injection (DI) using spring framework and annotations.  ? Performed build management for the development and testing environment. Worked with release management to develop technical release notes for every code release.  ? AWS Health Monitoring Service was used to profile the applications deployed in these environments.  ? Involved in technical mentoring, production system support and customizing solutions.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Agile, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, Spring, Spring MVC, JMS, Hibernate, RESTful webservices, Eclipse, UML, Log4j, JUNIT,AWS,GIT,MongoDB,Maven,Springboot,Microservices. Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Mayo Clinic September 2014 to November 2016 Mayo Clinic, Rochester  Role: Sr. Java/J2EE Developer  Description: Mayo Clinic provides laboratory informatics solutions, services and it also provides solutions in the areas of bio banking, quality control, pre-validated and preconfigured pharmaceutical LIMS, molecular diagnostic, contract laboratory, and research and development solutions. The project application is about a Web-based laboratory information management (LIMS) system that lets users to manage the sample lifecycle, optimize laboratory executions, perform data retrievals, interface instruments and systems, and enable security and auditing aspects.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented client-side validations using Java Script.  • Designed JSP pages for Initial applications, Submissions and Maintenance module using JSTL and Struts tag libraries.  • Developed Spring service classes for Initial applications and Maintenance module to implement business logic requirements.  • Deployed ADF code on the WebLogic Server and sent out notifications of releases. Managed and updated the release notification website.  • Enhanced the Web Application using Spring Framework and Spring JDBC Template.  • Developed handy version applications using Bootstrap Framework, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Worked on JavaScript frame work (Angular JS, Bootstrap) to augment browser-based applications with MVC capability.  • Worked on developing custom spaces, pages, page templates, skins, navigation models. Worked on general configuration of Content server and integrating content management services into WebCenter spaces.  • Worked on Angular JS directives and controllers for designing the web application and used its two-way data binding to achieve the feedback functionality from the user.  • Used Spring boot to develop and build several services, I have also used spring boot starters.  • Worked with Spring boot starters and also with spring boot actuator.  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine.  • Used Angular JS filters for searching, sorting, pagination and used custom filters.  • Written Test Cases for Unit Level Testing using JUnit.  • Application was developed using EclipseIndigo as IDE.  • External customer portal is developed in annotation-based Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Designed and Developed End to End customer self service module using annotation-based Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP andJQuery.  • Involved in integrating applications with other application using IBM WebSphere.  • Involved in generating Hibernate Configurations files, hibernate mapping files and Hibernate Data Objects to communicate data in persistence layer.  • Created Angular JS Routing to connect different controller to the view which allows the single-page application.    Environment: Java, JSP, Spring 2.5, Spring MVC, Spring Web, Spring Boot, Hibernate 3.2, IBM WebSphere, Restful, Casandra, JIRA, Eclipse, Junit, Bitbucket, Java Script, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Rational Rose,Maven, Agile,Microservices,RESTful webservices. Sr. Java Developer Zurich Insurance - Schaumburg, IL November 2013 to August 2014 Description:  Zurich Insurance is one of the USA's rising Health insurance companies. It provides healthcare coverage and offers variety of insurance related products at reasonable prices. The company enables the clients to enhance risk and care management effectiveness by improving member identification and facilitating program design and execution.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the analysis, design, coding, development and testing stages of the application using Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Used Multithreading concepts in the application thereby supporting concurrent alerts creations and adhered to new design patterns and frameworks used within the firm for fast and quality development.  ? Application classes are developed by Core Java collections, Exception handling, Generics, Design  ? patterns are used, and they are for client data like created Services, Business Delegate, Controller and DAO.  ? Implemented MVC architecture using Spring MVC and used Java Bean Classes for the Business Logic in the application.  ? Experience in using java script along with JSON to parse response data for user interface pages.  ? Used Spring as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate and declarative transaction management.  ? Extensively used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX to provide users with interactive, speedy, functional and more usable user interfaces.  ? Used spring validator framework for client side and server-side validation. Also implemented dynamic loading of JSP's using AJAX.  ? Integrated Dependency Injection among various layers of an application using Spring IOC.  ? Developed Web Service SOAP using SOA technologies such asSOAP,WSDL.  ? Did load testing of SOAP Web Services using SOAP UI and Apache JMeter tools.  ? Worked on developing Webservice Client using SOAP, WSDL to verify the payment history of the customer.  ? Developed the application by using Eclipse IDE and added Drools for core development in business because of its workspace and plugins with the help of IBMWebSphere Application Server.  ? Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging and exception handling.  ? Incorporated design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Facade patterns.  ? Worked on developing Webservices Client using SOAP, WSDL to verify the payment history of the customer.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for development and Jboss server for deployment. Used Git for repository.  ? Developed the test cases using JUnit for unit testing and Mockito used for testing accuracy of code.  ? Used SVN for versioning control system and Tortoise SVN as its client.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlet, Spring (MVC, AOP, IOC, JDBC), Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, IBM WebSphere, jQuery, JNDI, AJAX, Jasmine, PostgreSQL, SOAP , ActiveMQ, Eclipse, SVN, JUnit, Log4J,WSDL, Unix Shell, Mockito. Sr. Java Developer HSBC INDIA, Pune November 2011 to October 2013 Java/J2EE Developer  Project: Employee Referral Program    Description:  This Project aims to help the employees of HSBC GLT to refer candidates' for open positions in the organization. Through this application admin can pose new referral schemes for open positions in the organization and accordingly the employees can refer candidates and can get the benefit of cash rewards or gifts that are available under a particular referral scheme.  This project also has various reports, which helps the admin to do a detailed analysis as per his criteria.    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern to this project.  ? Developed user interface by creating at least one webpage for each component using Struts web MVC and Action Servlet as front controller for this application.  ? Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file.  ? Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML like one form for each functionality user interface, standard validations using the JavaScript, Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc. using MVC.  ? Developed SingleSignOn (SSO) functionality, through which we can run SCM from Oracle Applications.  ? Involved in developing the Routings and configured Routing Program as scheduled the concurrent request.  ? Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute.  ? Involved in raising the Notifications to Oracle Users through Mailing Concept for intimating to start the next process using workflow.  ? Extensively worked on Oracle for writing complex queries in the business logic layer. Used joins, debugging the SCM related packages and customization.  ? Extensively worked on creating the setups for Organizations, Templates, Concurrent Requests, Cross Reference Types, User Creations, Assigning responsibilities, creating value sets, Descriptive Flex Fields etc. in Oracle Applications.    Environment: Java, JDBC, Servlets, Struts, JSP, Hibernate, Java Mail API, AJAX, HTML, XML, ANT, Log4J, CVS, RAD, Putty, Oracle 9i/10g, Web Sphere Jr. Java Developer Sigma Software Systems - IN August 2009 to October 2011 Sigma Software Systems, India  Role: Java Developer    Description:Airline Passenger Refunds System:The purpose of this project was to develop a product that could be used by any airline, to handle their passenger refunds management system. The system provides the airline employee with a user-friendly web interface to process different types of airline passenger refunds.  Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in the complete Software development life cycle starting from design phase to the implementation phase.  • Involved in developing and deploying SOAPWebServices.  • Involved in capturing web service and jms transactions off the wire using Flatfiles, and parsing the xml into name value pairs and storing some in OracleDB.  • Used SAX Parser for parsing the xml data and storing the XPath's in OracleDB.  • Interpret the designs provided by the team and prepare blueprints for the development process.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedures to insert all the new services and elements coming from the CSI.  • Used ANT to automate the build and deployment process.  • Solving the new issues from end users and worked with new Change Requests.  • Used to write SQLqueries, Triggers, Functions for Oracledatabase and developed some complexSQL queries.  • Deployed the web components in WebLogic Web Server.  • Created Test suites in SOAPUI projects and created internal test cases depending on the requirement.  • Creating JUnit test case design logic and implementation throughout application.  • Worked in Agile methodology and involved in scrum meetings weekly.  • Coordination with testing team, Preparing Test cases and application team members.  • Unit testing and system testing using Defect Tracking System.  • Used Struts validation framework for performing front end validations.  • Implemented Struts Framework component like Controller, Action Forms and Action forwards for the presentation layer.  • Used SVN version control tools to check in and version the application code.  • Used Ant for building and added a lot of external dependencies.  Environment: Java, HTML, JSP, CSS, Servlets, JavaScript, Oracle 7i, EJB 1.1, Apache tomcat 3.0,Struts,ANT,SVN,Junit. Education Bachelor's in Electronics and CommunicationsEngineering in Electronics and CommunicationsEngineering JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Java J2Ee, JSP, Javascript, MVC, Angularjs Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  Java/J2EE Technologies Java (1.8), JSP2.1/2.0/1.2, Servlets 2.x/3.x, JavaBeans,Java7/8.  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Bootstrap, Springboot, Spring Security, JSF,Microservices.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, LESS, SASS, Bootstrap-3, JSON, AJAX, Typescript, ES-5, jQuery, Angular.js, XML, Node.js  Web Services SOAP,WSDL, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, UDDI, Restful API.  Application/Web Servers Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x, JBOSS 4.x/3.x, IBM Web Sphere 5.x/6.x, Web Logic /9.1/10.0/10.3/11g  Databases Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MySQL, Microsoft SQL server2008,MongoDB, Cassandra, CouchDB  Software Methodologies Agile, BDD, TDD, Waterfall  Build Tools& Test tools Gradle 3.4.1, Maven 3.3.9, Jenkins 2.x, Ant 1.10, Docker, Junit, Soap UI, PostMan  IDE's Eclipse, NetBeans, MyEclipse, STS, Webstorm  Version & Source Control CVS, SVN, GIT, GITHUB,Bitbucket.  Project Management Tool Rally and Jira  Operating Systems UNIX, LINUX, WINDOWS 10  Cloud technologies EC2, S3, EBS, ELB,Amazon Web Services.