Sr. Java developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Java developer - State Farm Phoenix, AZ • Qualified Software Professional with 6 years of experience in Object Oriented programming, design, developing and testing of Client / Server, Enterprise and Web Applications  • Experience in Object Oriented/based technologies like Java and C++.  • Solid ability in Java GUI programming (Swing)  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance using Java related technologies such as J2EE, Struts, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, JUnit, JSTL, and JDBC.  • Strong skills in web technology such as HTML, HTML5, CSS, XML, DOM, SAX, XSLT, JavaScript.  • Proficient in Message Oriented Middleware (MOM) technology such as JMS, Web Service, SOAP and IBM Web Sphere MQ Series.  • Hands on Experience of usage of CSS in managing the front view of the Application.  • Strong working knowledge of MVC Architecture Apache Struts Framework.  • Experience in database technologies such as Oracle, SQL, and MySQL.  • Strong technical background, experienced in latest areas of client/server and Internet computing including Telecom, Health Care and Banking.  • Extensive experience of Deploying EAR and WARs with web and application servers such as Apache, Tomcat, JBOSS, WebLogic, and Websphere.  • Extensive experience in Maintenance projects with good debugging skills.  • Technically proficient in Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, FrontPage, Microsoft Access.  • Integration, Testing and Maintenance.  • Excellent knowledge of Migration, backup, recovery, tuning, tracing and troubleshooting.  • Strong skills in modeling, design and development of SQL and PL/SQL programming with Oracle RDBMS.  • Strong Technical background, excellent analytical ability, problem solving, decision-making, good communication skills, team player and goal oriented, with a commitment towards excellence.  • Extensively worked on EJB for developing server side in Java.  • Hands on experience on the development tools: Eclipse and NetBeans  • Aptitude to acclimatize new software technologies. Work Experience Sr. Java developer State Farm August 2013 to Present Description: State Farm is a group of Insurance and financial services company. Its main business is State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company where consumers come online, browse through the insurance plans and selects the appropriate plan. This project includes developing a plan management portal where workers can manage the plans and also can help consumers selecting the appropriate plan for them.    Responsibilities:  • Application is implemented using agile methodology where there is daily SCRUM meetings to understand the status and resolve any issues.  • Involved in the combining two web applications into one for a new project.  • Responsible for development of Business logic in Core Java  • Configured pom.xml to manage project dependencies, plugins and goals.  • Worked on Maven scripts (pom.xml) for building the application.  • Used Spring IOC for Dependency injection and Spring JDBC for Data access layer  • Used Spring AOP to capture performance statistics of business logic and DAO layer methods  • Spring Security has been implemented to make more robust application  • JSON objects have been created to store them in Database in OFFLINE mode.  • Used STEAL to navigate easily through Javascript pages.  • Developed portal screens using JSP and Spring MVC framework  • JQuery, HTML5, CSS, AJAX and JSP has been used to build the user interfaces for web application.  • Developed Restful Controllers using Spring MVC  • Service oriented architecture (SOA) has been implemented using Restful web services which can accept a JSON object coming from the user.  • Selenium IDE and JUnit are used to test UI and backend respectively.  • Used Maven Deployment Descriptor Setting up build environment by writing Maven build.xml, taking build, configuring and deploying of the application in all the servers  • Used maven for running unit tests and create reports  • Defining external dependencies in the pom.xml.  • Used maven in command line to clean and build the application  • Batch jobs have been developed using Spring Batch.  • Testing is implemented as a integral part of project.  • Used GitHub as the version control tool.  • Migrated project's database to SQL Server from MySQL and DB2.  • Generated new scripts from the existing MySQL and DB2 for SQL Server.  • Worked with the following build tools like Jenkins and Hudson.  • Worked with client testing team in improving and debugging various production issues.    Environment: JDK 1.7, JSP 2.0, JSON, Servlets 2.x, Hibernate 3.x, Spring 2.5/3.1, Agile Methodology, JUnit, Selenium Testing, JavaMail, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, XML, XSLT, CSS, Tomcat 7.x, Weblogic 8.1, Webservices, SQL Server, Windows 7 and GitHub. Java Developer Xerox - Rochester, NY January 2013 to July 2013 Description: Xerox offers extensive business processes and document management, including data processing, HR benefits management, finance support, and customer relationship management services for commercial and government organizations worldwide which enables the business to operate more efficiently and effectively.    Responsibilities:  • Was involved in the Implementation of MVC Architecture using struts framework for the application.  • Was part of Development of EJBs, DAOs, Action classes and JSP by Using JSTL and JavaScript.  • Involved in Development of User Interface development using JSP and STRUTS Framework  • Used Javascript and Struts validation framework for performing front end validations  • Was involved in the building of Action Servlets, Action classes, validations.xml and Validator-rules.xml for user's input validations.  • Used struts tag libraries (like html, bean, and logic) in the JSP pages. Used html form tag for auto-populating of related Action Form as specified in the action mapping  • Used Validator framework for validation of client side data and Exception handling using Struts Exception Handler.  • Configured stuts-config.xml and created the action servlet mapping for the navigation.  • Involved in writing code to transform XML documents using JAXP (SAX and DOM Parsers)  • Involved in designing of front end pages for the presentation of data on the View layer in using Struts MVC architecture.  • Effective usage of J2EE Design Patterns namely Service Locator, Business Delegate, Session Façade, Factory Method, Command and Singleton to develop various base framework components in the application.  • Deployed the components into Weblogic Application Server.  • Implemented Data Access Objects to make application more flexible to future and legacy databases.  • Developed core framework using JMS Messaging, EJB and JDBC.  • Involved in Units integration, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases.  • Used Log4J logging framework for logging messages with various levels written throughout the Java code.  • Involved in configuring and deploying the application on Weblogic Application Server.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring MVC 2.0, Web Services, Clear Case, Apache, Eclipse 3.3, JSP 2.1, JSF, Struts, JNDI, Log4j, JUnit 4.5, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Weblogic Application Server 10.0, Oracle 10g, Windows XP and IBM MQ Series. Java/J2EE Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA December 2011 to December 2012 Description: T-Mobile International was a German holding company for Deutsche Telekom AG's various mobile communications subsidiaries outside Germany. The Company's advanced nationwide 4G and 4G LTE network delivers outstanding wireless experiences for customers who are unwilling to compromise on quality and value.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Client side interface using JSP and form beans with JavaScript.  • Developed Session (Statefull/Stateless) and Entity (CMP) beans for crucial business logic, which helped to lower down coupling between Top Layer (Presentation) and Middle layer.  • Involved in coding of JSP pages for the presentation of data on the View layer in MVC architecture.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Factory Methods, MVC, and Singleton Pattern that made modules and code more organized, flexible and readable for future upgrades.  • Worked with JavaScript to perform client side form validations.  • Used Struts tag libraries as well as Struts framework.  • Used JDBC to access Database with Oracle thin driver of Type-3 for application optimization and efficiency.  • Client side validation done using JavaScript.  • Used Data Access Object to make application more flexible to future and legacy databases.  • Actively involved in tuning SQL queries for better performance.  • Worked with XML to store and read exception messages through DOM.  • Wrote generic functions to call Oracle stored procedures, triggers, functions.    Environment: JDK, J2EE, UML, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, XHTML, JavaScript, MVC, XML, XSLT, XML Schema, XMLBean, Tomcat, Oracle, Eclipse Java Developer Oriental Bank of Commerce - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh January 2011 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed web interface for admin module using Struts MVC framework to Search, reset password, lock/unlock the user accounts.  • Developed and implemented the interactive functionality using JSP, Tiles framework.  • Extensively used Struts Validatefor server-side validations and JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Queries to extract the Customers data from the database.  • Used Subversion for Version Control Management.  • Extensively used the Struts tag libraries (Bean Tags, Logic Tags and HTML Tags etc.) and Custom tag libraries.  • Involved in code reviews, debugging and testing.  • Used connection pooling for optimization using JDBC interface.  • Flexibly used J2EE design patterns like Value Object, Data Access Object and Singleton.  • Prepared Use-Cases from the given requirements and also interacted with clients for requirements gathering and clarifications.  • Developed Utility Classes, which are used throughout the application.    Environment: Java, JSP, Struts Framework 1.2, JDBC, UML, JavaScript, HTML, Oracle 9i, Toad, WSAD, Maven, Subversion, Log4J, WebSphere and Windows / NT. Java Developer Logitech Pvt Ltd February 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of the complete flow from the front end to the back-end in agile environment.  • Involved and participated in Code reviews.  • Responsible for designing different JSP pages and writing Action class using Struts framework for Security, and Search modules.  • Involved in research of indexing and searching tools for HTML and JSP contents of web-based application.  • Used Enterprise Java Beans (EJBs) extensively in the application. Developed and deployed Session Beans to perform user authentication.  • Involved in making security and search feature as separate Application Units of project.  • Automated the HTML and JSP pages indexing process of search module using Apache Ant tool and singleton design pattern.  • Implemented client side validations for Search and Security modules using JavaScript and Struts Validation Framework.  • Involved in documentation and bug fixing of various modules of the project.  • Tested JSPs and Servlets used in search, security and scheduler modules using Cactus API.    Environment: Java (J2SE), JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Struts Framework, Test Case, J Unit, JavaScript, XML. Education btch in computerscience jntu Skills Core Java, Servlets, JSP, J2EE, EJB, JDBC, Ant,Struts MVC, Spring, Hibernate. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java, C, C++, VB.  Java Technologies Core Java, Servlets, JSP, J2EE, EJB, JDBC, Ant.  Scripting/Markup Language JavaScript, XML, HTML and CSS.  Framework Struts MVC, Spring, Hibernate.  RDBMS/Databases/Tools Oracle, MS Access, DB2.  Design Pattern Singleton, Business Delegate, Transfer Object, Data Access Object, MVC.  Testing JUnit.  Web & Application Server Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere.  Operating Platforms Windows, Linux, UNIX.