Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Enterprise rent-a-car Chicago, IL • Around 6 years of overall experience in IT as a Full stack Java/J2EE Developer in large diversified projects.  • Worked extensively on J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JNDI, EJB, and Hibernate.  • Experience in XML parsing, extractions, and data migrations and/or transformations.  • Expertise in Core Java involving concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Concurrency, Java executor framework.  • Good Understanding of Design Patterns, Object Oriented Programming and UML.  • Comprehensive work experience on Application Servers such as Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Sphere.  • Used spring form tag library and other JSP tag libraries for form validations.  • Extensive experience in designing professional User Interactive (UI) web applications with the help of Angular JS, Ext JS, HTML5, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap and CSS3.  • Experienced in developing and implementing web applications using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JSF, HTML 5, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, CSS3, XML, JDBC and JNDI.  • Experience in using the JavaScript frameworks JQUERY, Angular.js, Backbone.js, and React.JS Node.js & Twitter Bootstrap.  • Expertise in development and deployment of multi-tiered web based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP JMS, Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Spring 3.0/4.0, JDBC, JNDI, Angular JS, Java Beans and Web services (SOAP, Rest).  • Knowledge of J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Factory, Abstract Factory, Singleton, Transfer Object, Business Delegate and Data Access Object etc.  • Expertise in MVC architecture Web Framework Spring 4.0 (Dependency Injection, Data Access Objects), Spring MVC, and used Hibernate.  • Designed, developed and implemented Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using Spring Framework (Spring-Core, Spring-MVC, Spring-Web services, Spring-AOP).  • Experience in implementation of business applications using Web Sphere, IBM WebSphere Application and Portal Server (WAS/WPS), JBoss and Tomcat.  • Consumed SOAP web services and have experience in implementing RESTFUL API.  • Used HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3 to design the entire web application and make it mobile friendly application.  • Experience in developing web application using JavaScript frameworks like Angular1.4/2/4, React Js and Node JS.  • Developed projects leveraging Angular1.4/2/4 and MVC framework.  • SVN, GIT, PVCS, Version One was used for all source code control and maintenance  • JIRA is used to track development tasks, bugs, enhancements and upgrades Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Enterprise rent-a-car - St. Louis, MO January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used and participated in Agile Methodologies for design and development of the applications.  • Research, Design, Develop, Unit Test, Deployment and Support of Java based Web and Enterprise applications in both windows and UNIX environments.  • Used Spring MVC framework along with JSP, HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript to construct dynamic web pages.  • Utilized Angular JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models) and implemented a Single Page Web Applications (SPA) based front end for displaying user requests, user records history and security settings various users.  • Used Ajax, JSON with JQuery for request data and response processing.  • Extensively used/modified jQuery to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML for sending and receiving data from different applications.  • Used JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap and various JQuery plugins to improve UI experience and achieve cross-browser compatibility.  • Hibernate and JDBC were used against MySQL at DAO data layer.  • Involved in implementation of persistence layer using Hibernate and prepared Value Objects.  • Developed MVC controllers and deployed flow of Execution in the Servlet Environment using Spring MVC and involved in configuring web.xml and application-context.xml  • Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code.  • Develop build scripts using ANT for the build and deployment.  • Coded Test Classes using JUNIT for Unit Testing.  • Migrated one of the modules using React JS as SPA.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website  • Management system and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service. Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs & concepts to the clients and management review.  • Wrote Operations and corresponding handlers to communicate with Oracle database sitting on Linux/Unix server.  • Developed applications using Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping files, configured XML files, hibernate query language.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js and Node.js.    Environment: Java, Hibernate, JDBC, MySQL, Spring 3, Apache CXF 2.7, Eclipse, UML, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, JBoss, JNDI, JUNIT, ANT, REST Web Services, Angular JS 1.3, AJAX Java Full Stack Developer Delta Airline - Atlanta, GA April 2016 to June 2017 Responsibility:  • Involved in requirement analysis & Client interaction.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts, Project Managers and Project Leaders to analyze business requirements and Architecture design.  • Developed the web application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Factory, Singleton.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modelling, analysis, architecture design and development.  • Created graphical user interfaces (GUIs) front-end using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery & HTML.  • Creation of technical specifications, coding, unit and system integration testing for the enhancements and conducted reviews with users.  • Extensively used various collection classes like Array List, Hash Map, Hash Table, and Hash Set.  • Developed the Use case, Sequence and Class diagrams using UML/Rational Rose.  • Consumed Web Services by implementing spring's REST support to make the development of RESTful Web services.  • Involved in the migration of current MVC system to Spring MVC  • Responsible for developing code by dividing application into modules and making each module talks each other using Restful API.  • Implemented JMS, JNDI for notifications  • Extensively used JUnit, Mock framework in all the modules for unit testing.  • Extensively used Log4j and Slf4j for debugging during development.  • Used Web logic Application Server that implements the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE).  • Involved in writing basic SQL queries.  • Involved in Sever side validation based on the Business rules using Spring Validation.  • Responsible for Writing Hibernate-mapping XML Files, HQL.    Environment: JDK 1.6, J2EE, JSTL, Spring Application Framework 3.X, Hibernate ORM 3.X, JMS, JNDI, HTML, XML, Weblogic Application Server, Maven, Git, Log4j, JUnit, jQuery UI, CSS, JavaScript, Unix and Oracle 11g. Java Developer The Home Depot Corporation December 2015 to March 2016 Responsibility:  • Worked on the entire application and implemented Spring MVC Architecture integrating Maven, spring framework.  • Developed the Controller, Service and DAO modules using Spring framework.  • Involved for the development of projects using Spring MVC framework.  • Worked on development of Spring DAO, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Implemented Code first approach to generate the WSDL for all the SOAP Bindings using Apache Axis.  • Used JAX-WS implementation to develop the services.  • Used JAX-RS implementation to develop REST Web services.  • Architected, Designed and Implemented SPA (single page application) using Angular 2.0 directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, pipes and validations.  • Developed SPA with Angular 2.0, Typescript, Bootstraps, HTML and Angular 2.0 CLI. Configured module wide routing in the application using angular router and created various route guards  • Jenkins Pipeline deployment handled in PCF server and Git Hub version control used for source code repository.  • Implemented Micro services architecture using Spring BOOT enabled REST API with the Spring Cloud modules.  • Analyzed the Maven dependency management in base code to annotate the dependencies on Spring Boot application.  • Created the Spring Bean Factory for initializing services. Added security for service layer methods using Spring Security.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Dependency Injection Spring Annotations, Spring AOP and Hibernate.  • Followed Spring MVC pattern and used View Resolver to map web page.  • Writing and retrieving files to and from AWS S3 bucket for UI to render data faster that involves complex and time-consuming server-side logic.  • Designed and developed the REST based web services using the Spring Boot with JPA , Hibernate, Data Binding API and Bean Validation API (JSR 303)  • Used Spring-Boot to integrate the framework with IIB (IBM integration Bus).  • Involved deploying of code in Linux environment for test and production.  • Used Sub Version(SVN) for the version control.  • Used Scrum Calls for story tracking.  • Follows the agile methodology for the development of the project.  • All the implementation classes were tested using JUnit classes.  • Log4j were used to log the various debug, error and informational messages at various levels.  • Used Maven for build and Deployment.    Environment: Java, Maven, Spring BOOT, SOAP Web Services using Apache Axis, Angular.JS. JAX-WS implementation, DB2 through DVL, Spring Framework, Jboss Server. Java Developer Tera Soft - IN January 2013 to October 2015 Responsibility:  • Involved in development of a well responsive single page applications using AngularJS framework and JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front end UI team.  • Implement modules into AngularJS to integrate with designs and requirements and built REST web service  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's in Angular 2.0  • Responsible for enhancing the front-end using latest HTML5 and CSS3 techniques; used css3 media queries to support all the devices, backed by jQuery and other JavaScript frameworks.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining Hibernate bean references in spring framework using Setter Dependency Injection (DI) and used Hibernate annotations to design the modeling part of the application.  • Configured the web.xml file for REST server injection to enable the REST web services by using JAXB API.  • Logically separated the core component in to several micro services  • Worked on SQL Server database concepts such as transactions, indexes, replication, and schema design.  • Involved in design, optimization and performance with relational databases such as MySQL 5.6.  • Worked on installing, configuring and deploying the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.5.5.  • Used spring core annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API and Spring Boot for micro-services  • Used CI tool Jenkins to automate the compilation and implemented continuous delivery with Docker to run all the tests before generating war file; used SVN as versioning software tools.  • Used BDD frameworks such as Cucumber for functional testing and mocking frameworks like mockito for unit testing the java applications.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, JSP, SOA, MVC Framework, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Web Services, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JUnit, Log4j, Ant, Oracle, XML, Eclipse, Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JBOSS, JDK, JMS, JNDI, jQuery, JSP, RMI, SERVLETS, VISUAL STUDIO, DESIGN PATTERNS, BOOTSTRAP, SVN, XML, XSL, Javascript, PHP, Angular, Python, React, Node, Angularjs, Nodejs, C#, AWS, NET Additional Information SKILLS  Language: Java/JDK 3.0/4.0/5.0/6.0/7.0/8.0, J2EE, Spring 3.0/4.0  Java Web Technologies: HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, XML, WSDL, AJAX, Bootstrap, XSL, XSD, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Java Beans, RMI, JNDI, JMS, Angular 1.4/2/4, Node JS, React JS, SOAP, Micro services, RESTful Web services.  Databases: MYSQL Server  Application Framework: EJB, Spring Batch, Hibernate, Java, Spring Framework.  Source Control: CVS, VSS, SVN, JIRA  Tools/IDE's: Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, InteliJ  Web/App-Servers: Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere, Web logic, Glassfish  Methodologies/Frameworks: UML, Design Patterns, MVC, Agile  Operating Systems: UNIX, Windows, iOS/Mac