Sr.Salesforce Lightning Developer Sr.Salesforce Lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Salesforce Lightning Developer - Cognizant Teaneck, NJ • Around 9+years of IT experience that Salesforce.com CRM development JAVA.  • Experienced in software development using object-oriented programming.  • Possess comprehensive understanding of CRM business processes like sales process, support process, lead process and solution process.  • Experience in the complete life cycle of project development (SDLC) and in working with Agile Scrum Methodologies.  • Good knowledge on Technical and Functional aspects of Salesforce.com, on demand CRM package.  • Proficiency in building Data Model and implementing business logics.  • Extensive experience using Salesforce Administration (SFA), Profiles, Creating Roles, Page Layouts, Org-Wide default, Sharing rules, Work Flows, Approval Workflow, Reports/Graphs and Dashboards.  • Experience in data migration using Import wizard and Apex Data Loader.  • Working knowledge in generating Report types, Reports and Dashboards to analyze the data in Salesforce.  • Extensive experience in lead case management (Web-to-Lead, Email-to-Case) • Hands of experience in writing Test classes, Debugging Apex code, SOQL, SOSL and Aggregate queries in Apex Classes and Triggers • Experienced in integration of Salesforce.com with external applications by using Web Services API, Metadata API, SOAP and REST.  • Experience working with integration features such as Callouts, Future methods, REST and SOAP APIs • Expertise in working with Force.com Plug-in and Eclipse IDE for writing business logic in Apex programming language.  • Design and implement SSO (single sign on) for Salesforce applications.  • Proficiency in test driven development.  • Experience in creating rich user interfaces (UI) using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and AJAX and JSON and Angular.Js • Technical Knowledge about Salesforce lightning schema builder, process builder, app builder, components and lightning connect.  • Effective team player with good communication, interpersonal and presentation skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Salesforce Lightning Developer Cognizant - Teaneck, NJ April 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Performed the role of SFDC Developer, Lightning Developer and interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for salesforce.com, Lightning and CRM implementation.  • Responsible for writing Apex, Visual force code containing business functions.  • Developed Custom objects, customizing tabs, Apex Triggers, Test classes for unit testing and code coverage • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization • Experience in Data Loader for Data Management in Force.com platform.  • Experience with custom application development in Force.com, utilizing Visualforce and Lightning Components/Framework.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master-detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports, and dashboards.  • Created Lightning Component Tabs and Visualforce Tabs using Lightning Components.  • Developed component using Lightning Aura Framework.  • Used SOQL&SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Developed Apex Test Classes with the assurance of maximum code coverage.  • Implemented Case Management by creating record-types specific to the user groups, assignments rules, escalation rules, case templates, workflow rules, and actions, etc.  • Used Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access to data from external systems and websites.  • Perform advanced salesforce administration (Sandboxes management, Salesforce release and patches, User management, workflow).  • Used Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.  • Integrated using REST-based Web service callouts to other external systems.  • Refactored the existing code by reducing the number of SOQLs and DMLs.  • Used Schema class for fetching the Recordtype Object related data instead of SOQL.  • Written Batch Classes and Schedulable Classes for processing large sets of data like Metrics and Field Updates. Used Messaging, Database Classes to send a Result Report to Admin Email.  • Worked on various Visualforce components like Actionfunction, ActionSupport, ActionRegion, PageBlockSection, PageBlockTable, JS Remoting etc.  • Worked on Administration activities like Workflow Rules, Validation Rules, Sharing Rules, OWD, Profiles, Permission Sets, Roles, Organization Role Hierarchy, Public Groups, Queues and Network IP filtering.  • Written Apex test classes using the annotations @testsetup, @isTest and testMethod for creating test data, test methods, test class declarations.  • Performed deployments using Ant Migration Tool, MavensMate, Sublime and ChangeSets. Used Git Commands for pushing code to Repository and raised Pull Requests for deployments.  • Used GitHub as version Control tool to maintain Source Code.  • Developed Apex REST Webservices and HTTP Callouts for calling the API provided by downstream applications.  • Used JIRA tool for tracking the stories and creating tasks. Worked in Agile environment with Scrum Methodology.    Environment:Salesforce.com CRM, Lightning, Communities, Apex Language, Visualforce, Controllers, Service cloud, Web Services, REST, XML, JSON, Workflows, Approval Process, Data Loader, Java Script, HTML, AJAX, CSS, Eclipse, Force.com IDE, Developer Console, Force.com, Git. Salesforce Developer Macy's - Atlanta, GA April 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities: • Designed and customized visual force pages using controller extensions, custom controllers and standard controllers.  • Developed Apex triggers, classes to achieve user's desired functionality and have written the dependent test classes.  • Involved in Deployment, deployed all the classes, triggers, objects, components, pages from sandbox environment to production environment.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com objects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Implemented pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Developed and configured Dashboards, Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Customized page layouts for Opportunity, Contacts and Accounts depending upon user roles and groups.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visual force pages to develop custom business logic.  • Developed VisualForce Pages to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes to provide functionality to the visual pages.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, MS project, Standard and Custom Objects, Validation rules, Workflow & Approvals, Record types, Reports, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Web Services, Data Loader Salesforce developer Flexera Software - Chicago, IL October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities: • Designing an Expense reporting module to manage the expenses.  • Involved in the customization of Salesforce.com application Setup activities to meet the functional needs of the organization.  • Translating business requirements to smart solutions in Salesforce.com.  • Implementing Email-to-Case features to record cases automatically into the database and developed Assignment rules to assign cases to healthcare service providers, eg. Nurses, Physical therapists, Occupational therapists, Social workers, and Home health-aids.  • Setup Salesforce to Salesforce (S2S) by creating connections between different environments thereby enabling the client to share data records with their partners.  • Worked with various Salesforce objects including Leads, Account, Contact, Opportunity, Cases and Custom Objects.  • Configured workflows and approval processes to enhance business logic whenever necessary.  • Implemented security access to the user profiles by creating Object level, Field level and Record level securities.  • Created Communication Templates.  • Migrated existing standard and custom object data into CRM using Data Loader and Import/Export Wizard tools.  • Designed and developed Custom Buttons and Links, Visualforce pages using Apex classes, methods, Constructors, Controller classes and various Visualforce Attributes.  • Developed triggers for complex workflow rules working around the governor limits.  • Developed Census reports, Case reports, Visit schedules, Expense reports, and Administrative reports    Environment: Force.com IDE, Apex, Visualforce, SOQL, SOSL, and Data loader. JAVA developer Citi - New York, NY July 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities: • Implemented agile methodology for development of application.  • Developed the presentation layer in JSF using components like Input, Output, Command, Selections and Data table.  • Responsible for requirements gathering and designing the application architecture.  • Developed the code for JSF event handling.  • Extensively involved in the development of PL/SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages.  • Developed the Session Beans.  • Developed ANT required for the project.  • Worked on the validations part of JSF.  • Used spring framework for Dependency Injection.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using the ORM framework in Hibernate.  • Developed the AJAX code for dynamic population of values to the screen without having to reload the screen.  • Developed a JAX-WS Web service to expose business methods for other applications.  • Setup the testing environment for the project.  • Used Java WSDP for developing Web services for the application.  • Developed the JavaScript code.  • Configured the CVS for the project.    Environment: J2EE/JEE, JavaScript, Struts, JAVA, JSP, Servlets, Oracle, Ant, Hibernate, Sublime text, JSON, XML. Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC August 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities: • Support end-to-end development needs as an experienced full stack UI and MW Developer • Work in an Agile team structure, with geographically dispersed team mates • Deliver and demos working code in a fast paced environment.  • Self-motivated and quick-learner who can take the full ownership of designs from concept to production • Manage a portfolio of projects across multiple releases providing technical leadership and direction to development team • Ensure design and coding standard guidelines creation and enforcement • Able to work independently with minimal oversight as well as within a distributed scrum team • Provide technical oversight to onshore and offshore design and development effort • Raise and help resolve issues/risks • Provide strategies, solutions and technical leadership to the application area Java Developer Prospect Infosys Inc - Chesterfield, MO September 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities: • Leading the project delivery by working with the team and owning the time delivery, and quality of the artifacts from team by providing them the necessary documentation, review and conducting knowledge sharing sessions to team on new or critical areas.  • Participating in various phases of a project life cycle such as estimation, requirement, analysis, design and test plan preparation, system testing, product implementation and closure.  • Requirement discussion with Project team, providing feedback/risk assessment and highlighting the gaps or missed requirements during different project phases.  • Respond with the analysis and design of new functionalities by interacting with project team and application users and also will be coordinating with offshore team to transfer the business requirements to technical solutions.  • Design of the technical architecture of the application, which includes validation of the design and suggesting required changes. Responsible for creating/maintaining software documentation and systems design.  • Handle complex operational tasks and recommend processing and technology changes.  • Ensures quality of deliverables by reviewing, validating and optimizing the code, services and applications through tools, frameworks and industry products.  • Respond to direct questions from IT management or the business on the effects of emerging technologies on product development and business directions; may provide buy vs. build recommendations or assist in platform documentation.  • Display problem solving and analytical skills and will use them to resolve technical problems.  • Provides production and testing (integration, user acceptance testing, performance, security testing) support and is primary point of contact for issues. Education Bachelor's Skills Apex (3 years), Force.com (3 years), Java (7 years), Loader (3 years), security (3 years) Links http://Salesforce.com Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Salesforce Technologies Apex Language, Apex Trigger, Apex Scheduler, Batch Apex, Apex Class & Apex Web Service and Visual force (Page, Component & Controllers), Lightning Components, Lightning Builder.  Custom Integration Outbound Messages,Salesforce CPQ, SLDS, Workflow & Approvals, Field updates, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom settings, Custom labels & Tabs, Email Services, Role Hierarchy, Dashboards, Security Controls, AppExchange Package & Custom Application & Sandbox data loading.  Force.com tools Apex Data loader, Force.com Apex Explorer, AJAX tool kit, Force.com Migration Tool, Force.com Excel connector and Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in  Programming Languages Java, C, C++ and APEX  IDE Eclipse and Force.com Eclipse IDE plug-in  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall Model.