Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - Pacific Life Insurance Newport Beach, CA • Ambitious and driven IT professional with 8 years of experience a proven history.  • Diversified exposure in Software Process Engineering, designing & building a Web Application using Java/J2EE Technology, AWS &open source technologies.  • Extensive handling of the work mode with Frontend and Backend technologies.  • Indulged in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which included Analyzing, Designing, Programming, Building, Testing, Debugging, and Maintaining.  • Good Working knowledge of the skills using Agile methodology with incremental and iterative development and waterfall methodology.  • Strong Programming Skills in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JSF, Struts, Spring, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular4, Angular2, NodeJS, Servlets, JavaBeans, CSS, EJB, XSLT, JAXB, MongoDB, JMS.  • Involved in CI/CD process using Jenkins job creation, Maven build Create Docker image and deployment in AWS environment  • Experience in application development using Oracle Application Express (APEX)  • Experience in PL/SQL, including migration of data from MS Excel file to Oracle tables through Apex  • Managed and maintained Oracle and NoSQL (MongoDB) databases in production domain.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis, Design and object modelling using UML (Use cases, Test Cases, Sequence and Class diagrams)  • Experience in developing Web Services using - SOAP, Restful, WSDL and developing DTDs, XSD schemas for XML (parsing, processing, and design)  • Experienced using Java/J2EE patterns Front Controller, Session, Façade, DOM, Factory Method and Singleton.  • Practical experience in using IDE tools such as NetBeans, Eclipse, RAD, and application servers WebSphere, WebLogic and Tomcat.  • Experience in SQL using Oracle 9i/10g, T-SQL and PL/SQL using Oracle 9i/10g/11i, Elastic search/NoSQL  • Experience in using version control tools like Git, SVN.  • Hands-on experience in unit testing as well as integrated testing, mock testing frameworks TestNG, Mockito, Spring mock and Junit.  • Experience in design and development of Model View Controller using Servlet, Struts 1.1 and Spring MVC.  • Provided solutions to automate development and testing for web services-based application  • Strong analytical thinking and problem-solving skills backed by good communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java Developer Pacific Life Insurance - Newport Beach, CA December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Agent Portal with HTML5, CSS, JSON, AJAX and Angular Js for developing user interface and server-side technology.  • Developed application using Frameworks Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP and Hibernate.  • Angular JS used for creating single page application using a RESTful service for persisting data.  • Used Log4j for auditing and logging activities and work with SOLR enterprise search platform.  • Implementing the Angular JS and Spring MVC framework for data access.  • Several design patterns like Delegation, Abstraction, Singleton, Factory, Data Transfer Object and Data Access Object were used for the application development.  • Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  • Customized RESTful web service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between frond-end and middle tier controller.  • Implementation of Elastic search in web application environment.  • Development of Spring Boot applications with micro services.  • Worked with Oracle 11g databases MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations  • Development of REST web services using spring with the enabled OAUTH.  • Used Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2)  • Used Jenkins for continuous deployment and integration of the build and release process.  • Developed call back functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • Managed advanced techniques for single page business solutions and front-end MVC patterns.    Environments: Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Hibernate 4, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, Restful API, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Maven, AWS, Docker, Jenkins, Linux, RESTful API, Spring Boot, GIT, WebLogic 12, Oracle 11g, MongoDB. Sr Java Developer TransCanada - Charleston, WV June 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the designing of the modules and created design documents and various UML diagrams like sequence diagrams, class diagrams and use case diagrams for various use cases  • Developed SoapUI tests, web-based applications using CSS and HTML  • Utilized Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client-side validations using Java Script, jQuery, and Bootstrap.  • Used React JS and node.js in UI Development.  • Migration of WebSphere application server to Tomcat application  • Configured/Managed Jenkins CI Automation, Experience in Jenkins for building and testing Software projects  • Created performance test data by using JMeter and Selenium. Involved in testing and quality assurance  • Used Spring MVC for implementing web tier  • Published and consumed Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and deployed it on Web Logic Web Server.  • Hands on experience with multiple NOSQL databases including Couch base, HBase and Cassandra.  • Configured Cassandra cluster and SQL on the cluster. Imported data from various resources to the Cassandra cluster using Java APIs.  • Consumed SOAP based Web Services to integrate with the Web Application. Used JPA persistence for Oracle database.  • Used Log4j for logging, debugging.  • Used CVS for version control  • Test Driven Development (TTD) using JUnit & mocking by JMock  • Developing AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto scaling for EC2 instances    Environment: AWS, Java 5, J2EE, JDK 1.5, Java Beans, Spring 2.5, Java Script, CI/CD, J-Query, Hibernate 2.0, JPA Elastic search, Eclipse, Tomcat, Jenkins, PL/SQL, Selenium, Cucumber, Log4j, JMeter, XML, HTML 4.0, ReactJS, JBoss 4.2, JUnit 4.0, Soap, JMS, Web Services, WebLogic Application Server. Java Developer Johnson & Johnson - Piscataway, NJ January 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involves actively in Sprints and Scrum's of Agile Methodology  • Interacted and coordinated with the Design team, Business analyst and end users of the system.  • Configured Struts DynaActionForms, Message Resources, Action Messages, Action Errors, Validation.xml and Validator-rules.xml.  • Designed and developed Caching and Logging service using Singleton pattern, Log4j.  • Coded different action classes in struts responsible for maintaining deployment descriptors like struts-config, ejb-jar and web.xml using XML.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles and Validations provided by struts framework.  • Developed and deployed Session Beans and Entity Beans for database updates.  • Performance of programming was improved by usingMultithreading  • Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, usecases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  • Developed front end using Struts framework, business components using EJB's.  • Implementing Tiles based framework to present the layouts to the user.  • Created the web UI using Struts, JSP, Servlets and Custom tags.  • Deployment of Application in the JBoss Server environment using ANT tool.  • Developed stored procedures and complex packages extensively using PL/SQL and shell programs.  • Used Struts-Validator frame-work for all front-end Validations for all the form entries.  • Developed SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the JDE Enterprise Information System Tier.  • Prepared EJB deployment descriptors using XML.  • Wrote Action Classes to service the requests from the UI, populate business objects & invoke EJBs.  • Worked with the external CMMI Consultant in the process of implementation.  • Used JAXP (DOM, XSLT), XSD for XML data generation and presentation  • Wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.    Environment: JSP, JPA, Servlets, Struts, JAXP, SOAP, SOAP UI, XSLT, DOM, XML, EJB, Webservices, JNDI, J2EE, RSA, JBOSS6.0, RATIONAL ROSE, CVS, ORACLE9I, JUnit, Rational Rose, JavaScript, Apache Camel, HTML, JIRA, CMMI. Java developer Accenture July 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application in Agile Scrum fashion.  • Developed batch jobs and scheduling components using Spring scheduling and Spring batch.  • Implemented SOA based enterprise framework with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM.  • Involved in deploying and testing the application on JBoss server and used Maven Build automation tool to build an application.  • Designed the front-end screens using JSF (ICE Faces, Prime Faces), XHTML, HTML and Java Script and developed application using Spring framework.  • JSF ( Java Server Faces) was used for to simplify development integration of user interfaces and the operation on the values they (UI) hold.  • Worked with JBOSS Rich Faces (JSF/Face let technology for Rich Internet Application)  • Developed XHTML'S for presentation layer and used Java Script for validations.  • Designed and implemented optimized queries, data base tables and stored procedures using DB2  • Used JUnit for testing and check API performance. Used Object Relational Mapping Tool Hibernate for the interaction with the database.  • Developed JMS message listeners using Spring JMS Template to consume messages from queue.  • Developed User Interface Components using JSF ( Java Server Faces) . Designed web module in Spring framework for the J2EE application.  • Integration and implementation of modules was done by Core Java API's- Java Collection and Threads.  • Worked on Oracle as the backend database and integrated with Hibernate to retrieve Data Access Objects.  • Responsible for developing Hibernate configuration file to configure the data base drivers, connection pooling, session management and mapping files to map to database tables.    Environment: Agile, Oracle 11g, Java 1.5, HTML5.0, CSS, JSP, JSTL, JSF 2.0, JavaScript, Hibernate 4, Jboss, Spring 3.2, XHTML, XML, jQuery, SVN 1.7.2, Maven2.2.1, JUnit4, UML, , Linux Java Developer Hexaware Technologies March 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering,  • Implemented application using Struts and Spring Framework  • Use of Multithreading and collection framework including List, Map etc.  • Implemented several design patterns like Singleton, MVC and Factory design patterns  • Designed and developed DAO layer, to access data from IBM DB2 database  • Developed complex PL/SQL queries, stored procedure for getting multiple reports using MySQL  • Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP  • Developed service layer using Core Java  • Deployed J2EE components (EJB, Servlets) in WebLogic Application server  • Implemented front-end using JSP, HTML, JSTL, CSS, JavaScript  • Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript and HTML  • Prepared Unit test cases for existing functionality as per the requirement and execute the same.  • Involved in the Integration testing support and involved in bug fixing.  • Involved in the designing of use cases, user interface specification, Impact Analysis document etc.  • Developed requirements/enhancements in the applications shared by client.    Environment: Java, Servlet, JDBC, Struts Framework, Spring Framework, WebLogic, JavaScript, tag libraries, XML, SDLC, Unix, Web Services, MVC, MySQL, Core Java. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (8 years), WEB SERVICES (8 years), J2EE (6 years), SOAP (6 years), XML (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programing Skills Java/J2EE.  Scripting Skills jQuery 1.8, 1.9, AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS2, CSS3, XML, HTML4, HTML5, NodeJS, React Js, JSP, JSS.  Databases Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, NoSQL, Mongo DB.  Frameworks Hibernate, Struts, Spring, JPA.  App/ Web Servers Web Logic, WebSphere Application Server, J boss, Tomcat.  Web services Restful, SOAP  Building Tools Maven, Jenkins, Ant, Log4j.  Version Control GIT, SVN, ClearCase.  Testing Unit Testing, Integration Testing, Mock Testing.  IDE's Eclipse, IntelliJ, Edit plus, Text Pad, J Builder, Net Beans, IntelliJ IDEA  Cloud Services Amazon Web Services-EC2  Microservices Swagger, Spring Microservices, Spring boot.  Platforms Windows, Linux  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Others JMS, SDLC, CMMI.