Java Engineer <span class="hl">Java</span> Engineer Java Engineer Austin, TX Obtain a fulltime challenging and innovative software development position. Work Experience Java Engineer Advantis Global, contracting at Apple - Austin, TX February 2019 to June 2019 Responsible for implementing new designs and supporting the checkout and payment process using Java on the Apple Online Store (AOS) engineering team.    - Introduced SonarQube integration to run code analysis on Apple's Bitbucket Maven repositories. Documented and taught the entire team to use the tool.  - Formulated new designs and completed implementations to convert XML to JSON for further processing on another platform by different teams.  - Presented new designs to the team and implemented code for better Exception handling and message queue processing across different Spring ApplicationEvent types.  - Solved application startup issues and subsequently documented solutions.  - Modified configuration files to consume and publish to different Solace messaging queues. Software Developer Apex Systems - Austin, TX July 2018 to February 2019 Responsible for developing and testing code to migrate Texas Department of Transportation's legacy system to new application using Angular 5 and Java.    - Worked as Lead developer to ensure data integrity is in sync between legacy and new application.  - Introduced and integrated SonarQube into existing code base.  - Participated in design meetings with other team leads, architects, and CTO.  - Helped break down tasks and assign them to developers based on expertise. Mentored junior developers.  - Presented developed POC to TxDOT's project directors and architects.  - Developed test cases to achieve 50% minimum code coverage using Mockito framework. Java Developer Walmart Labs - Bentonville, AR September 2017 to July 2018 Responsible for developing production code for Walmart pricing team that's vital to Walmart annual revenue of almost 500 billion dollars as of 2017. Implemented over 2000 lines of production code.    - Worked on Next Generation Pricing team to help implement RESTful web services in Maven projects using Jax-rs to and Spring Boot API framework that interacts with Cassandra, MS SQL, DB2, and SAP HANA to retrieve data in JSON.  - Wrote test cases to achieve 80% or higher code coverage using Junits or Mockito framework.  - Pushed code to Github repository using Git Bash and Git Extension.  - Deployed code in Jenkins and Looper and checked for Sonar violations.  - Implemented SQL queries using Spring Boot JPA repository to access data from SQL database servers.  - Interacted with database using JDBC Statements and PreparedStatements.  - Improved performance of existing applications through the use of Java Thread Pools and properly handling SQL transactions commits and rollbacks. Radio Frequency Engineer Intern T-Mobile - Dallas, TX May 2016 to August 2016 - Helped use a variety of T-Mobile applications to monitor, control, and analyze T-Mobile's internal network.  - Worked with T-Mobile's network operation center to learn different troubleshooting steps.    Work Authorization  US Citizen Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in Computer Science TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY May 2017 Additional Information GPA: 3.2