Consultant at Reponic Consultant at Reponic CEO at Reponic - Reponic LLC Doral, FL Work Experience Consultant at Reponic Reponic LLC November 2017 to Present Consultant at Reponic, I am in charge of supervising the Development of diverse apps, software and websites.  Reviewing strategies for our clients making sure that everything is deliver on time.  ? Supervise the development and code of the apps. Working with Angular 5/Ionic. PHP, Python, MySQL, C# .Net,  Javascript, Typescript, C++ (game Development), HTML, CSS, React and Node JS. Lead Java Developer Royal Caribbean LTD - Miramar, FL December 2018 to June 2019 Triage and fast analysis of incidents/problems, find ad-hoc solutions/workarounds.  ? Analyze systems taking into account resources leaks, deadlocks, bad patterns, bottlenecks, memory usage, miss-use of APIs etc.  ? Using SQL to Create, Update, Insert and Delete data from the different Databases from the serves on the ship.  ? Make ad-hoc test scripts to recreate and proof out solutions  ? Using Powershell and Terminal to connect to the different Servers and Satellites to troubleshoot on real time.  ? Isolate cause of failure from log analysis using tools like Dynatrace and Splunk, knowledge of the environment/application, and verbal/written descriptions of the environment/application failure.  ? Proactive Task: Build a basic Machine Learning project where depending on the data it will predict the most efficient way to solve the issues.  ? Develop an App on Angular 5. Full Stack Development. This app was the winner of the third place on the Royal Caribbean Hackathon Full-Stack Developer and Software Developer Oikos Financial - Doral, FL February 2018 to November 2018 Doral, FL.    ? At Oikos Financial, my work falls into two distinct categories: Full-Stack Developer and Software Developer.    ? Using Python to Data Management pulling data from the server using MySQL, and Automating tests using Selenium (Python).    ? My responsibilities for Full-Stack Developer are working and investigate what are the best tools to achieve the requirements of the project. Developing code from scratch to later lead the team that is going to maintain it while I start other project from scratch.  ? In my role as a Full-Stack Developer we worked on Angular 5 and Ionic with HTML, CSS, Typescript and JavaScript for the Front-End taking care of the basics of UI/UX. On the Back-End we worked on C# .Net Core to build the back-end and the Uni-Tests, Using SQL to manage the database. We include in some of these projects we used Stripe for payment management and InContact for customer support.    ? My role as Software Developer are working building scripts in Python to build API's and Automate the browser to run tasks multiple times.  ? In this role I worked on Python building scripts for different kinds of tasks that they needed to use inside of the company, I used Selenium WebDriver to write the browser automation and Tkinter to create a simple and nice interface for internal purposes. Lead Full-Stack Developer, building the architecture Decoaries Corp - Hialeah, FL April 2015 to December 2017 of the projects and leading the team to develop it. I started writing the code with them and then I gave them the tasks with due dates so I could start another project, this way we create a more efficient system to complete the projects and just do the maintenance. This company had Mobile App, a Software to manage the inventory and database of the clients, an E-commerce website and a Standard Business Website.    ? Create an automated system to test the applications on Python using Selenium Webdriver.    ? We develop all the Mobile Apps in Ionic and the Software and Websites on Angular 2, 4, the Front-End we wrote it on HTML, CSS, JavaScript and TypeScript. On the Back-End we worked for the company's software with React. For the Mobile App, Django and for the Websites #C .Net Core and MySQL for the database. Education Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering in Software Engineering FULL SAIL UNIVERSITY - Winter Park, FL December 2017 Skills .net, C#, C/c++, C++, Html, Public Speaking, Strategic Planning Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/miguel-tannous-638b0a125 https://github.com/Reponic