Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer San Francisco, CA • Around 8 Years of extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Web Application Design, Development, Programming, Testing, Support Maintenance, and End- User support.  • Experience in all phases of Software Engineering (SDLC), Project management (Waterfall & Agile/Scrum Methodology) including Requirement Gathering, analysis, Define project scope, Design, Coding, App & web server installation, deployment, Manual Testing and Implementation.  • Proficiency in developing secure enterprise Java applications using technologies such as JSP, Servlets, JAVA Beans, EJB, JMS, JNDI, JDBC, XML, CSS.  • Having hands-on experience in Front-End using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS and EXT JS.  • Expertise in various open source frameworks like Struts1.2/2.0, Spring (including Web Flow), and Web development technologies like AJAX and Object Relational Mapping Technology like Hibernate.  • Good Experience with Springs, Spring IOC, AOP, MVC, Spring Security, Spring JPA, Spring Batch.  • Worked on Java x.8/1.8 features such as Lambda Expression.  • Experience in Spring Boot, Spring Microservice  • Good knowledge and experience in Core and J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Abstract Factory, Builder, MVC2, Business Delegate, DAO etc.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, JSON, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, JQuery.  • Extensive experience with Spring along with Hibernate for managing the Database Transactions.  • Extensive experience in modelling presentation tier using Struts MVC2 (Model-View- Controller) architecture.  • Experience in portal Application development in WebSphere Portal Server.  • Expertise on entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in Intranet and Internet applications using Web/Application Servers like Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere and WebLogic Application Server.  • Experience with IBM WebSphere Application server and Web-logic Application Server.  • Experience with AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, Cloud formation templates, CICD tools (Jenkins, GIT, Chef, Ansible playbooks)  • Competence in using Java IDE tools of Rational Application Developer (RAD), WebSphere Application Developer (WSAD), Eclipse 3.0 and WebLogic Workshop to develop dynamic web applications.  • Experience with the database management like Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access and NoSQL MongoDB.  • Experience on Database Management Systems (SQL Server).  • Sound knowledge of JAXB, JAX-RS and working experience in JAX-WS.  • Experience on Ant, Maven, Log4j, JUnit, Swagger API for Restful Services  • Experience in development of Build script using Ant and Maven  • Experience on version control tools like CVS and Rational ClearCase, ANT Scripting, IBM Rational Team Concert.  • Extensive working knowledge on automation for deployment/ configuration of different Application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, Web Servers like Apache, Tomcat.  • Good experience with version controls like SVN, IBM, GIT.  • Experience on JUNIT wide range of experience in performance engineering.  • Experience with Web services - SOAP UI, RESTful.  • Having good knowledge Pivotal Cloud Foundry  • Experience in writing SQL Queries, PL/SQL Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Cursors. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer StubHub - SFO, CA May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and prototyping.  • Used AGILE software development methodology which helps to develop project plans.  • Designed entire framework to support Test Driven development (TDD) by making use of Dependency Injection through unity framework and developed a generic repository.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and React JS.  • Involved in using React JS components, Forms, keys, Events, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Developed Open stack API to integrate with Amazon EC2 cloud based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images.  • Build RESTful web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery and AJAX calls.  • Created RFP (Request for Proposal) Micro service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Developed code using Design Patterns like DAO, Factory Pattern, Singleton and Value Objects, Decorator, State, Strategy.  • Used Spring as the MVC model. Used Spring AOP for common cross cutting concerns like security and interception.  • Worked on Code builds and code changes are made in JavaScript, Python and Shell scripts.  • Created Views, Sequences in the oracle database and modified the existing PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Used GitHub to maintain the versions of the source code of the project.  • Used CI/CD technologies such GIT, Chef, Jenkins are used for developing and deploy web services.  • Expertise in using NoSQL database like MongoDB to support the storage of JSON objects and provides the storage for security related information.  • Generated proxy code from .WSDL file using SOAP UI for client-server communication.  • Worked on Load testing on JMeter to improve the performance of newly developed code.  • Designed and prepared Unit test cases using Junit and Log4j and removed the maximum bugs before passing onto the application to the QA team.  • Used Jenkins application to build and perform continuous deployments of JBOSS war files.  • Deployed web and enterprise applications on JBoss application server in a channel secure environment.  • Used UNIX shell scripting to automate software installation and testing. Wrote scripts to apply application patches and Oracle table updates.  • Developed integration modules for disparate clients using Apache Camel.  • Involved in Unit testing of application using Karma and Jasmine library to make sure that the application is compatible in all browsers.  • Worked in close cooperation with project managers and other functional team members to form a team effort in development.    Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Hibernate 4.0, Apache CXF, AJAX, UML, MS Visio, JSTL, Oracle 11g, JBoss, Eclipse 4.2, Junit, NPM, SOAPUI 5.1, Log4j, Maven 3.1, NodeJS, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Typescript, MongoDB, HTML5, CSS3, Toad, Maven, Jenkins, RESTful API, Sun Jersey, Junit 4.1, AngularJS, GIT, Chef, MongoDB, JMeter, Apache Camel, Karma, Cloud/AWS, Jasmine. Java Full Stack Developer Charter Communication - Maryland Heights, MO December 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle process using Agile Methodology.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Used Multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Created RFP Microservices to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Microservices.  • Designed and developed application using Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP and handled security using Spring Security OAuth.  • Integrated Spring MVC model for front-end request action controller and Spring AOP for logging purposes.  • Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and developed controllers for handling Http requests and providing Http response.  • Developed REST and SOAP based Web Services for data retrieval to make it independent of the current application.  • Implemented request and response objects using SOAP web services and created routes using Apache Camel.  • Implemented RESTful web services using JAX-RS and Jersey as provider.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture by SOAP based Web Services with JAX-WS and WSDL.  • Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  • Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications  • Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs as JDO and Hibernate.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Integration and Hibernate template support.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  • Used Microservices to ensure the scalability of application on cloud infrastructure.  • Wrote writing complex PL/SQL queries using joins, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, cursors, and indexes in Data Access Layer.  • Developed test cases for Unit Testing, Integration Testing with JUnit.  • Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Used Maven as build automation tool and deployments are on Web Logic Application Server.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Spring Tool Suite (STS) IDE for application development.  • Actively involved in the DevOps streamlining process through Jenkins CI and CD Release Automation.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Hibernate, Cloud/AWS, JDBC, REST, SOAP, Apache Camel, CI CD, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, Microservices, MongoDB, PL/SQL, Unit Testing, JUnit, Log4j, Maven, GitHub, Multi-Threading, Collections, Web Logic Application Server, Jenkins and Spring Tool Suite (STS), HTML, DHTML, No-SQL, Agile Methodology Java Full Stack Developer TIAA CREF - Charlotte, NC October 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile methodology (Scrum) from requirements gathering to maintenance and optimizing the system.  • Used Apache Tomcat that implements the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE).  • Developed Performance optimized Restful web services using Apache CXF and Jenkins/Maven in building the project.  • All responses are returned in JSON/XML format.  • Generated POJO's using Hibernate JPA 2.0.  • Used GIT for Version control across common source code used by developers.  • Developed the Front End using HTML, JavaScript, ExtJs and CSS.  • Used JBoss Fuse for integration of the web services and Apache Tomcat.  • Used Apache CXF advanced searching Techniques along with Searching algorithms in developing the service.  • Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code.  • Used JBoss Fuse to integrate the services to the server which provides runtime monitoring and cluster management (Fuse Fabric).  • Used Spring Dao classes to perform database transactions with Spring JDBC and Spring JDBC row mapper classes to prepare result set for database operations.  • Implemented caching techniques, generated POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data.  • Used Apache CXF for web service development and spring framework to generate artifacts and configuration to publish JAX-WS web services.  • Used Exception Handling to handle the exceptions thrown by services.  • Developed SQL queries and stored procedures using squirrel SQL client version3.6.  • Used Jerkins to integrate and deploy code to production and staging environment quickly leveraged the use of Java Messaging artifacts using JMS for sending out automated notification emails to respective users of the application.  • Used Perforce system for GIT and to get marshaled ruby output.  • Used Maven to build and JBoss EAP Server to deploy and run the services.  • Used Agile Product Lifecycle Management(PLM) as a media to fix defects raised by testing team and monitored the product development.  • Translated business requirements to technical design specification documents.  • Performed JUnit Testing on the developed web services.    Environment: Java, WebServices(Restful), JBoss Fuse Esb, JPA 2.0, HTML, Boot, Agile PLM, Thread beans, Cloud/AWS, ExtJs, Hibernate, Rabbit, JMS, SQL, GIT, GitHub, Apache CXF, JHipster, Maven, SQL, HTML, DHTML, No-SQL, Oracle. Java Full Stack Developer Rolta - IN August 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Coordinated designs and implementation of application, collaborated with project managers  • Involved in design and developing phases of SDLC in Agile methodology.  • Involved in resolving the Design issues and other project related problems.  • Design patterns of Delegates, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using Spring IOC, Spring core module.  • Deployed web components, presentation components and business components in Web Logic Application Server.  • Performed client side validations using JavaScript.  • Using Angular.js, providing custom services and using custom filter validating credentials in User Interface.  • Developing single page applications (SPA), components using Angular.js directives, controllers, view and routing, service modules.  • Extensively worked on Java server side programming using Servlets, and JSP.  • Involved in peer code reviews and performed integration testing of the modules.  • Created and maintained mapping files, persisting classes and transaction control in JDBC to access the database.  • Developed DAO objects and implemented data access layer using JPA-Hibernate to perform CRUD operations.  • Implemented servlets to handle HTTP requests for on-line requests, credit card payments, registration and bug tracking.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, Prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the DB2 database.  • Extensively worked with XML schema (XSD), XSL/XSLT, and XML to navigate in XML documents, and SAX to process and parse xml files.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous processing of alerts.  • Developed web services SOAP, WSDL and web services clients using JAXB and XML, implemented SOAP architecture.  • Used CVS for code repository.    Environment: Java 1.7, Servlets, JSP, Spring IOC, DevOps, Spring Core, APIGEE, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.Js, JPA, WebLogic, JHipster, JDBC, DB2, CI/CD, Spring IOC, Hibernate, CVS, Rabbit, XML, XSL, XSLT, XSD, SAX, JAX-WS (SOAP) web services, BitBucket, ANT, Boot, SOA, Eclipse Java Developer Mastek - IN June 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Implemented Struts Framework and Hibernate in the new version of the Application.  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts and JavaScript.  • Developed Action classes, Dyna Action Forms and used Validation framework.  • Used EJB Stateless/Stateful session beans to implement business logic, session handling, and transaction and deployed Enterprise Java Beans both Session and Entity on WebSphere Application Server.  • Implement modules into NodeJs to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Taken care of java Multi-Threading in common java classes/library.  • Extensively used Java Scripts to enforce client side validations and also used JQuery for Ajax processing.  • Involved in development/ maintenance of various web services using IBM WebSphere to interact with other Applications.  • Involved in unit testing, troubleshooting and debugging. Modifying existing programs with enhancements.  • Worked on Linux environment for deploying the application, running scripts for jobs.  • Involved in fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application.  • Worked as the part of a core team to monitor and enhance the performance of the application.    Environment: Core Java, Jakarta Struts Framework, Hibernate, EJB, Web Services, CSS, NodeJs, Eclipse, CVS, Boot, WebSphere Application Server 6.5, JUnit, UNIX, JavaScript, SOA, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JQuery, DB2. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT (6 years), ECLIPSE (5 years), jQuery (4 years), CVS (4 years), DB2 (4 years), php, mysql, asp, html Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming JDK 1.5, 1.6, 1.7,1.8, C, C++  Scripting JQuery 1.8,1.9, JQueryUI, Dojo, ExtJS, AngularJS, ReactJS, Javascript, CSS2, CSS3, HTML4, HTML5, NodeJS,  Databases DB2, MS-SQL Server, Oracle, PLSQL, PostgresSQL, MySQL  IDEs Eclipse 3.0, 3.1, MyEclipse 4.1, IntelliJ, Netbeans, JBuilder 2007  Version Control Tortoise SVN, Rational Clearcase, GitHub, CVS  DevOps ANT, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, Hudson, Chef, Puppet, Ansible  ORM Hibernate  Defect Tracking JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational ClearQuest/    Methodologies Agile (XP, Scrum), Rational Unified Process(RUP), Waterfall  Platforms Windows 2000/NT/ XP/Vista and Sun Solaris 2.8/2.9, UNIX  Cloud AWS (EC2, S3, RDS)  Application Servers WebLogic 8.1, 10.0, WebSphere 6.1, JBoss 4.0