MuleSoft Developer MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> MuleSoft Developer Andover, NJ • Have over 8+ years of IT experience, working through Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation in Application Software.  • Worked on various phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) which includes Application Software Specifications, Architectural Design, Prototyping, Development, Testing and Deploying the applications using Mule ESB and over 3 years of Strong experience in MuleESB, Mule API design and Cloud hub.  • Experience on MuleSoftESB, Mule API manager, RAML, Anypoint Studio, Anypoint Cloud-Hub and API Gateway and Management.  • Implemented ESB Integration Services using MuleSoftESB and enterprise application (EAI) using Mule Soft 3.x and Experience in designing and implementing API led connectivity Architecture.  • Expertise in developing the integration workflows using an ESB framework. Developed Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous mule flows.  • Experienced in developing MuleESB flows and integrations by using service-oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise application integration (EAI) using MuleRuntime  • Strong application integration experience using MuleESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing, ActiveMQ, JMS.  • Worked on Mule flow variables, record variables, Mule Expression Language (MEL) to access payload data, inbound properties and used it to transform the payload or store payload in Variables.  • Experience working with various connectors like File, HTTP, Oracle database, Salesforce, CXF, etc. flow references and exception strategies.  • Extensive Experience in designing, developing and managing APIs using Mule API gateway/portal.  • Experience in deploying Mule flows and securing the APIs using the platform in Mule Cloud hub.  • Knowledge of J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Factory, Abstract Factory, Command Pattern, Singleton, Session Facade, Transfer Object, Business Delegate and Data Access Object etc.  • Experience with several design patterns like Singleton, Factory Method, Prototype, etc. and architectures like Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and MVC.  • Proficient in several frameworks like Struts 2.0, Java Server Faces, and Hibernate 3.0/4.0 ORM, SpringFramework 3.0, spring MVC with GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, validation plug-ins like Validator Framework.  • Experienced in implementing DAO layer using ORM tools like Hibernate core interfaces, annotations and optimizations.  • Have deep understanding of both Relational Database and also experience in non-relational database like MongoDB.  • Extensive experience in SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, IBM DB2 and MS SQL Server.  • Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JSP, XML, JSF and Swing.  • Extensive experienced in implementing single page applications using angular.JS directives, routing modules.  • Created custom directives, decorators, and services using AngularJS to interface with both Restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  • Experience in Highcharts and HighstockAPI for developing interactive UI charts.  • Experience in using Maven and Ant for build automation.  • Good Experience in developing test cases with JUnit and logging with Log4j.  • Extensive experience utilizing JAXB, JAXP and JMS.  • Used GitHub repository to run the Jenkinsjob for Continues Integration.  • Extensive experience in setting up server properties, connection pooling and Messaging using TomcatServer, JBoss.  • Hands-on experience in writing SQL&PLSQL.  • Experience in ANT and Maven build tools for building and deploying the application in web/app servers and vast experience with java multithreaded programming.  • Field experience with Junit and Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality, have written MUnit test cases to validate MuleFlows.  • Good debugging skills that deep diving into technical issues, collaborating with cross-domain experts, handling clients with different priorities and mind sets, both onsite and remote.  • Knowledge in developing System Design using UML methodology and preparation of class and sequence diagrams.  • Communicate effectively with people at different levels including stakeholders, internal teams and the senior management.  • Experience working in an Agile/Scrum team environment and pair programming. Work Experience MuleSoft Developer Jefferies, NJ August 2018 to Present Description: Jefferies Group LLC is an American multinational independent investment bank and financial services company that is headquartered in New York City. The firm provides clients with capital markets and financial advisory services, institutional brokerage, securities research, and asset management.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented integration flows using Mule AnyPoint Studio to connect to REST, SOAP Service, Oracle Database, and Active MQbroker.  • Experience with Mule administration, configuration and tuning.  • Experience with Mule Soft MMC and Enterprise release capabilities.  • Worked with MuleSoft Anypoint API Platform on designing the RAML for implementing REST API's and used API Gateway as a proxy service.  • Deployed MUnit to validate mule flows where MuleESB applications were implemented into MMC (Mule Management Console).  • Implemented MULEESB to route various calls to do validation of service input and to handle exceptions.  • Implemented Security Mechanisms like Security Certificates, Key Exchange, Encryption, Description and OAuth Authentication & Authorization using Access Token and SM SessionCookie.  • Consumed SOAP Web Services using WSDL Files and transformed them into appropriate format.  • Used DataWeave extensively to do data transformations along with custom Java Classes.  • Creating Flows, Sub Flows, Exception strategy, Data Mapper and Data Weave transformation in Mule configuration.  • Extensively used Mule components that include DataWeave, JAXB, File Transport, SMTPTransport, FTP/SFTP Transport, and JDBC Connector.  • Used AMQP Endpoints to connect to RabbitMQ which is a messaging queue.  • Configured connection pooling using WebSphere application server. Developed and Deployed the Application on WebSphere using ANT build.xml script.  • Implemented build package tool using Maven and build the code in Jenkins. Build and Deployment of services in MuleESB server. Code walk-throughs, MuleDebugging and Errorfixing.  • Designed the applications using MuleESB as a middleware between third-party systems and the systems at our customer side.  • Done with preparation of design document specifications, troubleshoots and testing.  • Implementedvarious REST services using MuleAPI Platform.  • Formulated build and deployment mule projects to cloud hub using Maven and using Jenkins to deploy the artifacts to cloud hub.  • Used Mule Batch Processing to process records from Database.  • Implemented choice, global, custom exception handling mechanisms based on the business requirement in Mule ESB.  • Extensively used Mule Debugger to debug the XMLFlows and wrote Munit Test Cases using features like mocking, verify call, and assert conditions based different sets of data.  • Used Git as a version and source controlling tool and deployed the application on premises as well as on CloudHub.    Environment:Mule ESB4.1.2,3.9, Anypoint Studio 7.1.2,6.5, JAVA, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JAXB, ActiveMQ, RAML, RabbitMQ, APM, Nexus, Apache-Maven, CloudHub, XML, XSLT, CSS, Ajax, JSTL, WebLogic Application server 10.3, LDAP, Oracle 11g- PL/SQL, SQL, Log4J, CVS, DOJO, Web Services - WSDL, SOAP, CXF, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Jenkins. MuleSoft Developer J B Hunt - Lowell, AR May 2017 to July 2018 Description: J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. is a trucking and transportation company that was founded by Johnnie Bryan Hunt and based in the Northwest Arkansas city of Lowell.    Responsibilities:  • Used WebSphere Application Server for deployment.  • Designed and developed ESB, SOA Mule flows for integration of services with underlying systems, following Established enterprise integration patterns based on latest Mule versions.  • Testing and support of the application under different environments includes DEV, SYST, UAT and PROD.  • Developed the application using Agile methodology and participated in Scrum meetings.  • Strong knowledge and hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API's using RAML File.  • Worked in design, development and support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Developed applications using Mule ESB and Mule-Batch processing and deployed the services.  • Actively involved in complete Software development lifecycle and employed SCRUM methodology of Agile model.  • Consumed RESTful and SOAP web services in Mule and invoked them using Postman and SoapUI.  • Involved in implementing logging, exception handling and transaction management using Spring AOP.  • Worked with Mule Any point API Platform on designing the RAML for implementing REST API's  • Used Mule Scopes to encapsulate other message processors to function as a single unit. Involved in testing SOAP web services using SOAP UI.  • Worked on CloudHub and Mule Management console.  • Writing application code and development activities for large projects especially in a SOA environment.  • Experience in creating API using RAML, API portal, API proxies and documentation.  • Extensively worked on Data Mapper and Mule Data Weave component for complex Data Transformations using Mule ESB for use in Mule Flow.  • Extensively used Mule ESB components like File Transport, SMTP Transport, FTP/SFTP Transport, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  Environment: Mule ESB, Anypoint Studio IDE, C#.Net, Java/JEE, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, Oracle, Windows XP, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Mule ESB 3.5.2, XML, JSON, SOAP UI, REST Client, MMC, Salesforce, RAML. Mule soft ESB Developer Change HealthCare - Dallas, TX January 2016 to April 2017 Description: Change Healthcare is a catalyst for your value-based healthcare system. We are a healthcare technology company that offers software, analytics, network solutions, and technology-enabled services to help create a stronger, more collaborative healthcare system. We help deliver measurable value not only at the point of care, but also before, after, and in between care episodes.    Responsibilities:  • Assessing information needs of the users and developing technical specifications/solutions.  • Developed low level design document and Java components.  • Built a web frontend using JSFFramework with JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Used Can JS for client-side validation as a JQuery that makes code less complex.  • Used JQGrid as an Ajax-enabled JavaScript control to provide solutions for representing and manipulating tabular data on the web.  • Involved in Requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and Maintenance phases of Application. Implementing the project in agile methodologies - sprint & scrum.  • Used HTML, XHTML, DHTML, Java Script, AJAX, JQUERY, XML, XSLT, XPATH, JSP and Tag Libraries to develop view pages.  • Used spring framework to inject services, entity services, transaction management, and concerns by factory class corresponding to the use case operation executing.  • Implemented the application using spring concepts - DI/IOC, AOP, Batch implementation and Spring MVC.  • Developed & consumed the web services using Apache CXF, JAX-WS, AXIS, WSDL, and SOAP.  • Deployed Mule ESB applications into MMC (Mule Management Console).  • Strong experience on various Mule connectors / adapters, developing API, API management and developing services on Cloud Hub.  • Used Database Connectors (generic configuration) to connect with SQL Server using Mule ESB.  • Extensively used Mule components that include DataWeave, File Transport, SMTP Transport, FTP/SFTP, Mule Requestor and JDBC Connector.  • Designed applications in such a way that encrypted files can be decrypted, processed and again encrypted to send them to affiliates within the mule flows.  • Widely used Splitters, Scattering & Gathering, scopes and Batch processing in Mule ESB.  • Implemented Batch jobs/process in order to increase the performance of the jobs running while processing the files and also for stability.  • Developed and tested persistence of order messages on oracle database using Hibernate.  • Developed functional test cases and end to end test cases on JUnit for testing for business scenario.  • Conducted unit, integration and regression testing.  • Involved in doing JUNIT testing and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool.  • Ran check styles, find bugs and PMD defects and fixed them.  • Deployed web services are tested using SOAP UI tool.  • Involved in unit testing using JUNIT with Mockito, Integration testing and system testing.  • Deployed the application in UNIX machine and used FTP to see the logs etc.  • Used Ant tool to build & deploy the application on the server.  • Developed Aspects for logging errors in the application. Given Production support for Autosys jobs for Client orders/trade report generation.  • Used MAVEN build tool to build the application on EclipseIDE and deployed on IBM Web Sphere.  • Performed the code reviews and enforcing the standards. Coordinated with Quality Analysis team and handling issues.  • Interacted with different teams and involved in reviewing deliverables.    Environment: Java JDK1.7, J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Log4J, UML, AJAX, WebLogic 10.3, Hibernate 3.0, Oracle 10g, SQL, PL/SQL, HTTP, HTTPS, Windows, Web Services, Unix, Bootstrap, SOA, SOAP, WSDL, SSO, SAML, IntelliJ IDEA, Junit, XML/XSL, Maven, Spring 3.0 Java Developer Edgewell Personal Care - St. Louis, MO March 2014 to December 2015 Description: Edgewell Personal Care, formerly the personal care division of Energizer Holdings Inc, the objective of this project is to design and develop a B2C Website on Java Platform where customer can view the different products provided by our Edgewell. This project provides capability for USA B2C Customer to buy the Edgewell Products Online. It allows the private individuals to purchase products, Customer details, checking availability of the product, shopping cart etc.    Responsibilities:  • Assessing information needs of the users and developing technical specifications/solutions.  • Developed low level design document and Java components.  • Built a web frontend using JSFFramework with JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Used Can JS for client-side validation as a JQuery that makes code less complex.  • Used JQGrid as an Ajax-enabled JavaScript control to provide solutions for representing and manipulating tabular data on the web.  • Developed administrative UI using backbone JS.  • Followed Agile methodology, interacted with the client, for taking feedback on the features.  • Used Smart Trade API to get client data and display using JSP.  • Used Java ( Java Swing, JavaAWT, Multi-threading, Socket Programming etc.) for application development.  • Developing the automation scripts for functional and regression testing through Protractor.  • Developed the user interface using JSF, Ajax and FACELETS. Majorly worked on JSF technologies like ICEFACES and RICHFACES  • Involved in fixing defects in application worked in JSF managed beans, converters, validator and configuration files.  • Developed JSPs (with JSTL), JSF according to requirement to handle the requests and to provide some components of UI (User Interface) in the application  • Developed Web services (SOAP) to expose the business methods to external services.  • Developed Web Enable client FIX interface for order routing and developed test cases.  • Developed a messaging queue using JMS messaging to notify return messages post execution and to interact with orchestration engine.  • Used Aggregator and conversional pattern to aggregate the response received.  • Developed Helper Classes and Value data access objects which interact with Database.  • Implemented Hibernate (ORM Mapping tool) framework to interact with the database to update, retrieve, insert and delete values effectively.  • Developed and tested persistence of order messages on oracle database using Hibernate.  • Developed functional test cases and end to end test cases on JUnit for testing for business scenario.  • Conducted unit, integration and regression testing.  • Developed Aspects for logging errors in the application. Given Production support for Autosys jobs for Client orders/trade report generation.  • Used MAVEN build tool to build the application on EclipseIDE and deployed on IBM Web Sphere.  • Performed the code reviews and enforcing the standards. Coordinated with Quality Analysis team and handling issues.  • Interacted with different teams and involved in reviewing deliverables.    Environment: Java, Backbone.js, JMS, Web services (SOAP and REST), JQGrid, JSF, Hibernate, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Can JS, Oracle, IBM WebSphere, JUnit, Maven, Agile, Eclipse IDE, Protractor, UNIX. Java UI Developer Ariv Technology Pvt Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Carried out requirement specification, design, analysis, implementation and testing  • Designed UML Class Diagrams and Use Case Diagrams to understand the code easily.  • Designed and Developed required Manager Classes for database operations  • Developed various Servlets for monitoring the application.  • Designed and developed the front-end using HTML and JSP  • Developed XML files, DTDs, Schema's and parsing XML by using both SAX and DOM parser.  • Wrote deployment descriptors using XML and Test java classes for a direct testing of the Session and Entity beans.  • Used Protractor to develop automated scripts to test the UI developed on Angular JS in a CI/CD pattern.  • Did Packaging and Deployment of builds through ANTscript.  • Wrote stored procedure and used JAVAAPIs to call these procedures.  • Database designing that includes defining tables, views, constraints, triggers, sequences, index, and stored procedures.  Environment: UML, XML files, DTDs, Java / J2ee, JSP, servlets, Protractor, EJB 2.0, SQL Server, DOM parser, JAVA APIs, ANT script, Oracle 9i, Jboss& Web Logic Server 6, JavaScript SAX, HTML and JSP. Web Developer Capture IT Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of UI/UX implementation of an internal mobile catalog application including Design, Prototyping, development and testing phases.  • Rewrote and maintained the internal library and built a structured MVC /MVVM framework by redesigning the front- end UI components.  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, and JSON with MySQL database as the backend.  • Built HTML templates for high traffic and complex data-driven website.  • Debugged all look and feel issues in the target browsers, in conjunction with quality assurance.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested event handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Experienced in implementing Rich Internet Applications i.e., RIAs using JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX calls and JSON data from the server.  • Programmed standards-compliantHTML and CSS working with JQuery modules and JavaScript libraries.  • Worked through cross-browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS.  • Tested cross-browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE8+.  • Made changes to various CSS properties to enhance the UI as per client requirements. Wrote SQL, PL/SQL (Procedures/Functions/Packages/Triggers) to handle business functionality.  • Used XMLSAX parser to simulate XML file which has simulated test data.  • Code review and function testing for better client interface and usability.  • Participation in meeting with the team, senior management, and client stakeholders.  Environment:HTML, CSS, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, MVC Framework, XML, J2EE, JSF, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, SVN.