Salesforce Lightning Developer Salesforce Lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Lightning Developer - Toyota connected Plano, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Lightning Developer Toyota connected - Plano, TX January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Workflow Management Template creation and Task Search page generation.  ? Was also involved in generation of rules to automate the process of Creating Project, Auto assignment of Task, auto opening of successor or predecessor tasks.  ? Created Batch files to clone Project, Phase and Tasks from its corresponding templates.  ? Created VF page to display all Object metadata on the Task template. These metadata were in turn used to dynamically display fields on Task Page  ? Worked in Agile project model and involved in documenting IT Stories and scoping sprints  ? Developed APEX triggers, classes, Visual Force pages.  ? Created lightning pages and lightning components.  ? Ability to understand existing Lightning code and independently come up with solutions to fix code bugs.  ? Developed Lightning Components and used Lightning App Builder to use those components in Lightning Pages and Record Pages.  ? Worked on salesforce 1 Mobile app by using lightning app builder.  ? Created home page, record page, app page in lightning Page.  ? Created various Visualforce pages with Custom controllers and standard Controllers.  ? Designed visual force pages in different formats like in pdf, customized to download page as excel/PDF, designed with CSS for Interface.  ? Worked on designing and developing Lightning Community Builder and developed Lightning Components using Aura framework.  ? Worked on synching DocuSign status and saving the Docs in SFDC  ? Created summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts and Dashboards to provide more accurate Forecasting  ? Used Force.com Eclipse IDE plug in to develop the classes and triggers.  ? Experience working with Salesforce mobile integration resolving cases on the go and deployed applications from Sandbox to production.  ? Developed custom Workflows and Assignment Rules.  ? Implemented Field Level security for sensitive data holder fields.  ? Have experience in using Ant, TestNG and Junit.  ? Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case entry and manual case entry for entering customer's cases in Case tab.  ? Extensively worked on web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, WSDL, J-query, Tool tip & Auto Complete widget, SOAP, REST, BULK and METADATA API.  ? Exploring App exchange applications and integrating them with Salesforce.  ? Created Web Services for handling requests and API based applications using REST or SOAP-based web services (SOA)    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visualforce, Lightning Components, Lightning Application, Lightning App Builder, HTML, Java Script, Java, Web Services, Lightning Pages, WSDL, Custom Tabs, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Admin 21 the century fox - Los Angeles, CA January 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and Unit tested the enhancement projects using agile and waterfall methodologies.  ? Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  ? Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports.  ? Worked on developing multiple projects in parallel along with the support of different applications  ? Designed, and deployed the Custom objects, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules on the objects and tabs,  ? Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  ? Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  ? Communicated and collaborated with upper managements and senior business partners to define Project In-Scope and Out-Of-Scope, Strategies and Deliverable.  ? Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  ? Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.  ? Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity  ? Used the Force.com explorer/ Developer console to build and test SOQL and SOSL queries.  ? Created Visual Force Pages to override the standard functionality of New and Edit buttons.  ? Developed Assignment rules, Escalation rules to enable proper routing of cases to the case team members.  ? Developed workflow rules, tasks, emails and alerts to track customer related tasks and activities.  ? Designed various types Email templates for auto response to customers.  ? Developed custom reports to assist managers and report folders to provide report accessibility personnel.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows. Salesforce Developer BB & T, Winston - Salem, NC October 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Created custom buttons on the page layout and wrote S-control to implement the logic.  ? Implemented on workflow rules & approval processes.  ? Worked on sharing rules by setting on Organization-wide default sharing access level, and then grant add additional access based on the Requirement.  ? Created dashboard reports to track overall business results as well as lead efforts using Tableau  ? Involved in creating Gap Analysis document identifying the data, business process and workflows of the organization with respect to Sales Force.com implementation.  ? Gathering requirements, functional and technical, for several projects and involved in the design of prototypes.  ? Thorough understanding and good experience on Data Loader.  ? Experienced in Creating Roles, Profiles, Users, Email Services, Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions.  ? Created offline surveys and data collection forms.  ? Generated various Reports, Dashboards and Approval Processes. Experience in Implementing and executing System Logs and Debug Logs.  ? Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from (SFDC) Salesforce.com subjects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, Java, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Java Developer Jeevan Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Provided day-to-day technical support in maintaining system. Identified, analyzed, and resolved problems in system.  ? Analyzed, Designed, Implemented and Unit tested new enhancements/Bug fixes identified in  ? Webservices and WebSphere Commerce applications in system.  ? Monitored the application performance using tools like Wily Introscope.  ? Developed and maintained technical documentation on the new enhancements and design changes.  ? Communicated with the Business User to identify business requirement. Analyzed and converted the same into functional requirement.  ? Communicated and collaborated with upper managements and senior business partners to define the Project In-Scope and Out-Of-Scope, Strategies and Deliverable.  ? Requirement Analysis and Detail Test Estimate.  ? Co-ordination with System Architect and Development Team for test data setup during system testing.  ? Worked with Database triggers for a change data capture testing.  ? Involved in development of stateless session beans.  ? Experience working Point-Point Queue and PUB-SUB.  ? Deployed applications to WebSphere Application Server for Quality Testing and Acceptance Testing.  ? Involved in end to end development using variety of coding frameworks including Java/J2EE, EJB and web-based frameworks like JQuery, JSON, JavaScript.  ? Good Exposure to Collections.  ? Hands on experience with Core Java techniques.  ? Interactions with mid-tier session beans and converters for exposure to Business Logic and DB's.  ? Handled Implementation classes and Interfaces.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, MS Visio, MS project, Standard and Custom Objects, Validation rules, Workflow & Approvals, Record types, Reports, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Web Services, Pages, Data Loader, Informatica on Demand, CRM Fusion, HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, Custom Tabs, Access and Security Controls, Code Migration, Eclipse, Force.com IDE Java /J2EE Developer OSI Consulting - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Handled Implementation classes and Interfaces.  ? Developed a web application using JSP, Servlets and JavaBeans  ? Wrote unit tests for Business logic layer and data access layer using Junit.  ? Learned and implemented different design patters like Singletons, Factory method, Builder etc.  ? Participated heavily and later maintained the documentation for projects  ? Developed content management systems for multiple clients using J2EE.  ? Used EJBs in the application and developed Session beans to house business logic  ? Developed views for JSP pages using jQuery and AJAX.  ? Worked extensively on creating rich front-end web interface using HTML/CSS, JSTL, JavaScript, jQuery.  ? Used JDBC for communicating with database.  ? Used SQL Server as the database for the application.  ? Generated PDF reports using XSL-FO  ? Implemented XSLT transformations for converting XML to HTML.    Environment: Windows, Linux, Java, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JUnit, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery Education Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Bachelor of technology in computer science and engineering JNTU Skills Java, Hadoop, Javascript, Visio, Security, Sharepoint, Force.com, Salesforce.com, Database, Db2, Microsoft sql server, Microsoft sql server 2000, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Hadoop, Crm, Angularjs Links http://salesforce.com Additional Information Technical Skills:  CRM Applications  Salesforce.com: Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Force.com: Lightning, Custom Cloud  Salesforce.com: Reporting and Analytics of Sales, Service and Custom Cloud  Salesforce.com AppExchange: Application for code backup and sub versioning within Salesforce    Configuration Skills  SFDC Standard Object Configuration: Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Price Books, Products, Assets, Contracts, Cases, Solutions, Ideas, Cases, Solutions, Ideas, Queues, Quotes and Custom Object development Field creation, Page Layout creation/editing, Related list customization, Record Types, Field Level and Object level security, role hierarchies, sharing models, Workflow: time-dependent actions, field updates, email alerts, task creation Reports, Dashboards, Formula Fields and Cross Object Formula Fields Configuration Skills, Overall User Management. Overall User Management, Security and Sharing Model Translation Workbench    Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, Linux  Languages Known Java, JavaScript, AngularJS  Methodology Agile, Waterfall  Databases  Force.com DB MySQL, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2005/ 2008, DB2, Java DB, basic Distributed Database technology-Hadoop    Packages ECC, MS-Office, Project, SharePoint, VISIO, Excel, Access, Infopath