JAVA Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">JAVA</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> JAVA Full Stack Developer - Commerce Bank, Kansas, MO Kansas City, MO • Expert in Java/J2EE technologies such as Struts, Spring Framework, JSP, EJB, Hibernate and Webservice.  • Expert working knowledge in using methodologies Agile Methodology & Software Development Life Cycle.  • Having work experience in different domains like Healthcare, Banking, Finance, Telecom, and Retail.  • Proficient in developing front-end systems with JavaScript, ReactJs, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Tag Libraries, Custom Tags and JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS, NodeJS.  • Experienced in Client-side validations using Ajax in NodeJS, AngularJS, dash boards reports using BackboneJS.    • Developed applications with Spring using technologies Spring Core, MVC, DAO, ORM, Boot, Heroku, Security, Integration, Spring Zuul, Spring Eureka, Spring Hystrix, Spring Ribbon.  • Used Spring Boot Acurator to monitor and manage your application and to interact with different HTTP endpoints such as health, bean details, version details, configurations.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping , MyBatis SQL Maps, Slick, and Java Ultra-Lite Persistence.  • Expertise in back-end/server side Java technologies such as webservice, JPA, JMS, JDBC.  • Expert in using SOA and Webservice Technologies and Tools like Webservice, SOAP, REST, UDDI, SOAP UI.  • Experience in XML related technologies like XML, DTD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, JAXB, JAXP, SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Adapt in server side development skills using Apache and good knowledge of database connectivity (Data Source) for SQL databases like Oracle, MySQL and NoSQL like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • MongoDB is used to develop dynamic queries on documents using a document based query language.  • Expertise in using Cassandra for achieving denormalization through features like collections.  • Hands on experience on Amazon Webservice provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, ELB (Load Balancers), RDS, VPC, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, SNS.  • Used Microservice with Spring Boot through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Expertise in Microservice using Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud to develop loosely coupled processes.  • Expertise in deploy J2EE applications on IBM Web Sphere/Web Logic Application Servers, Tomcat and JBOSS.  • Used Scala for anonymous functions to increase productivity, applications scalability, and reliability.  • Familiar with Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory Design, MVC, Data Access Objects, , Adapter, Service Locator, Session Facade, Observer, DAO, service proxy and circuit breaker.  • Used Apigee for enterprise business use APIs to securely share data and services across various devices.  • Expertise in Docker containers, leveraging Linux Containers and AMI's to create DockerImages/containers.  • Used Swagger for designing and describing APIs and for keeping the API design and documentation in sync.  • Expertise in working on building tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle, Groovy, Log4j  • Worked with Version Control Systems like GIT, WinCVS, CVS, SVN, VSS and Rational Clear Case.  • Experience in Webservice Technologies like SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and Restful.  • Experience in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development, SCRUM, and Pair Programming.  • Developing Unit & Integration testing with JUnit, Karma, Jenkins, Camel, Selenium, Jasmine and Mockito.  • Used Selenium as an automated testing for web applications across different browser and platforms.  • Strong knowledge in implementing Singleton, Service Locator, Model View Controller (MVC) Session Facade, Business Delegate and DAO Java/J2EE design patterns in the projects. Work Experience JAVA Full Stack Developer Commerce Bank, Kansas, MO April 2016 to Present Description: The project was to enhance the existing online application with A/C Information, Funds  Transfer, Payment Service, Credit Card Services, Investment Services, Rates Online Application Forms, and Customer Service. Development was based on Spring MVC architecture.    Responsibilities:  * Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using ReactJs, JQuery, CSS3 and HTML55.  * Involved in designing and developed presentation layer using Ajax, jQuery, and third-party libraries.  * Used various JQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.  * Used Apache Cordova to build native mobile applications using HTML55, CSS3 and Javascript.  * Used Adobe Experience manager(AEM) to manage and deliver digital experiences across websites.  * Developed classes using core java concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Memory Management.  * Used Multithreading to develop various helper classes in programming to improve overall performance.  * Used Spring DI, annotations, and MVC to implement business layer and navigation part of application.  * Used Spring Boot Actuator to externalize application's configuration properties for various environments.  * Configured Swagger-UI registered Microservice with Eureka to monitor services from Spring Boot console.  * Defined Hibernate Named Queries for Batch operations while defined Criteria Queries for Microservice.  * Microservice have been built using Spring Boot, Spring security and deployed to AWS cloud.  * Used Spring Cloud AWS Core, Spring Cloud AWS Context, and Spring Cloud AWS Messaging.  * Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda Functions Including EC2, MongoDB focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  * Database required for creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes, constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  * Developed several REST webservice which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications. RESTful webservice using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  * Exposed and consumed SOAP based Webservice to communicate between systems.  * Developed several SOAPS based JAX-WS Webservice interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability and JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol.  * Used Redis as in memory database, for storing and fetching data in memory to increase the performance.  * Used Apache Kafka for building real time data pipelines and for storing data in a distributed cluster.  * Worked on Drools Rule Engines with corresponding to validate the business User Roles.  * Used SOAP UI for Functional Testing, Performance Testing, Regression Testing and to test REST & SOAP.  * Used Apigee for web-scale, enterprise flexibility on premise and hybrid deployment on single code base.  * Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  * Developed codes in an immutable manner using Scala to apply concurrency and parallelism.  * Developed Unit test cases using Junit, Mockito and Jenkins for continuous integration.  * Used Kubernetes for automating deployment, scaling and management of containerized applications.  * Used Docker to collaborate code, run and deliver more securely for both Linux, Windows Server.  * Developed Maven scripts and builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  * Used log4j for logging and GIT, SVN for project management and version management.  * Functional testing of the front-end applications is done using Selenium (IDE and Web Driver).  * Developed, Tested and Debugged the Java, JSP using Eclipse RCP.  * Deployed the application on WebSphere 8.5 application server.    Environment: J2EE, ReactJs, jQuery, CSS3, HTML55, Ajax, Core Java, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring  Security, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Microservice, Eureka Server, Swagger-UI, Apache Kafka, AWS Cloud,  AWS Lambda, S3, EC2, Scala, MongoDB, REST Webservice, JAX-WS, SOAP UI, JDBC, PL/SQL, JIRA, GIT,  SVN, log4j, Maven, Junit, Mockito, Jenkins, JMS Queues. Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer & Full Stack Developer Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO January 2015 to March 2016 Description: Express Scripts provides integrated pharmacy benefit management services including network-pharmacy, claims processing, home delivery pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy benefit management through its subsidiary Accredit, benefit-design consultation, drug-utilization review, formulary management, medical and drug data analysis services to manage drug plans for health plans, self-insured employers and government agencies (both as administrator of employee benefits and public assistance programs).    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile software development paired programming, Test Driven Development, and Scrum meetings.  • Developed using new features of Java 1.8 annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and Bootstrap with AngularJS interaction.  • Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives, and custom filters.  • Worked with java Swing GUI controls for developing a module in the front-end part.  • Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller, Singleton, Data Access Objects, factory patterns.  • Used Core Java concept like Multithreading, Concurrency for performance and memory tuning.  • Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application for application status.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC design pattern is used to have relationships between application components.  • Developed microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes and Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor Spring microservice.  • Developed Spring Quartz jobs to run the backend jobs and generated reports.  • Used Hibernate for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Developed SOAP based JAX-WS Webservice interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability  • Developed Microservice and worked on Spring Boot, deployed applications on Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database.  • Used PL/SQL to extract data from the database, delete data and reload data on Oracle DB.  • Used Cassandra to handle huge amount of data across many servers with out single point of failure.  • Developed Applications using Rule Engines- JBoss Drools 4.x to validate the business User Roles.  • Worked with Apache Camel as a standalone application by deploying in JBOSS application server.  • Used Docker to deploy applications using containers to allow package up application with all configuations.  • Used JMS for sending asynchronous data between the different session beans.  • Worked on development and operations to facilitate deployment of components over AWS using Jenkins.  • Used Apache Camel for integrating different applications with the enterprise design pattern.  • Used SVN, GIT for the version management and for version controlling software and JIRA for issue tracking.    Environment: Java 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, iQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJs, Swing, Threading, AWS cloud, Spring MVC,  Spring Boot, Spring Quartz, Hibernate Framework, Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, JAX-WS, PL/SQL, Oracle DB, Cassandra, JBoss Drools 4.x, Docker, JMS, Maven, Jenkins, Apache Camel, SVN, JIRA. Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer E-Trade Financial Corporation July 2013 to December 2014 Description: E-Trade Financial Corporation is a U.S based financial services company headquartered in New York. It is a holding company, the major business of which is an online discount stock brokerage  service for self-directed investors.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared Analysis document and followed AGILE software development with Scrum methodology.  • Developed the application on NodeJS platform using JavaScript programming.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Applied data transformation rules to transform code from one format to another format using NodeJS.  • Created the Nodejs express server to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, SPRING, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Worked on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC, SPRING DAO, SPRING ORM and Spring Integration.  • Involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB & JDBC.  • Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database.  • Expertise in Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), EJB, Serialization, and Java Beans.  • Worked extensively on SPRING MVC framework to develop new internal web application.  • Used Spring AOP components for the Logging, Exception handling and Transactional Models.  • Enforce compliance with dynamic processing and security policies by using Mule ESB.  • Developed Spring boot application with microservice and deployed it into AWS using EC2 instances.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers, and functions with PL/SQL for Oracle database.  • Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.  • Design PL/SQL batches using Core JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.  • Test API responses for WCS changes deployed on continuous basis, validate Green Box and MongoDB data.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework and used JIRA for tracking bugs.  • Developed and executed SQL queries for testing database integrity and for data analysis using Selenium.  • Developed automated regression test cases in Selenium WebDriver using Java programming language.  • Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports and JENKINS for continuous integration.  • Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications.    Environment: Java, J2EE, SPRING, Hibernate, Struts, WebLogic, Restful, JQuery, AJAX, Ext JS, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Microservice, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, JIRA, Angular, GWT, JDBC, AWS, MongoDB, NodeJS, Adobe (CQ5), Bootstrap, Core Java, jBPM, NoSQL, UML, Eclipse, Junit, Maven, Agile, SOA, JIRA, JENKINS, Selenium. Java Developer US Cellular - Chicago, IL January 2012 to June 2013 Description: US Cellular is the fifth-largest full-service wireless carrier in the United States, providing national network coverage and industry-leading innovations designed to elevate the customer experience. The Chicago-based carrier has a strong line-up of cutting-edge devices that are all backed by a high-quality network in big and small cities and rural communities, and currently.    Responsibilities:  • Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings.  • Designed and implemented web module using SPRING MVC.  • Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework.  • Develop high-level class diagrams, sequence diagrams, and implement the same in Java, SPRING, and SOAP.  • Developed web screens in JSP, JSTL, CSS3 and client side validation using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Struts validation and tiles framework in the presentation layer and tags to simplify complexities.  • Developed JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages. Worked with Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean.  • Used SPRING ORM module for integration with Hibernate for persistence layer.  • Used SPRING AOP in exception handling, which reduces the development time to handle the exceptions.  • Developed SOAP based Webservice using JAX-WS and tested the webservice with SOAPUI.s  • Used JIRA for defect tracking and project management.  • Used STS (SPRING Tool Suite) as software development platform for developing the whole application.  • Used SVN for the version management and for version controlling software.  • Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven and created selenium automation scripts using Test NG.  • Performed functional testing to identify critical points and automated it by using Selenium web driver.  • Unit and integration test cases are designed using Junit and Log4j for log error, info and debug messages.  • Tested Service and data access tier using JUnit in TDD methodology.  • Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and used Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Project builds with Maven and Eclipse as IDE for application development and integration of frameworks.  • Used Apache Tomcat as application server to deploy the application.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Spring, Servlet, JDBC, Hibernate, Soap, SPRING, Struts, XML/XSL, DB2, JUnit, JSTL, Jira, Eclipse, SOAP Webservice, Selenium, TDD, SOAP UI, AJAX-WS RAD, Log4j, SQL, Maven, Tomcat, Log4j, WebLogic. JAVA/J2EE Developer Footlocker - New York, NY October 2010 to December 2011 Description: This is an internet based online shopping website in which products will be sold electronically involving buyers and sellers. The application also has googled map to represent the address. The products that this application sell or buy are related to electronic products, consumer products and household products.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Developed JSP, HTML5, XHTML5, CSS3 pages for modified views worked on responsive web design.  • Wrote Code to interact with back-end JAVA, AJAX, JSON.  • Used AJAX with JQuery to parse JSON object to dynamically overlay contents on web pages.  • Used JSF components and custom styles to convert model output to a tabular schedule view for trainees.  • Used JSF and Prime Faces to create a dynamic and rich user interface for improved user experience  • Created JSF backing beans, listeners, validators, ajax components to provide a wholesome and stable.  • Responsible for system analysis, design and development, which is built on top of J2EE and SPRING MVC.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Agile Methodology.  • Developed code for obtaining bean references in SPRING framework using Dependency Injection.  • Developed DAO layer using Hibernate and SPRING and implemented the web tier using SPRING MVC.  • Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as DAO pattern, MVC pattern, singleton in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Involved in consuming and developing RESTful Webservices using SPRING MVC and Hibernate.  • Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR and deploy the entire project onto the WebSphere.  • Used Oracle SQL developer for the writing queries or procedures in SQL.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems and GIT, SVN for version control.  • Used Web Sphere as the Application Server to deploy the application.  • Used JUnit for the unit testing of various modules.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Eclipse, JSP, SOAP, RESTful, JMS,AJAX, JSON, SPRING, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, HTML5, XHTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSF, WebSphere, Oracle SQL Developer, Maven, Agile scrum, Integration tool, Log4J, GIT, JUnit. JAVA/J2EE Developer YANA Software Pvt., LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2009 to September 2010 Description: The product was online banking system which provides personal savings details to the clients. It offers a wide range of financial clients and as per users account status offers him to take up the new schemes. Upon the user request it generates the corresponding requests and sends to the user.    Responsibilities:  • Developed presentation screens by using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC-2) architecture and developed Form classes, Action Classes for the entire application using Struts Framework and used for server side validation..  • Performed client side validations using JavaScript.  • Used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level and accessed Annotated bean from Hibernate DAO layer.  • Used HQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  • Transformed, Navigated and Formatted XML documents using XSL, XSLT.  • Used JMS for asynchronous exchange of message by applications on different platforms.  • Developed the view components using JSP, HTML, Struts Logic tags and Struts tag libraries.  • Involved in designing and implementation of Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator patterns to delegate request to appropriate resources.  • Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions.  • Creation of database objects like tables, views using oracle tools like Toad, and SQL* plus.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedure in using PL/SQL.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing.  • Deployed application in Tomcat and developed using Rational Application Developer RAD.    Environment: Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, Servlets 2.5, JSP, JMS, CVS, JavaScript, XSL, XSLT, PL/SQL, Junit, Tomcat, Oracle 10g. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), Javascript. (8 years), JQuery (7 years), SQL (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages/API Java 5/6/7/8, Java/J2EE, C, JDBC, DTD, UML, Design Patterns, HTML5, PHP, JavaScript, SQL, PL/SQL  Frameworks Spring 4.x/3.x/2.x, Hibernate 4.0/3.0, Struts 1.x/2.0, iBatis.  IDEs Eclipse 4.6/4.5, NetBeans, IBM RAD 7.x/6/x, IntelliJ, Spring Tool suite 2.x/3.x  Web technologies HTML5/XHTML/DHTML, CSS3, Servlet, JSPs, EJB, JNDI, JMS, XML, XSLT, XSD, jQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, NodeJS, ReactJs, Bootstrap.  Tools UML, Rational Rose, Splunk, SQL Developer, TOAD, Log4J, SOAPUI, Rest Client UI, Postman, Grunt.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x/8.x, IBM WebSphere, BEA Web Logic 9.x/10.x/12.x, J-Boss 6.x/7. x.  XML Tools JAXB, Apache Axis, AltovaXMLSpy    Methodologies Agile, TDD, OOAD, Water Fall.  7Testing technologies/tools JUnit, Selenium, Karma, Jasmine, Mockito, Jenkins.  Database Servers Oracle 10g/11g, DB2, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra.  Version Control Systems CVS, SVN, GitHub, Clearcase, WinCVS, TortoiseCVS, CVSNT  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Gradle, Groovy, Log4j.