Sr. AEM Developer Sr. AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. AEM Developer - Time Warner Cable Herndon, VA • Having 8+ years of experience in IT industry with strong experience in Web content management (WCM) & J2EE development technologies with solid experience of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) as well as Test-Driven Development (TDD) in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Specialized in developing end-to-end websites using AEM 5.6.1/6.0, 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3.  • Over 4.5 years of hands on experience in development of content management solutions using Adobe CQ5 Content Management System.  • Excellent work experience in AEM 6.3, AEM 6.2, AEM 6.1, AEM 5.6.1, Adobe, WCM, CMS, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, Apache sling, DAM.  • Good Conceptual knowledge of Adobe AEM and Java/J2EE.  • Created Experience Fragments by customizing XF template.  • Created Content Fragments by creating custom content fragment model.  • Experience in developing Templates (Static and Editable templates), Custom Components, creating and launching Workflows and customizing out of the box Widgets.  • Hands-on experience in implementing features from technologies like Sling, OSGi, Felix, JCR, and current AEM functionalities of integrated products.  • Working on responsive designs using Bootstrap and media queries.  • Created Client libraries on AEM.  • Implementation knowledge of i18n on Components and Dialogs.  • Used Brackets for Sightly coding of components and client libraries.  • Designing the Workflow Structure which involves to automate the Specific Process in AEM.  • Efficient in Dispatcher configuration and Load balancing.  • Proficient Experience in working with Event Handling, OSGI bundles, Sling Listeners, Sling Servlets, Sling Schedulers and Sling Configuration.  • Experience in creating Workflow packages and using Tag Manager for reading tags from pages.  • Rich experience in Web Services such as SOAP and Restful.  • Well versed in designing presentation layer components using Servlets, JSP, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Worked as an Admin, Giving permissions to user's and user groups.  • Proficient in configuration, implementation and integration of Enterprise Multi-tier Web Application with J2EE Frameworks, such as spring, Hibernate, Struts.  • Provided author training to business users to familiarize them with the design and usage of the system.  • Created the blueprints and live copy of the application.  • Rich experienced in writing SQL queries with RDBMS skills in MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle, etc.  • Hands-on experience using development IDEs including Eclipse, Net Beans and used MAVEN as build tool. Efficient in using Junit for unit testing.  • Expertise in building client side Middle Tier Development environment using JSP, Servlet, Java Mail, etc.  • Experienced in using Adobe Dynamic Tag Management (DTM) and integration of AEM with Adobe Analytics and Adobe Target.  • Experience in Adobe Target content optimization systems.  • Created multiple versions of same site by using AEM Launches feature.  • Experience in version control software such as Git, SVN and in tracking tool as JIRA.  • Good experience in coordinating and working with developers and End Users in Team based environment.  • Expertise in design and development of web applications by implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture  • Experience in working with frameworks like Struts, Spring and Hibernate  • Experience of web design and development in HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, Underscore, ExtJS  • Worked extensively with Apache Tomcat, IBM Websphere, WebLogic, and JBoss Application Servers  • Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle, DB2, MySQL databases and writing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers  • Well versed with complete SDLC of analysis, design, development, testing and implementation  • Document preparation including Requirements specification, Design documents, Test Cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents  • Ability to learn and use new systems and paradigms in considerably less time  • Excellent troubleshooting and problem solving abilities Work Experience Sr. AEM Developer Time Warner Cable - VA June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Configured and installation of AEM 6.3on the various development, production, QA and predevelopment servers.  • Created components using Sightly HTML Templating Language by replacing the Traditional Java Server Pages (JSP)  • Integrated AEM with Brackets Extension to provide a smooth workflow to edit AEM components and Client Libraries.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) to develop live copy from blueprint, such that the structure and content can then be used on the Live Copy.  • Implemented Image renditions for continuous and consistent experience of content across all devices.  • Integrated JIRA system with Workflow functionalities.  • Writing activation and deactivation workflow models using various components such as process, participant, and dynamic participant steps.  • Used SCR annotations while creating servlets, schedulers, listeners, workflows.  • Implemented AEM Dev Tools to make development easier.  • Experienced in Adobe Day CQ and associated technologies like Sling, OSGi, Felix, JCR, and CRX.  • Created Resource Resolver rules in Felix console by having a custom URL mapping.  • Integrated JIRA with Bamboo for Continuous Integration testing. Created new build plans and updating dependencies  • Integrated Dailog and Design Dailog for all the content based components which allow to render the content dynamically.  • Implemented i18n for components and dialogs for translation in to different languages.  • Created custom OSGi services and Servlets using Eclipse IDE with Maven.  • Created AEM templates and page components with custom dialogs.  • Spearheaded development and implementation of frontend views and pages utilizing HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Flex box, JavaScript, and J Query.  • Managed Users, Groups and System Users and Access Control Level (ACL) permissions.  • Troubleshoot of caching issues related to Dispatcher and browsers.  • Integrated ACS AEM Commons with AEM 6.1 for Bulk oak indexing.  • Developed mobile site Dialog and mobile Template.  • Worked on stories related to Adobe CQ/AEM in sprints which include feature development and production issues (AgileScrummethodology)  • Created OSGi bundles and resolved dependencies for the project.  • Involved in processing the request through dispatcher by configuring the context path of an application in the dispatcher. Any file  • Created Custom loggers in Felix Console.    Environment: AEM 6.3, Java (JDK 1.7 &JDK 1.8), Eclipse, Maven, Apache Felix, Apache Sling, JSP, JIRA, Web Services, JSON, SDLC, Agile, OSGi, Servlets, Sightly HTML, JavaScript, Brackets, JackRabbit, CSS, J Query, Node.js, J Query.    Adobe Marketing Cloud Products: Analytics, Social, Target, Campaign, Dynamic Tag Management (DTM), Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) Adobe CQ5 Consultant Northern Trust Bank November 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in listing out all the capabilities of AEM 5.6.1 and AEM6.0 and illustrate it on our business scenario use cases.  • Involved in migration project from 5.6.1 to 6.0 in 2014.  • Involved in migration project from 6.0 to 6.2 in 2016.  • Created AEM Components with Custom Dialogs (Classic UI and Touch UI) and with cacheable responses.  • OSGi bundle containing components is created and OSGi services are accessed from AEM components.  • Existing Tag libraries in AEM were used in tagging the pages.  • Managed OSGi configuration within the CRX repository.  • Calling the forms automation engine using web services and API'S.  • Proficient in Adobe CQ foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, the CQ platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix.  • Workflows are configured with custom steps and implemented in the project.  • Worked on UI designing, data modeling, and reviewed the design documentation.  • Worked with QA team in preparation and review of test cases.  • Working knowledge on Importing, Exporting CQ Packages using package manager.  • Users and groups were created and permissions to them were managed.  • Configured replication agent and dispatcher for caching and load balancing.  • Used Client libraries to minify JavaScript and CSS into one common file and load it on page load.  • Maven is used to build and deploy OSGi bundles.  • Dispatcher is configured to cache responses from an AEM publish instance, to increase the responsiveness and security of the externally facing published website.  • Managed SDLC processes and associated artifacts.  • GIT is used for version control and JIRA is used for tracking.    Environment: Java (jdk1.6, 1.7), JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, AEM 5.6.1, AEM 6.0, AEM 6.2, Apache Sling, CRXDE, WCM, JIRA, Hibernate, Node.js. Sr. Java Developer, IT Applications Sears Holdings Corporation August 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and reviewed business requirements.  • Developed UML Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams for design documents using Visio.  • Implemented Singleton, MVC, Front Controller, Intercepting Filter, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects design patterns.  • Developed the User Interface (UI) using Java Server Pages (JSP) utilizing Custom Tag Libraries.  • Designed web pages using JSP, XSL, HTML, DHTML and client side validation with JavaScript.  • Implemented Spring Webflow 2.5 principles that build upon Spring MVC to support user-level, application-directed control flows.  • Extensively used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Connected to Oracle Database using DAO (Data Access Object using Spring DAO) Patterns.  • Involved in setting up the Web Services (SOA) using XML, SOAP, and WSDL.  • Used Web Services for the validations of credit cards.  • Parsed XML documents using DOM and SAX parsers.  • Extensively used SQL, PL/SQL in constructing views, indexes, stored procedures, triggers, cursors, functions, and relational database models.  • Prepared Test Cases and performed Unit Testing using JUnit.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, JUnit, EJB, JNDI, Design Patterns, WebSphere application server, DB2, ANT, RAD, XML, HTML, UML, MS Windows, UNIX. J2EE Developer BCBS - Chicago, IL January 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  Health Manager is a web application that provides rich user interfaces to log in and monitor appointments, coverage, costs and messages.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture • Client side validations are done using JavaScript.  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs and Servlets in Eclipse.  • Involved in installing and configuring Web Sphere Application Server for development and deployment.  • Deployed the application onto Web Sphere application server.  • Used JUnit for unit testing and for regression tests.  • Used Spring Loc to implement dynamic dependency injection and Spring AOP to implement crosscutting concerns such as transaction management.  • Wrote Mapping Configuration files to implement ORM Mappings in the Persistence Layer.  • Using Hibernate DAO support extended Dao Implementation.  • Hibernate Configuration files were written to connect Oracle database and fetch data.  • The Hibernate Query Cache which is a Second Level Cache to load objects using cached identifiers was implemented using Ehcache to improve the performance.  • Implemented web services with RESTful standards with the support of JAX-RS APIs.  • Confirmation of registration and monthly statements are sent to users by integrating and implementing Java Mail API.  • Used SSO (Single-Sign-On) Framework and implement access control that enables user to log in once and gain access to the resources of multiple pages without being prompted to log in again  • Manipulated database data with SQL queries, including setting up stored procedures and triggers.  • Implemented front-end developments such as webpages design, data binding, Single-Page Applications using HTML/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Used jQuery libraries to simplify the frontend programming works. Performed users' input validation using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Involved in configuring JDBC connection pooling to access the database server.  • Written SQL queries, stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  • Used CVS for code check-ins.  Environment: J2EE, WebSphere, Struts 2, RAD, CVS, Oracle, UML, JUnit, Java, Spring, Java Mail, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, Junit, JIRA, Oracle DB, MySQL, Git, SSO, JAX-RS Java Developer Bharathi Infotel Limited (AIRTEL) - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in server side Web development.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Worked on CORE JAVA (Collections of type Generics, Templates) and used the core packages.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Interacted with java controllers (JQUERY, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems)  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Used SVN for version control and QC for defect tracking.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Used Bugzilla for bug tracking.  • Created Stored Procedures, SQL Statements and triggers for the effective retrieval and storage of data into database.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers    Environment: Core Java, TDD Methodology, Agile Methodology, J2EE-JSP, Servlets, UML, Web logic Server, Tomcat, Struts2, Spring, Maven, CVS, Joint, Log4j, EJB 2.0, XML, Eclipse, Web Sphere. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Birla Institute of Technology & Science Skills HTML (8 years), JAVA (8 years), WEB SERVICES (8 years), CSS (7 years), SERVLETS (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    CMS Tools: Adobe CQ5/AEM, Word Press, Dreamweaver, MS FrontPage  Adobe CQ5 skills: Templates and components, workflows, DAM, CRX, OSGI services, annotations, sling servlets, listeners, reverse replication, tagging, renditions, campaigns, segmentation; Frameworks - Apache Sling, Apache Felix, Apache Jackrabbit, OSGI, Quartz  Languages: Java, SQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script, JSON, AJAX, PL/SQL, C, C++, VB.NET, PHP  Java Technologies/Frameworks: Java, J2EE, Groovy, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JQuery, ExtJS, Underscore JS, EJB, JSTL, Struts, Spring, Hibernate  Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, UDDI  IDEs: Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD  Versioning /Build Tools: Maven, Gradle, Vault, SVN, Jenkins, GIT, PVCS, WinCVS, Ant, Junit  Project Management: Agile, Scrum, JIRA  Database Management: MongoDB, Oracle 9i/10g, MySQL, DB2, Microsoft Access, Toad, Ingress, PL/SQL, SQL Plus.