Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Anixter International Glenview, IL * 7+ years of experience on cross platform (Web & Client-Server) application development and design using Object Oriented Programming, Java /J2EE technologies.  * Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) during project development.  * Strong experiencing in working with HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX.  * Good knowledge on HTML5/CSS3 development.  * Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  * Good Knowledge on how to implement User-centered design (UCD) methodology.  * Good knowledge of Twitter Bootstrap, Backbone.js and Ext JS for Responsive design.  * Solid design skills using Java Design Patterns and Unified Modeling Language (UML).  * Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98/NT/2000/XP, UNIX, LINUX.  * Experiencein working on frontend and middleware frameworks like Struts, JSF, AJAX, spring, EJBs, Jenkins, GIT and JUnit.  * Experienced with databases such as DB2, My SQL and Oracle to manage tables, views, indexes and stored procedures.  * Experienced in implementing Hibernate ORM.  * Experienced in writing ANT scripts for builds and deployments to different environments.  * Extensively worked on XML technologies like XML, XSD, XSLT, Xpath and DTD.  * Experienced in developing web services with REST andXML based protocols such as SOAP.  * Expertise in cutting edge technologies like EJB, JMS, JTA, XML with good experience in developing and deploying Enterprise Java Beans on Application Servers like WebLogic, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat and JBoss.  * Expert in developing Object-Oriented Web applications using MVC architecture.  * Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  * Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment.  * Good written and oral communication skills with a strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Anixter International - Glenview, IL January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Given presentations for main visual purpose that determines effective understanding.  • Designed UI screen for Insurance Quote to get User information with JSP, Struts tag library.  • Involved in Coding JavaScript code for UI validation and worked on Struts validation frameworks.  • Analyzing the Client Requirements and designing the specification document based on the requirements.  • Involved in Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Design (OOD).  • Familiar with the state-of-the-art standards, processes, design processes used in creating and designing optimal UI using Web 2.0 technologies like Ajax, JavaScript, CSS, and XSLT.  • Involved in the Preparation of Program Specification and Unit Test Case Document.  • Designed the Proto according to the Business requirements.  • Involved in the preparation of use case, sequence diagrams, class diagrams, Activity diagrams etc using Rational rose.  • Analysis and Design of the Object models using JAVA/J2EE Design Patterns in various tiers of the application.  • Extensively used JSF framework in creation of front-end UI development.  • Involved in mapping of all configuration files according to the JSF Framework.  • Developed Presentation Layer using HTML, CSS, and JSP and validated the data using AJAX and Ext JS and JavaScript.  • Involved in the development of Database Connections and Database Operations using JDBC.  • Involved in write Sql Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Developed Action and Model Classes.  • Wrote Action Form and Action classes. Used various HTML tags, Bean, and Logic etc, also configured Struts-Config.xml for global forwards, error forwards & action forwards.  • Used Struts framework for the development user interface.  • Interacted to Client for better understanding of Business requirements.  • Worked with Ant build tool to build the Project.  • Build and deployment on Web sphere application server.  • Worked at client location for gathering the feedback from the users.  • Involved in Production Support and Enhancement Developments. Java Developer Calpine - Houston, TX July 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed & developed GUI for claim creation, processing and tracking.  • Created Use Case Diagrams in UML.  • The user interface components are developed using Java AWT/swing API.  • Developed the business layer components as Stateless Session Beans based on EJB API.  • Developed the data access layer components as entity Beans based on EJB API.  • Developed web based user interface screens using HTML and Java Script.  • Created CSS to get unique look and feel across the related facets.  • Client Side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Deployed the EJBs on Web Sphere.  • Developed Entity Beans as Bean Managed Persistence Entity Beans and used JDBC to connect to backend database DB2.  • Made use of Visual Age for GUI development and deployment.  • Stored procedures are created for high performance.  • Designed and implemented Connection pooling for high-level performance.  • Visual Age is used for coding through all the stages of this project.  • Utilized Java Collections (Lists, Sets, and Maps) and advance core Java.  • Making the build process using Ant and Deploying application on WebLogic on DEV and UAT environments.  • Used SVN for version control and management. Java Developer CBS - New York, NY December 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application functionality.  • Attended everyday Enterprise Workflow Stand-Up meeting to provide current status, thus implementing Agile (Scrum) Methodology with Test Driven Development.  • Designed Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Developed and implemented the DAO design pattern including JSP, Servlets, Form Beans and DAO classes and other Java APIs.  • Implemented dynamic web interface using AJAX and user authentication through LDAP.  • Developed JSP fragments for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and did its integration.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging test information, as it is smaller and easier to parse compared to XML.  • Created and deployed web pages using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Integrated usage of CRUD operations, performed Inner/Outer joins, used stored procedures, stored functions and cursors using Oracle PL/SQL.  • Used Jetty server during development environment, but WebSphere Application Server  • Used IBM Rational Application Developer 8.0 with WebSphere Application Server v6.1.  • Performed unit testing to have defect free application code.  • Written JUnit Test cases while performing unit testing.  • Worked with QA team for testing and resolve defects.  • Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j for the project. Web Developer Blue Line Technologies February 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Helped maintain 30+ web sites using similar domain names, but different content for traveling, ticket sales and informational sites.  • Designed, developed, and coded various new web sites from scratch for Bender Internet Group.  • Converted some old sites from static html to use dynamic generated listing sites and assisted with redesign.  • Works with e-commerce team to integrate booking pages element on different websites.  • Work with a small team to facilitate the work flow.  • Assisted with various defects that resulted from the difficult and large project and was able to use my skills to efficiently get through these defects quickly.  • Created several custom scripting libraries using CSS, JavaScript, AJAX like calendar, timer, image resize, image gallery, multi-page navigation or display different content browser-based.  • Used prototype libraries for form validation or to handle various field possibilities on secure booking pages.  • Combination of Perl, JavaScript and server includes for random and updated contents.  • Scanned, created and modified site graphics for several sites.  • Created both HTML and text e-mail newsletters to tourism customers for several web sites.  • Created and modified PDF files using Adobe Acrobat and Photoshop. Skills CSS (6 years), HTML (6 years), AJAX (5 years), JAVA (4 years), UML (2 years), SCRIPTING (2 years), JDBC (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming languages: C, C++, SQL, PLSQL, XML, WSDL, XHTML, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Ext JS and AJAX.  Java Technologies: Java, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, JavaBeans, JUnit and EJB.  Frame Works: Struts and Spring.  Development Tools: Eclipse, Net Beans, JBuilder, MS Visual Studio .NET, IBM RAD, ANT 1.7, Log4j, Rapid Application Developer, Dreamweaver 8 and FrontPage ORM Hibernate.  Design and Modeling: UML and Rational Rose.  Web Services: SOAP, RESTful and Sun Server.  Servers: Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere and JBoss.  Databases: Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, SQL Server, DB2, MS-Access and SQL Server.  Scripting languages: Java Script, Shell Script.  XML technologies: DTD, XSD, XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, JAXP.  Version Control: CVS, Clear case, SVN.  Environments: UNIX, Red Hat Linux, Windows 2000, Windows NT 4.0, Windows XP.