Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Premier Healthcare Los Angeles, CA • Over 3+ years of experience in development, debugging, implementation and maintenance of software applications using Java technologies.  • Proficient in all phases of SDLC (analysis, design, development, testing and deployment) and highly competent in gathering user requirements.  • Extensive experience using Java, J2EE, EJB, JNDI, JMS, WebServices, JSP, Servlets, Struts, spring, XML, ANT, JavaBeans, JDBC and Hibernate.  • Sound Knowledge of MVC Architecture, Struts framework, spring framework, Java Design Patterns and O/R mapping Hibernate framework.  • Expertise in back-end/server side java technologies such as: Enterprise Java beans (EJB), web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), Java Data base Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI).  • Good knowledge in front end development using JSF, Tiles, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax and Angular.js. Hands on experience working with the look and feel aspect of web apps using CSS, JSTL, and JSP tag libraries.  • Extensive experience in XML related technologies like XML, XSL, XPATH, DTD, XML Schemas and parsers SAX/DOM.  • Proficiency in Hibernate and the O/R mapping to map Java domain objects with the database, spring framework to easily configure J2EE applications.  • Experience in developing the web applications on IDE tools like WSAD, NetBeans and Eclipse.  • Working experience in Core Java with strong understanding & working knowledge of Object Oriented Programming and also API's like Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception.  • Experience in configuring and deploying J2EE applications on Web Sphere, Web Logic and JBOSS Application servers.  • Experience in Implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/ WSDL).  • Experienced in development methodologies like Agile, waterfall and Interactive life cycle and software engineering processes.  • Experience in writing database objects like Stored Procedures, Triggers, PL/SQL packages and Cursors for Oracle, MySQL, DB2 and Sybase databases.  • Strong experience in client interaction and understanding business application, business data flow and data relations from them.  • Committed to excellence, self-motivator, fast-learner, team player, ability to deal with people diplomatically and a prudent developer with strong problem-solving skills and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Premier Healthcare - Charlotte, NC July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Implemented MVC architecture and DAO design pattern for maximum abstraction of the application and code reusability.  • Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application functionality.  • Developed JSP's with Custom Tag Libraries for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and was involved in their integration.  • Configured the application using Spring framework annotations and developed Spring Controllers for request and response processing and implemented RESTful Web Service.  • Migrated Spring based application to cloud based Micro services.  • Designed and developed the REST based Micro services using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA.  • Implement OAuth tokenization for RESTful web services using Spring boot.  • Developed several controller classes as required for the design such as Abstract Wizard form controller, Simple Form controller, Multi Action controller, etc in Spring MVC.  • Participated in coding Spring AOP components for the Transactional Model to handle many requests.  • Data Operations were performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.  • Involved in designing and developing the front end of the application using JSP, Java script, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, CSS.  • Used Node.JS for doing non-blocking design operation for server-side code and Angular.js framework in developing various UI components.  • Responsible for pagination for the application by integrating Spring framework with Node.JS.  • Involved in developing Java APIs, which communicates with the Java Beans.  • Implemented Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object.  • Used JSP for presentation layer, developed high performance object/relational persistence and query service for entire application utilizing Hibernate.  • Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using angular UI router.  • Extensively used HTML, JavaScript, Angular.js and Ajax for client side development and validations.  • Developed Web services (SOAP) through WSDL in Apache Axis to interact with other components.  • Created Stateless Session EJB's for retrieving data and Entity Beans for maintaining User Profile.  • Developed the application using Java Beans, Servlets and EJB's.  • Used Log4j as logging framework to capture the log traces of applications in debugging the issues.  • Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application.  • Designed database and created tables, written the complex SQL Queries and stored procedures as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit, Integration and Performance Testing for the new enhancements.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSPs, spring, Servlets, Spring Boot, OAuth, JPA, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP/HTTP, Angular.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, ANT, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, HTML, SQL, Oracle, Windows XP. Java/J2EE Developer Broadway Bank - San Antonio, TX September 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and SCRUM meetings to track, optimize and developed sequence diagrams depicting method interactions, using MS Visio.  • Conducted analysis of organizational needs and goals for the development and implementation of application systems by involving with business personnel.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Developed complete Web tier of the application with Spring MVC framework.  • Used Spring integration for integrating the application with Micro services using Spring integration workflow files.  • Used Spring framework for implementing Dependency Injection, Spring ORM.  • Developing the application for incident creation and retrieving the events using restful web services with Spring Boot.  • Worked extensively on Spring boot for building REST API's.  • Developed User Interface screens for various modules like Action, Risk, Lessons learned, MOM items using JSF, JavaScript, AJAX using Eclipse.  • Implemented all the components of Spring Frame work (Controller classes, Spring Bean Configuration file (dispatcher-servlet.xml).  • Web application development for the backend system using Node.js with cutting-edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Created dynamic pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Responsible for setting up Angular.js framework for UI development.  • Extensively used JavaScript and Angular.js to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations.  • Used WSDL and SOAP protocol for Web Services implementation.  • Wrote stored procedures, SQL scripts in Oracle for Data Accessing and manipulation.  • Compiled and built the application using ANT scripts and deployed the application.  • Configured and created application log files using Log4J.  • Written complex SQL statements/Joins and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  • Followed AGILE (SCRUM) methodologies, had sprint planning every two weeks and setup daily meetings to monitor the status.  • Participated in the status meetings and status updating to the management team.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate 3, Node.js, XML, Web Services, Angular.js, JavaScript, SOAP, Maven, HTML, Log4J and Windows. Java Developer Inspire Info Sol Ltd June 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in full Software Development Life Cycle, Requirements, design, development, testing, deployment and maintenance of the application. Developed the class and sequence diagrams using MS Visio.  • Implemented various J2EE design patterns for designing this application.  • Developed Servlets at server side for handling requests and responses from the web page and back-end java classes.  • Used Eclipse as IDE for development.  • Implemented MVC Architecture, which separated the View and Business Logic Layer.  • Designed SOA implementations by Using Web Services-WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party vendors.  • Worked on Springframework to create the Web application.  • Developed Servlets, JSP and Java Beans using Eclipse.  • Designed and developed struts action classes for the controller responsibility.  • Involved in the integration of spring for implementing Dependency Injection (DI/IOC).  • Responsible for Writing Hibernate-mapping XML Files, HQL  • Used the ANT script to create the war/ear file and deployed into WebLogic.  • Used DOM for parsing the XML, XSLT Document.  • Used JAXB parser for parsing the valid XML files.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  • Building and Deployment of EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage and production server.  • Involved with the version control and configuration management using Serena.  • Unit and Integration testing on development and pre-production servers.  • Utilized Agile Scrum to manage full life-cycle development of the project.    Environment: Java, JSP, spring, HTML, JDBC, DOM, XML, Ajax, JavaScript, Eclipse, JUNIT, XHTML, Hibernate, DAO, Oracle and Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Spring, Java J2Ee, Java, Hibernate, J2Ee Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java (4,5,6,7,8), SQL, PL/SQL,  Java/J2EE Technologies  Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JSF, JavaBeans, MVC, RMI, ANT, MAVEN, Log4j, XML, JAXP, DOM, JNDI, JUNIT, Web services, Multithreading, JTA, Custom Tags    Web Technologies HTML 5, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.js, Node.js, React, CSS 3, AJAX, DOJO, XML, Web Services (SOAP, REST, WSDL)  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JPA, JSF,  IDE's Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, Webstrom  Web/Application Servers Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS and IIS.  Version Control Tools GIT, Visual Source Safe, CVS, Tortoise SVN  Database Environments Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL    Operating Systems Windows, (Mac & Linux) UNIX