Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Freddie Mac McLean, VA • Java, J2EE developer with around 9+ years of experience in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Wide experience in design, development and maintenance of web application across Finance, Insurance, Health Care and Manufacturing and Logistics domains.  • Extensive experience developing and supporting applications in Java, J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Hibernate, jUnit, SQL Server, SOAP and REST Web services, HTML, CSS, JS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Expertise in Hibernate features like session and caching.  • Good knowledge and experience in using the Maven and Ant build tool.  • Followed all the coding standards and apt design patterns during the web development.  • Good knowledge and experience in using the CVS, SVN and Git as the version control tools.  • Experience in database design and RDBMS concepts - SQL Server, Oracle 11g etc.  • Extensive experience in creating the Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers.  • Experience with working on latest technology with HTML5 and CSS3.  • Involved in peer-to-peer code review to ensure the granularity and clearness of the code using Github pull requests.  • Worked extensively with interactive Agile (Scrum) methodology.  • Effective team player with excellent problem-solving abilities in the challenging work environments. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Freddie Mac - McLean, VA October 2016 to Present The goal of this project is to enhance the existing Loan Closing Advisory and Loan Product Advisory application for better user experience.    Loan Product Advisor gives access to Freddie Mac credit requirements and view of credit risk so customer can easily assess loan's overall underwriting risk    Areas of Exposure: Java 1.8, Spring MVC, Hibernate 4, SOAP Webservice, SQL Server 2012, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX    Responsibilities:  • Developed multiple applications using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Designed and developed REST APIs using Spring Boot and MongoDB.  • Utilized Spring Security framework to develop a custom authentication mechanism for the REST APIs.  • Integrated Swagger UI with the REST APIs for documentation and testing.  • Developed JUnit test cases based on the user stories for unit testing.  • Involved in designing and coding user interfaces using JSP, HTML5, Javascript and CSS3.  • Used SOAP technology to implement the SOA architecture and used SOAP UI to test the same.  • Followed all the coding standards and implemented the proper design patterns.  • Implemented Maven as the build tool.  • Developed and executed load testing scripts using JMeter, and generated application performance reports.  • Involved in fine tuning the SQL queries and stored procedures to resolve performance related issues.  • Experience working in agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings.  • Coordinated with the team to resolve the production issues. Sr. Software Engineer Cummins - Pune, Maharashtra November 2014 to August 2015 The goal of this project is to design and develop web applications using java for KPIT Cummins internal and external customers about their products. Java Developer Thales Group Services - Delhi, Delhi December 2012 to October 2014 Thales Group is a French multinational company that designs and builds electrical systems and provides services for the aerospace, defence, transportation and security markets.    Areas of Exposure: Java, Struts1.x, Hibernate 3, JSP, CSS3, JavaScript, HTML5, SQL Server 2008    Responsibilities:  • Knowledge Acquisition on assigned project and document preparations.  • Struts 1.x framework was used with Java 1.4 and Hibernate 3 as ORM tool.  • Worked with project coordinators and Business Analysts for detailed requirement discussion.  • Involved in Object Oriented software development for creating various layers like BO, Service, DAO and UI layer.  • Used IBM Rational Application developer as JDK and Webspehere 6 as the application server.  • Handled the performance issue and memory management of the application.  • Involved in SQL Server database design and maintenance using the Microsoft management studio 2008.  • Involved in peer-to-peer code review. Right Path Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to November 2012 Hyderabad, India    Areas of Exposure: Java, Hibernate 3, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, SQL Server    Responsibilities:  • Knowledge Acquisition on assigned project and document preparations.  • Involved in creating prototypes and UML diagrams during the project start up.  • Worked with project coordinators and Business Analysts for detailed requirement discussion.  • Involved in Object Oriented software development for creating various layers like BO, Service, DAO and UI layer.  • Developed the assigned use cases and delivered it on time and won the client appreciations.  • Involved in database design and development using SQL Server.  • Involved in code deployment in the Linux box server.  • Maintained the code using the CVS version control.  • Followed all the coding standards during the Use case development. Java Developer MVC March 2004 to June 2004 Areas of Exposure: Java, Spring 4, Hibernate 3, SOAP, JSP, CSS3, JavaScript, HTML5, Oracle 10g, XML.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC.  • Spring 4 MVC framework was used with Java 1.4 and Hibernate 3 as ORM tool.  • Involved in creating prototypes and UML diagrams using the Microsoft Visio during the project start up.  • Developed JUnit test cases based on the Use case documents.  • Implemented the Quartz scheduler for the batch scheduling process.  • Used SOAP technology to implement the SOA architecture and web service.  • Involved in code deployment in the Linux box server. Education Master's Skills JAVA (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JSP (8 years), MS SQL SERVER (8 years), SQL (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages & Frameworks Java 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8, J2EE, Struts 1 & 2, Spring 3 & 4, Spring Batch, Hibernate 3 & 4, Maven, Junit, TestNG  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, Bootstrap 3, AJAX, JSP, Servlets, XML, SOAP, Spring Rest, JAX-RPC, Apache Axis  Operating systems MS Windows, Unix/Linux, Mac OSX  Database MS SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle, DB2  Other tools Eclipse, Jenkins, Jira, Remedy, Rational Clear Quest, IBM clear case, Findbug, Subversion, CVS, Git, Github