Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - UnitedHealth Group Boston, MA ? Having Overall 9 years of IT experience in Object Oriented Programming, Analysis, Design, Documentation, Integration, Testing and Implementation of Client-Server, Distributed Multi-tiered and large-Scale Enterprise applications in Waterfall and Agile(Scrum) methodology using JAVA and JEE technologies.  ? Expertise in Core Java Such as OOPs, Collections, Exceptions Handling, Input/output (I/O) System, Swing, Annotations, Enums, Concurrency, Multi-Threading, Lambda and Generics.  ? Proficient in micro services based applications development using Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA.  ? Experience in understanding and using Design Patterns Singleton, Prototype, Façade, Factory and Observer.  ? Experience in Designing and developing interactive Front- end applications using HTML5, CSS3 and AJAX.  ? Experience in Designing and building dynamic and user interactive websites using JavaScript, AngularJS, React JS,Bootstrap and Node.js.  ? Experience in developing Web and Enterprise applications using technologiesSpring Boot,Spring MVC,Spring Data JPA,JDBC, Servlets, Java Persistence API (JPA) and JMS.  ? Experience in Producing and consuming Web Services Technologies like Restful (JAX-RS), SOAP (JAX-WS).  ? Experience in Installing, Configuring, Deploying and maintaining Application and web Servers such as Oracle Web Logic, Red Hat JBoss Enterprise Application platform (EAP), Apache Tomcat Server, IBM Web Sphere and Glassfish Application Server.  ? Experience in Developing Application using frameworks Spring Dependency Injection (DI), IOC, Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), Instrumentation, Integration, Security, Boot, Struts, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Experience in building flexible, reliable, efficient and secured Enterprise and Web based applications using Spring MVC and Spring Web Flow frameworks and spring boot.  ? Experience in using various Amazon Web Services (AWS) Components like EC2 for virtual servers, S3 and Glacier for storing objects, EBS, CloudFront, Elasticache and DynamoDB for storing data.  ? Experience in using Docker for installing, testing, upgrading, removing and running software applications.  ? Expertise in understanding and hands-on using various eXtensible Markup Languages (XML) technologies like XPath, XQuery, XSLT, XSD, SAX, DOM and JAXB.  ? Experience in writing SQL queries in PL/SQL, Triggers, and Stored Procedures in Relational Database management systems like Oracle, MS SQL, MySQL and DB2.  ? Experience in understanding and using NoSQL databases MongoDB, DynamoDB, CouchDB and Redis.  ? Expertise in using Version Control Systems like SVN, CVS, Git, Stash, Bazaar, Mercurial and Project Tracking tools like JIRA, Planbox, LeanKit.  ? Experience in using Testing frameworks in Test Driven Development (TDD) such as JUnit, Mockito, Power Mock, EasyMock,TESTNG, Protractor, Cucumber and Selenium.  ? Expertise in developing, Testing, Debugging, Integrating and Deploying Enterprise applications using Integrated Development Environments (IDE) IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse and Rational Application Developer (RAD).  ? Experience in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) tools like Jenkins,Travis, Bamboo.  ? Extensive experience in UML Modeling diagrams developing Such as Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams.  ? Having very strong interpersonal skills and ability to work independently and within the group, can learn quickly and easily adaptable to the working environment.  ? Good exposure in interacting with clients and solving application environment issues and can communicate effectively with people at different levels including stakeholders, internal teams and senior management. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer UnitedHealth Group - Boston, MA May 2018 to Present The PEaaS Estimate Application is designed using a RESTful approach that offers resource-oriented URLs, utilizes HTTP status codes, and enforces JSON representations of requests/responses. The PEaaS Estimate is leveraged as a comprehensive patient financial engagement solution that empowers patients by creating transparency in their medical costs.  Responsibilities  ? Design and developed RESTful API Endpoints for PEaaS Application.  ? Involved in SDLC development like Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Implementation, testing of the application using Agile Methodologies and performed object-oriented analysis.  ? Designed and developed reusable Independent Business Logic Services using Spring Boot.  ? Streamlined web service calls for the client to enable access with the help of standard HTTP uniform resource identifiers (URIs) through the development of RESTful web services.  ? Implemented Validations for RESTful Web Services using Spring Boot.  ? Take charge of designing and developing representational state transfer (REST) API endpoints through Spring Boot application to obtain and post medical service information, as well as loader frameworks functions to convert the HealthCare X12 file format.  ? Directed the execution of the project through the use of Spring Data JPA and Hibernate persistence API to interact with the database.  ? Conducted testing of REST API endpoints for HTTP requests such as GET, POST, and PUT through the use of Swagger API.  ? Written Test cases using JUnit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.  ? Involved in refactoring the existing code.  ? Maintained Code quality, code coverage by writing test cases using Mockito, Junit.  ? Implemented integration testing using TestNG and created test cases to test the E2E functionality of the RESTful API.  ? Used Spring Framework for dependency injection and created loosely coupled components for reusable business logic.  ? Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Angular 5.  ? Responsible for setting up Smoke and Regression tests suites for the application to make sure that all the tests are running as part of build pipeline.  ? Wrote SQL scripts as needed to query/update data from SQL Server database.  ? Used Jenkins as build tool for automated build and deployment in test, stage and production environments  ? Used SonarQube for identifying code bugs and code coverage.  ? Used Maven for compiling, building and installing Maven projects.  ? slf4j was used to monitor the error logs.  ? Worked with GitHub by using Source Tree that simplifies interaction with repositories.  ? Used Intellij as Development IDE developing the project.  Environment  Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Hibernate, REST API, Angular 5, Intellij Idea, SQL Server, Junit,Jenkins, Log4j, Maven 4, NodeJS,Junit 4.1,Swagger API, Rally, SonarQube,SourceTree,TestNG,Mockito,GitHub. Full Stack Java Developer Old Republic Aerospace - Kennesaw, GA November 2017 to April 2018 This Application can be used to automate and buy the Quote for the Unmanned Aircraft. This is used for business customers to view invoices. Customers can access this application at any time to view the account details.    Responsibilities  ? Experience in all phases of Project & Product development life cycle that includes System Study, Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Testing, Deployment, Maintenance, Re-Engineering, and Documentation.  ? Participated in discussions with business to gather scope information and perform analysis of scope information to provide inputs for project scope documentation.  ? Participated in estimation, and solutions to provide inputs for preparing solution delivery for the proposal.  ? Analyze requirements with team, write High Level design documents, Use Case and analyze risk factors.  ? Followed agile methodology during complete SDLC process.  ? Participated in Agile/Scrum development and deployment teams.  ? Closely worked with business team in gathering Requirements.  ? Worked on User Story creation and Estimation of the project.  ? Used Spring Boot and Angular 4 for the application development.  ? Responsible for Web UI development in Angular4 using Material, JavaScript, Typescript, HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Developed UI from scratch for the above API using Angular4, Material 2 and Typescript.  ? Utilized JavaScript for various validations for the Angular Application.  ? Developing Web Application using Spring Boot architecture, Angular to design the user interfaces and Spring Data JPA for database connectivity.  ? Developed DAOs using Spring Data JPA, hibernate persistence API for the database operations to interact with SQL Server.  ? Developed web service client using Spring Boot Framework and REST HTTP protocol to get customer credentials and information.  ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, Angular 4, Material, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX and JSON.  ? Configured SMTP service for sending out email Invoices from the application to the customers.  ? Generated Invoices through PDF using itext pdf binded with email.  ? Worked with Handlebars to develop email template.  ? Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Angular.  ? Used Jasmine and Karma for Unit testing, Protractor for E2E tests.  ? Extracted data in UI for different clients using JSON.  ? Used Angular4 as the development framework to build a single-page application and reusable Angular4 applications.  ? Involved in deployment of the application in various environments (Development, QA Testing, Staging, and Production).  ? Used Maven for the project management like build, install.  ? Used Bitbucket for version control and repository.  ? Involved in writing Unit test cases for unit testing using Junit.  ? Worked with Bitbucket by using Source Tree that simplifies interaction with repositories.  ? Used log4j for logging errors, info, exceptions.  ? Involved extensively in Code Reviews, Unit testing and Process Improvements.  Environment  JDK 1.8, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Hibernate, Rest Web Services, Apache CXF, Angular 4, Material 2, JavaScript ES6, Typescript, Intellij Idea, Katalon Studio, SQL Server, WebStorm, Junit, Log4j, Maven 4,iText PDF, AWS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, RAD, Junit 4.1, Handlebars, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, JIRA, SourceTree. Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Dover, NH February 2016 to October 2017 B2B account management is a web-based application. This is used for business customers to view any past/current/unpaid invoices, pay invoices. Admins of multiple clients can access this application at any time to view the account details. This application can also be used to create trouble tickets.    Responsibilities  ? Involved in developing Web Service operations in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  ? Analyze requirements with team, write High Level design documents, System Use Case, analyze risk factors.  ? Followed agile methodology during complete SDLC process.  ? Participated in Agile/Scrum development and deployment teams  ? Used Spring Framework 4.1 for the application development.  ? Responsible for Web UI development in JavaScript using jQuery, AngularJS, and AJAX  ? Used Spring for bean instantiation, annotations, controllers, request mapping to handle the web service request and response.  ? Involved in front end development using Struts, JSP, JSF and JSTL.  ? Used JAXB for marshalling and unmarshalling of work order, billing XML documents, and JAXP for processing.  ? Developed REST Web services to make web service calls simple and easy for the client to access it with the help of standard HTTP URIs.  ? Design and developed request and response XML Schema(XSD) documents for web service operations such as Retrieve History.  ? Developing Intranet Web Application using J2EE architecture, using JSP to design the user interfaces and Hibernate for database connectivity.  ? Developed DAOs using JPA, Hibernate persistence API for the database operations to interact with Oracle Database.  ? Developed web service client using Spring Framework and REST HTTP protocol to get customer credentials and information.  ? Develop reports using Oracle Reports and Jasper Reports.  ? Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI and cd tool on Linux machines. Integrated Maven, Junit with Jenkins. Implementing JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) along with Expression Language (EL).  ? Created Mock-up designs and developed various functionalities with JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Worked on Swagger API and auto-generated documentation for all REST calls.  ? Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application and reusable AngularJS applications.  ? Designed and developed necessary PL/SQL for the database operations as needed.  ? Batch jobs were automated using the Quartz scheduler.  ? Used Maven for the project management like build, install.  ? Used JBehave for integration testing.  ? Used log4j for logging errors, info, exceptions.  ? Involved extensively in Code Reviews, Unit testing and Process Improvements.  Environment  JDK 1.7, Spring 4.1(DI, MVC, Tran Management, Integration, AOP), Hibernate 4.0, JAX-RS Web Services, JAX-WS Web Services, Apache CXF, Swagger API, jQuery 1.9, jQuery UI, AJAX, Jasper, UML, MS Visio, JSTL, Oracle 11g, WebLogic 12.1, Eclipse 4.2, Junit, XMLSPY, SOAPUI 5.1, Log4j, Maven 3.1, Accurev, PMD, AWS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, AngularJS 2, HTML5, CSS3, Toad, Maven, Jenkins, Hudson, TcpMon, Sun Jersey, Junit 4.1, Power mock, Selenium, JIRA, Rally, Free marker, Apache POI, Quartz Scheduler, TcpMon, jBehave, Selenium, Intellij15. Sr. Java J2EE Developer IEDSS - Indianapolis, IN October 2015 to January 2016 IEDSS is Indiana Eligibility Determination Services System. The state of Indiana is implementing Health Care web application. This application is required to do initial verification of the applicant and his/her family, lawful presence verification, income verification and other eligibility verification. On Eligibility, the applicant is issued CASH/EBT/Medical Support. Business functions that allow the user to enter application information and intake information into the system, depends on the action selected in initiation information page (Intake, Disaster Snap, Add person, Continue previously selected action etc.)    Responsibilities  ? Designed the Web Application Using Spring MVC (Model View Controller) pattern to make it extensible and flexible.  ? Analyzed, designed, implemented web based application using Java, JPA, JSP, Spring, XML, and SQL.  ? Used agile methodologies during the complete project life cycle.  ? Helped in preparing the design documents like process flow, sequence, component diagram.  ? Implemented DIM Web service using Spring Framework.  ? Used JMS for consuming pin verification, device connect disconnect messages.  ? Used JPA as data persistence API for all the DAO, database operations.  ? Generated Hibernate Objects, and used Hibernate ORM for SOTI Publisher application.  ? Used Maven project management tool for build and deployment of the application.  ? Developed Spring REST Web services for opening, closing the locker door webservice operations.  ? Wrote lots of JSP's for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets, JSP and backend using Hibernate.  ? Developed the presentation and controller logic for the screens related to my user stories using JSPs, HTML, and bean and form tag libraries.  ? Developed rule modules using Rule Engines, Drools.  ? Used Subversion (SVN), ClearCase as source controls.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Established continuous integration (CI) practices and standards for PSCU with Jenkins.  ? Spring XML configuration for Camel Integration to messaging XML documents.  ? Front end development utilizing HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework and a Java backend  ? Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  ? Parse XML documents like Device Connect, disconnect messages using JAXB.  ? Used Microsoft Visio to design the work flows and sequence diagrams, class diagrams.  ? Writing unit and integration tests with Mockito framework.  ? Involved in deployment of the application in various environments (Development, Testing, Staging, and Production).  ? Used log4j for logging.    Environment  JDK 1.6, Eclipse 3.6,Agile, Spring FW 3.1.0, Cache Abstraction, RESTWebservices, Oracle 11g, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JPA, Maven, JUnit, Log4j, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, JMS, DBVisualizer 7.1, WebLogic, UML, Mockito, JSP, XML, JAXB, Unix, Subversion(SVN), ClearCase, Jenkins. Full Stack Java Developer Dice - Santa Clara, CA July 2013 to September 2015 Dice.com is a career website. It serves information technology and engineering professionals. Dice.com is owned by Dice Holdings, Inc.Dice.com typically has approximately 60,000 tech job listings. Dice have 3 million registered technology professionals and approximately 2 million unique visitors each month.    Responsibilities  ? Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session facade, Value object and DAO design patterns.  ? Used Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator Design Pattern into Action Classes.  ? Developed a controller Servlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes.  ? Automated CI/CD process using Jenkins, build-pipeline- plugin, GIT.  ? Installing and configuring Jenkins master and slave nodes. Built CI/CD pipeline and managing the infrastructure as code using chef. Designed extensive additions to existing Java Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  ? Extensively worked on Spring Bean wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOP modules.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  ? Identified and resolved programming issues, Servlets and EJB s performance tuning opportunities.  ? Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  ? Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  ? Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment using agile methodologies.  ? Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model etc which are required for the developer.  ? MVC architecture is implemented by struts framework.  ? Involved in implementing jQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  ? Written Test cases using JUnit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.    Environment  Java, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, jQuery, Struts, Design Patterns, HTML, CSS, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Apache, Oracle ECM, Struts, Web Services, SOAP, ILOG, Web2.0, Oracle BPM, JSF, WSDL, Apache CXF, Apache Axis2, Apache Tomcat Server, SOA, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, UML, WebLogic, Junit. Java J2EE Developer Nendrasys Software Solutions - IN August 2010 to June 2013 Worked with the project for maintaining the attendance and automation of the office works and in writing software for the online examinations. This project helps in reducing the time for conducting the examinations and in easy maintenance of the staff and in the generation of timely reports.    Responsibilities  ? Used the light weight container of the Spring MVC Framework to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of control (IOC).  ? Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases such as Requirement Analysis, Design and Implementation of the project.  ? Used Spring Framework for dependency injection.  ? The front end of the project is designed on MVC architecture using struts, Tiles frameworks.  ? Involved in Configuring tiles-def.xml, web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the strut framework.  ? Used LOG4J for error logging at the development box and used ANT for building the deployable EAR/WAR components.  ? Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  ? EJB's were running under the hood of WebSphere container/server.  ? Implemented Back office loan services and web applications using Session Façade, Service Locator, Data Access Objects, Business Delegate, MVC, Front Controller and Data Transfer Object design patterns.  ? Created DB2 SQL Procedures, Functions & Stored Procedures, Nested Tables, Cursors, DB2 Packages, Reports & SQL Functions for Reports.  ? Developed the application using RAD model.  ? Worked with VSS Version control to create virtual library of computer files.    Environment  Java1.5, JSP2.0, Servlets2.4, EJB2.0, Struts1.2, Spring 2.0.3, JDBC3.0, Design patterns, Html, XML, CSS, Log4j, Ant, Web services, RAD6.0, IBM WebSphere server6.1, IBM DB29.0, VSS. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jdk, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Struts, Database, Db2, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle Additional Information Technical Skills:    Platforms Windows 2000/NT/ XP/Vista and Sun Solaris 2.8/2.9, UNIX  Programming JDK 1.5, 1.6, 1.7,1.8, C, C++  Server Scripting JSP1.2,2.1, JSP-EL, JSTL, Custom Tags  Client Scripting JQuery 1.8,1.9, JQueryUI, ExtJS, AngularJS, Javascript, CSS2, CSS3, HTML4, HTML5, NodeJS  Java Frameworks Struts 1.2, Struts 2.1, Spring MVC,DI, AOP, JSF 1.1, JSF 2.1, Vaadin  Database Tools Toad for Oracle, Toad for MySQL, Toad for DB2, Toad for MS-SQL,MySQL Workbench,  Databases DB2, MS-SQL Server, PostgresQL, MySQL, H2DB  Version Control Tortoise SVN, Rational Clearcase, Accurev, GitHub, CVS  IDEs Eclipse 3.0, 3.1, MyEclipse 4.1, IntelliJ, Netbeans, JBuilder 2007, JDeveloper.  Build Tools ANT 1.7,1.8,1.9, Maven, Gradle  Continuous Integration Jenkins, Hudson  Webservice Specifications JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Webservice Tools SoapUI 4.0,5.1, TcpMon  Webservice Implementations Axis 1.0,2.1, JWSDP2.1, Sun Metro, Sun Jersey, Apache XFire, Apache CXF  Whitebox Testing Junit 3, Junit 4, DBUnit, JUnitPerf, HttpUnit, LoadTest, TimedTest, Selenium, Fitnesse, EasyMock, PowerMock  Blackbox Testing JMeter, LoadUI, LoadRunner, HP Quality Center, WinRunner,  Application Servers Weblogic 8.1, 10.0, Websphere 6.1, JBoss 4.0, Glassfish 4.0  Web Servers Tomcat 5.0,6.0,7.1, Joans  UML Tools Altova UML Model, Rational Enterprise, MS Visio  ORM Frameworks Hibernate 3.0,3.1,4.1, TopLink, OpenJPA, iBatis  Defect Tracking JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational ClearQuest  Methodologies Agile (XP, Scrum), Rational Unified Process(RUP), Waterfall, Kanban  Reporting iReports, JReports  Batch Jobs Quartz Scheduler, Cron, Spring Batch  HTML Editors MS-Frontpage 2003, Adobe Dreamweaver, Coffee Cup HTML  Templating Velocity, Freemarker    Expertise  ? Requirement Analysis  ? Design & Development  ? Test Cases Preparation  ? Unit Testing, Integration testing, Smoke testing & system testing  ? Expert in Effort Estimates  ? Object Oriented Programming  ? UML diagrams  ? UAT/Production follow up  ? Performance Tuning    ? SDLC  ? Waterfall, RUP & Agile Methodologies  ? Project Management  ? Integrating third party tools  ? Technical Trainer  ? Release Management  ? Offshore Coordination  ? Investments & banking domain knowledge    ? Multi-Layer Architecture  ? Client Relationship Management  ? Activity Management  ? Integration framework  ? KT & Share point documents  ? Project Tracking  ? Batch framework & processing  ? Cross-Functional Team Leadership