Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer Monmouth Junction, NJ • 5 years of experience in development and implementation of Web-based Client-Server applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, Require.js, node.js, Angular.js, Grunt js, Responsive design.  • Solid working knowledge of functional programming, Java 8 , Lambda Functions and Method References.  • Experience in using front end frame work Ext JS and Angular JS, proficient in features such as Directives, Controllers. Scopes and Data Binding.  • Strong experience in Spring framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Spring microservices, Spring REST, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix, Spring Zuul, Spring Security.  • Highly experienced in developing application using modern JS frameworks and libraries like  Angular.JS, jQuery. Also used Angular JS for making Restful API calls and data binding.  • Deep knowledge of Angular.JS practices and commonly used modules based on extensive  work experience.  • Preferred experience with third-party frameworks such as Ionic, NativeScript, Cordova, and ReactJS.  • Extensively worked on designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JQuery, D3.js, JSON and CSS.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, JSON, Node.js, ActionScript, JSF and JSP.  • Provided technical assistance for integration of Appian systems along with external systems such as SAP.  • Experience in Micro services development using spring boot and deployment in Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Experience in creating comprehensive web applications using MEAN stack implemented with MS SQL, Express, Angular 2/4/5 and Node.js, Java 8..  • Experienced in working with version control systems like GIT and used Source code management client tools like GitBash, GitHub, Git Lab  • Experienced in testing data in HDFS and Hive for each transaction of data.  • Experienced in importing and exporting data using Sqoop from HDFS to Relational Database Systems and vice-versa.  • Experienced with Akka building high performance and reliable distributed applications in Java 8.0 and Scala.  • Good Knowledge in Angular 4.0  • Expertise in application development using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.0/3.0, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL.  • Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT, XPATH and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  • Expertise in designing and developing enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like EJB2.1/3.0, Struts 1.2/2.0,Spring 3.0 and 4.0, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JAXB, SAX/DOM, Web services.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and OOP through implementation and testing.  • Expertise on various AWS Services including Computing, Database, Storage, Networking, Security and CI/CD  • Participated in understanding of ExtJS technologies and development tasks  • Implemented TDD using Junit in many project.  • Experience in PairProgramming and CodeReviews.  • Experience in Bootstrap (responsive design), Backbone, and AngularJS frameworks  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, Jasper, Rational Application Developer(RAD), Angular JS for Java/J2EE application development Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Dow Jones - Monmouth Junction, NJ February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant Java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB, etc.  • Design and Development of Objects using Object Oriented Design in Java.  • Preparing the migration document for migrating application from Struts to Spring and Responsive web designing the application.  • Developed REST API's using Spring MVC and Spring boot , hosted all micro services on PCF  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Development of Cloud deployed applications  • Implemented DAO layer using JPA (Hibernate framework) to interact with database.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and XSLT, involved in writing new JSPs, designed pages using HTML and client validation using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Used Scala for coding the components in Play and Akka.  • Used scala scripts for spark machine learning libraries API execution for decision trees, ALS, logistic and linear regressions algorithms.  • Moved the project to Java 8 to extensively use Lamda expressions and have better connectivity to Cloud in addition adding Spring Boot Libraries and UI Enhancement.  • Implemented REST Microservices using spring boot. Generated Metrics with method level granularity and Persistence using Spring AOP and Spring Actuator  • Populated HDFS and Cassandra with huge amounts of data using Apache Kafka.  • Strong experience with Microservices, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Cloud Foundry, Netflix OSS stack.  • Experience in deploying the Cassandra cluster in cloud, on premises, data storage and disaster recovery.  • Used spring config server for centralized configuration and Splunk for centralized logging. Used Concourse and Jenkins for Microservices deployment  • Experience in designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language.  • Experience in Automation testing using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit and Maven.  • Responsible for writing the Design Specifications for the generic and application specific web services in Groovy n Grails.  • Developing Restful web service development in Grails  • Responsible for overall Docker & Kubernetes setup, configuration and Architecture.  • Configured and maintained a large scale Docker based PaaS environment using kubernetes  • Proposed and implemented branching strategy suitable for agile development in GIT  • Involved in Agile methodology with respect to the successful development of the project.  • Extensively used Core Java API, Spring API in developing the business logic.  • Used Spring Core and the Inversion of Control module of Spring framework  • Designed and Developed Representational state transfer (REST) based services and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based services as part of the requirement.  • Built RESTful APIs in front of different types of NoSQL storage engines allowing other groups to quickly meet their Big Data needs and remain insulated from rapid technology changes in the NoSQL field.  • Configured Hibernate-ORM to map java objects such as clients and claims with database tables  • Involved in Configuration of Elastic Search files like application.yaml.  • Optimized ExtJS themes and prepared performance applications.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Experienced in developing SOAP-based Web Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAXB).    Environment: Java 8 , JSP, JQuery, JSON, HBase ,Elastic, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, MICROS, Spring ORM, JAXB, XML, JAX-WS, SOAP Web Services, RESTful web services, SOLR Java Full Stack Developer Mindtree - New York, NY December 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements.  • Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology.  • Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs  • Developed and deployed solution using several new technologies, including Linux - Ubuntu, Drupal and Apache SOLR.  • Created and Manipulated shell scripts on Production server for backup on AWS.  • Demonstrated skills using AWS Serverless Framework (Lambda, Node, Dynamo DB).  • Developed PCF based Microservices to expose the key Identity management features on the cloud.  • Ensured Data Security by Oracle Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and VPD policy.  • Identified usability and develop functional and smooth, easy-to-operate and eye-catching web applications using EXT JS, Angular JS and react JS.  • Utilize Camel to integrate microservices with other Microservices and Rabbit MQ messaging exchanges.  • Worked on Angular Strap Framework and AngularJS Validations.  • Extensively used Core Java concepts and implemented Collections, Multithreading, I/O, Exception Handling and Generics in logic design and development.  • Used Angular UI Bootstrap3 for Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms for Single Page Application modules.  • Deployed Spring Boot based Micro Services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console.  • Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs  • Performed Migration of data from SQL Server 2005 toSQL Server 2008Edition.  • Developed and deployed solution using several new technologies, including Linux - Ubuntu, Drupal and Apache SOLR.  • Responsible for design and maintenance of the GIT Repositories, and the access control strategies.  • Created and designed data ingest pipelines using technologies such as Apache Storm- Kafka.  • Coordinate with all the teams for functional requirements and ensure compliance to all architecture standards.  • Developed and implemented software models for software systems and analyze all business requirements for processes.  • Implemented procedures for data storage management and modeling using Cloud base technologies.  • Developed and delivered SOAP based Web Servicesfor our new clients used Apache-CXF and SOAP UI to test the services.  • Experienced in using Scala, Java and Python frameworks for Bigdata/Spark engine requirements  • Worked with data in multiple file formats including Avro, ORC and Text/ CSV.Develop Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL for faster testing and data processing.  • Experience in creating Models, Controllers, Templates, Custom Directives, Components, Filters and Services in AngularJS.  • Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle10g database.  • Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in Web Logic Application Server.  • Creating Angular Services using factory services to implement the business logic.  • Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries.  • Proficient in using SVN for Version Control.  • Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing.    Environment: Java, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Ant,Elastic, Struts, POS, DOJO, Drools, Hbase, Solr, Marklogic, Spring, MICROS, Hibernate, RSA, WebSphere Application Server, DB2, Agile, XML, LDAP. Java Developer BNFS - Fort Worth, TX July 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in meetings with Business Analysts and Architects to identify the scope, requirements and architecture of the project.  • Coordinates and facilitates work sessions with Medicare Operations users and IT development to define projects' scope and requirements and manage project expectations.  • Developed REST API's using Spring MVC and Spring boot , hosted all micro services on PCF  • Served as a project management analyst on multiple initiatives involving maintenance and systems changes for HIPAA implementation.  • Completed system documentation, researched system requirements, participated in system testing and verification for HIPAA implementation.  • Writing scala test cases to test scala written code.  • Developed micro services using spring boot exposed as REST API and integrated with AngularJS based web applications.  • Followed MVC model and used spring frameworks for developing the Web layer of the application.  • Built JavaScript application with Backbone.JS, as well as using Node.JS for server side rendering.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Extensively used JavaScript to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations.  • Solid experience on JavaScript Frameworks like MVC/MVVM JavaScript framework and Exposure to Node.js.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  • Used Angular UI Bootstrap for Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms for Single Page Application modules.  • Developed a module as SPA using Angular JS with Angular routers and controllers  • Individually developed interactive web pages using Angular JS to perform operations in a database.  • Experience in using front end frame work Ext JS and Angular JS, proficient in features such as Directives, Controllers. Scopes and Data Binding.  • Worked on research team that developed Scala, a programming language with full Java interoperability and a strong type system.  • Involved in Database design for new modules and developed the persistence layer based on Hibernate.    Environment: Java, J2EE, spring, Hibernate, JSP, Eclipse 3.3, WebLogic, Maven, JUnit, CVS, CSS, HTML, XML, XSD, JavaScript, Oracle10g and Windows2007 Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, J2SE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JBOSS, JMS, JNDI, jQuery, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, GUI, JAVASCRIPT, NODE.JS, MIDDLEWARE, PHP, Angular Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    J2SE Technology: Multithreading, Reflections, Collections, Serialization, Networking, Beans  Middleware Technology: JMS, MQ Messaging, Tibco, Solace, Active MQ  J2EE Technology: Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI  Architecture & Framework: MVC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, OSGI  Database: Oracle 10g, 11g, SQL server 2005/2008, MySQL  IDE: Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans  Operating Systems: Windows 9x/NT/XP/2003/7/8, Linux, UNIX  Web/App Servers: WebLogic, Web Sphere, Tomcat, JBoss, Apache  GUI: HTML5, XML, XSD, AJAX, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular JS, Angular 2, JQuery, CSS3  Query Languages: SQL, PL/SQL  Programming Language: C, C++, Java, J2EE  Script: PHP, Shell  Design patterns: MVC3, Business Delegate, Business Object, Value Object, Front Controller, Database Access Object, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade.  Tools: Maven, ANT, Log4J, JUnit, TOAD, SOAPUI 4.0.5, JUnit, Rational Rose,