Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Staples Framingham, MA ? Over 9 years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based, Client-Server business applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Experience working with different SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) including Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing and Implementation like AGILE (SCRUM), TDD and Waterfall Models.  ? Worked with PL/SQL Packages Procedures and Functions for back end processes.  ? Involved in development in Java and PL/SQL components  ? Excellent exposure to Microsoft Technologies, ORACLE 9i, sql/SQL.  ? Having good knowledge in front end technologies like HTML4, CSS3, Android, AJAX, JSON, DOM, TypeScript, Bootstrap, XHTML, DHTML,JavaScript, jQuery, Tag libraries,Angular JS 2/4.  ? Knowledge in developing applications using Java/J2EE technologiesHibernate,Servlets, JSP,JSF, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, GWT JavaBeans, EJBs,JSTL, Swing, Struts, XML, Web Services, JMS  ? Involved in implementing business logic with Oracle-stored procedures, functions and triggers using PL/SQL.  ? Good hands on Java 8 concepts like Lambda, Functional Interfaces, Filters and Streams.  ? Experience in database design and development of PL/SQL stored procedures, and packages in relational databases like Oracle 9i / 10g / 11g, SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2, MySQL and good hands on experience in implementing, designing and developing NoSQL Databases like MongoDB, Apache Cassandra and CouchDB.  ? Experience in configuration and deployment of multi-tier applications using different web servers like Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, Apache Axis, Apache HTTP Server and WebLogic.  ? Experience on AWS platforms VPC, EC2, ELB, SQ3, and EBS, ROUTE 53, Dynamo DB CLI and SDK's/API tools and good knowledge on AWS tools like S3, Lambda, Kinesis, Cloud Watch, SQS.  ? Expertise in configuring WBI Adapters such as Jtext, JDBC, HTTP, Webservices, MQand JMS.  ? Used PL/SQL and SQL*Loader to create ETL packages for flat file loading and error capturing into log tables.  ? Experience in working with different IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, STS (Spring Tool Suite), Visual Studio, Rational Application Developer (RAD), Dream Viewer.  ? Experience in implementing and deploying Java EE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  ? Experience in using code repository tools - Tortoise SVN, CVS, GitHub, and Visual Source Safe.  ? Experience with project build/test/deployment tools like Maven and Ant.  ? Worked with Log4j for logging and used JUnit and Mockito for unit testing and integration testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Staples - Framingham, MA August 2018 to Present The SOMS (Shared Order Management system) Application enables the back-end process of Staples online and vendor orders. This is a centralized application which interacts with lot of other API's and helps in managing different intermediate steps like authorization of the customer & order price, payments, sourcing, and shipping involved during the life cycle of an order.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development and testing of Streamlets module. Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  ? Followed Agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model and worked on JIRAand Confluence to access the user stories.  ? Worked with PL/SQL Packages Procedures and Functions for back end processes.  ? Implemented Java8 features like Lambda expressions, Streams, filters, pipelines, Optional Interfaces etc.  ? Developed UIweb pages using HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery to display the data on the client side.  ? Oracle PL/SQL developer responsible for writing ETL scripts  ? Created the AngularJS application using Grunt and Bower and used AngularUI for component model.  ? Updated the project midway to Angular 4 for its performance benefits.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Adapter, Service locator, Session facade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  ? Developed classes using Core java/Executor Service(multithreading, concurrency, memory management).  ? Involved in developing UI pages using AngularJS and calling the Rest API's from backend.  ? Created Spring Boot with Micro Services utilizing RESTful API.  ? Consumed REST Web Services for getting the credit card information from third party application using EME.  ? Developed Restful Web services for other systems to interact with our system and secured the service with Spring- Security Oauth-2.0. Added WS-Security using XWSS to secure the Web services.  ? Implemented the associated business modules integration using Springand Hibernate data mapping.  ? Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query, Criteria.  ? Performed Hibernate framework optimization using Projection in Criteria object to query minimum columns to display data on dashboards.  ? Worked closely with Project manager, development, testing andproduction team to align project deliverables, dates and report issues/concerns.  ? Used Node.JS to run Grunt Tasks and build properly the project.  ? Involved in implementing business logic with Oracle-stored procedures, functions and triggers using PL/SQL  ? Developed Session Beans for necessary Transactions like fetching the data and updating the customer information.  ? Utilized Spring core, AOP and security to build robust business operations with transactional support.  ? Implemented SpringCloud Config Server, Routing and Filtering to Microservices using Netflix Zuul.  ? Extensively used Spring Batch which uses Spring IOC dependencies, this is useful for developing batch processing.  ? Developed unit and integration tests for existing microservices using JUnit, Mockito environments.  ? Developed database objects-Stored Procedures, Tables, Views, Sequences, Cursors, Packages and Triggers.  ? Wrote SQL queries using PL/SQL, stored procedures and enhanced performance by running explain plans.  ? Developed and tested extraction, transformation, job and load (ETL) processes.  ? Tuned performance of Informaticasession for large data files by increasing block size, data cache size, sequence buffer length and target based commit interval.  ? Performed cross browser testing by using Selenium Grid on multiple browsers and on different platforms.  ? Oversaw all aspects of testing JUnit, FIT, and SIT,End to End, Regression,User acceptance and Performance.  ? Used Git as Version Control System for the application. Used JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol.  ? Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  ? Created detailed AWS Security groups which behaved as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed reaching one or more AWS EC2 instances.  ? Created and maintained documentation for launching HADOOP Clusters and executing Hive queries, Pig Scripts.  ? Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  ? Experience of working with AzureMonitoring, Data Factory, Traffic Manager, Service Bus, Key Vault.  ? Hands on experience with Microsoft Azure Cloudservices, Storage Accounts and Virtual Networks.  Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, J2EE, Git, PL/SQL,Spring Boot, Hibernate 4.x, Core Java, SOAP/Rest, Web Services, CSS, Angular 4,IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.X/6.X,Struts2, RAD, DB2 Visualizer,Hadoop, Scala, Spark, Eclipse RCP SASS, WSDL, JIRA 5/6.x, JMS, NOSQL(MongoDB), ETL, Grunt J AWS, Microsoft Azure(Recently) Spring Cloud, SAAS1Spring batch, Apache JMeter, jQuery, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins. Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Protective Life Insurance - Birmingham, AL July 2017 to August 2018 The Life Insurance Application allows customers to access their account online. This application provides employers to access customer information to process and authorize claims of the customers and generates free quotes for the customers depending on the type of insurance package they selected. It also facilitates customers to pay their monthly premiums.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all stages of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Design, and Implementation in Agile Methodology.  ? Developed presentation layers using HTML5, CSS3, and Angular2 router to build single page application to navigate through the different status and multiple modals.  ? Used Angular 2 to associate HTML elements to model, to provide dynamic user validations on client side.  ? Worked on UI components using Angular2Dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  ? Worked on Java8 features like Lambda expressions, Streams, filters, optional classes and default methods.  ? Used Executor Service Interfaces, ThreadPoolExecutor class for multi-threading& thread resource pooling.  ? Worked on Spring MVC Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache, Spring Boot components to implement business layer and navigation part of application.  ? Demonstrated our SAAS, engaged in contract negotiations, and presented ROI to C Level Executives.  ? Developed the Application using design patterns-Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO prototype and Composite View.  ? Implemented Microservices architecture with Netflix, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon using Spring Bootto provide client-side load balancing in calls to another Microservicesfor making application in to smaller chunks and also the Spring Hystrix as circuit breaker and for the fail-safe.  ? Involved in developing Restful service API's end points in microservice architecture.  ? Developed Mongo DB Data Access Layer implementing Mongo Repository interface from Spring Data.  ? Implemented a distributed messaging queue to integrate with MongoDB using Kafka and Zookeeper.  ? Developed various SQL queries and PL / SQL Procedures in Oracle DB for the application.  ? Involved in Designing and deploying AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups. Supporting Systems Infrastructure comprised of Linux OS,AWS, EC2 clusters.  ? Worked on instantiating multiple AWSEC2 servers by using YAML Script in Ansible playbook. Experienced DevOps methodologies by implementing CI/CD Pipelines using tool sets like GIT, Jenkins, and AWS  ? Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions.  ? Extensively worked in data extraction, transformation and loading from source to target system using Informaticapower center.  ? Worked with API Management product of APIGEE in consuming the API's in implementing customer use cases.  ? UNIX Shellscripts for Bash shell to automate deployments and environment configurations on the EC2 Clusters  ? Developed ApacheSpark jobs using Java in test environment for faster data processing and used SparkSQL.  ? Designed and Developed the Automation Testing Framework using Java, Selenium Web Driver and TestNG.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular2, Node.js, Java8, Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, Restful Webservices, Microservices, IBM BPM,Netflix, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Boot,SAAS, Spring Hystrix, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, PL / SQL, Oracle, Ansible, Kafka, Zookeeper, Kubernetes, GIT, Jenkins, Chef,Linux OS,Selenium, TestNG, APIGEE, MongoDB, Design Patterns, log4j, Agile Methodology, Maven, Spark Java Developer Woodforest National Bank - Chicago, IL February 2016 to June 2017 Financial planner helps the financial advisors for advising customers on Retirement, Insurance, Education, Tax, Estate and Mortgage planning. We give the monetary benefits at each period and projection till the end of period. We also help the customers to apply online for insurance claims and online purchase of insurance plans. Online payment system for insurance premiums and Retirement plans are integrated with the system. The system has the facility to give insurance and investment plans and offers quotes based on the information provided by the customer    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Agile methodology including team-based design and code reviews.  ? Actively involved in Requirement Analysis, designing, development and testing of the entire application.  ? Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and Bootstrap.  ? Enhance and modify the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using JSP and client-side validations done using JavaScript.  ? Implemented Spring MVC controllers, configured using Spring MVC annotations and configuration files.  ? Implemented spring framework Bean Factory & Application Context for bean initialization and configurations.  ? Spring AOP is used for logging, auditing, and security and transaction management to distinguish business logic from the crosscutting concerns.  ? Implemented the back-end functionality of the modules using Singleton and Session Facade design patterns.  ? Used Hibernate as an ORM tool to interact with the database.  ? Involved in development of POJO classes and writing Hibernate query language(HQL) queries.  ? Asynchronous messaging is done using JMS and created Queue for point to point messaging.  ? Developed REST web services using SpringMVC to extract client related data from database and used SOAP UI for testing these RESTFUL API web services.  ? Implemented Service Oriented Architecture by developing and consuming RESTFULservices based on JAX-RS.  ? Implemented Java Classes to use JAXP parser to create Java objects, able to modify the data received in the response.  ? Worked with DB2 and Wrote SQL Queries, stored Procedures, triggers, and integrated SQL Queries into DAO.  ? Deployed the application on ApacheTomcat Application Server.  ? Used Log4j logging mechanism for logging.  ? Used SVN for versioning and concurrent access to the project files.  ? Resolving spring framework artifacts and code build & deployment with Maven.  ? Used JIRA for defect and issue tracking and Used Jenkins for continuous integration/continuous deployment.  ? Automated regression test cases using Selenium.  Environment: Java 6, J2EE, Spring MVC 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React JS, JMS, SOAP, Axis2, Maven, Jenkins, DB2, Selenium, Log4j, SVN, JIRA, Tomcat 6.0. Java/J2EE Developer People Tech Group February 2015 to January 2016 This is a comprehensive and integrated Hospital Management System for a super specialty hospital. This package is used to computerize the activities of a servicing system. This package contains four modules. They are Administration, Patient Care System, Health Services and Auxiliary Services. Each module is having sub modules with in this sub modules will maintain storing, registering, details of joining patient details, and over all day activities maintains one database    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all phases of the project like design, development, testing, enhancements and production support.  ? We used Multithreading in this application to improve the performance.  ? Used Strutsframeworks and MVC design patterns to complete several projects on complex areas of development  including user interface design, batch processing, stored procedure development, XML, data exchange and  ? integration.  ? Developed SOAP web services using Apache web services and Spring framework.  ? Involved in designing and implementing the application using various Java andJ2EE Design patterns design patterns such as Singleton, Business Delegate, Façade, MVC and Data Access Object (DAO).  ? Developed UI using spring view component HTML, CSS, Java Script.  ? Designed and Developed UI using JSP by following MVC architecture.  ? The Java Message Service (JMS) API used to allow application components to create, send, receive, and read  ? messages.  ? Utilized Spring MVC annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection.  ? Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures and modifications to existing database structure for addition features Controller Servlets, Action, Form objects for process of interacting with Oracle database and retrieving dynamic data.  ? Involved in writing all formats of database quires like SQL, HQL in DAO layer.  ? Developed Unit test cases using Junit and Developed ant scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT.  ? Created the design documents with use case diagram, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose and Used Clear Case for source code maintenance.  ? Produced comprehensive documentation for Microservices and Applications supporting Change  ? Management process.  ? Installed Web Logic Server for handling HTTP Request/Response and controlled using Session Tracking in JSP.  ? Used Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files.  ? Used Jenkins as a continuous integration tool for application building, testing and deploying.  ? Co-ordinate with the QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and those defects are resolved.  ? Was part of production support team to resolve the production issues.  Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, Struts 1.1, MVC Design Patterns, Spring MVC, SOAP Web Services, JSP 1.2, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, Web Logic 7.0, XML, JMS, Apache ANT, Rational Rose, Junit, Jenkins, Maven, Microservices Med Host (Financial) Franklin, TN October 2013 to January 2015 Java Developer  MEDHOST provides market-leading enterprise, departmental and health IT engagement solutions to more than 1, 000 hospitals. Med host financial department provides account payments, credit card processing, general ledger, materials management, online bill payments, patient statements, electronic claims and electronic remittance.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Agile methodology including team-based design and code reviews.  ? Involved in the combining two web applications into one for a new project.  ? Developed applications using AngularJS -Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  ? Enhanced user experience by designing new web features and also single page applications using AngularJS.  ? Experienced in Responsive Web Design technology framework like Bootstrap.  ? Used Ehcache for caching and improved the performance of the application.  ? Responsible for development of Business logic in core Java.  ? Created SQL jobs to upload the feeds received from Borg.  ? Using Spring AOP to capture performance statistics of business logic and DAO layer methods.  ? Designed and Developed user interactive screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery.  ? Extensively worked on MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node) stack for rapid prototyping of applications for client demonstrations.  ? JSON objects have been created to store them in Database in OFFLINE mode.  ? Serialized string of a Google Protocol Buffer data structure.  ? Implemented Single Sign on e-marketing commercial portal site with B2B and B2C sites.  ? Stubby server communication and creation  ? Implemented spring MVC to achieve Model View Controller design pattern. Configured spring to manage actions as beans and set their dependencies in a spring context file and integrated middle tire with spring web layer.  ? Implementing the coding standards, review the code and fixing all the code review bugs.  ? Created all the services to work with various entities provided and rectified the services using APIs using JAX-RS.  ? Created application layer POJO classes and mapped them to backend Oracle database tables using Hibernate framework.  ? Experienced in writing SQL and PL/SQL scripts.  ? Analyse the code and apply the fix solution for the issues Identified based on the severity basis.  ? Developed queries that are required for the application development and implemented using different logics.  ? Developed test classes in Junit for implementing unit testing.  ? Batch Jobs have been developed using spring Batch.  ? Used SVN as the Version Control.  Environment: Java, Bootstrap, AngularJS, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Struts, Spring POJO, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sub lime, Spring MVC, Maven, SVN, AJAX, Apache Tomcat Server, Log4j, Restful web services, WebSphere Application Server, Spring, Oracle, Jboss, JIRA, Jenkins, Agile-Scrum. Java/J2EE Developer Tavant Technologies October 2011 to August 2013 Tavant Technologies is an IT solutions and services provider recognized globally for its innovative solutions. They have been able to provide game changing results for customers by combining industry experience with cutting-edge technologies. Developing enterprise software that automates primary business processes to maintaining or modernizing legacy systems, our Application Development and Maintenance Services (ADM Services) have made a positive impact to businesses across the world.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of the development life cycle (SDLC) involving in requirement Collection. Design and analysis of the customer specifications of the application using TDD Methodology,  ? Implemented struts framework using MVC design pattern and front controller pattern  ? Designed user interface by creating web pages for each component using Struts web MVC and Action Servlet as front controller in this application.  ? Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file  ? Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML for each user interface. JavaScript, Servlets standard validations are used as the controllers for business logic and using JDBC, XML parsing techniques using MVC  ? Designed mailing application to send notifications to the Oracle users for intimating to start the next workflow.  ? Designed and implemented AJAX server calls to dynamically retrieve shipping information.  ? Worked on Oracle in writing complex queries in the business logic layer. Used joins, debugging the SCM related packages and customization.  ? Involved in testing the application using JUnit.  ? Designed, coded and tested business logic for software applications.  Environment: Core Java, JDK, J2EE, JSP, MySQL, Ant Build, JDBC, Struts, HTML, XML, Java Script, JUnit, Ajax, TDD Methodology, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse. Java/UI Developer Prime soft Technologies Pvt. Ltd May 2010 to September 2011 Electronic Medical Record (EMR) is a web-based java solution that capture data from different fields, different forms to compile individual Health data that can be shared across different health care settings and different clinicians. This individual data can be compiled to generate different types of reports that can help the organizations to grow their business rapidly.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked extensively with the backend which comprised of Spring, Hibernate and JPA.  ? Used JSON and XML formats to transfer data from the server.  ? Implemented Web Services to handle data from third party interfaces, used tool like axis 1.4 to create web services.  ? Developed AJAX based web-based UI framework.  ? Created simple user interface for application's configuration system using MVC design patterns and Swing framework.  ? Developed Servlets and JSP for performing CRUD operations on domain specific entities.  ? Developed Service Layer using POJOs and Spring IOC.  ? Developed Data Access Layer using Hibernate and DAO Design Pattern.  ? Involved in working with J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Factory, DAO, and Business Delegate) and Model View Controller Architecture with JSF and Spring IOC.  ? Used Apache POI API to generate excel document for data in each grid in the application.  ? Extensively used Spring IOC architectural model to inject objects based on the selection of components like setter injection and Interface injection to manage the object references.  ? Involved in the development of the application based on backend Spring MVC architecture.  ? Utilized Spring MVC framework to implement design patterns like IOC (Dependency Injection), Spring DAO, Data Transfer objects, Business objects, ORM Mappings.  ? Used the Spring DAO to handle exception for database transaction like open connections, no result, connection aborted, closing the connections etc.  ? Utilized the concept of Lazy initialization and Eager fetch based on the requirements and increase the performance within the session of objects.  Environment: JSP, Servlets, Struts framework, MVC, Java Beans, JDBC, Tomcat, Linux, Oracle 10g, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, GIT, JUnit. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (4 years), Apache (6 years), HTML5 (4 years), J2EE (7 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), jQuery (4 years), JSP (5 years), JUnit (6 years), Maven (5 years), Model View Controller (8 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (8 years), MVC (8 years), Oracle (7 years), SQL (5 years), testing (7 years), Tomcat (6 years), UI (5 years), user interface (7 years), Web Services (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License