Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Ge Healthcare Waukesha, WI ? Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  ? Expert in methodologies like Agile, SCRUM, TDD, Waterfall, Scrum, Iteration and Pair Programming and proficient in developing UML/Visio diagrams using case tools like Enterprise Architect, Visio and Rational Rose.  ? Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Spring Micro services, Spring REST, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix Zuul.  ? Experience on design patterns such as Session Facade, Business Delegate, Adaptor, Bean Factory, Singleton, Front Controller, Data Access Object, Service Locator, MVC, and Data Transfer Object.  ? Experience in developing Web based UI's using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript (and its data representation format like JSON), Angular JS, Action Script, DOJO, jQuery, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, EXT JS and Ajax.  ? Experienced in Full stack UI technologies using Grunt js, Gulp Server for Angular and experienced in working with Spring JDBC Templates, JMS Templates, Spring EAI, and Spring Rest Templates.  ? Strong understanding of Microservices Design Patterns Circuit Breaker/Hystrix, DTD, Aggregator, Proxy Chaining and expertise in XML technologies like XSL, XSLT, XPATH and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  ? Proficient in using Amazon Web Services AWS. Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, VPC, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, Amazon RDS, Elastic Cache, SNS, SQS.  ? Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  ? Worked on creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and on integration with Spring Boot and experienced with messaging systems like Kafka, Kafka event sourcing.  ? Expertise with tools like SQL Workbench, SQL Developer and TOAD tool for accessing the Database server and Expertised in Web Services architecture in RESTFUL and WSDL using JAX-RPC.  ? Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL, PL/SQL programming.  ? Experience in working with NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra and experienced in JUnit frame work with Mockito and Easy mock, Spring Junit Runner.  ? Good Working knowledge of ANT, MAVEN, Gradle and Log4J and well experienced in using JUnit, Log 4J, Test NG and SOAP UI for testing framework.  ? Extensive experience in testing on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Linux Sun Solaris, and Windows.  ? Expertise in using configuration management tool like Rational Clear case, CVS and Git for version controlling.  ? Experienced in IDE's such as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD), NetBeans, STS, Intellij 14.x/15.x  ? Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts for batch processing, Perl and Python scripts.  ? Experience in configuring and deploying the applications into Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss Servers.  ? Ability to communicate effectively with all levels of the organization such as technical, management and customers and presented technical designs and strategies through daily operations meetings. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Ge Healthcare - Waukesha, WI May 2017 to Present GE Healthcare provides transformational medical technologies and services that are shaping a new age of patient care. GE health Care board expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies, performance improvement and performance solutions services help its customers to deliver better care to more people around the world at a lower cost.    Responsibilities:  ? Actively involving in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed Agile Methodology in the SCRUM Cycle model.  ? Developed using new features of Java 8 like Lambda Expressions, functional interfaces, Stream API and Date API.  ? Worked with Core java concepts like Collections Framework, Multithreading, and Memory management.  ? Implemented application using design patterns such as Session Facade, Adaptor, Bean Factory and Singleton.  ? Implemented and developed UI components using Angular 4 features like dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers for devolving single page applications.  ? Developed Interactive web pages using Angular4, AJAX, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Involved in Angular4, Node JS, HTML5 and CSS3 code optimization, loading and cross browser compatibility.  ? Used Microservices architecture with Spring Boot, Apache Kafka message broker, deployed to AWS cloud.  ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and Spring Boot for microservices.  ? Spring MVC Framework design pattern is used to have relationships between application components.  ? Developed Entity objects and used Hibernate the ORM tool to access persistent data from SQL Server.  ? Using Spring AOP Module to implement logging in the application for application status.  ? Spring Security is utilized with the help of "Method Level Security" by using AOP (Aspect-Oriented Programming) and "URL Level Security" by using Servlet filters for web sockets.  ? Implement Spring Gateway API, Zulu server to handle the load balance for all Restful MicroWebServices in different servers for all environments.  ? Configured Swagger-UI, registered Microservice with Eureka server to monitor service from Spring Boot.  ? Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations and consumed using HTTP services.  ? Developed several REST which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications and RESTful using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  ? Worked on creation of Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integrating Spring boot.  ? Created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  ? Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions (EC2, MongoDB) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  ? Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and SQL tuning to reduce response time in the application.  ? Wrote SQL queries, Stored procedures and enhanced performance by running explain plans. Developed the data access classes using Hibernate and SQL queries to read and update data from the database as well as to connect database in the DAO implementation classes.  ? Developed Applications using Rule Engines-JBoss Drools, Work flows, Human tasks to implement Business rules validations and provided Drools Dashboard for Business users.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, sharing, replication and schema design.  ? Using JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  ? Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with GitHub, Jenkins Jobs.  ? Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation for database using Jenkins and UDeploy and tools like Jenkins.  ? Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs with a quick turnaround time.  ? Executed test scripts and regression suite of JUnit using Mockito and analyzed the test results.  ? Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs and NGNIX for reverse proxy server process to load balancing.  Environment: Java1.8, J2EE, Angular4, NodeJS, jQuery, CSS, HTML5, AJAX, Hibernate, Web Services, Spring Boot, XML, WSDL, PL/SQL, MongoDB, Docker, AWS Cloud, Swagger-UI, Tomcat, Maven, Apache Kafka, Log4j, Mockito, Junit, Jenkins, JIRA, GitHub. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Pnc Bank - Philadelphia, PA April 2016 to April 2017 The project (Mortgage Loans) involved developing client-server architecture for accessing/managing mortgage accounts online and providing credit and decision support solutions. Supported mortgage types FRM, ARM, Equity, etc. Provided a variety of online services like application processing, and evaluated user eligibility for a mortgage, calculators to figure out different loan scenarios.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various SDLC phases like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance.  ? Followed the best practices in coding like removing unnecessary casting, using generics in Hash Map, caching, Collections like sort, comparator, list, set.  ? Designed the application using the J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator and Singleton.  ? Used React JS to create controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  ? Used React JS for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  ? Involved in building a high efficiency Web Application using React and Node JS.  ? Developed interactive web pages using HTML, CSS and JS and used Bootstrap for cross browser compatibility.  ? Worked on responsive design and developed a responsive website that could be served to Tablets and mobile users using ReactJS Designed, developed and architected middle tier Restful Web API layer for the mobile applications.  ? Wrote a Scala library that allows data scientists to manipulate data structures more easily. As part of the library, native data structures like Spark Data frames were extended to support new functionality.  ? Developed Spring based presentation layer, hibernate based DAO layer and integrated them using Spring Dependency injection, ORM and Web modules.  ? Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages Model View Layer (MVC) architecture.  ? Used Spring Batch as spring batch jobs can meet the requirements of reliability, robustness, and traceability, which are essential for automatic processing of large amount of data.  ? Spring Security is used for Authorization like Method Level Authorization and URL Level Authorization.  ? Spring Transaction is used for the degree of isolation to work with other transactions and to execute within a transaction scope to run that transaction and used to check out before timing out of the transaction.  ? Wrote code Web Services (JAX-WS) for external system via SOAP/HTTP call and to fetch data from web services via XML response and updating the HTML pages.  ? Used Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of data over HTTP.  ? Used XML Web Services using SOAP protocol to transfer data from one application to other which is remote.  ? Used message brokers such as RabbitMQ.  ? Used JAX-B parser for marshaling and unmarshaling.  ? Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to role-based access controls, applying and enforcing roles and permissions to ensure that users can only view and affect the spaces for which they have been granted access.  ? Configured Hibernate objects as Spring Beans in the Spring Configuration File.  ? Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 11g Database.  ? Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store images to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  ? Used version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA for issue tracking.  ? Used Maven as a build tool and retrieved all the dependencies required for the application.  ? Used SOAP UI for testing the web services, AppDynamics for application health and Mockito for testing.  ? Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  ? Used Log4j framework to log/track application.  ? Created continuous integration builds using Jenkins. And deployed on JBoss.  ? Created CI/CD pipelines and setup auto trigger, auto build and auto deployment with the help of the CI/CD tool like Jenkins.  Environment:: Java, J2EE, JDK, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JavaScript, JSF 2.1, Spring Dependency Injection, Spring 3.x, Hibernate, Soap UI, Maven, SVN, , XML, SOAP web service, PCF, RabbitMQ, JBoss, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, JIRA, Mockito. Java Full Stack Developer American Family Insurance - Madison, WI December 2014 to March 2016 Project is an Online Auto Insurance Sales tool used to estimate the quote, calculate the premium as per state rules and sell the quote to customers. Customers can access this tool and buy insurance online, Sales tool Rewrite project is an enhancement and Integration project with the following major business requirements Implement a new Online Auto Insurance Sales process flow for quoting to reduce the number of questions/responses necessary to provide a quote premium sales.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams, using IBM Rational Rose and RUP.  ? Used Rational Application Developer (RAD) as Java IDE tool for creating JSPs, Servlets, EJBs, and XML.  ? Design and implemented the backend layer using Hibernate.  ? Developed the application front end and validations using Java Server Faces (JSF).  ? Develop named HQL queries and Criteria queries for use in application.  ? Implemented transaction management for ORM project using Spring Transaction Management API.  ? Created Stored Procedures and other SQL scripts using PL-SQL.  ? Implemented logging using log4j and Spring AOP.  ? Configuring the service on Weblogic/WAS application server for successful deployment.  ? Created JSON files showing changed data records only (VB.NET).  ? Developed server side JavaScript using Node JS.  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  ? Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Façade Pattern, Abstract Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern and Singleton.  ? Developed a core component of Analytics with Node JS and Angular.JS.  ? Extensively used JMX API for management and monitoring solutions.  ? Involved in developing front end screens using JSP, JSTL, DHTML, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript.  ? Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through SOAP over HTTP using Apache Axis2.  ? Performed security assessments for the client-facing apps. The associated IT infrastructure such as database management systems, middleware systems, Linux and Mainframe systems, web services (SOA) were also included in the security assessments.  ? Developed Portlets for user level interaction and encapsulating the business logic  ? Developed the automation environment for build, deployment, and configuration of Portlets onto the IBM websphere portal server using ANT scripts, XML Access scripts and JACL scripts.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the EJB 3.0 using annotations.  ? Developed RESTful web service at back end by using Node.js and Express.js  ? Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Business Delegate, Session Façade, Service Locator, Data Access Object(DAO) and Data Transfer Object  ? Generated Hibernate XML files for the configured beans. The business logic was written in EJB DAO classes and the service layer classes were configured in Spring-service.xml.  ? XSLT style sheets for the XML data transformations that included both mid-layer transformations (XML to XML) and final transformations (XML to HTML)  ? Implemented modules into Node.js to integrate with designs and requirements.  ? Implemented Initial setup and component migration to Redux.  ? Used MongoDB along with Node.js, as a database to store JSON.  ? Used Node.js to offer an easy and safe way to build high performance and scalable network application.  ? Worked on UNIX Shell scripts and Cron jobs.  ? Made use of content negotiation (XML, JSON, text/plain) using JAXB, GSON, Jackson, and XStream.  ? Technical evaluation with the architects for Drools business rules engine and Eclipse IDE for Java development.  ? Designed structures for Mongo Data store and processing JBoss Drools as rule-engine. Investigate, debug and fixed potential bugs or defects in the implemented code.  ? Implemented junit tests and mandated 90% min. code coverage.  ? Developed RESTful services using Jersey, JAX-RS and Restlet to call third party vendors  ? Used source control, used as plugin in eclipse.  Environment: Solaris, JSP, JSF, Spring, Servlet, Hibernate, Node Js, JMS, JCA, JMX, XML, CSS, XML Schema, AJAX (JQUERY, AJAX), JSON, JAXP, SAX, DOM, JAXB, Java Portlet Specifications, JAX-RPC, SAAJ, SOAP, Java script, PL/SQL, D/HTML, XHTML, Maven, Log4j, JUnit, Drools, Weblogic 8.0, Oracle 9i RDBMS, Mercury Quality Center 9.0, Eclipse 3.2. Java/J2ee Developer Bayer Healthcare November 2013 to November 2014 This is a web application based on J2EE architecture. It provides web-based access to inpatient and outpatient data from the Data Repository. Users can review as well as update or enter new data through data repository. Many clinicians use Data Repository daily for accessing patient data, which aids in making important clinical decisions. Data Repository is mainly composed of various modules running inside of the application. The project aims to provide the company with data to develop evidence-based health policy decisions as well.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Created struts form beans, action classes, JSPs following Struts framework standards.  ? Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts and JavaScript.  ? Developed Action classes, Dyna Action Forms and used Validation framework.  ? Used EJB Stateless/Stateful session beans to implement business logic, session handling, and transaction and deployed Enterprise Java Beans both Session and Entity on WebSphere Application Server.  ? Implement modules into NodeJs to integrate with designs and requirements.  ? Developed real time tracking of class schedules using NodeJs (socket.io based on socket technology, Express JS framework).  ? Taken care of java Multi-Threading in common java classes/library.  ? Extensively used Java Scripts to enforce client side validations and also used JQuery for Ajax processing.  ? Involved in development/ maintenance of various web services using IBM WebSphere to interact with other Applications.  ? Successfully executing offshore modeling by effective and on time knowledge sharing with offshore project groups through weekly team meetings and daily status update calls.  ? Involved in unit testing, troubleshooting and debugging. Modifying existing programs with enhancements.  ? Developed the UNIX shell scripts to automate jobs.  ? Developed Entity Beans as Bean Managed Persistence Entity Beans and used JDBC to connect to backend database DB2.  ? Worked on Linux environment for deploying the application, running scripts for jobs.  ? Involved in fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application.  ? Worked as the part of a core team to monitor and enhance the performance of the application.  ? Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects.  Environment: Jakarta Struts Framework 2.x, Core Java, Hibernate 3.0, EJB, Web Services, CSS, NodeJs, Eclipse, CVS, WebSphere Application Server 6.5, JUnit, UNIX, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JQuery, DB2. Java Developer Jpmc - Kansas City, MO October 2011 to October 2013 JPMC is an American multinational banking and financial services holding company it is used by the investment banking, asset management, private banking, private wealth management, and treasury & securities services divisions. My expertise involves Analyze, Design and developing cross-cutting and complex technological solutions for the enterprise level single sign on solutions and online finance application integration patterns    Responsibilities:  ? Provide post production support for the project during business hours.  ? Used OOAD for building applications.  ? Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating use Cases and Class Diagrams.  ? Interacted coordinated with the Design team, Business analyst and end users of the system.  ? Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, usecases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  ? Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern.  ? Developed front end using Struts framework, business components using EJB's.  ? Implementing Tiless based framework to present the layouts to the user.  ? Created the web UI using Struts, JSP, Servlets and Custom tags.  ? Deployment of Application in the JBoss Server environment using ANT tool using Struts architecture with the JSP Client.  ? Configured Struts Dyna Action Forms, Message Resources, Action Messages, Action Errors, Validation.xml, and Validator-rules.xml.  ? Designed and developed Caching and Logging service using Singleton pattern, Log4j.  ? Coded different action classes in struts responsible for maintaining deployment descriptors like struts-config, ejb-jar and web.xml using XML.  ? Designed and developed front-end using struts framework.  ? Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles and Validations provided by struts framework.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and jQuery for building rich user interfaces.  ? Configured Hibernate session factory using spring application-context.XML. Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using EJB 3.0.  ? Developed stored procedures and complex packages extensively using PL/SQL and shell programs.  ? Used Struts-Validator frame-work for all front-end Validations for all the form entries.  ? Developed SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier.  ? Design and development of JAXB components for transfer objects.  ? Prepared EJB deployment descriptors using XML.  ? Involved in Configuration and Usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes.  ? Wrote Action Classes to service the requests from the UI, populate business objects & invoke EJBs.  ? Used JAXP (DOM, XSLT), XSD for XML data generation and presentation  ? Wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.  Environment: Java/J2SE 1.5, JSP, Servlets, Struts2.0, Hibernate3.0, JAXB2.0, XSLT, DOM, XML, EJB 3.0, Web Services, JNDI, J2EE5, RSA, CVS, Oracle9i, Junit, Rational Rose, JBoss Application Server 5.1, JavaScript, DHTML. Java Developer Graylogic Technologie June 2010 to September 2011 Description: This project involves developing a J2EE based framework to support dynamic report creation from various distributed databases. The framework supports dynamic PDF report generation using iText, an open source PDF generation library. The framework facilitates new report formats and databases by using xml configuration files.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing and developing modules at both Client and Server Side.  ? Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP).  ? Responsible for validating the data at the client side using JavaScript.  ? Involved in developing Server Side Java Servlet to capture the posted form data and process it on the Server side.  ? Responsible for Integration, unit testing, system testing and stress testing for all the phases of project.  ? Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features.  ? Accessed stored procedures and functions using JDBC Callable statements.  ? Executed and coordinated the installation for the project.  ? Developed and wrote UNIX Shell scripts to automate various tasks.  Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, JDBC, Unix Shell scripting, HTML/DHTML, Eclipse 3.3, Oracle 8i, WebLogic 8, Windows NT. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (7 years), Integration (7 years), INTEGRATOR (7 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript. (8 years) Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE:    • Web Application Development  • Software Development  • Project Coordination  • Program Design/Implementation  • Software Coding  • Web Programming  • Test Design and Execution  • Software Implementation  • Requirements Management  • Unit and Integration Testing  • Technology Integration  • Program Documentation    SKILLS:    ? C, C++, Java, UML, SQL, PL/SQL, XSLT, Perl, Shell script, Java Beans, Servlets, Applets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JSF, JMS, RMI, Web-Services (SOAP, RESTful), Struts1.2/2.x, Spring 2.0/2.5/3.0/3.1/4.x, Hibernate2.0/3.0/3.2/3.x, CXF, AXIS, SQL server 2005, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, Access, MySQL, DB2, MongoDB, Cassandra.  ? HTML, CSS, JavaScript, TypeScript, AJAX, ExtJS, JSON, XML, XSL, XPATH, XQuery jQuery, Angular, React.js Node.js, bootstrap.  ? Oracle WebLogic server 9/10/10.3/11g, IBM Websphere 6.x/7.x, JBOSS Application Server 4.0/5.1/6/7/7.1, Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.x/7.x/8.x, Eclipse3.3/3.4/3.5/3.8/4.2/4.3, Rational Application Developer (RAD) 6/7/8, WSAD5.0.  ? Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, Docker, EC2, VPN, Route 53, RDS, CLI, DNS, Dyamo DB.  ? MyEclipse, Net-beans IDE, Intellij, Dreamweaver, Brackets, FireBug, IE Tester, Chrome Element Inspector, Junit, JIRA,Bugzilla, CVS, SVN, GIT, Rational Clear Case, PVCS.  ? Agile Methodology, Waterfall, ANT, Maven, Gradle Log4j, HQL, MS Vision, Window2000/XP/Vista/7, UNIX, Type script.