Senior Java/Full stack developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span>/Full stack <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior Java/Full stack developer - Kroger Roseland, NJ • 9+ years' experience in analysis, design, development and implementation of information systems.  • Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development (TDD), Incremental and Iteration methodology, Pair Programming, Agile Development Testing using Software Development Life Cycle.  • Automated highly transactional web application using Selenium Web Driver. Implemented Page Objects, Data, Keyword Driven, automation frameworks using Selenium WebDriver, JAVA, JUnit  • Experience with build tools like CICD-ANT, Maven and logging tools like Log4J.  • Used Version Control like CVS, SVN (Subversion) and Clear Case.  • Experience in Jenkins integration service for software development.  • Strong experience in test driven development, particularly using JUnit framework.  • Expertise in Selenium automation using Selenium WebDriver, Selenium Grid, JUnit and Maven.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, lead/work within a team environment.  • Experience in building applications using various technologies like Spring, Hibernate, EJB, JPA.  • Strong experience in Spring modules -Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix, Spring Zuul.  • Expert level skills on JavaScript, JSON, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Tiles, Tag Libraries and UI frameworks - Twitter Bootstrap, Materialize CSS.  • Experience in UI frameworks JavaScript, Nodejs, Reactjs, Angularjs and experience in Client-side validations.  • Strong understanding of Microservice patterns -Hystrix, Aggregator, Proxy chaining.  • Experience with Spring JDBC Templates, JMS Templates, Spring EAI, Spring Rest Templates.  • Experience in implementing SOA and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL, JAX-WS, AXIS.  • Implemented various Design patterns (Session Façade, Value Object, DAO, DTO, Command, Singleton, Factory, Adapter, MVC, Service Locator etc.) using J2EE technologies.  • Proficient in using Amazon Web Services AWS. Extensive experience in focusing on services like EC2, VPC, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, IAM, S3, Amazon RDS, Elastic Cache, SNS, SQS.  • Experience with Docker containers, AMI's to create Docker images/ containers.  • Good experience with messaging systems like Kafka event sourcing.  • Experience in creating rules using Business Rules Engines: Drools, ILOG.  • Experience with IBMWebSphere8.x/7.x, Oracle/BEAWebLogic 10.x/9.x, JBoss and Tomcat 7.x.  • Experience with Imaging/Document Storage tool: Case 360 and IBM DB2 Content Manager.  • Experience in database modelling, design and development of PL/SQL stored procedures, packages in relational databases: Oracle 10g/11g, IBM DB2, MySQL, SQL Server 2011.  • Knowledge on NOSQL database MongoDB, Cassandra as part of Open Source participation. Work Experience Senior Java/Full stack developer Kroger - Cincinnati, OH, US April 2017 to Present Kroger Digital is a highly innovative team situated in Kroger's own newly remodeled Digital Customer Innovation Center. Kroger delivers Mobile, e-commerce and customer facing solutions that provide Kroger customers with world-class digital and mobile shopping experiences.    Responsibilities:  • Following Agile (Scrum) Methodology for developing application development.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, TypeScript, Angular4 and NodeJS for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Created SPA (Single Page Application) using Angular4, using PrimeNG features to provide rich user interface.  • Extensively used/modified JQUERY to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Developed modules using Core Java APIs, Collections, Java 1.8(Streams), Jordan API(Dates), Multi-threading, Exception Handling, Generics, Enums, Java I/O and object-oriented designs patterns.  • Used Lambda Expressions for communicating between business layer and database and Coded in java 1.8  • Java 1.8 Stream API for Bulk Data Operations on Collections using both Streams and Parallel Streams.  • Developed business components by using Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Annotations, Spring Cloud)&Persistence layer by using Hibernate/JPA along with Web Services (RESTful).  • Implemented customized authentication in Spring Security to verify user-role and secure the user pages.  • Created architecture towards a Microservices approach using RESTful Web-Services by using Spring Boot.  • Used JAX-RS for creating Restful web service and implemented authentication by using OAuth2 Security Framework.  • Implementation of Hystrix circuit breaker to avoid loss of messages during handling of messages at consumer level.  • Implementation of Zuul Proxy as the API gateway.  • Deployed Spring Boot based micro services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console.  • Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions.  • Created computing and data resources on AWS using EC2.  • Used Microservice architecture with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query, and Criteria.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate Cache Concepts.  • Used Stored Procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Developed application based on document-based Database like MongoDB.  • Configure Jenkins build Jobs for (CI) and (CD)and writing Python scripts on top of it.  • Involved in Monitoring, Searching and Reporting with Splunk 5.x.  • Administered and deployed applications into WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed Test Cases and performed unit test using JUnit with Mockito Framework.  • Tested Angular4 application using Jasmine framework and Karma configurations.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Used GIT for version control and involved in writing the build scripts using Maven.  • Used SourceTree (GIT GUI) for creating the feature branches, and merging the feature branches into dev.  • Used JIRA for defect management and to keep track of bugs and issues.  • Prepared documentation for some of the recurring defects and resolutions and business comments for those defects.    Environment: FileNet, IBM RAD 6.0, Java 1.5, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, ICE Faces, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, UNIX, Web Services- SOAP, WAS 6.1, XML, IBM WebSphere 6.1, Rational Clear Case, Log 4j, IBM DB2. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Staples - Framingham, MA, US September 2015 to March 2017 Staples mainly focuses on developing a Retail application for the Staples Incorporation for selling products such as printer, scanners, floppy, office accessories, sheets etc. The motive of Staplesis to provide quick service to the consumer who needs quick purchase of office accessories both in lesser and bulk quantities. Generation of internal feeds like Coupons, Rebates and Campaigns are additional challenges. It requires technical expertise as well as domain knowledge.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles.  • Developed the application under J2EE architecture using JSP, Struts, spring, JavaBeans, and iBATIS.  • Worked on various use cases in development using Struts and testing the functionalities.  • Used AJAX in user validation and suggestion list and to display dialog boxes.  • Involved in preparing the High Level and Detail level design of the system using J2EE.  • Sever side validations are done using Struts Validator Plug-In.  • Created struts form beans, action classes, JSPs following Struts framework standards.  • Developed Web Interface using Struts, Java Script, HTML and CSS.  • Developed presentation screens by using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).  • Used Spring Framework and created the Dependency injection for the Action classes using ApplicationContext.  • Developed the Business logic on the web tier using EJB Stateless Session beans.  • Worked on MQ with J2EE technologies on the WebSphere MQ.  • Used display tag libraries for decoration and used display table for reports and grid designs.  • Worked on Rest based Web services for Mule ESB flows.  • Extensively used Mule ESB and MMC Server for application deployments.  • Worked on core java, using file operations to read system file (downloads) and to present on JSP.  • Developed an API to get the Service Level Validations from SAM.  • Providing fixes to the issues identified in testing phase.  • Developed a RESTful service to provide all the CRUD capabilities.  • Analyzed, designed and implemented DAO pattern for accessing Database using connection pool.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Involved in configuration of XML flat file and parsing the XML file using the SAX Parser.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and JUnit for unit testing.  • Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects.  • Worked on Reconciliation, which involves in providing root cause analysis and data fixes.  • Configured WebSphere Application server and deployed the web components.  • Used VSS for version control and source code management  • Extensively involved in designing UI, reporting and specification documentation.  • Responsible for the user module, setting rights and permission to users through the keywords set with database and testing.    Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, Angular 4, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Hibernate, Spring Data, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g, IntelliJ IDEA, Git, AWS, Docker, RESTful web services, Apache Tomcat, Apache Kafka, Maven, Jenkins. Sr. Java/J2EE and Full Stack Developer Express Scripts - Saint Louis, MO, US November 2013 to August 2015 The project deals with the capability to refill prescriptions on-line check an order status, and research drug and health information and enables express to have multiple billers in place. Focuses especially on the cost effective and appropriate delivery of prescription medications to the market and assists its customers to moderate the cost and enhanced the quality of prescription drug benefits to the members nationwide.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in Agile Scrum methodology for application development and involved in analysis, design, coding, and unit testing of business applications in a fast-paced environment.  • Extensively worked on Hibernate Cache, Query, Criteria and Transactions in secondary project.  • Worked with high volume and complex PL/SQL stored procedures and packages using TOAD.  • Strong experience with Cassandra development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions, replica sets)  • Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Implemented the database connectivity using Oracle 11g database as backend.  • Worked on Spring cloud for Routing, Service-to-service calls, Load balancing.  • JBoss Application server implementation, support, workload management and performance tuning including Web server setup configuration with JBoss App Server.  • Oversaw all aspects of testing JUnit, FIT, and SIT, End to End, Regression, User acceptance and Performance.  • Used version control repository GIT and JIRA for issue tracking.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  • Developed and maintained automated regression test cases in Selenium Web Driver using Java programming.  • Used Git as Version Control System for the application.  • Developed User Interface application modules using HTML, CSS and JavaScript, AngularJS, JSON, and AJAX.  • Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes for a new requirement surfaced for the client.  • Used JavaScript for user interactions in pages. Creating a responsive web application integrating Bootstrap with AngularJS and media queries.  • Used Angular 4 Routing for navigating between screens and developed several reusable directives.  • Used various Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection, Annotations and Spring MVC components to implement business layer and navigation part of application.  • Consumed Web Services for getting the credit card information from third party application.  • RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  • Designed and Implemented REST web services using JAX-RS, Spring REST.  • Developed REST Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Consumed Web Services for getting the credit card information from third party application.  • Used Stream API to transfer data back and forth between Spring Cloud, Spring MVC.  • Involved in the configuration of Spring, Spring Cloud, Micro Services Framework and Hibernate mapping.  • Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Worked on the Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers, utilized then to build the Real-Time Data Pipeline using Apache Storm data analysis.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database. Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Cache concepts.    Environment: Spring cloud, Git, JFC, Spring Boot, Hibernate 4.x, Rest Web Services, JavaScript, TOAD, HTML5, CSS, JIRA 5.x/6.x, Kafka, NOSQL(Cassandra), Selenium, Angular JS, Micro Services, JBoss,Maven, Oracle 11g. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Dupont Pioneer - Johnston, IA, US September 2012 to October 2013 It is a Loan Management system application that helps to manage loans that were loaned to several farms, famers, agencies etc. This application allows agents and customers to process their loans (In-store/Web). The web application allows the customers to send their checks, payment info via electronic modes. They can purchase various types of seeds with the loan amounts and can work with agencies on any of their issues.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development.  • Developed the application using 3 Tier Architecture i.e., Presentation, Business and Data Integration layers in accordance with the customer/client standards.  • The application is designed using J2EE design patterns and technologies based on MVC architecture.  • Automate report generation in MongoDB using JavaScript, shell scripting, java.  • Implemented printable chart report using HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Applied JavaScript for client-side form validation.  • Developed automated solutions to include web interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Web services.  • Written Web Services (JAX-WS) for external system via SOAP/HTTP call.  • Created Managed Beans for handling JSF pages and include logic for processing of the data on the page.  • Worked on UNIX, LINUX to move the project into production environment.  • Created Responsive Layouts for multiple devices and platforms using foundation framework.  • Worked on UNIX, LINUX to move the project into production environment.  • Used FileNet for Content Management and for streamlining Business Processes.  • Hibernate an ORM framework was used on DAO layer to persist application data into Oracle database.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database.  • Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions.  • Extensively used the Spring framework implemented upon the MVC design pattern.  • Implemented Hibernate for Database Transactions on DB2.  • Involved in the configuration of Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool.  • Performed routine operational LINUX system administration duties.  • Monitoring WebLogic Server health and security.  • Creation of WebLogic domains and setup Admin & Managed servers for JAVA/J2EE applications on Non-Production and Production environments.  • Creation of Connection Pools, Data Sources in WebLogic console.  • Used Log4j framework to log/track application.  • Creating and build scripts using Ant for deployment Tested and implemented application on WAS 6.1 server.  • Prepared and presented UNIX production and implementation schedules to the Project Manager and client.  • Installed, maintained and fine-tuned the Tomcat server and WebSphere Application Server in Linux Platform.  • Experienced in build, deploy multi module applications using Maven, ANT and CI servers like Jenkins.    Environment: JDK1.5, JSP, JSF, Struts, iBATIS, Spring, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, XML, EJB, PL/SQL, IBM WebSphere Application server 5, Mule ESB, JUnit, Web Services (JAX-WS), VSS, SAX Parser, Oracle 9i. Java/J2EE Developer State Farm, IL December 2010 to August 2012 The State Farm hosted enrolment website for premier insurance clients that will allow a user to establish an account that will allow registration of multiple cards to one username and password. They will be able to receive the alerts via SMS, email or both when their card is used in a country that is determined to be outside their home country. The enrolment web service utilizes the in-Control platform to deliver the alerts. In addition, the existing Common Registration Web Service and Bank net Bridge services are utilized.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of all modules in the application.  • Developed and deployed Java REST web services using Spring Framework.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Developed presentation tier as HTML, JSPs using Struts Framework.  • Designed and implemented Spring ORM module to integrate Hibernate.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Developed web components using MVC pattern under Struts framework.  • Responsible for writing detail design documents and class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Developed Custom tag libraries to separate presentation and processing logic.  • Designed and developed a REST Web Services using Jersey framework builds on JAX-RS.  • Prepared Unit test cases for existing functionality as per the requirement and execute the same.  • Prepared Unit test cases for existing functionality as per the requirement and execute the same.  • Worked on core java, using file operations to read system file (downloads) and to present on JSP.  • Involved in Core Java coding by using Java APIs such as Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Generics, Enumeration, and Java I/O to fulfil the implementation of business logic.  • Developed SQL as well as stored procedures to interact with Sybase and MySQL.  • Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions.  • Business level validations were done using Struts Validator framework.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  • Implemented Action Classes server-side validations for account activity, payment history and Transactions.  • Developed Struts Action classes using Struts controller component.  • Designed and developed J2EE application using Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans and EJB.  • Implemented applications in JavaScript, and MySQL.  • Entity Beans used for accessing data from the SQL Server database.  • Used JSF to reduce the effort in creating and maintaining this entire application.  • Involved in the building Maven POM files and Maven testing.  • Involved in writing the associations for the query in mapping xml files in Hibernate.  • Used JMS for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Worked exclusively on MDB, Messaging Queues and Posting Error Messages to the Queue.  • Continuous integration to build the project using Jenkins with Maven Builder.  • Worked on the Spring MVC Restful Web services, exposing services and consuming the third party.  • Developed UML models consisting of Use Case Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose software.  • Involved in handling Hibernate as part of DB connectivity, persistence as ORM tool and writing HQL queries.  • Developed the JSP using the tag libraries. Perform validations using struts validation framework.  • CVS was used for project management and version management.  • Designed configuration XML Schema for the application.  • WSDL was used for publishing Web Service interfaces.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing.  • Strong experience in implementing the Web Services (JAX-RS, RESTful).  • Involved in system design and development using Collections and Multithreading for the action classes.    Environment: JSP, AJAX, Struts framework, Hibernate Framework, JMS, SOAP, XML, Spring Framework, Log4j, Java Script, HTML, Oracle9i, SQL, PL/SQL, Web Sphere, WSAD, JSTL, Struts tags, Junit, Mockito, SQL, Struts, CSS, Jenkins. Jr. Java Developer Virtusa Consulting Services October 2009 to November 2010 Neo is a workflow engine for T2R (Trouble to Resolve) process. Neo progresses the fault or Trouble Report (TR) through its journey and takes Trouble Report to completion. Throughout its journey NEO interacts with various components and acts as a heart of T2R process for Service Assurance.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and analyzing system requirements.  • Played key role in the high-level design for the implementation of this application.  • Developed the Training and Appraisal modules using Java, JSP, Servlets and JavaScript.  • Developed UI using java swings.  • Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features  • Involved in Designing the Database Schema and writing the complex SQL queries.  • Involved in Code reviews for other modules developed by peers.  • Designing and establishing the process and mapping the functional requirement to the workflow process.  • Accessed stored procedures and functions using JDBC Callable statements.  • Executed and coordinated the installation for the project.  • Involved in designing and developed presentation layer using JSF, Ajax, jQuery and third-party libraries.  • Worked on web-based reporting system with HTML, JavaScript and JSP.    Environment: Java, JDK, 1.3, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, EJB), JDBC, Apache Tomcat, oracle, HTML, DHTML, SQL, JUnit. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (9 years), HIBERNATE (8 years), SPRING (8 years), HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 1.8, J2EE, Drools, SQL, PL/SQL, Scala  Web Technologies SERVLETS 3.1, JSP 3.0, JavaBeans 3.0, Java Servlets API 3.0  Frameworks  Spring 4.3, Hibernate 4.3, Angular JS 1.0/1.5/2.0/4.0, Spring Security 3.2, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Cloud, Spring Eureka, Spring AOP.    Design Patterns  Singleton, DTO Pattern, DAO Pattern, Delegate Pattern, Service Facade, Factory Pattern, Front Controller Pattern, MVC Pattern.    Application/Web servers Apache Tomcat 8, IBM WebSphere 8.x/9.x, JBOSS  Relational Databases Oracle 10g/11g/12c, SQL server 2012/2014/2016, MySQL 5.7, DB2 11.1,  NoSQL Databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Cockroach DB  Internet Technologies HTML 5, JavaScript 1.8, XML 2.0, JSON, CSS 3 and CSS 4, Angular 1.6.6, Angular 2.0, Angular 4.0, Node JS 6.0.  Cloud Environments Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka, Mesos, Kubernetes, Docker.  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA 2017.1, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3, WebStorm.  Messaging JMS MQ, IBM MQ, Rabbit MQ, IBM MQ 8.0, Apache Kafka  Testing Tools JUNIT4.12, JMeter, Mockito, TestNG, Jasmine, Karma  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven-Development), Scrum, Kanban  Build Tools Ant 1.10, Maven 3.3.9, Gradle 3.4.1, Jenkins  Version and Source Control GIT, Bit Bucket, CVS, SVN, GITHUB 2.12.0  XML Technologies XML, XSLT, TCP/IP, LAN, WAN  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, JAX -WS, JAX -RPC, REST, XML, XSD