Java/J2EE developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">developer</span> Java/J2EE developer New York, NY • 8+ years of experience in implementing Java/J2EE projects, working through Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation in Client/Server and web based n-tier architecture systems.  • Experience in development and deployment of multi-tiered web based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Spring 3.0/4.0,SpringBoot,JDBC,Struts,Selenium WebDriver for automation and WebServices(Soap and Restful APIs Jersey, JAX-RS and JAX-WS).  • Strong experience in Spring modules -Spring MVC, IOC, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Spring, • Experience in Spring projects such as Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Spring MVC and Spring Security.  • Hands-on experience with Web/Application servers Tomcat, Glassfish, JBoss.  • Experience in working with database objects like Tables, Indexes, Views, and using Oracle tools like SQL Plus, and TOAD.  • Familiar with Unisys DTPRA transactions.  • Experience Front end part of the application using AngularJS, JQuery, ReactJS, Nodejs, JavaScript, Html5 and CSS3.  • Extensive hands on experience in consuming as well as developing API for SOAP and REST based web services to integrate third party functional modules into the core application.  • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing using Junit, TestNG,Mockito.  • Experience with messaging middle-ware Apache ActiveMQ, distribution systems, scalable architectures and caching techniques.  • Knowledge of J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Factory, Abstract Factory, Singleton, Session Facade, Transfer Object, Business Delegate and Data Access Object etc.  • Developed and used Ant and Maven for compiling and building the applications.  • Strong experience on agile methodologies like SCRUM.  • Have Strong experience in Database Design, Normalization, Data Flow Diagrams, Coding, Testing, Implementation, code migrations and good understanding of the complex systems.  • Experience in SQL, Stored Procedures(Pl/SQL), Functions and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, IBM DB2 and MS SQL Server.  • Good working knowledge on version control tools SVN and Git.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, IntelliJ, STS (Spring Tool Suite) for Java/J2EE application development.  • Experience working extensively on both UNIX based and Windows environments.  • Knowledge in developing System Design using UML methodology and preparation of class and sequence diagrams.  • Quick Learner, highly motivated team player with excellent organizational and analytical skills. Work Experience Java/J2EE developer Meyer and Associates - Chatham, NJ April 2015 to March 2017 Project: Small Business Insurance (SBI)    M&A design, sell, and manage specialty insurance programs, endorsed by organizations exclusively for members and their families. M&A provides Life insurance, Health Insurance, Pet Insurance, Auto Home and Renters insurance. Small Business Insurance is an online platform allows both employers and employees to designate and manage contributions and enrollments in medical, ancillary, and voluntary plans - all in one place.    Responsibilities: • Preparing the documentation for High Level design, Low Level design of the application and Process flow of control for the entire application.  • Implemented the architecture with Spring MVC, and Hibernate.  • Implemented the HWM application's front-end pages using HTML5, CSS3, Java script and Angular.  • Assisted in developing & designing UML diagrams like Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, • Sequence diagrams and State diagrams using MS-Visio.  • Used design patterns MVC, Front Controller, Data Access Object extensively.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping.  • Used SVN repository for version control.  • Added AJAX calls using JQuery.  • Develop test framework using TestNG and Selenium Webdriver.  • Create Automation Test Scripts.  • Execution of test scripts using TestNG.  • Integration with Jenkins for nightly execution.    Environment: JAVA, Oracle, Eclipse, Hibernate, Spring, JavaScript, Jenkins, AJAX, JQuery, SVN, JUNIT, TestNG, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Selenium WebDriver. Java/J2EE Developer MetLife Bank February 2013 to March 2015 Project: METLIFE BANK HOME LOANS    Reverse Mortgage is in the business of improving the lives of older homeowners by enhancing their financial well-being, independence and peace of mind. MetLife Bank do that by helping its customers identify the reverse mortgage that makes the most sense for each unique circumstance. That's because MetLife Bank Reverse Mortgage continues to develop the most products to serve the most situations.    Responsibilities: • User requirements study, analysis and review of the specifications.  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Interaction with the users at all stages of development to ensure that development was as per user specifications.  • Designed and Implemented the J2EE Based Struts with JDBC in Eclipse IDE.  • Work directly with management, vendors, and third parties to ensure database management applications operate at peak efficiency.  • Extensively worked on Java server side programming using Servlets, and JSP. CSS is used to style Web pages, XHTML and XML markup.  • Implemented Servlets to handle HTTP requests for on-line requests, credit card payments, registration and bug tracking.  • Using XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using JDBC.  • Responsible for testing, debugging, bug fixing and documentation of the system.  • Developed JUnit test cases and performed integration and system testing.  • Implemented Java components and deployed under the Web Logic server.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Maven, Eclipse, Hibernate, Spring, JavaScript, Struts 2.0, JQuery, HTML , GlassFish, CSS, JUNIT, Web services, SOAP, Jboss, Oracle, UML, TOAD, Web Logic, Soap UI, EJB, Jenkins CI, Windows. Java/J2EE Developer State of Missouri/Engage Point - Jefferson City, MO January 2010 to January 2013 Project: Missouri Eligibility Determination and Enrollment System (MEDES)    MEDES (Missouri Eligibility Determination and Enrollment System) is a health Insurance Oriented Project that works for providing better insurance services by determining the health insurance eligibility using MEDES eligibility rules for citizens of Missouri. It is SOA based architecture that deals in replacing the existing legacy systems and modernizing the system to provide a easy, quick way of health insurance opportunities for citizens of Missouri.    Responsibilities: • Followed the Agile methodology to implement the application.  • Collaborated with other development and integration team members to ensure Java technologies are properly implemented and maintained.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and monitoring completion of work in the system in agile methodology.  • Used apache camel for routing the services between different systems.  • Used SOAP based web services to develop interfaces to integrate between front end systems and back end systems.  • Used SOAP UI for testing web services.  • Consumed Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and involved in developing XSLTs, DTDs, XSD schemas for XML (parsing, processing, and design).  • Extensively Worked with XPATH, XQuery and XML Schema • Used Spring MVC framework for developing web application.  • Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM).  • Developed MEDES Case UI Front end screens using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, JavaScript, and AJAX.  • Wrote the Validations for MEDES Case UI using Java Script and JQuery.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes Runtime exceptions.  • Built scripts using MAVEN and deployed the application on the JBoss Fuse application server.  • Developed the application using Spring Source Tool (STS) and IntelliJ as the IDE and used the standard features for editing, debugging, running etc.  • Used SVN for source code maintenance.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the testing phase.  • Involved in attending design sessions for interfaces with State of Missouri and prepared technical design documents for developing these interfaces.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Maven, STS, SVN, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, JBoss, Struts1.0,Web Services, JSTL, Spring MVC, JAX-WS, JAXB, SOAP, WSDL, SOAP UI, XSLT, XPath, XQuery, Windows. Education Bachelor's