Senior Java/J2EE Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java/J2EE Developer - Janus Capital Group Denver, CO ? Nearly 7 Years of experience as a Java/J2EE developer in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Coding, Implementation and Testing of web based and client server multi-tier applications  ? Expertise in OOAD and OOP from designing UML diagrams using IBM Rational Rose.  ? Proficient in handling web and application servers in creating Domain, configuring connection pool, JMS, deploying applications on Weblogic, Websphere and JBoss.  ? Development, testing and deployment experience of enterprise applications on Windows & UNIX platforms through IDE's such as Eclipse/MyEclipse, WSAD/RAD, JBuilder and Netbeans and CMS  ? Expertise in designing and developing applications using J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, Struts, JSF, AJAX, Hibernate, Web Services, XML, JMX, JNDI, JDBC, CVS, Ant.  ? Experience in working with Agile SCRUM Methodology.  ? Extensively utilized the features provided by Struts and Spring framework in various projects for MVC architecture and CMS.  ? Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture including Universal Description and Discovery Integration(UDDI) lookups, Web Services Description Language (WSDL) using SOAP protocol, and Extended Markup Language (XML) and java XML parsers such as JAXP, SAX and JDOM.  ? Proficient in persistence framework like Hibernate ORM, iBATIS Data Mapper, JPA.  ? Performed unit testing using JUnit, integration and deployment of applications done using tools ANT and Maven & debugging through log4j.  ? Experience in Development and Maintenance of enterprise applications using J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts.  ? Experience in providing Production Support for Java/J2EE applications.  ? Expertise in Development of web-based applications in Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, JNDI and JMS), REST and Restful Web Services, SOAP, Axis2, Spring 3.0/2.5, Hibernate 3.0/3.5, JPA, XML, XSL, XSLT, CSS; Application servers (Websphere, JBOSS, Tomcat and BEA Weblogic); Strong OOA/OOD concepts.  ? Good experience with XML, XML Parsers & Web Services.  ? Experience with test-driven development using a various unit testing framework such as JUnit  ? Experience in batch programming.  ? Worked on full cycle development from conceptualization to programming and deployment.  ? Experience in developing PL/SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  ? Exceptional at team building and motivating either at a peer level or in a leadership role. Able to work with little or no supervision. Good communication and time management skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java/J2EE Developer Janus Capital Group - Denver, CO May 2013 to Present Involved in study of User Requirement Specification. Requested insufficient information and helped clearing ambiguity in requirements document.  • Analysis and Design of various modules using SOA and J2EE.  • Developed Web services to allow communication between the applications using Rest Webservices. And CMS  • Designed, Developed and analyzed the front-end and back-end using JSP, Servlets and Spring 3.0.  • Integrated Spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection, transaction management.  • Used Spring MVC framework controllers for Controllers part of the MVC  • Implemented Business Logic using POJO's and used Websphere 7.0 to deploy the applications  • Implemented various Java design patterns like Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, and Data access Object, Factory Pattern, Session Façade, etc.  • Implemented various complex PL/SQL queries.  • Developed various Junit test cases for Unit and Functional Testing respectively.  • Worked with Testers in resolving various defects in the application and was an integral part of the team.  • Used Hibernate for data persistence  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate 3.2.  • Used RAD7 as IDE for development of the application.  • Worked with Websphere 7.0 as the application server  • Assisted Oracle DB development team in developing stored procedures and designing the database.  • Used Rational Rose as part of development of Rules.  • Performed Clear Quest defects, Database change requests logging using Clear Quest.  • Used Maven Cruise-Control for project builds.CMS.  • Provided Production support for the application  • Developed User- Interface screens involving Servlets, JSP, JavaScript and XML DOM parser.  • Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application.  • Developed client side interface and GUI with the help of XML using XSLT.  • Design and Development of software components like Interface, Action Handlers,  • Client side scripts using JAVA, JSP, and Java Script.    Environment: JAVA 1.6, J2EE, Servlets, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.2, Apache Axis2, Rest Web Services , HTML, JavaScript, JDBC, Agile Methodology, PL/SQL, XML, UML, UNIX, Oracle 9i, Websphere Application Server 7.0 Java J2EE Developer United Parcel Service of America - Timonium, MD March 2012 to April 2013 Role: Analysis, Design, Development, Performance Tuning, Performance Enhancements and Bug Fixing.    Role/Responsibility:  • Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Implementation/translation of Business User requirements.  • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate and CMS.  • System built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator and CMS  • Developed Web services to allow communication between application through SOAP over HTTP using Apache Axis2  • Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, Struts, JNDI, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, JDBC, SQL, ANT, JMS, Oracle and Websphere app server 7.0  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the EJB 3.0 using annotations.  • Used Clearcase version control tool.  • Automate build process by writing ANT build scripts.  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J.  • Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using Oracle database.  • Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse and Maven for development.  • Developed various UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, interaction diagrams (sequence and collaboration) and activity diagrams.  • Played a key role in the design and development of almost all the modules of the project.  • Used Log4J to validate functionalities and JUnit for unit testing.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management.    Environment: Java 1.6, Javascript, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 3.0, AGILE Methodology, SCRUM, JSP, Servlet, XML, Java Beans, Design Patterns, Apache AXIS, SOAP Webservices, Log4J, JUnit, Unix Shell Scripting, SVN, Oracle 9i, Eclipse 3.2, maven 4, JIRA, Tomcat 5.5, Windows and Oracle Java Developer TMG Health - Pittsburgh, PA July 2008 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, functional specifications and over-all component design.  • Develop Spring and Hibernate based multi tier Web Application.  • Created and maintained the configuration of the Spring Application Frameworks IoC container  • Involved in configuration of Struts MVC, E-mail, File-Upload, and Integration with ORM Framework (Hibernate).  • Involved in Analysis, Design, development, testing and Maintenance using UML.  • Worked with Eclipse for development environment for developing and deploying applications.  • Involved in rewriting and modifying the GUI Screens using Struts, JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in creating new POJO's objects to use with the hibernate persistence.  • Implemented Hibernate by replacing the ejb's.  • Worked on Hibernate configuration file to set up the oracle data source.  • Used SQL Navigator for writing the queries and testing the test data with the queries.  • Worked with CVS as a version control and used Mercury Quality Center to track and to fix the defects.  • Implemented object/relational persistence (Hibernate) for the domain model  • Develop UML diagrams such as Class, Sequence and Activity Diagrams to understand the Systems architecture.  • Application Design Documented for my entire requirement.  • Designed and Developed WebServices using UDDI, WSDL, SOAP to communicate to the other modules and CMS.  • Configured Hibernate objects as Spring Beans in the Spring Configuration File.  • Wrote client side and server side validations using Struts Validators and Java Scripts Validations.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 9i Database.  • Developed DAOs using DAO Design Pattern to insert and update the data for the Policy Module.  • Helped in developing the complete business flow and helped incorporate session validity checks, form validations and error handling in the application.  • Implemented ORM in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work in conjunction with Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) functionality.  • Deployed the jar, war and ear files on the Web Sphere Application Server.  • Wrote, debugged ANT, Maven Scripts for building the entire web application and deploy them on WebSphere.  • Wrote JUnit test cases to test the Policy and Claims Modules.  • Defined required mappings in xml that are supported by MVC architecture and Struts framework and CMS  • Involved in client side scripting.  • Involved in server side validations using AJAX  • Deployed applications on Websphere Application Server.  • Involved in Unit Testing of the components using JUnit.  • Used CVS for version control.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring 2.5, Hibernate 2.5, JSP, ANT, JDBC, UML, HTML, JavaScript (AJAX), CSS, Oracle 9i, Eclipse, Unix Shell Scripting, CVS, Websphere Application Server, Windows, Unix, CMS. Additional Information Technical Skills:  ? Internet Technologies: Java EE 5.0, Java (JDBC 4.0, Java Beans, RMI), J2EE (EJB 2.0/3.0, Servlets 2.1, JSP 2.2, JNDI), XML, SOAP, JavaScript 1.2, CSS,CMS  ? Frameworks/ORM tools: Spring 3.0/2.5, Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.5/3.0  ? App Servers/ Middleware: WebSphere 7.0, Tomcat 6.0 , Weblogic 8.0/9.0  ? IDE / Programming Tools: Eclipse 2.5/3.5, JBuilder X, SQL Navigator, PL/SQL Developer  ? Operating System: Unix, Linux, Windows NT/2000/XP/Vista/Windows 7  ? Scripting Language: XSL, XSLT, HTML, JavaScript, Jscript, SVG  ? Database/Tools: JDBC, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server 7.0, MySQL,CMS  ? Libraries and Tools: Ant, Maven, Jmeter.  ? Version Control: SVN, Win CVS 1.3, VSS 6.0, Rational Clearcase.  ? Functional Domain: Financial, Banking, Healthcare, Insurance