JAVA Full-Stack Developer <span class="hl">JAVA</span> Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> mehsana ? Over all 5+ Years of professional IT experience in analysis, design, development, testing and delivery of application software and expertise in Industrial domain.  ? Working Experience in SDLC by using Waterfall, Agile (Scrum) and Iterative development.  ? In-depth knowledge and experience in Java(7 and 8), J2EE, HTML, JDBC, JNDI, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring data JPA, Spring Security, Hibernate.  ? Experience working with JavaScript MVC frameworks like AngularJS (1._ and 4._).  ? Familiar with cloud technology like Cloud Foundry, AWS, Predix, Udeploy, Urelease.  ? Extensive knowledge on Data Structure and Algorithms.  ? Proficiency in developing build & deployment scripts using Maven and extensive experience in different IDEs like Eclipse, STS, Atom.  ? Expertise in using version control tools such as GIT, Github.  ? Good knowledge in Design Patterns like MVC, Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Business Delegate, DAO, Service Locator and Session Facade.  ? Hands-on experience in the Python, Scala, Hadoop ecosystem, Spark.  ? Possess good SQL/NoSQL concepts knowledge. Worked with Oracle, MongoDB and MySQL databases. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JAVA Full-Stack Developer Cisco Systems - Cisco, CA November 2016 to Present Description: Responsible for developing web-application (Self Service Orderability) for Cisco, which aimed to complete product introduction in market. Purpose of Self Service Orderability was to allow user to run bunch of validation before making product available in market and making assure that existing product are working fine on commerce perspective.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Analysis, Design and implementation, discussing wireframe with clients. Designed class diagrams, sequence diagrams and high-level technical documents.  ? Designed and developed the presentation layer, which includes the development of standards-browser compliant - user interactive web pages using AngularJS, CSS and HTML.  ? Configured and Developed application using Spring Boot, Spring data jpa, Swagger and Java 8.  ? Worked on LAE (Lightweight Application Environment), Udeploy, and Urelease to deploy application with help of Maven and Jenkins.  ? Designed MongoDB collections and made connectivity with application.  ? Worked with a variety of issues involving multithreading, server connectivity and user interface.  ? Worked on code review, debugging and fixing bugs for front-end as well back-end.    Environment: Java 8, Spring boot, Spring data JPA, RESTFUL Services, AngularJS, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Maven, GIT, Jenkins, Rally, MongoDB, RoboMongo, Udeploy, Swagger, Oracle. JAVA Full-Stack Developer GE current, CA January 2016 to October 2016 Description: Responsible for developing user management module for GE's energy management website. Purpose of User access management module was to allow user to sign up and according to user's roles and privileges allow them to access functionality of website. Developed the Web Services and integrated with Front End using Spring MVC Controllers.    Responsibilities:  ? Configured and Developed application using Spring Boot, OpenJPA, Web Services (RESTFUL), Java 8  ? Worked on code review, debugging and fixing bugs for front-end as well back-end.  ? Worked on Cloud Foundry, User Account and Authentication (UAA), OAuth2 Authorization, and Spring Security for Single Sign-On Web Applications.  ? Developed Various Dashboard and Widgets using frameworks like AngularJS, HTML5 and CSS.  ? Worked with a variety of issues involving multithreading, server connectivity and user interface.  ? Used PostgreSQL and Cassandra for managing user related information  ? Used Swagger to generate documentation for back-end ends.  ? Used Cloud Foundry for deployment and maintenance.  ? Used ElasticSearch and Kibana to search and reviews the logs information.    Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, User Account and authentication(UAA), Spring security, OpenJPA, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Maven, Gradle, GIT, Jenkins, Cloud foundry, Predix, Cassandra, Swagger, PostGreSQL, Linux/Unix. Java/J2EE Developer Sahajanand Laser Technology June 2012 to April 2013 Description: At Sahajanand Laser Technology was responsible for designing an interface to connect embedded device with web portal, displaying data which coming out of devices and allow user to take actions.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed application using Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (RESTFUL).  ? Worked on Spring Controllers and configured using annotations to handle the presentation requests and integrated with services and DAO using annotation  ? Analyzed web applications, documented detail Test plans, Test cases and expected results based on the business functional requirements.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC/ DI/ AOP/ Templates, Hibernate, SOAP UI, Jersey, JUnit, HQL, PL/SQL, JSTL, Spring Tags, HTML, CSS, ANT, Maven, Jenkin, MongoDB, Oracle, Linux/Unix. Education Master's Links https://github.com/yashjani