Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer - The General Automobile Insurance Franklin, TN ? Having 6 years of extensive IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes development, design, analysis, testing and Integration of various web based and client/server applications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies.  ? Experience in developing applications using SDLC methodologies like Waterfall, Agile (TDD, SCRUM) and Test-Driven Development.  ? Developed Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Micro Service Architecture based J2EE applications.  ? Expertise in developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and AngularJS with webpage cross browser compatibility and Responsive Web Design and have knowledge on Server scripting language like NodeJS.  ? Utilized Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  ? Experience in developing and deploying applications on Cloud Platforms like Amazon Web Services.  ? Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elastic search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  ? Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and created snapshots for the data that had to be stored in AWS S3.  ? Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed reaching one or more EC2 instances.  ? Experience in troubleshooting within Pivotal cloud foundry.  ? Experience with and solid understanding of Micro Services.  ? Created and consumed Micro Services based on Web API using Spring Boot.  ? Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro Services and Lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Java/J2EE, Servlets, Struts (Struts, Tag Libraries and Struts custom validation rules, Tiles), Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Web Flow, Spring Data, JDBC, Web Services (SOAP & RESTful services) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate, iBatis.  ? Excellent in developing REST and SOAP based Web Services using JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-B, Apache Axis, Apache CXF and Jersey frameworks.  ? Experienced in implementation of JMS to exchange information over reliable channel in an asynchronous way by using ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, Kafka as message queue.  ? Experience using Hibernate for mapping Java classes with database and using Criteria API and Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  ? Proficient in developing RESTful web services in Python using XML, JSON.  ? Good Knowledge of Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the Business logic tier (Business object) and the Persistent storage tier (data source).  ? Worked with SQL databases like Oracle, MySQL, IBM DB2 and Hands on Experience in working with NoSQL Database like MongoDB, Cassandra to manage extremely large data sets.  ? Proficient in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Triggers and creating business tables.  ? Hands on experience in working with JUnit, Mockito, Selenium and Groovy.  ? Experienced with deploying applications on to production servers, configuring various parameters of servers like IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, BEA Web Logic.  ? Worked on production support for the client and business user application. Also supported critical business applications as L2 production support engineer.  ? Portable deployment of applications as a single object using Docker.  ? Actively involved in the DevOps streamlining process through Jenkins CI and CD Release Automation.  ? Proficient on Automation tools like Selenium WebDriver and Selenium GRID using Java for developing automation scripts in Eclipse IDE with TestNG, Maven and Jenkins for testing Web Based Applications.  ? Used version controller tools like Tortoise Subversion (SVN), CVS and GIT.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's.  ? Experience in working with IDE'S like JBoss, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite (STS), RAD and IntelliJ.  ? Have extensive experience working on Windows, Linux and UNIX Operating Systems.  ? Ability to work effectively in cross-functional team environments and experience of providing training to business users.  ? Good understanding of Business workflow, Business logic and Business methods for further implementation of user requirement in a distributed application environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer The General Automobile Insurance - Nashville, TN January 2019 to Present Description: The General Automobile Insurance Services, Inc. (The General®) is a licensed insurance agency that is a subsidiary of PGC Holdings Corp. (PGC) which is an affiliate of American Family Insurance. Through its insurance company subsidiaries and their predecessors, PGC has been writing automobile insurance in many states throughout the country for over 50 years.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  ? Technical hands on experience with Microservices Architecture Style and the related patterns, where software is developed as small and independently deployable services that work together modeled around a business domain.  ? Experience in developing Cloud computing microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and Netflix based Eureka Discovery, Eureka Server, Zuul, Ribbon, Hystrix and Feign.  ? Experience in developing batch processes in Java and Java Spring batch framework.  ? Experience of designing Web-services in Java and Java frameworks using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud framework.  ? Worked on defining Swagger specs for REST APIs, understand REST principles. Developed Restful Web Services using JAX-WS.  ? Experienced in working with SQL and NoSQL databases including Oracle, Mongodb.  ? Wrote views, Triggers, Stored Procedures using MySQL database.  ? Log Management tools Kibana, newRelic.  ? Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  ? Checked the health and utilization of AWS resources using AWS Cloud Watch.  ? Experience in creating build scripts using Maven also have experience in Jenkins.  ? Strong TDD (test driven development) and continuous integration experience using JUnit, Mock Framework.  ? Resolved defects/bugs during regression testing, pre-production.  ? Good experience in documentation of designs and flow charts. Also worked on designing DATA Models and maintain the existing documents in Share-point.  ? Used the Atlassian products JIRA, Confluence in the business process.  ? Conducted code reviews against coding standards and made sure the best practices are maintained in development process.    Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, Agile, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Data, RESTful Services, Mongodb, Intellij, Eclipse, GIT, Jenkins. Full Stack Developer ACT - Iowa City, IA January 2018 to December 2018 Description: The ACT college readiness assessment is a standardized test for high school achievement and college admissions in the United States. ODS (Operational Data Store) is the data services team which integrates event based the incoming payloads from different services and transform the data to create a standard Canonical document for the dependent teams to further consume the data. Endpoints exposed using OAuth 2.0 act as the source for data incoming in the application. MongoDB is implemented to handle the dynamic data in this process.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding client's requirements and turning them into modularized stories for sprints.  ? Creating/Managing release plan, sprint deliveries, responsible for version control (GIT) and configuration of the project, keeping track of project activities - Sprint execution, planning in JIRA.  ? Collaborative work with the team on the sprint (Testing/Scrum Master/Business Analysts) and pro-activeness in resolving roadblocks.  ? Involved in implementation Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups and EC2 instances.  ? Worked on Cloud Watch to monitor resources such as EC2, Amazon RDS DB services, Dynamo DB tables, and EBS volumes.  ? Good knowledge in Developed Java API to connect with AWS S3 Services for storing and retrieving data stored in the S3 buckets.  ? Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  ? Participated in creation of Spring Configurations using Java 1.8 features, Lambda expressions, Streams, filters.  ? Proficient in core java concepts like Collection Framework, Multi-threading, Generics, Annotations, Serialization, Thread pools, JavaBeans, Externalization.  ? Developed Controller Classes using Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Batch modules and handled the security using Spring Security.  ? Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application.  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and other dependent objects declaration.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods.  ? Developed the test cases to test the application functionalities using Junit using Mockito, PowerMock, EasyMock frameworks.  ? Designed and Developed Module based persistence layer under the guidance of DAO design pattern, ORM/JPA principles, using Hibernate.  ? Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  ? Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, sorting, validating using AngularJS and Java Script for creating objects that store the JSON data retrieved from REST Services.  ? Worked on endpoints with OAuth 2.0 and implemented services using Restful web services in Java. Tested Web Services Using Postman.  ? Extensively worked on event-based programs to incorporate incoming data, using Rabbit Queues.  ? Worked on creating new Triggers and hands-on experience with Quartz.  ? Worked on Mongo DB Aggregation Framework, map-reduce and created a job for running a combination of these frameworks.  ? Version control using SVN and Bitbucket.  ? CI/CD process for continuous delivery of the stories.  ? Hands on experience with Splunk for monitoring the logs in all the environments.    Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, Agile, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Data, RESTful Services, Jersey, Robomongo, Jira, OAuth 2.0, Postman, Tortoise SVN, Quick Build, Splunk, Ant, JBoss Developer Studio, JBoss Application Server, Easymock, Powermock, RabbitMQ, Jenkins. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO March 2017 to December 2017 Description: Charter Communications is an American telecommunications company, which offers its services like cable television, high-speed internet and telephone services to consumers and businesses under the branding of Spectrum. The project is to develop Order Management which provides the functionality to test the status/feasibility of user requested services by interacting with other downstream systems like inventory, activation and billing.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  ? Developed AngularJS custom directives, working on attribute level, element level and class level directives.  ? Developed Event-based callback functions on a single thread using NodeJS  ? Worked with AWS (Amazon Web Services) Elastic Bean Stalk like EC2, SQS, S3, Elastic Search and Elastic Load Balancer.  ? Used Docker to containerize the services and deploy on Cloud.  ? Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud Watch.  ? Involved in troubleshooting issues within Pivotal cloud foundry environments.  ? Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot.  ? Implemented Micro Services to divide the application into various sub modules.  ? Used Spring Security as authentication layer for authenticating users using the credentials from LDAP.  ? Implemented Batch jobs to deal with large number of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  ? Hands on coding to build REST Micro Services using Spring Cloud, Oracle, XSD, JSON, Spring Config, and Jenkins.  ? Developed the monolithic application and involved in migrating existing monolithic application in to Micro Service Architecture based RESTful Service and deployments were done on AWS using Spring Cloud for AWS.  ? Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate and developed the Data Access Layer to retrieve JSON documents related to customer.  ? Used Apache Kafka to route asynchronous messages to different consumers.  ? Created and Consumed REST Web Services to retrieve data from LDAP as well as consuming third-party Services.  ? Involved in Design and Development of Resource URI's and Collection URI's for creating new REST Web Services using JAX-RS and JAX-B annotations to convert the data to XML whenever necessary.  ? Used Jersey Framework to create REST API's and used Postman for monitoring the request and responses of REST Services.  ? Worked with Oracle Database as Operational Data Storage (ODS) to perform payment operations done by the users.  ? Used MongoDB as Application Data Storage (ADS) to store the details of the members in the form of documents.  ? Used Mongo Vue as an interface to monitor the operations done on MongoDB.  ? Written complex SQL queries, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, cursors and indexes.  ? Created UNIX shell scripting for periodic generation of reports.  ? Implemented and developed test cases with Mockito framework to test the functionalities of the application and Log4j for logging errors.  ? Developed UI Unit Test cases to test the functionality of the business logic using Groovy before releasing the code for Functional Testing.  ? Used Gradle as a build tool for downloading the dependencies and used Gradle command line using GIT BASH.  ? Deployed the war file of the enterprise application on Web Sphere application server that handles various requests from Client and fixed deployment issues.  ? Deployed applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing.  ? Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system, GIT as a Version Control tool and Intellij 12 as IDE.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Data, RESTful Services, Jersey, Hibernate, Gradle, Micro Services, AWS (Amazon Web Services), Oracle, Docker, MongoDB, Mockito, Log4j, JIRA, GIT, Jenkins, Intellij and Web Sphere Application Server. Java/J2EE Developer State Of New York - Albany, NY July 2016 to March 2017 Description: The New York Motor Vehicle Commission (MVC) is the government agency responsible for titling, registering and providing plates and also licensing drivers in the U.S state of New York. It also provides online support for Renewing titles, registrations, licenses etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked in an Agile (Scrum) environment and participated in the entire SDLC process.  ? Involved in Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  ? Developed the User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS and NodeJS.  ? Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS and Created responsive web pages using Bootstrap.  ? Consumed REST Web services from server-side application using JAX-RS libraries for modifying the data and the data expecting from client has no modification and requested from AngularJS and sent to UI directly.  ? Developed and Implemented the application using Spring Framework Modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC (Model View Controller), Spring Security, Web Services (SOAP and REST) and Hibernate.  ? Integrated spring (Dependency Injection) with Spring IOC among different layers of an application to make the application loosely coupled and used Spring AOP for logging purposes.  ? Developed the service layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer with spring framework.  ? Used RabbitMQ as a message broker to send asynchronous messages to the subscribers and consumers.  ? Implemented Restful web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey as provider and implemented security using LDAP.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using Apache CXF framework and worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  ? Developed necessary parsing and XML construction logic using XML parser APIs JAX-B.  ? Developed persistence Layer using Hibernate to persist the data and to manage the data in Oracle database.  ? Developed queries using hibernate criteria, native SQL and HQL. Developed inheritance domain objects using table per class hierarchy strategy.  ? Used NoSQL DB database MongoDB for proof of concept and having experience in create a Stored Procedures and having experience in Remote Procedure call (RPC) and Redis.  ? Developed the test cases to test the application functionalities using JUnit.  ? Packaged and deployed the application in Web Logic Application server in different environments like Development and testing etc.  ? Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  ? Automate build process through Maven build automation tool.  ? Used JIRA to keep track of bugs and stories and Spring Tool Suite as IDE.  ? Used GIT Version Controller to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Web Services (SOAP and REST), Spring Boot, WSDL, Service Oriented Architecture, Hibernate, Oracle, JBOSS, JUnit, Log4j, Maven, JIRA, GIT and Spring Toot Suite. Java/J2EE Developer Techno Soft Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2013 to December 2015 Description: Techno soft provides a range of professional services delivered by experts with operational experience building and running the largest E-Mail, messaging, and Internet networks. These services range from architecture and design of software solutions, website design & development to deployment services and operational support.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming.  ? Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern to this project.  ? Developed user interface by creating at least one webpage for each component using Struts web MVC and Action Servlet as front controller for this application.  ? Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file.  ? Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML like one form for each functionality user interface, standard validations using the JavaScript, Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc. using MVC.  ? Implemented the application using Spring Frame work.  ? Developed Value Objects/POJO classes to hold the values between Data Layer and Business logic layer.  ? Developed and maintained the data layer using DAOs.  ? Developed Single Sign On (SSO) functionality, through which we can run SCM from Oracle Applications.  ? Involved in developing the Routings and configured Routing Program as scheduled the concurrent request.  ? Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute.  ? Involved in raising the Notifications to Oracle Users through Mailing Concept for intimating to start the next process using workflow.  ? Extensively worked on SQL Server for writing complex queries in the business logic layer. Used joins, debugging the SCM related packages and customization.  ? Extensively worked on creating the setups for Organizations, Templates, Concurrent Requests, Cross Reference Types, User Creations, assigning responsibilities, creating value sets, Descriptive Flex Fields etc. in SQL Server Applications.  ? Used SVN for source code version control.  ? Using JIRA tracking the issues and resolving them.  ? Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appenders components.  ? Followed Agile methodology and prepared technical reports & documentation manuals during the program development.    Environment: Java, JDBC, Servlets, Struts, JSP, Hibernate, Java Mail API, AJAX, HTML, XML, ANT, Log4J, CVS, RAD, Putty, SQL Server, Apache Tomcat, SQL Server. Java/J2EE Developer Mega Soft Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to May 2013 Description: The main object of this project is to provide a frame work for evaluating the entire life cycle cost for a product, including warranty claims. The project aim is to provide warranty analysis by evaluating warranty claims data to spot trends and incorporate feedback into the next product version.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support in WATER FALL methodology.  ? Designed and developed dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Query.  ? Implemented the Struts framework based on MVC design pattern and Session Façade Pattern using Session and Entity Beans.  ? Used Struts for web tier development and created Struts Action Controllers to handle the requests.  ? Involved in writing the struts-config files and implemented the Struts Tag library.  ? Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in J2EE using Struts MVC.  ? Implemented Struts framework (Action & Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate classes.  ? Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  ? Developed Restful Services and SOAP based Web Services.  ? Developed Web Service provider methods (bottom up approach) using WSDL and SOAP for transferring data between the applications.  ? Worked on XML technologies like XML Parsers, JAXB for binding data to java objects.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous communication.  ? Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and JDBC Template and developed the DAL (Data Access Layer) to store and retrieve data from the database.  ? Responsible to writing JDBC programming to persist the data in My SQL database.  ? Written some SQL Queries and PL/SQL procedures to fetch data from the database.  ? Tested Service and data access tier using JUnit.  ? Used Web Logic for application deployment and Log 4J used for Logging/debugging.  ? Used CVS version controlling tool and project build tool using ANT.  ? Worked with production support team in debugging and fixing various production issues.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Struts, Restful Services, SOAP, WSDL, Hibernate, JDBC, JMS, My SQL, CVS, ANT, Log4j and Web Logic. Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages C, C++, Java 1.8, J2EE, SQL and PL/SQL.  Enterprise Java JSP, Servlet, JDBC and Java security.  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, NodeJS, XHTML, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM and JSON.  Tools & Framework  Servlets, Struts, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Data, JSF, JUnit, Mockito and SOAP UI, Google Web Toolkit, Visual Studio Code, Mongo Vue.    Web services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis and Apache CXF, Postman, Micro Services, AWS (Amazon Web Services)  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS EAP and Web Logic Server.  Cloud Technologies Amazon Web Services (EC2, SQS, RDS, IAM, S3), and Spring Cloud.  Database Oracle, My SQL, DB2, MongoDB and Dynamo DB.  O-R mapping Hibernate, IBATIS  Development Tools Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite and Intellij.  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit and Soap UI.  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS and GitHub.  OS & Environment Windows, UNIX and LINUX.  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns.