Creator/Owner Creator/Owner Richmond, VA Creative software developer returning to the industry and seeking opportunities to utilize modern JavaScript front-end development skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Creator/Owner College Score Search 2019 to Present Entrance exam score based college exploration.  College Score Search is intended to help students research and build a list of colleges and universities to which they might apply. SAT and ACT test scores are used as a starting point to drill into data obtained from the U.S. Department of Education's College Scorecard API. The important concept of match, reach, and safety schools is explained and emphasized. A list of categorized schools is stored locally and can be printed in PDF format. Another feature of this app is a reactive score conversion utility based on concordance data published by the College Board-- any input score (old SAT, new SAT, or ACT) will cause all equivalent scores to be calculated and displayed.  Built with Vue, Vuetify, and the Nuxt framework. Creator/Owner The RVA Meta 2019 to Present An automated local newspaper.  The RVA Meta is an automated online local newspaper experiment that incorporates state, national, and world content. It aggregates headline content from local news outlets with articles accessed via the Google News API, self-publishing every four hours, and posting a synopsis of local stories to Facebook once daily.  Built with Vue, Vuetify, Puppeteer, and Google Cloud. Java Developer Experient Technologies 2000 to 2003 An eLearning startup.  Contributed to various aspects of Experient's learning management system including a Swing  based GUI, XML content management system, and the product installer.  Represented Experient at sessions of governing standards bodies including the IEEE, SCORM, and AICC, and in this capacity helped generate significant interest in software integration from  multiple other distance learning firms. Education Bachelor of Arts in history Virginia Commonwealth University Skills Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, VS CODE, OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING, JAVA, ANDROID, CSS, Front-End, UI, Vue (2 years), Nuxt, Material Design/Vuetify, Node, User Interface Links https://hunterbeasley.com https://collegescoresearch.com https://rvameta.com Additional Information When I'm not coding I draw and dabble in horseshoe pitching and tournament chess.