Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Republic Services Chicago, IL • Overall 8 years of IT Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (Analysis, Design and Development) of various CRM & Web-based applications, involving hands-on knowledge design and development using Java, Force.Com platform and Microsoft Technologies.  • 6 years of extensive hands-on experience in development, implementation of Salesforce.com CRM Customization, Configuration & its Development Life Cycle as an Administrator and a Developer with APEX, Visual Force, Lightning Experience (2 years) - Salesforce classic to Lightning migration, Lightning Component, Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder, Lightning Bolt, Locker Services & Integration and holding 2.0 years as a Java/J2EE Developer.  • Experienced in Migrating from Salesforce Classic User Interface (UI) to Lightning Experience (LEX), modern user- interface with responsive design of applications for desktops, mobile& tablets and involved in developing Salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers and Events. Used Apex controller to retrieve data using SOQL queries from Salesforce.com and then to display on Lightning components.  • Efficient in monitoring Apex asynchronous processing using @futuremethods, batch apex, controlling processes with queueable apex and scheduling jobs using apex scheduler.  • Setup and Implemented Salesforce marketing cloud 2.0 org.  • Maintained marketing relationships and collaborations with technology partners of Cloud-Native Applications.  • Used open-source Aura Framework, with added Aura Attributes/Handlers for Events/Logic & Interactions between Client-side and Server-side Interaction.  • Experienced in Salesforce Development using Apex (Classes, Triggers, Controllers), VisualForce (Pages, Controllers& Extension Controllers), Web Services like SOAP API - Enterprise & Partner WSDL, RESTFUL API, Eclipse IDE, SOQL and SOSL and Governor Limits.  • Holding good hands-on knowledge about Sales cloud, Service cloud, Community cloud & Marketing cloud configuration and customization and good understanding with Client/Server architecture and Event-Driven Architecture.  • Well-honed and experienced in Administrative tasks in analyzing, translating the business process and design of Custom Objects, Custom Fields, Role-Based Page Layouts, Custom Tabs, Relationships - Lookup Relationships and Master-Detail Relationships, Custom Reports, Report Folders, Report Extractions to various formats, Snapshots, Dashboards, Validation Rules, Workflow Alerts & Actions, Pick Lists, Record Types, Process builder and implementation of Security and Sharing Rules at Record-Level, Object-Level, and Field-Level for different users at different levels of organization for granting access to records and creating various Profiles, Roles & Resource monitoring at different Hierarchical Levels as per the client and application requirements.  • In-depth understanding of CRM business process that include Forecasting, Campaign Management, Account Management, Lead Management, Entitlement Management, Merging Management, Activity Management, Case Management and Order Management.  • Experienced and Implemented the custom functionality with Apttus CPQ and Steel Brick CPQ.  • Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleansing activities while transferring the data to the external system using the on-demand tools Apex Data Loader, Dataloader.io, Informatica Cloud Data Wizard, Jitterbit Data Loader on Force.com platform.  • Hands on experience in using Enterprise Integration Tools, Extract Transformation and Load (ETL), Enterprise Information Integration Tools and Enterprise Architecture Initiatives (EAI).  • Experienced in Sandbox Management (Refreshing Sandbox, Creating New Sandbox and Migrating code) between connected orgs (Dev Pro to Dev Sandbox Org, Sandbox Org to Production Org).  • Experience with environments consisting of Object Oriented Languages like C++, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets and other Java technologies and troubleshooting mechanisms with highly adaptable to work on various environments and working with version control tools like GITHUB, BIG BUCKET, SVN.  • Experience on Java Multi-Threading, Collection, Interfaces, Synchronization, and Exception Handling.  • Hands on experience working with HTML, XML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Angular JS and AJAX.  • Strong knowledge and working experience on various methodologies such as Scrum, Jira, Rally or Agile Accelerator and Waterfall model.  • Advanced ability to work independently, work in a fast-paced environment, and manage workload prioritization to deliver high quality work products on time with minimal direction and demonstrated collaboration skills with the ability to handle conflict and to work with a distributed team. Work Experience Salesforce Developer Republic Services - Chicago, IL July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Demonstrated expert knowledge of the entire Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Integrated reporting with the use of Salesforce.com Web Service.  • Resolved web problems and issues using Rest API/Soap API; utilizes Apex and Visualforce to create custom controllers and extensions.  • Developed Lighting App for agents with enhanced Lightning Templates and experienced in modifying visual force pages to be supported in Lightning Experience.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Base Lightning Components and implemented the platform interfaces.  • Enabled Aura Framework and added Aura Attributes/Handlers for Events /Logic & Interactions.  • Developed Lightning Components, Lightning Apps to provide better and more interactive interfaces to end users, which help in service enhancements.  • Creating Lightning Modal Components to display the content for the creation of record and pre-populating the fields within the modal box.  • Conducted daily deployments to the QA environment, including manual changes, Changesets, data loader instructions and Ant deployments utilizing SVN and Ant Migration Tool.  • Integrated Salesforce.com administration, including workflow rules, approval processes and outbound messages; uses Selenium to automate web applications for testing purposes.  • Build custom queries with SOQL;  • Worked with and support cross-functional teams. Performed code reviews.  • Compiled with all required Company policies and practices relating to the System Development Life Cycle.  • Provided Tier 3 support and resolution of open IT issues escalated by IT Customer Support.  • Developed project plans for application software implementation activities of medium to high level of complexity and coordinates and oversees the implementation.  • Knowledge of basic sales techniques and past experience of CRM; Web based development standards / services and networking techniques; as well as the following: Java script, JQuery, Jquery Mobile, HTML5, CSS, Mobile Application Platforms (iOS / Android), API Customer SF.com Web Services, experience with integrating SF.com with middleware, and experience using Selenium web browser testing tool.  • supported cross-functional teams and prioritize and manage tasks to completion Salesforce Developer Microsoft - Seattle, WA May 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:    • Interacted with the Business team on a weekly scheduled basis for discovery on the requirements, discussing the open-sprint topics and presenting the completed development tasks.  • Worked with the scrum master to deliver quality code within time line, implement best practices and communicate issues & risks.  • Worked on creating the custom lightning record layouts and displaying the pre-populated fields and inheriting the styling from Lightning Design System.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Batch Apex, Schedulable Apex, Future method and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Develop productive relationships with internal teams, providing thought leadership and closed-loop feedback.  • Develop Customer Success stories based on exceptional customer engagements for distribution.  • Collaborate with internal stakeholders to further develop and update Customer Success programs; notably the Advertising for Marketing Cloud program.  • Writing/tuning Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, and Packages and Triggers using SQL.  • Created Executive Customer Advisory Board strategy which included 8 bi-coastal meetings focused on the reval industry with top leaders from key industries including Healthcare/Life Sciences, Medical Device, Food & Beverage, Consumer Goods, and Automotive. Awareness of regulatory compliance for the industries represented (FDA NHTSA, CPSC,).  • Migrated data from external sources and performed insert, upsert, delete, export operations on millions of records.  • Used the Lightning Testing Service to create test suites and unit testing the Lightning Components using standard JavaScript test frameworks.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Solutions, Contract, Contract line items, Products, Product line, Service contracts, Reports and Dashboards.  • Customized search layouts, page layouts to organize fields, custom links, related links and other components on record pages.  • Created Public Groups, Queues, Permission Sets, Profiles, Users, Role hierarchy, Org-Wide default settings, Sharing rules, Formula fields, Workflow Rules - Email Alert, Field Update, Time-dependent Actions and Approval Process, Process Builder, Reports and Dashboards.  • Configured and Customized Service Cloud features which includes Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case, Service Console, Customer Portal, Call Center, Entitlement, Case Feed, Knowledge Base, Live Agent, Omini-Channel, Email Services, Case Escalation rules, Case Assignment rules.  • Developed various Custom Reports, Report Types, Dashboards and Analytic snapshot for different line of business on Standard and Custom objects.  • Reach out to Account Owners of current and future Premium Clients to provide assistance for renewals and new business opportunities.  • Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions and built CTI adapters to integrate with Desktop applications and third-party CTI systems.  • Written Apex web services for inbound calls to salesforce and developed Apex callouts to consume data from external services by consuming Partner WSDL.  • Performing code scan analysis using SonarQube on Apex Classes, Triggers and Lightning Components to meet the code quality standards, best practices and code overage which will reduce the time spent on code-review.  • Debugging Apex scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute Governors and Limits and writing Apex Test classes for Unit Testing to maintain the code coverage greater than 80%.  • Works with peers to gain understanding of systems while conducting root cause analysis of issues, reviewing new and existing code/performing unit testing.  • Migrating the code changes between the connected Salesforce orgs Post-Deployment configuration checklist using the Flosum deployment tool and handle production issues / defects / incident management.  • Participated in solving day to day production issues / defects / incident management and training sessions provided by Team.    Environment: Saleforce.com CRM, Chatter, Apex Classes, Controllers, Lightning Components, Lightning Data Services, Lightning Design System, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Controllers, Email Services, Workflow & Approvals, Security Controls, Reports, Eclipse IDE, Windows, Data Loader, Flosum deployment tool. Salesforce Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH January 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:    • Involved in various activities of gathering information and performed detailed analysis of technical and business requirements and involved in daily standup meetings - Agile Scrum Methodology.  • Developed Batch, Schedule jobs for Bulk data processing at scheduled intervals in a weekly manner.  • Worked on Salesforce Community Workspaces for creating the custom partner portal using Community Management, Branding and Administration which includes Accessibility, Community Landing Page, and Permissions to Site Guest User.  • Worked on Lightning Experience has evaluated complete Readiness report provided by Salesforce and redid the work in Lightning sandbox and made sure everything is working.  • Lightning Experience - Formatting and migrating user data into LE, Implemented Salesforce Lightning Components within the organization.  • Developed user responsive Lightning Components for Communities. Created Lightning Applications that embeds Lightning components into Visualforce Pages.  • Leveraged Aura Framework, by creating Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to establish a communication path between Lightning components.  • Created Lightning Email Templates and add the Templates component to a customized App Builder Email Application Pane.  • Performed Bulk Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using Import Wizard, Excel Connector, Data loader, Workbench, Backupify, Apex Data Loader utility and ETL tools.  • Integrated Salesforce.com with external systems like Oracle and SAP using SOAP API and REST API.  • Troubleshooting and configuring Data Loader operations and running the Data Loader in batch mode.  • Implemented CPQ solution using Apttus CPQ & Contract Management (CLM) for various customers and Involved in Test configuration Apttus with in Sandbox environments to ensure that once users are granted access, all the aspects are fully functional.  • Managing Sandboxes - Create/Delete/Refresh. Use Force.com CLI and perform Automated Metadata Export.  • Used Tabular, Summary and Matrix reports to create Standard reports and Custom reports.  • Developed Visual flows and Login flows to Show the Maintenance Message to CRM and Community Users when Deployments are in Progress.  • Executed various levels of Unit, Integration, User Acceptance and Operational Acceptance testing to prove that system conform to specifications of business and Quality Requirements.  • Used ANT Migration Tool for deployment of metadata from connected org (Sandbox org to Production org).  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Service Cloud, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Lookup and Maser Details Page, Security Controls, Apptus CLM, Salesforce1 Mobile, Java Script, Web Services, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer/ Admin MasterCard - O'Fallon, MO November 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Agile Methodologies in developing Software Development Life Cycle.  • Develop reporting and dashboards to communicate campaign and marketing effectiveness.  • Research, evaluate, implement, and present statistical methods to provide actionable insights across CRM and other platforms as necessary.  • Created Objects, Page Layout, Record Types, Relationships, Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Process.  • Working with Administration activities like Users, Profiles, Permission Set Role, OWD settings and Sharing Rules, Designed and Developed Service Cloud and Integration.  • Created Workflows for automated Lead Routing, Lead Escalation, Alerts and Custom Coaching Plans and implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case for automation of the case creation.  • Using Data Loader and Import Wizard for Data Export, Updates and Backup for the organization.  • Create dashboards in support of monitoring key performance indicators and campaign tracking.  • According to the business user's requirement, creating Reports and Dashboards and implemented Single Sign-On with SAML on Force.com.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects Lead, Account, Contact, Opportunity, Campaign, Cases, Solutions Standard Objects and Custom Objects.  • Created Public Groups, Queues, Permission Sets, Profiles, Users and Security Settings based on role hierarchy.  • Implemented Salesforce Service Cloud and Opportunity Management (Case Management, Entitlement Management, Product and Price book, High Volume Customer Portal, Partner Portal, Visual Force Sites) for business support and technical support for its channel customers.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Saelsforce.com platform database.  • Experience in developing and maintaining email templates within Marketing Cloud.  • Developed and implemented both the time dependent and time independent workflows as per the requirement.  • Architect solutions for the data analytics and Einstein platforms, both discovery and wave and provide direction for both the business and technical teams to develop a solution.  • Manage re-architecture of Jenkins and integration with Confluence for Release Management and documentation assets. Re architect a Maven based system reducing build times.  • Experience in ETL Methods for integrating data feeds on Salesforce cloud  • Migrating Metadata from one sandbox to another sandbox using Force.com IDE Tool.  • Used Web Services like SOAP API and Rest API to integrate with external systems.  • Performed Unit, Integration, Regression and User Acceptance Testing.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Deployments, Force.com Migration Tool, Jenkin, Translation Workbench, Sandbox, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Lightning Components, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, CTI integration and Email Services, Force.com IDE Tool. SFDC Administrator/ Developer Toyota - West Virginia - May, WV May 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:    • Interacted with the business unit for gathering the Salesforce.com CRM implementation requirements.  • Automated the process of creating Leads directly from Web and Auto-Response rules.  • Developed Formulas, Validation rules to maintain the quality of the data.  • Customized page layouts for standard objects and assigned Record Types by using VisualForce components.  • Created Many-to-Many relationships and created Junction objects to implement Roll-up Summary fields to aggregate data from child records on the parent.  • Used SOQL and SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Created Dashboards using customized Dashboard components.  • Leveraging Sales Cloud functionality, including Account Planning, Sales Forecasting, Opportunity Management and Lead Management.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Triggers and Visualforce Pages for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom Reports and configured the Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the sales performance and lead generation statistics.  • Maintained user roles, security, profiles, and workflow rules wherever necessary.  • Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Data Loader, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Java/J2EE Developer HSBC May 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirements gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Extensively designed and developed web pages using JSP, HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS and CSS in the front end.  • Used Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Developed Restful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  • Developed ANT scripts for automating build process  • Used Spring Model View Controller (MVC) 2 architecture. Used JSPs in front-end, Used XSL/XSLT for transforming common XML format into internal XML format.  • Used Log4J API for logging and debugging.  • Used JIRA as bug tracking tool.  • Implemented the Web Services with WSDL, UDDI, and SOAP from the scratch by using Apache Axis.  • Deployed the application on WebSphere server.  • Debugged the code using Java debugger and Eclipse and used exception, condition and other break points.  • Involved in installation of Oracle Client, troubleshoot and establish the connection to Oracle database.    Environment: J2EE, Struts, Servlets, EJB, AJAX, HTML, CSS, XML, Ant, JavaScript, Oracle 10G, Eclipse 3.0, WebSphere 5.x, Log4J, Junit, Rational Rose AngularJS. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX, CSS, WEB SERVICES, ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, JSP, CRM, SFA, .NET, C++, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, XML, DB2, MS ACCESS, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G Links http://Salesforce.com