Salesforce Developer/Lightning Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer/Lightning Developer Houston, TX Salesforce Certified Professional with 7+ years of IT experience including 5 years of experience in Salesforce.com which involves on configuration, customization, integration, communities and lightning migration from classic, lightning component development using lightning design system. 2 Years of experience on JAVA Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Lightning Developer Houston, TX November 2017 to Present Direct Energy is a large company with a history of impressive growth. Acquired by Centrica, plc in 2000, Direct Energy has steadily grown to approximately 6, 200 employees and nearly 5 million customers in North America. Direct Energy is one of the largest residential energy retailers in North America based on customer numbers. It provides residential natural gas and electricity products in in 13 U.S. states, as well as Alberta, British Columbia, and Ontario. It provides the insights our customers need to make smarter decisions, be more efficient, reduce their energy use, and potentially save money.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Salesforce security and sharing model like creating and maintaining User Roles, Profiles, Organization wide sharing defaults and Field level security.  • Developed Apex Classes, Batch Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed Visualforce Pages using standard Salesforce visualforce tags, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Integrated Salesforce CRM and the legacy system using Cast Iron Integration Systems  • Maintained the Sandboxes and deployed the code, components using changesets from one Sandbox to another Sandbox.  • Customized page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Developed Workflow Rules, Validation Rules, Time-Dependent Workflow Actions and Email Alerts.  • Customizing the Application version using Apex triggers, Visualforce pages and SOAP API for Veeva online.  • Customized Inbound and Outbound Interfaces involving newly implemented Veeva system and legacy Cargill systems.  • Built CTI adapters with Salesforce CRM call center uses to integrate with their Salesforce Softphone.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Developed several Process builders for various automated process like chatter posts, record creation, record update, Email alerts, Approval submissions, calling apex class, Flows or another process builder.  • Worked on various AppExchange products like Salesforce CPQ (Formerly SteelBrick CPQ) for generating the various quotes, Conga composer App for generating the various documents for clients, DocuSign to Send Quotes and Agreements to End User for E-Signature.  • Created and customized various Reports & Dashboards according to the Business units Requests.  • Used Apttus (CPQ) for Salesforce to configure, price and quote new deals, add-on sales and renewals.  • Designed various types Email templates for auto response to customers.  • Created various Queues and developed Assignment rules, Escalation rules to enable proper routing of cases to the case team members.  • Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to Salesforce.com Objects and fields.  • Good working knowledge in querying Salesforce database using SOQL&SOSL queries using Force.com Explorer and Salesforce Workbench.  • Resolving support cases and debugging the complex issues that the users reported.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Have developed the Test Classes and increased the code coverage.  • Worked on the Web Services and callouts using both SOAP and REST API for extracting the data from legacy systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Lightning, Apttus CPQ, Visualforce Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Email Services, Rest API, Soap API, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Salesforce Sandbox, Controllers, REST API, HTML, Java Script. Salesforce Developer/Admin Boston Scientific Corporation January 2017 to October 2017 The Boston Scientific Corporation (abbreviated BSC) is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a range of interventional medical specialties, including interventional radiology, interventional cardiology, peripheral interventions, neuromodulation, neurovascular intervention, electrophysiology, cardiac surgery, vascular surgery, endoscopy, oncology, urology and gynecology.    Responsibilities:  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com, and Web Services.  • Extensively used Agile Scrum methodology to reach our business team goal by gathering day to day requirements and building them using Force.com platform  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL queries with governor limitations to manipulate the data from Salesforce.com platform databases.  • Written Apex batch and Scheduled classes to process large volume of data on a periodic basis.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards) andreport Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the organization's need.  • Used Rest API for integrating Salesforce.com with external system to perform data migration. Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Enabled Single Sign-On to let users access authorized resources with one login.  • Workedon troubleshooting service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows andtriggers for automated case resolutions  • Developed Email templates in Text, HTML and Visualforce for setting up email alerts for auto response and data updates.  • Embedded JavaScript and jQuery in the visual force pages.  • Worked on configuring standard Salesforce Chatter and also customizing it by including custom logics on chatter objects using triggers and Classes and VF Pages.  • Developed a mobile app using Field Service Lightning.  • Implemented custom Cascading Style Sheets CSS for visual force pages.  • Written Apex Test classes to Unit test Apex classes before Production deployment.  • Created and maintained the documentation for Design, Migration and Integration.  • Deployed applicationfrom sandbox to sandbox/production using ant migration tool, Eclipse and Change Set.  • Worked on CRM platform environment of SFDC Sales Cloud and Service Cloud modules  • Worked on customization of Sales Cloud schema by customizing standard objects like Leads, Accounts, Contact, Opportunity and Products  • Created and managed Live Agent, Omni-channels and Routing configurations for routing queued service requests to the agents.  • Used Salesforce for Outlook, Entitlement Management and Created Milestones for supporting the process to resolve the cases.  • Used Case Automation Tools (Queues, Assignment rules, Auto-response rules, Escalation rules, Macros) which allows users to track and resolve customer issues quickly.  • Created Lead/Case Queues, Lead/Case Assignment Rules, Case Escalation Rules, Web-to-Lead & Email-to-Case  • Created roles, profiles, access settings, workflow rules, validations, page layouts, creation and modification of fields.  • Experience in installing, evaluating AppExchange application on salesforce.com platform.  • Implemented Service Cloud including: Service Console, Customer Portal & Communities, Case Feed, and Knowledge Base.  • Developed custom visualforce.com pages for communities.  • Debug Apex scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute Governor Limits  • Extensively used Salesforce Lightning Design Systems (SLDS) components in the Lightning Application.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Created Lighting componentsandserver-side controllers, added CSS and designparameters for them, which improves performance.  • Created a lookup utility using Lightning, Apex classes and SOSL to lookup Users and add them as a Case Team to the case record.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Components, Controllers & Extensions), Apex Triggers, Eclipse, Soap API, Data Loader, Apttus CPQ/CLM,Service Cloud, Sales Cloud, Developer Console, Force.com Salesforce Developer ABAXIS Inc - Union City, CA October 2015 to December 2016 ABAXIS provides leading edge technology, tools and services that support best medical practices that let physicians and veterinarians respond to the health needs of their clients  Client currently leverages a custom developed CRM solution for most their global CRM functionality, and desires to migrate to a Salesforce.com platform.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on analyzing the user stories, estimating complexity, story pointing and implementing the user stories.  • Developed complex Visualforce pages, Apex classes, Triggers and Test classes.  • Worked on integrating Tableau and SAP with salesforce.  • Developed integration classes for making callouts from salesforce to the client legacy systems.  • Reduced the effort of coding through configuration of complex formulae, rollup summary.  • Developed visualforce pages using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented validation rules for each field in the form.  • Knowledge on reports and dashboards using Tableau.  • Worked on various standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Price Books and Products.  • Designed and implemented custom objects, page layouts, custom tabs and components to suit to the needs of application.  • Created OWD, Roles, public groups, role hierarchies and sharing rules for the organization.  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for the iterative development of the application and participated in weekly Sprints, daily stand up meetings and customer reporting backlogs.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex classes, Visualforce, Tableau, SOAP callouts, HTML5, JavaScript and JQuery, TortoiseSVN and JIRA Salesforce Developer Keane India, Gurgon - IN May 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other platform based technologies like Visualforce, force.com API, and web service.  • Designed and implemented the solution by customizing various sales process standard objects like Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Opportunities, Cases and solutions of SalesForce.com (SFDC).  • Customized several Formula Fields, Validation Rules, Tasks, Workflow rules, Triggers, Apex classes to achieve the complex business functionality.  • Creating Custom Objects and defining Lookup and Master-Detail Relationships on the objects in Salesforce.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for client side programming.  • Evaluated Cast Iron for migrating data within Salesforce.com  • Extensive experience Creating Roles, Profiles, Email Services and Page Layouts.  • Worked on Client's CPQ Project, Salesforce integration with CPQ application.  • Created various Approval process in Salesforce.com for the Sales process to run properly in the organization.  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on force.com platform in salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visual-Force pages as user interface.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Developed Apex Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created various Scheduled and Batch apex jobs based on the business requirements.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access among different users.  • Worked in Informatics Cloud for various integrations tasks.  • In-charge of deployment using change sets and eclipse and taking back-up of production environment before deployment.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Informatica Cloud, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP. Java developer Wintech Solutions, Shivajinagar - Pune, Maharashtra June 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Presented designs and concepts to Clients and the Management for review.  • Performed the validation and testing of the completed websites.  • Responsible for web hosting and the installation of e-mails and forms.  • Developed Message Driven Bean components in WebSphere MQ Series to manage the backend transaction sand e-mailing (using JMS and IMAP).  • Developed beans for business logic and utility packs mapping database entities.  • Involved in analysis, design, development and maintenance.  • Developed Session/Entity Beans and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Configured deployment descriptor specifying data environment.  • Documented, prepared help files, user guide and trained end users.  • Involved in Testing the Application according to test cases.  • Worked on technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Core Java, JDBC and JSP.    Environment: Java 1.4, JDBC, HTML, JSP, JMS, MQ Series, Eclipse, JavaScript, WebSphere Application Server, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology JNTU 2012 Skills Apex, Force.com, Crm, Ant, Workflow, Loader Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Salesforce CRM Apex Language (Classes, Trigger, Batch, Schedule), SOQL & SOSL Language, Visualforce Pages, Components, Sales, Service, Ant based Force.com Migration Tool, Workflow rules, Approval Process, Profiles, Permission Sets, Role Hierarchy, Validation Rules, Custom objects, Relationships, Page Layouts, Search Layouts, Record Types, Reports, Dashboards, lightning, lightning components, lightning design systems.  Force.com Tools Developer Console, Force.com IDE, Force.com Explorer, Workbench, Data Loader