SailPoint Consultant SailPoint Consultant SailPoint Consultant - Capital One Plano, TX ? Around 5 years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, documentation, implementation and testing of software systems.  ? Extensive experience in Java/J2EE technologies ( Java, JDK 1.7/1.8, JSP, JDBC, Type Script).  ? Expertise in distributed, secure and scalable application development using Java, J2EE.  ? Experience in Identity and Access Management and web application development using Java and J2EE.  ? Installed and Configured SailPoint IIQ 6.4 and 7.1 in both Linux Environment & Windows environment.  ? Strong in Object Oriented Analysis and Designing (OOAD) and Object-oriented programming.  ? Experience in container-based technologies with development of Microservices using Spring Boot.  ? Created and consumed REST Web services for populating and saving data from/to database.  ? Implemented and integrated various back-end systems using REST API's and business layer using JDBC with Spring DAO.  ? Proficient with Typescript and Angular CLI and also Developed backend using NodeJS.  ? Strong hands on experience on SailPoint IIQ concepts such as Provisioning, De-provisioning, Certifications, Tasks, Workflows, and Rules, etc.  ? Experienced with Access Groups, Role Mining and Role Based Access Control (RBAC).  ? Experienced with Identity and access management concepts as Password Management, Self-Service, Authorization, and Authentication.  ? Hands on experience on Lifecycle Management.  ? Enabled Desktop Password Reset and provided Desktop link to users to reset their passwords.  ? Experienced with Bean shell scripting language.  ? Expertise in designing and deploying Identity and Access Management Solutions to improve user's experience, meet compliance and reduce costs.  ? Developed custom rules such as Correlation, Manager Correlation, Creation, Build Map, Provisioning and De-provisioning rules.  ? Executed Rules, Identities, Tasks from IIQ Console.  ? Good experience in scripting languages like JavaScript and Shell Script.  ? Implemented Page objects, Test classes, Data driven Automation frameworks using Selenium WebDriver, NodeJS and Junit developed for data validations.  ? Applied RESTful Web Services in Spring Framework and Selenium in Java for web automation.  ? Implemented framework for RESTful API testing using Postman and SOAP UI.  ? Strong experience in creating, configuring application build and deployment scripts using Maven, Apache Ant.  ? Experience with various IDE's like IntelliJ, and Microsoft Visual Studio Code.  ? Hands on experience in creating various database objects like tables, stored procedures, functions, and triggers using SQL, T-SQL, DB2.  ? Expertise in database programming (SQL, T-SQL) with SQL Server. Extensively used Eclipse, RAD, and RSA as IDE for application development and support.  ? Proficiency in using version control software like Git, SVN and Continuous Integration using Jenkins.  ? Strong experience with JUnit in performing unit test and determining the application functionality.  ? Co-ordinate with the QA leads for development of test plan, test cases, and unit test code.  ? Extensive experience working / supporting applications in Production, QA and Dev. environments.  ? Detailed understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and strong knowledge in project implementation methodologies like Waterfall and Agile.  ? Excellent technical, communication, analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds and trouble-shooting capabilities. Work Experience SailPoint Consultant Capital One - Plano, TX November 2018 to Present Project  J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc., a Fortune 500 company and one of the largest transportation logistics companies in North America, provides safe and reliable transportation services to a diverse group of customers throughout the continental United States, Canada and Mexico. Utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach, we provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle including Requirements gathering, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application using agile framework.  ? Involved in business requirements gathering and Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.  ? Developed a custom module in backend to leverage the client application features and build next generation web applications with Angular JS and REST.  ? Involved in building a single page and cross browser compatible web application using Angular2 (Angular routing).  ? Developed application on spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Web  flow with Spring MVC and Spring BOOT.  ? Implemented business layer using Core java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, spring annotations.  ? Used Spring MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layers and implemented different DPs.  ? Implemented Objects, Classes and their relationships and how to model them and good hand on experience on spring framework.  ? Worked on Microservices for Continuous Delivery environment using Docker and Jenkins.  ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST APIs.  ? and Spring Boot for Microservices.  ? Designed applications using Java Design Pattern  ? Involved in configuring JDBC connection pooling to access the database server.  ? Extensively worked with the retrieval and manipulation of data from the Microsoft Database by writing queries using SQL.  ? Worked on various Certifications, developed custom tasks and reports  ? Ensure requirements gathered, processes defined, and use cases documented follow out of the box configuration vs. customization as much as possible  ? Used Application Integration to get data from different applications.  ? Design correlation and data loading tasks in IdentityIQ  ? Designed and deployed Identity & Access Management solution to improve user experience, meet compliance, and reduce costs.  ? Code Reviews, customization and maintenance of code across applications.    Environment: Java 1.8, JSP, Servlets, SailPoint IIQ, JDBC, Spring 2.0, Hibernate, MVC, Web services, Microsoft Azure, HTML, XML, JavaScript, JMS, D3.js, Eclipse 3.2, DB2, Angular, Jenkins, Node, Mongo DB, Log4j, Maven, GIT. SailPoint Consultant American Express - Phoenix, AZ September 2017 to October 2018 Project  Equifax is a global data, analytics, and technology company. We blend unique data, analytics, and technology with a passion for serving customers globally, to create insights that power decisions to move people forward. Headquartered in Atlanta, Equifax operates or has investments in 24 countries in North America, Central and South America, Europe and the Asia Pacific region    Responsibilities:  ? Followed Agile Software Development Methodology to build the application iteratively and incrementally. Participated in scrum related activities and daily scrum meetings.  ? Upgraded SailPoint 6.4 to SailPoint 7.1  ? Involved in on boarding client specific Applications.  ? Developed build map rule, creation rule and customization rule to create Employee and Contractor user accounts into SailPoint from their current application's exported feed file.  ? Improved the correlation rules for existing connectors to reduce the uncorrelated accounts.  ? Created user flow, UI design and design specifications for client applications.  ? Proficient in creating and modifying workflows for implementing business flows as per the requirements.  ? Configured SailPoint for Roles and Entitlements by importing the data given by the different target application owners.  ? Worked on various Certifications, developed custom task and reports.  ? Participate in all SailPoint deployment activities - connector configuration, custom rule development, workflow configuration and development, third party system integration.  ? Ensure requirements gathered, processes defined, and use cases documented follow out of the box configuration, customization as much as possible.  ? Participate in User Acceptance Testing and bug-related reengineering efforts.  ? Built Joiner, Mover and Leaver workflows to maintain user accounts.  ? Created and ran the aggregation task to bulk load authoritative source data from Active Directory, Exchange, LDAP, SAP and others.  ? Tested the different types of connectors in various environments like development, UAT and production.  ? Created the custom task to launch the business process (Work Flow) as per the requirement specification.  ? Developed custom certifications to cater client needs.  ? Communicated to clients and partner's aspects of both the product and the implementation at the technical and functional levels appropriate for the situation.  ? Provide knowledge transfer and post production support activities, as necessary.  ? Followed coding guidelines to ensure the code quality using PMD, Find bugs and EMMA as a code coverage tool.  ? Worked as an Administrator for the Atlassian tools (i.e. JIRA and CONFLUENCE). Had a good experience in creating projects in JIRA and their maintenance, which includes usage of JQL and add-ons provided by the Atlassian  ? Being enthusiastic for learning new skills in professional field has helped me to work with business analysts in process of taking requirements from the Business and used Microsoft Visio to present them.  ? Involved in client-side validations using JavaScript.    Environment: Java 1.8, SailPoint IdentityIQ, Spring Core, Angular2, Spring Boot, Bootstrap, Microservices, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, SOAP UI, Web Services, REST, XML, Oracle 11g, JBOSS, JSP, JMS, Maven, Jenkins, SQL Developer, GIT, Log4J, Eclipse. Java Developer Impact Solutions - IN May 2014 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the system by following the agile methodology and involved in Analysis, Design,  ? Development, Unit Testing, and Load Testing of the Application.  ? Used Core JAVA Collection API, Generics, Annotations, Reflection API, multi-threading in application  ? development.  ? Used Spring AOP for cross-cutting concerns like logging, security, and transaction management  ? Used spring MVC framework controllers for Controller part of the MVC.  ? Created Data Access Object (DAO) which is used by the Hibernate API calls to interact with the  ? database.  ? Experience in writing Hibernate HQL queries and PL/SQL stored procedures for the application to  ? communicate with the Oracle Database.  ? Produced and consumed Rest web services using JAX-RS.  ? Developed the frontend UI using HTML, JavaScript, CSS and AngularJS.  ? Implemented core features of AngularJS framework such as dependency Injection, Data-binding,  ? Filters, Directives, Templates, Services and Deep Linking.  ? Involved in implementing the JMS ( Java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  ? Involved in using JMS Queues and JMS Topics for one-to-one and one-to-may communication in  ? the application.  ? Used Apache Maven as build tool and deploy on Web Logic application server.  ? Used SVN for version control across common source code used by developers.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts frame work, Tag libraries, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, Oracle 8i, Java beans, Struts Validation framework, Windows/UNIX, Ant, JUNIT, SVN, QC, Edit Plus, Web Logic application server, SQL Developer. Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlet, Struts, Case tools, Design patterns, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Typescript, Jenkins Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java, SQL, T-SQL, Typescript  Enterprise Java JSP, Servlet, JNDI, JDBC, JSF, JMS, ESB session beans, Entity beans, Swing, Reflection  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, React JS, CSS, XML, XSD, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, DOJO, Ajax  Tools & Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JMS, JSF, Log4J, JUnit, Micro Services, SOA, SOAP UI, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Apache Camel, Docker    Web services SOAP UI, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL.  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache, Tomcat, JBoss, EAP, WebLogic  Database Oracle, SQL-Server, MongoDB  Development Tools Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite (STS), Any point studio of ESB Mule  Modeling/ CASE Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio Professional, Star UML, MS Visio Tool  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Selenium, Web driver IO, Mockito, Jasmine  Version Control CVS, SVN, Rational clear case, GIT  OS & Environment Windows Vista/XP/2000/NT, Win 2k Server, UNIX  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns  Build-Automation Tools Maven, Jenkins, Ant, JIRA, Pivotal Tracker, Fire Bug.  Cloud Technologies Microsoft Azure