Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Northern Natural Gas, NE NJ ? A Dynamic and motivated team player, having more than 6 years of experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) phases of design, development, implementation, deployment, testing, and maintenance. Highly productive and able to deliver under tight schedules.  ? Good Experience in Application Software Development and Design, Object Oriented, Technical Documentation, Software Testing, and Debugging.  ? Excellent knowledge on Spring core such as Dependency Injection, Annotations and XML based configurations.  ? Extensively worked on Spring Boot maven projects.  ? Consumed and Exposed to Spring Hibernate.  ? Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  ? Consumed and exposed both REST and SOAP-based web services very good experience with SOA model.  ? Extensive experience in the development of client/server and web Applications using JAVA and Web Technologies for enterprise applications.  ? Excellent implementation knowledge of JAVA 8/9, Restful Web Services, and JDBC.  ? Good experience in Database Design, writing stored procedures, functions, triggers, SQL queries.  ? Experienced in remodeling and improving the performance of the applications.  ? Experience in developing SOAP-based Web Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-WS, SOAP, JAXB)  ? Experienced in developing RESTful Web Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-WS OR JAX-WS) with data representation in various formats such as XML and JSON.  ? Experience in Web-Development technologies such as HTML, JDBC, CSS and XML.  ? Good Experience in developing test cases with JUnit.  ? Extensive development experience on different IDE's such as Eclipse, IntelliJ, spring for debugging and using java coding standards.  ? Good debugging skills that deep diving into technical issues, collaborating with cross-domain experts, handling clients with different priorities and mindsets, both onsite and remote.  ? Diligent and highly enthusiastic professional with Strong technical, analytical and communication skills.  ? Good Understanding of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and implementation of Web Services.  ? Broad knowledge of a wide array of IT activities and processes.  ? Extensive experience in dealing with highly technical issues and a demonstrated ability to craft effective solutions to business problems/requirements.  ? Communicate effectively with people at different levels including stakeholders, internal teams and senior management.  ? Used Cascading Style sheets (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure to be able to define text alignment, size, borders, and many other typographic characteristics. Work Experience Java Developer Northern Natural Gas, NE October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Understanding and analyzing the requirements and part of the process of designing the system.  ? Handled the database access by implementing Controller Servlet and interacted with database by creating query using Spring Hibernate.  ? Used JDBC to access and manipulate data from the Oracle database.  ? Created views and stored procedures in Oracle SQl/PL-SQL.  ? Widely used HTML for web based design.  ? Used Log4J for logging/detecting errors in the application.  ? Also used CVS as the version control manager.  ? Worked extensively on spring boot for building web service.  ? Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  ? Developed DAO layer using JDBC, SQL queries and Oracle database.  ? All the functionality is implemented using Spring/Spring Boot, and Hibernate ORM.  ? Worked on producing Soap Web Services with WSDL Contract  ? Configured Log4J and inserted log messages at database level.  ? Have used SOAP UI for testing SOAP transport protocol.  ? Created model layer using Hibernate and extensively used its API to perform crud operation.  ? Developed, compiled and deployed the WAR / EAR file on Tomcat Server.  ? Involved in writing unit test cases for doing positive and negative test cases, version controlling is done using CVS.    Environment: J2EE 6, Java, JSP, Spring boot, JMS, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (Soap), JSON, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, XML, JMS, DHTML, Tomcat, Eclipse, Web logic 10.3.1/10.3.2, PL/SQL, Oracle, DB2, Windows, CVS. Backend JAVA Developer EC InfoSystems, NY April 2015 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Developed Session Beans using Hibernate session factory.  ? Created tables in the database using SQL.  ? Interpreted and manipulated Hibernate config files.  ? Developed application with spring and Hibernate.  ? Created maven archetypes for generating fully functional REST web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation.  ? Used FireBug to keep a track of bugs.  ? Created model layer using Hibernate and extensively used its API to perform crud operation.    ? Used Session Facade, DAO, Business Object and Value Object design patterns.  ? Created JUnit test suite to automate the testing of the business logic    Environment: JDK, Java, XML, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, Maven, Javascript, CSS, UML, Eclipse, JBoss Application Server, MySQL, JUNIT, Linux JR. Software Engineer Responsibilities BCBS, NJ April 2013 to March 2015 Enhancement and development of in-house software products.  ? Reviewing and validating the defects opened by the support team.  ? Testing enhancement, Bug Fixes and updating software documentation.  ? Developed front end pages with HTML, CSS.  ? Implemented login functionalities to the website.  ? Designed several front-end forms for the website for capturing the user details.  ? Designed, developed and validated User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  ? Used Cascading Style sheets (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure to be able to define text alignment, size, borders, and many other typographic characteristics    Environment: Java, HTML, SQL and Oracle. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAVAFX, SPRING Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  ? Languages/Technologies: Java8, Java9, SOAP, RESTful web services, XML, SQL, Oracle, MYSQL, SQLite, Javafx, JUnit, Java Web Services (JAX-WS), Spring frameworks, Hibernate and Spring boot.  ? Application Tools/IDE: Eclipse IDE, Intellij, Spring IDE.  ? Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Java Web Services (JAX-WS) and JSON.  ? Databases: Oracle, SQLite, MySQL and JDBC.    ? Operating Systems: Windows 10, UNIX/LINUX, MAC.