Sr. Full stack Java Developer Sr. Full stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full stack Java Developer - VOYA Financials Hartford, CT ? Around 8+ years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies in various domains like Finance/Health/Commerce/Telecom/Insurance.  ? Experience with Angular JS, JQuery, JavaScript, VBScript, Perl, AJAX, Adobe Flex, ActionScript, JSON, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Tiles, Tag Libraries.  ? Expertise in client scripting language and serve scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Node.js, AngularJS, Backbone.js.  ? Experience in developing client-side, server-side/middle-tier components applying Java/J2EE design patterns and frameworks: Servlets, JSF, Struts, Spring, Web Services, EJB, JMS, MQ Services, Hibernate, iBatis, JDBC, JPA, Log4j, Portals, GWT, JSP, Custom Tag Library, POJO's, JSTL, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, XML, UML, Log4J and Junit.  ? Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Factory, Abstract Factory, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  ? Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks (Rich Faces, My Faces) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  ? Transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multithreading etc.  ? Experienced in using Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report  ? Extensively worked with JMS API for sending messages between two or more clients.  ? Used Spring Boot to develop and deploy both RESTful web services and MVC applications  ? Developed Micro services based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Implemented exception handling in Java Spring boot for REST API by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations  ? Worked with JMS Queues for sending messages in point-to-point mode.  ? Used JBoss Application server as the JMS provider to manage the sessions and queues.  ? Developed MDBs using JMS to exchange messages between different applications.  ? Extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-shared cluster and monitoring with MMS.  ? Experienced in using PERL to read and write data from/to Excel, SQL Server and MySQL.  ? Strong Database design and development experience, which includes developing Stored Procedures, functions using SQL and PL/SQL in MS-SQL, Oracle, DB2,PostgreSQL databases  ? Experience in developing cross platform server-side applications using Node.js BackBone.js and Angular.js.to achieve scalability in real-time web applications.  ? Automate report generation in MongoDB using JavaScript, shell scripting, java.  ? Experience in Web Service Technologies: SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, Apache Axis, CXF, IBM JAX-WS.  ? Experience in architecting and implementing Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) projects with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Web Services Integrations, BPM, BPEL and ESB using WebSphere Process Server, ESB, WebSphere Integration Developer, Data Power and WSRR.  ? Expertise in XML technologies -XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  ? Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  ? Strong experience with MongoDB development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions) and migrations from SQL relational databases.  ? Proven experience with Application Servers like IBMWebSphere 8.x/7.x/6.x/5.x/, Oracle/BEA WebLogic 10.x/9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, JBoss and Tomcat 8.x/7.x/6.x/5.x/4.x/3.x  ? Experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Packages using TOAD.  ? Experience with major relational databases - Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, DB2, My SQL.  ? Extensive development experience in different IDE's like Eclipse 3.x, Aptana Studio, Jbuilder 9.x/8.x, WSAD 5.x, IBM RAD and AltovaXMLSpy.  ? Experienced in Implementing the application's using J2EE design patterns like Singleton, DAO (Data Access Object),RDBMS.  ? Expertise in design with Use Case, Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams with exposure to UML, tools like Rational Rose and use of Rational Unified Process (RUP).  ? Excellent experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Development, Implementation and Testing of various software applications using Java, J2EE.  ? Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB  ? Experience with creating and workflows and Mappings, running jobs in Informatica 9.5/ETL.  ? Knowledge on Grid Controls, Pie Charts and other Swing Components.  ? Experience in software configuration management using CVS, SVN and IBM Clear Case.  ? Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven and logging tools like Log4J.  ? Expertise in testing with Junit using tools like JMeter.  ? Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum.  ? Production Support-Provided development (quick fixes) and technical support for complex/ critical applications. Coordinated with other teams to resolve end-user issues promptly.  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, lead/work within a team environment. Work Experience Sr. Full stack Java Developer VOYA Financials - Hartford, CT October 2018 to Present Voya Financial, helps Americans plan, invest and protect their savings to get ready to retire better. Provides a comprehensive and highly flexible portfolio of life, disability, and voluntary insurance products to businesses ,cash value life insurance and provides wealth protection. Project relates to claims center which is all about claims, uploading claims documents and checking the claims status.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Development methodology and used to do scrum meetings for discussing the project status and to provide visibility for Product owners/Team members.  • Designing and implementing the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS/CSS3, SASS, JavaScript and AJAX and used various MVC JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Backbone.js and Node.js.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using jQuery, CSS and HTML5.  • Strong experience in using the latest approaches including Spring - MVC in the browser, event - driven applications using AJAX, JavaScript and JSON.  • With the concept of ReactJs, Worked on usage metrics and also end to end events tracing for analysis purpose. --  • Worked with NPM commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of node.js applications.  • Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes for a new requirement surfaced for the client.  • Using JDK, maven and STS IDE used for development and building the application, used Sublime for editing source-code.  • Experienced in backbone.js which is used to organize and serve the different components of application.  • Web services which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  • Used Nodejs to power the development tools used to build the application.  • Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services.  • Bower used for libraries which added to project which should be served to client's bower.  • Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.  • JBoss Application server implementation, support, workload management and performance tuning including Web server setup configuration with JBoss App Server.  • JSPM which we designed to manage the JS modules (ES6, common JS, AMD) across various platforms(npm, github), also used to integrate large components from other application to support claims center.  • Deployed Application instance on JBoss and WebLogic Server.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance, developed various helper classes needed using multi-threading.  • Also Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures and enhanced performance by running explain plans using Oracle database.  • Developed the data access classes using JDBC and SQL queries.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  • Worked in all areas of Jenkins setting up CI for new branches, build automation, plugin management and securing Jenkins and setting up master/slave configurations  • Troubleshoot build issues in Jenkins, performance and generating metrics on master's performance along with jobs usage.  • Proficient in working with task runners GULP and GRUNT.  • Documented daily meetings, build reports, release notes and many other day-to-day documentation and status reports.  • Responsibilities include bug fixing, adding feature requests, enhancements and new development.  • Implementing end-to-end Service Catalog, Incident Management, Configuration & Asset Management, Change Management and Release Management with extensive knowledge on Content Management System.  • Created and implemented demo versions of each paid application.  • Involved in Implementation and attending CAB meetings at the time of product release    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.8, React JS, Apache Maven 3.0, Jboss ,STS, Sublime Text, git, Nodejs, Grunt, JSPM, backbone JS, SASS, Handlebars, Angular js, HTML 5, AJAX, JUNIT, JQUERY,SQL, XML ,JSON, Jenkins, Service now, CARA, Sublime IDE, Grunt, Oracle. Sr. Fullstack Java Developer Credit Suisse - Raleigh, NC September 2017 to September 2018 The Model Risk Management Program is Credit Suisse's response to the Fed's interagency guidance document on Model Risk Management (SR11-7).The main purpose the AMRIT application is to establish firm-wide model risk governance, which will be compliant with SR11-7 by design, which removes the need for each area to conduct a laborious self-assessment against SR11-7. The Model Risk Management Program's key features are to create a central inventory, sourcing Provider feed interfaces from different source systems of models and include links from existing systems to avoid users re-entering model information as well as new models which will be entered into the system by model owners. Manage model risk alongside other risk types (credit risk, market risk and operational risk) that can be achieved by conducting a model risk assessment of all models and based on overall model risk score assigning a model risk rating (High, Medium, Low).    Responsibilities:  • Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces based on J2EE design patterns, Developed and implemented Swing, spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework for the application.  • Designing and implementing the User Interface using OO JavaScript, Ember JS, HTML, CSS/CSS3, SASS and AJAX.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using ReactJS, JQuery and CSS/LESS and HTML5.  • Experienced in reason  • Designed and developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Boot and Jersey framework.  • developing web-based applications using Java, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in designing and developed presentation layer using JSF, Ajax, and JQuery and third party libraries.  • Implemented the associated business modules integration using spring, and Hibernate data mapping.  • Worked on writing Perl scripts covering data feed handling, implementing business logic, communicating with web-services through SOAPLite module and WSDL.  • Developed classes using core java (multithreading, concurrency, memory management) and some spring IOC.  • Used spring dependency injection, annotations and Spring MVC components to implement business layer and navigation part of application.  • Experience in reading and writing xml reports with Perl XML modules.  • Struts Tag Libraries and Struts Tiles Framework were used in addition to JSP, HTML5, AJAX and CSS in developing the presentation layer.  • Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions.  • Used PERL to compare multiple files, finding differences between those files and translating data in the files prior to output.  • Developed JSPs to dynamically generate HTML5 and display the data to the client side. Java Mail API was used to notify the user of the status and completion of their project.  • Have used AJAX to retrieve data from server synchronously in the background without interfering with the display and existing page in an interactive way.  • Developed several REST web services which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  • Created database objects like Stored Procedures, Tables, Views, Sequences, Cursors, Packages and Triggers.  • RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  • Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services, used Mongo DB (NoSQL) for database services.  • Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.  • Exposed and consumed SOAP based Web Services to communicate between systems.  • GUI design and development using Java Swing, JFC Used for open source web testing.  • Heavily used SOAP UI Pro version for testing the Web Services.  • Developed several SOAP based JAX-WSWeb Service interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability.  • JBoss Application server implementation, support, workload management and performance tuning including Web server setup configuration with JBoss App Server.  • Developed web application and Implemented user interface using Ruby, CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures and enhanced performance by running explain plans.  • Expertise in using Design patterns and object oriented methodologies to design software for mobile phones (mobile application).  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Deployed Application instance on JBoss and WebLogic Server.  • Developed the Web application using Spring MVC, Ext-JS, Html, JSP and JavaScript.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Developed various helper classes needed using multi-threading.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  • Developed the data access classes using JDBC and SQL queries  • Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control.  • Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes for a new requirement surfaced for the client.  • Created and implemented demo versions of each paid application.  • Actively involved in using MVC, HTML5 to enable client side date to meets specific criteria by applying various validation variables and used the BackboneJS validation CSS classes to provide visual feedback on validation.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages. Creating a responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with Angular JS and media queries.  • Developed the application in python language for multiple platforms.  • Used Automated test cases using Python 2.7 in open source framework Django 1.2.  • Used XStream API to transfer data back and forth between Spring MVC and Ext JS.  • Custom Node.js proxy used to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete, and to proxy requests to finished client APIs, handling authentication, custom headers, virtual application root, etc.  • Developed Unit test cases using JUnit, Mockito and Easy mock.  • Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Consumed Web Servicesfor getting the credit card information from third party application.  • Developed, Tested and Debugged the Java, JSP and EJB components using Eclipse RCP.  • Written highly referenced blog posts on Error Handling in Scala and Problems Scala Fixes.  • Oversaw all aspects of testing JUnit, FIT, and SIT, End to End, Regression, User acceptance and Performance.  • Used Git as Version Control System for the application.  • Use of data structures and algorithms for time and memory complexity reduction  • Used JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol.  • Configured the Web sphere application server to connect with Oracle Server in the back end by creating JDBC data source and configured MQ Series and JMS Queues with IBM RAD and WAS to create new connection factories and queues.  • Used to test performance both on static and dynamic resources using JMeter.  • Ensured Agile, JDE & Oracle Databases are in sync. Create & distribute weekly Reports and followed up on Change Activity; managed released documents and maintain server database.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.7/1.8, RCP, Spring Boot,JBOSS, AWS SDK, Ext JS, Git, Swing, JFC, Perl 5.6, Spring 4.x, AWS SNS/SQS, hibernate4.x, Core Java, SOAP/Rest, Web Services, Python 2.7, JavaScript, UML, Web Services, HTML5,CSS, SASS, RAD 7, WAS 8 WSDL, SDK's, JIRA 5.x/6.x, JAXB, Linux, JAX-WS, JAX RPC, JMS, JSF, UNIX, Ruby1.9.3, AKKA, NOSQL(MongoDB), Angular JS, NodeJs, ReactJS, AJAX,Apache JMeter, JQuery, JUnit, Maven, PostgreSQl, Oracle 10g. Sr. Full-stack Java Developer TIAA-CREF - Des Moines, IA August 2016 to September 2017 The Lead Management Application is for managing the customers of TIAA-CREF. The tool handles two types of customers, policy leads and customer leads. Different types of users maintained this tool. Depending upon the access level of the user, they can assign or reassign leads to agents, search or sort the leads, view the lead details, view leads assign history, list leads, manager users, campaign management etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM', developed and tested the application during various iterations.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, testing, and monitoring.  • Identified the Business requirements of the project.  • Involved in preparing System Requirements for the project.  • Involved in preparing the Detailed Design document for the project.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and py design patterns.  • Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status. Used Spring DAO Module along with Struts Framework to deal with Database.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  • Used Collection Framework and Multithreading for performing cache Operation.  • Developed, and debugged the servlets and EJB with WebSphere Application server.  • Developed the middle tier using EJBs, Java Servlets.  • Developed session, entity beans and message driven beans.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript, AJAX, JSON.  • Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Ajax, JSP and JQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Achieved role control functionality mainly by retrieving JSON data from AJAX and combining the retrieved data with jQuery to manipulate nodes in DOM tree.  • Utilized a combination of regular expression and jQuery Validation Plugin to conduct input check.  • While in the newer sub project, conducted validation in AngularJS way.  • Designed the data flow for the client-side screens and the object interaction layer for the server side components using Rational Rose.  • Involved in Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • MQ was used to provide a single unifying transport that reduces cost and maintenance efforts, including support for HTTP, REST and JMS.  • Developed reports in an excel format using POI-HSSF API.  • Used XML/XSLT for transforming common XML format and SAML for Single Sign-On.  • Designed configuration XML Schema for the application.  • Monitoring WebLogic/JBOSS Server health and security.  • Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Used JavaScript for the client side validation.  • Used XMLHttpRequest Object to provide asynchronous communication as part of AJAX implementation.  • Designed and implemented Java Classes to use JAXP parser to create Java objects so as to be able to modify the data received in the response.  • Experience with KORN based scripts as part of triggering UNIX and J2EE based Jobs.  • Prepared the test plans and executed test cases for unit, integration and system testing using different automation tools like JUnit, Soap UI and Fiddler.  • Performance Testing experience using Jmeter.  • Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like DI(IOC), Bean Wiring, Inheritance, Auto Wiring, JDBC Templates, AOP and Spring Quartz Schedulers for Jobs.  • Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  • WSDL was used for publishing Web Service interfaces.  • Junit tests were written to test each module in the application.  • Wrote Ant Scripts to automate the build and deploy process.  • Involved in Code Review, Unit Testing and Integration Testing.  Environment: Core Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Java Spring, JSTL, EJB, JMS, XML, XSLT, JDBC, AJAX, IBM WebSphere Application Server 7.0, Oracle 10g, WSAD, IBM MQ, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse, UML, Rational Rose, Windows XP, CVS, JUnit, ANT, Adobe Flex, Visio. Java developer USAA Financial Centers - San Antonio, TX June 2014 to August 2016 Dynamic set of activities to help a member to navigate process that requires the multiple interactions with USAA. 1. Current process status. 2. Individual Activity status. 3. Next activity required. 4. Estimated process completion. The main scope is ability to define set of activities for required to full-fill multi step business process, so that process can be consistent and repeatable and systematically able to create and complete the activities based on trigger/events MSR activity productivity is increased and member has better experience thought the process ability have both manual and automated activities based on business process and ability to have activities added to business activities based on conditions that are defined by the business, so that process can be adapted for multiple business needs.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM', developed and tested the application during various iterations.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, testing, and monitoring.  • Used Maven as build tool and deploying the application.  • Developed the User Interface using spring framework, JQuery and Ajax.  • Developed screens using Angular JS, CSS3 and html5.  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and also implemented login functionality on the client side in Angular JS.  • Developed complete solutions in SOA and create process flows, use various interaction patterns, and integrate web services.  • Design and develop financial web applications using Perl, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and SQL.  • Developed reusable and interoperable modules based on SOA architecture in enterprise applications.  • Code analysis (shell scripting and Perl files) for financial processes.  • Develop batch processes for financial reporting applications and modules using Perl and Korn shell scripts on Oracle database, with partitions and sub-partitions.  • Used spring frame work AOP features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications. Also used the Spring IOC feature to get hibernate session factory and resolve other bean dependencies.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the mappings in hibernate mapping files and created DAO and PO.  • J2EE deployment on WebLogic/JBOSS servers - QA & Staging  • Troubleshooting issues that may occur during the test cycle (Functional & load test) for the J2EE applications on Struts and Spring framework running on WebLogic/JBOSS servers.  • Developed various Java beans for performance of business processes and effectively involved in Impact analysis.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Created SOAP web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Done thorough code walk through for the team members to check the functional coverage and coding standards.  • Actively involved in writing SQL using SQL query builder.  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project.  • Used SVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Developed test cases using JUnit.  Environment: Java, Hibernate, spring (AOP, Dependency Injection), XML, Tortoise SVN,JSP, Spring MVC, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, Web Sphere, UML, SOA, SOAP, Log4J, Oracle, JavaScript, AJAX, JIRA and RAD. Java/J2EE Developer Southwest Airlines - Dallas, TX January 2012 to May 2014 Baggage scanning device lockers is a terminal side application to manage the bag scanning hand held devices among various users like ramp agents and supervisors and managing its inventory. Ramp agents will use the hand held devices on the ramp side to scan the bags, and store them at a secured location, called Locker Banks. Supervisor can also have access to these Lockers to check in and/or check out devices and can assist ramp agents in check in and checking out scanning devices.    Responsibilities  • Analysis and understanding of business requirements.  • Effectively participate in weekly client communications with Business Analysts.  • Involved in the architecture team for design and implementation of system.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Developed Custom Tags to represent data in a desired unique table format and to implement paging Logic.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI  • Created the web application using MVC Struts framework.  • Designed developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Struts, Application Framework.  • Developed views and controllers for client and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax with JSON.  • Business logic is implemented using Spring Core and Hibernate.  • Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented HibernateTemplate and criteria API for Querying database.  • Developed Exception handling framework and used log4J for logging.  • Developed WebServices using XML messages that use SOAP. Created WSDL and the SOAP envelope.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, XML, Web Services, SOAP, AJAX, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Log4J, JUnit, Maven, WebSphere, Application Server, Eclipse, Oracle. Software Engineer Icon Solutions October 2010 to December 2011 Component Administration is an Application which will be used by I.V. technology Sales and Marketing division for performing Dynamic and effective pricing of their products. Componentization describes the dynamic web based discounting, pricing and componentization capabilities and tools. The required capability is for a Web Based Dynamic Component catalog featuring defined components, Elements and Parents.    Responsibilities:  • Performed analysis for the client requirements based on the developed detailed design documents.  • Developed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Data Models using Microsoft Visio.  • Developed STRUTS forms and actions for validation of user request data and application functionality.  • Developed JSP's with STRUTS custom tags and implemented JavaScript validation of data.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, Prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database.  • Developed the application using J2EE architecture.  • Involved in developing JSP forms.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML and JSP.  • Involved in developing business tier using stateless session bean.  • Used JavaScript for the web page validation and Struts Valuator for server side validation.  • Designing the database and coding of SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Views using IBM DB2.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous processing of alerts.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  • Used CVS for version control.  • Used Clear case for source code control and JUNIT for unit testing.  • Involved in peer code reviews and performed integration testing of the modules.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, HTML, JSP, JDBC, EJB, ANT, XML, IBM Web Sphere, JUNIT, DB2, Rational Rose, CVS, UNIX, Clear Case. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (7 years), CSS (7 years), database. (8 years), HTML (8 years), J2EE (8 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), JDBC (6 years), jQuery (7 years), JSON. (5 years), JSP (8 years), JUNIT (8 years), maven (7 years), Oracle (7 years), SOAP (6 years), SQL (5 years), Struts (8 years), testing. (8 years), Web services (7 years), XML (8 years)