AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - At&t Over 7 years of experience in developing and implementing Enterprise Solutions for Distributed Software products and distributed applications using JAVA technologies. And around 4 years of experience in development, design and implementation of modules on AEM 5.6.1, AEM 6.0, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.2, AEM 6.3 and AEM 6.4. Used AEM for building the websites to manage the marketing content and assets. Worked on the Technical development and implementation expertise of the Web content management using Adobe. Designed and developed page templates, reusable components, dialogs, widgets, back end OSGI bundles, work-flows in AEM.    • Experience in developing Web Applications which have integrated a number of functional capabilities like Web Content Management (WCM), Digital Asset Management (DAM), Identity & Access Management, Social Media, Search, SEO etc.  • Experience with the Integration framework that provides the connection with the e-commerce engine.  • Have experience in implementing large scale business application which involves development of CQ Component, Workflow development and integrating CQ with other applications and Template, Custom Xtypes in Widgets, OSGi Bundles using CQ5 platform.  • Hands-on experience in implementing solutions using technologies like Sling, Felix, JCR, and current AEM functionalities of integrated products.  • Extensive programming in Web Technologies likes JSP, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, AdobeCQ5 APIs.  • Strong experience in using version control tools like GitHub, Subversion (SVN).  • Worked on Integrations between business needs and technology solutions, helping to create technology solutions to meet clients' business needs.  • Extensive web design skills and work experience in developing web page applications covering front-end technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS2/3, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Expertise in OOA, OOD, Distributed Application Development and OOPs.  • Worked in creating author/publisher clusters with dispatchers.  • Worked with Agile Methodology (Scrum), Waterfall Methodology.  • Good understanding and implementation knowledge of Java & J2EE design patterns like Factory Pattern, MVC.  • Skilled at developing enterprise applications in different Java IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime text, Notepad++, Microsoft Visual.  • Knowledge of application servers like Apache Tomcat 6.0/7.0, etc.  • Good at Code Reviews, Integration of the System modules, Writing Test Cases, Bug Fixing and Enhancements, very conversant with Quality Management and System Support.  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for AEM application in authoring environment.  • Very good implementation knowledge and hands on experience in SOAP and RESTful.  • Extensive Experience in working with Relational Database Management Systems including Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server.  • Great Team Player and quick learner with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements. Work Experience AEM Developer At&t - El Segundo, CA August 2018 to Present Description:  It is the world's largest telecommunications company, the largest provider of mobile telephone services, and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States through AT&T Communications. My role in project is to create components, templates and designing modular, extensible, development and deployment of complex enterprise level CQ WCM application. Project includes front and back end development using HTML5, CSS3, Guide bridge API, jQuery, and JavaScript. Defining and creating solutions for AEM based on Jenkins and containers.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing requirements and implementing solutions to build the tool in AEM.  • Developed Content fragments, Touch UI components, RTE customizations.  • Used DTM analytics integration.  • Developed custom components, templates, dialogs and widgets in AEM 6.3 and 6.4  • Developed custom page content components, page templates, dialogs for web pages using Sightly.  • Followed Agile/Scrum methodology for development of each sprint and attending daily scrum meetings.  • Involved in testing the templates and components, making sure that the functional requirements are matching.  • Hands on experience in creating components using React.js  • Good experience in creating components documentation using react.js  • Developed Sling Servlets, Services and Java Utility classes housed in bundles using Eclipse IDE and Apache Maven Build Integration.  • Extensive use of CQ Tag Libraries in the components  • Users can create new CQ pages using the scaffold.  • Have a complete understanding of CRX repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL  Queries and XPath.  • Used the Query Builder API or Page Manager API to query AEM content depending upon the requirement and usage.  • Leveraged out-of-box asset search and indexed custom metadata properties. Designed and developed custom assets search result page for list view. Embedded many features like exporting search results in excel.  • Worked with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases and suits using Eclipse IDE  • Develop custom components that display contents from REST web service call using AJAX POST and JSON Responses.  • Used Bootstrap CSS framework that helps in designing web applications  • Developed GUI using HTML5 and Java Script.  • Used GIT as version control to restore assets to previous versions later and integrated with Jenkins for continuous integration and builds    Environment: Java, JDK 1.7, AEM 6.0, Apache sling, Apache Felix, JCR, Hibernate, Web services, HTML, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, JavaScript, Angular JS, CSS, Maven, dispatcher and Eclipse. AEM Developer Amadeus - Tucson, AZ October 2017 to February 2018 Description: Amadeus provides search, pricing, booking, ticketing and other processing services in real-time to travel providers and travel agencies. Through its IT Solutions business area, it also offers travel companies software systems which automate processes such as reservations, inventory management and departure control. Involved in the development of web-based application using AEM 6.1, for enhancement of new features, which helped to extend the application to new levels, make the website to adapt to any type of display with its user-friendly interface using AEM and Bootstrap classes. Developed the application for key global features, such as internal search and additional prioritized features as needed.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Developed Templates, components using JSP and Slightly.  • Configured replication and dispatcher flush.  • Generating projects using Maven builds.  • Installation and Configuration of Author and Publish environments, replication agents, cache rewrite rules for routing the calls to AEM.  • Developed web content management solutions using Java, JCR, OSGI, HTML, CSS and JavaScript and other related development technologies.  • Developed WCM concepts like translation, multisite management, tag management, JCR event handling, personalization, replication agents, workflows and knowledge on dispatcher server management, custom widgets, web analytics etc.  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application in authoring environment.  • Maintaining OSGI java classes for assets import, validation processes, and to fetch the data from CQ repository.  • Experienced in creating AEM clustering and Package Creation/ installations, tree activations.  • Is working with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part for all the application.  • Implemented REST full and Soap based web services from scratch.  • Draw UML diagrams like Class and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Used and managed JIRA and Confluence for Bug tracking, project tracking and team work  • Worked in the Agile/Scrum development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participated in scrum meetings and reviews.  • CQ packages deployment from one environment to another environment. (Development server, Test server, Staging or Preview server and Production server).  • Used Ajax to call JSON Objects and display in dropdowns in JSP's    Environment: AEM 6.1, Java/J2EE, Spring, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSP, JQuery, Servlets, Apache, WCM, CRXDE Lite, SVN, log4j, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector. AEM Developer Black Knight India Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to August 2017 Description: Black Knight India Solutions Private Limited is a Private non-government company and is registered at Registrar of Companies, Hyderabad. It is involved in Software publishing, consultancy and supply [Software publishing includes production, supply and documentation of ready-made (non-customized) software, operating systems software, business & other applications software, computer games software for all platforms.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing various CQ5 template & component end-end that supports the migration of existing Adobe CQ 5.6.1 to Adobe AEM 6.0  • Migrated existing project from AEM 5.6.1 to AEM 6.0  • Developed Templates, components using JSP and Slightly  • Understanding the business requirements and converting them to system specific AEM technical requirements.  • Experience in AEM including usage of DAM for storing and managing Digital Media.  • Installation and Configuration of Author and Publish environments, replication agents, cache rewrite rules for routing the calls to AEM.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX, JSON  • Assisted in functioning of CQ5 solutions by documentation and validation procedures of non-functional requirements.  • Provide estimates, designs, and specifications for CQ5 templates, components, and workflows.  • Analyzed and resolved technical issues relating to content management  • Dynamic libraries are deployed using OSGI.  • Performed Unit Testing on developed modules and involved in trouble shooting the components.  • Used sling OSGI configuration to configure properties based on run modes.  • Diagnose and solve technical problems related to content management implementation.  Environment: AEM 6.0, AEM WCM, AEM DAM, CQ 5.6.1, Workflows, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, HTML, JSP, Servlets, Java Scripts, JQuery, Eclipse IDE, Apache Maven, REST Web Services. Java full stack Developer Monarch Infotech Services - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to July 2014 Description: Involved in projects like s2o, jet airways for design and development of Web Application and Web Pages using web technologies. Services include product conceptualization, specifications, architecture, design, product development, testing, implementation, maintenance, and support. Actively involved in the design and development of the core interfaces, integration using web services.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application based on HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX for building dynamic web pages.  • Used Ajax for sending and retrieving data from server by giving URL to get JSON data for models and to populate models from the server.  • Developed beans from the existing parent beans using Spring Inheritance and extensively used various Spring Framework modules like MVC, JDBC Templates.  • Extensively worked with core java like collections, String Builder and interfaces  • Used Maven to build the application.  • Used SOAP web services to communicate with other applications.  • Integrate with Oracle 10g database through JDBC.  • Implemented complex back-end component to get the count in no time against large size database using Java multi-threading.  • Designed, coded and configured server side J2EE components like JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, XML  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose.  • Strong Understanding of the software development cycle, especially Agile/Scrum.  • Participated in Requirement, Design, Development and Deployment sessions.  • Full life cycle experience including requirements analysis, high-level design, detailed design, data model design, coding, testing and creation of functional and Technical design documentation.  • Developed user interface using Struts and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Used Hibernate to support the backend systems.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking.  • Wrote SQLs to pull data and created procedures.  • Used JUnit for unit testing framework of code in Test Driven environment.  • Prepared Unit Test Plan, Integration Test Plan for the testing.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, Oracle 10g, Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JavaScript, JUnit, Shell, SQL, Log4J, Eclipse, Linux/UNIX, XML. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Tomcat, Web server, Web services, Web sphere, SQL Certifications/Licenses Driver's License