Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Church & Dwight Roseland, NJ • Over 8+ years of professional IT experience with full project lifecycle development in Java/J2EE technologies with Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Development, Testing, Maintenance and Deployment of software applications.  • Extremely well-versed in design patterns, methodologies, Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) models (Waterfall, RUP, Agile, XP, RAD), high-level designs (UML, Visio), capturing functional requirements into use cases and translating those into detailed technical specifications.  • Highly experience with Java complaint IDE's like Eclipse, IntelliJ, WSAD, RAD 6, and Builder.  • Experience in developing with various open source frameworks: Java Server Faces (JSF), Spring Framework, spring (MVC), Spring Dependency Injection (DI), Hibernate ORM, Struts Framework, Struts Validation and Tiles Frameworks.  • Experienced as a Java/J2EE programmer, developing applications using Servlets, JSP, Struts, RMI, JDBC, Hibernate and MVC.  • Experienced in MEAN stack development applications using MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular & Node.js  • Good knowledge with web-based UI development using JQuery UI, JQuery , ExtJS, CSS3, HTML, HTML5, XHTML and JavaScript.  • Expert in Core Java 1.7, J2EE enterprise technologies - including Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Struts, spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Web services and web client technologies - including HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Angular.js.  • Worked with different Java IDE'S includes RAD, Eclipse, IntelliJ Idea and NetBeans.  • Expertise in developing front-end systems using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and frameworks like Angular 2, Node.js.  • Architecting and implementing Portfolio Recommendation Analytics Engine using Hadoop MR, Oozie, Spark SQL, Spark Mlib and Cassandra.  • Technologies extensively worked on during my tenure in Software Development are Struts, Spring, CXF REST API, Webservices, SOAP, XML, JMS, JSP, JNDI, Apache, Tomcat, JDBC and various Databases like Oracle, and Microsoft SQL server.  • Experienced in Worked on NoSQL databases - Hbase, Cassandra & MONGODB, database performance tuning & data modeling.  • Experienced in testing data in HDFS and Hive for each transaction of data.  • Strong Experience in working with Databases like Oracle 11g/10g/9i, DB2, SQL Server 2008 and MySQL and proficiency in writing complex SQL queries.  • Experienced with the Spark improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN..  • Hands on experience in Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, C#, JavaScript.  • Knowledge of Eclipse tool for the development of Java projects.  • Hands on experience Struts and spring.  • Good experience in Shell programming. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Church & Dwight - Ewing, NJ November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed various Java beans for performance of business processes and effectively involved in Impact analysis.  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Designed and developed User Interface of application modules using HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript (client side validations), JQuery and AJAX.  • Configured servlets, java classes, Spring Framework, Hibernate, database drivers, data sources related to project.  • Strong knowledge in Incident, Production Support & Maintenance Actives, Process Improvement, root cause analysis, Excellent Analytical, Problem solving skills and debugging techniques.  • Develop small application on Angular 4 technology to find out how to migrate existing web  applications to Angular 4 platform.  • Designed and developed using the Java collection API with Java 8 features and other java processes to fulfill business case requirement, such clients account statements and clients running balance based on each transaction.  • GUI development using Swing and Eclipse RCP.  • Involved in implementing Docker and containerization approach.  • Used Node.js for deploying POC and used for Bower and other development automation tasks.  • Good understanding of microservices architecture and work closely with architect for product requirement and management stack.  • Supported Spark, Scala, Kafka and Elastic search working with SparkSQL preferably on the Cloudera framework.  • Deployment of Application in the JBoss Server environment using ANT tool using Struts architecture with the JSP Client.  • Developed RESTful web services using JAX-RS and used DELETE, PUT, POST, GET HTTP methods in spring 3.0 and OSGI integrated environment.  • Worked on Multithreading API, Deadlocks and Concurrency.  • Worked on RESTful Microservice based architecture, using Spring Boot, Apache Camel and MongoDB on the backend to produce Rest API and consumed those APIs through Angular 4 in frontend.  • Worked on Integration of Spring and Hibernate Frameworks using Spring ORM Module.  • Worked on Atlassian products like Jira, Bamboo, Bitbucket, and Confluence for Issue tracking, release management, Code review and documentation.  • Involved in architecture, design, development of projects in AJAX based Java Script with Dojo toolkit and JSON API with JSP.  • Writing application code and development activities for large projects especially in a SOA environment with Mule ESB.  • Used Amazon EMR to process the data on hadoop clusters. Used S3 to store the data in buckets and EC2 to run the virtual servers on the cloud.  • Used Streams and Lambda expressions available as part of Java 8 to store and process the data.  • Designed and developed a RESTful hub application which resolved the Single-Sign-On authentication of the target secured REST services.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with Angular 2 in creating the Application.  • Integrated Java and Angular based application to Elastic Search tier via Spring 4 Restful Controllers communicating to a custom java utility wrapping the Jest API.  • Wrote RESTful services on the server in NodeJS to listen to requests from devices.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins, GitHub.  • Used J2EE SOA based JAX-WS web services to develop reusable web service components.  • Configured Hibernate-ORM to map java objects such as clients and claims with database tables.  • Developed web interface for Users Modules using JSP, HTML, XML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, and Action Servlets with Struts Framework, spring frame work.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript framework like Angular.JS, Node.js. Used building rich internet applications, backbone JS, Require JS to optimize in-browser use and to load the module and to improve the Speed.  • Worked in client-side validation using AJAX, Java Script, HTML, and CSS.  • Developed a dashboard based on Ajax calls with Business customers count, Flags, Real-time graphs for analytical reporting using Node.js.  • Used various features in Angular 2 like data binding, routing, custom filters, custom directives to meet various customized requirements. Used the http services in Angular 2 to make REST API calls and exchange data in JSON.  • Lead architecture and design of data processing, warehousing and analytics initiatives.  • Worked with AWS to implement the client-side encryption as Dynamo DB does not support at REST encryption at this time.  • Designed and developed UI screens using Struts 2, DOJO, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, DOM, CSS, and AJAX.  • Designed and developed various Web forms using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript, React.JS.  • Implemented Dojo and JQuery JavaScript frame work in UI Layer.  • Developed business logic using session beans using IBM WebSphere Application Developer and deployed them using IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Design and implement data ingestion and transformation for big data platforms. (Spark, Sqoop, Kafka, etc.) using highly parallelized transformation jobs in Spark including Spark StreamingWriting code in Python, Shell scripts and C-C++ and unit test cases for J2EE.  • Migrating the existing application into micro services architecture using REST API's, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Used svn for version control and used IBM RAD 6.0 for implementing the application.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework to develop and configure the views and controller of Spring MVC implemented database persistence, and integrated the web application with the persistence layer.  • Used Angular for GUI Application which interacts with RESTful Web Services in Spring Framework.  • Involved in developing and maintaining services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and spring MVC Framework.  • Code and developed custom Elastic Search Java based wrapper client using the "Jest" API. To facilitate common access, to Elastic Search.  • Worked on Spark, Scala, Python, Storm Impala.  • Developing presentation layer using JSP, JavaScript, Angular 2, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, CSS3 and HTML5.  • Extensive experience in Spark Streaming (version 1.5.2) through core Spark API running Scala, Java to transform raw data from several data sources into forming baseline data.  • Used Tomcat as web server to store the static contents and JBoss as application server.  • Created Hive External tables and loaded the data into tables and query data using HQL.  • Experience in different Hadoop distributions like Cloudera (CDH3 & CDH4) and Horton Works Distributions (HDP) and MapR.  • Used Backbone.js and ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Created new reusable Ext JS components.  • Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB, in order to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, RESTful, CSS3, JSON, Node.js, React.js, Big Data, SparkSpark, YARN, HIVE, Pig, Scala, Python, Hadoop, AWS, Dynamo DB, Kibana, Cloudera, EMR, JDBC, Redshift, NOSQL, Sqoop, MYSQL. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Intel - Santa Clara, CA February 2015 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and developing Web based Enterprise applications using Java/J2EEtechnologies such as spring, Servlets, REST and SOAP.  • Main goals of the project here were analysis, design and high-level coding phase. I achieved those using Spring Boot, Hibernate, HTML, CSS and AngularJS.  • Used Spring Core, Spring Web MVC, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC and DAO, Spring AOP.  • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations and creating WSLD files in SOAP Web Service.  • Used Express JS which is fast, assertive, essential and moderate web framework of Node.js that helps manage a server and routes.  • Data sources from Injection microservices produce and consume data from apache Kafka to enhance data from enhancer microservices.  • Involved into production support, Maintenance and in the enhancement activities.  • Experience working with big data and real time/near real time analytics and big data platforms like Hadoop, Spark using programming languages like Scala and Java.  • Worked on changing of Jboss server config files to adapt in different environment.  • Responsible for implementing UI mockups, integrating third party React libraries, and handling/creating Redux store data.  • Configuration and maintenance Integration Layer of Software (ESB, Sonic).  • Integrated Java and Angular based application to Elastic Search tier via Spring 4 Restful Controllers communicating to a custom java utility wrapping the Jest API.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Backbone.JS, Angular.JS and Ext JS.  • Implemented multithreading to run the scheduler job using java executor framework.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  • Integrated Spring (Spring MVC and Spring Boot) and Hibernate frameworks to develop end to end application.  • Worked modularized a big application by separating them into multiple small OSGI bundles and deploying them in ServiceMix/Fuse ESB server.  • Developing web based application with JSPs, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Angular.js, Node.js, Spring Form tags, JSTL Tags etc.  • Install KAFKA on Hadoop cluster and configure producer and consumer coding part in java. Loaded data from various data sources into HDFS using Kafka.  • Developed the front-end using Eclipse RCP/ Java Swing involving UI design user-generated event handling incorporation of underlying functionalities as per the laid down specifications and involved in incorporating business logic into SQL code stored procedures.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  • Worked and configured Mongo DB using Spring JPA and Spring Data to store hierarchical data.  • Involved in development of REST Web Services using Apache Axis2 to extract client related data from databases.  • Modified existing software to correct errors, to adapt it to new hardware, or to upgrade interfaces and improve performance using techniques like Data Structures, Algorithms, and design patterns.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD'S and Scala.  • Developed new REST and SOAP based web services.  • Implemented SOAP based Web-Service client to consume a service and get live market data.  • Developed XML Web Services usin g SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI.  • Worked on Jboss application server as a container for web/j2ee applications.  • Used SOAP UI for testing responses of SOAP web service, also generated Mock Service in SOAPUI to simulate and test the functionalities of Web Service.  • Designed and deployed a multitude application utilizing almost all the AWS stack which Includes EC2, MongoDB, Docker, Kubernetes Orchestration container focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components.  • Built the reusable service components using Angular JS services with Object Oriented JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS3 based on the visual designs.  • Proficient in deploying and configuring ELK stack Elastic search, Log Stash and Kibana for log analytics.  • Worked on generating the verification hash code using Node.JS and added user validations and user permissions by using Node JS.  • Creating the message from the uploaded information and transaction data and sending this information using SOAP.  • Used the most popular streaming tool KAFKA to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to MongoDB NoSQL database.  • Wrote Restful web services to communicate with Mongo DB and performed CRUD operations on Mongo DB.  • Storing the SOAP messages received in the JMS Queue of Websphere (MQ Series)  • Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting required information from third party..  • Implemented Installation and configuration of multi-node cluster on Cloud using Amazon Web Services(AWS) on EC2.  • Worked on importing the unstructured data into the HDFS using Flume.  • Used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience.  • Enhanced and optimized the functionality of Web UI using Rich Faces, JSF, AJAX,CSS, XHTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery, AJAX, JSON and React JS.  • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.  • Built backend REST API and OAuth 2.0 with Node.JS, Express.JS.  • Involved in developing Map-reduce framework, writing queries scheduling map-reduce  • Developed Shell, Perl and Python scripts to automate and provide Control flow to Pig scripts.  • Worked on configuring and managing disaster recovery and backup on Cassandra Data.  • Performed File system management and monitoring on Hadoop log files.    Environment: JAVA/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Websphere Application Server, XML, HTML5, CSS3, XSLT, XPATH, JAXP, JAXB, WSDL, SOAP, JavaScript, Angular JS, MVC, Hibernate, REST, JAX-RS Sr. Java / J2ee Developer UPS - Parsippany, NJ October 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented new UI's using Angular JS and HTML.  • Developed Spring Configuration for dependency injection by using Spring IOC, Spring Controllers.  • Analyzed the Node.JS server structure in legacy project, then mimicked the REST service by using Java JAX-WS API, and did the corresponding configurations.  • Performed multiple and consistent deployments using UDeploy to JBoss and WebLogic.  • Involved in the coding and integration of several business critical modules of application using Java, Spring, Hibernate and REST web services on WebSphere application server.  • Developed the web tier using JSP, Spring MVC.  • Involved in developing a web service for print using a SOAP HTTPs request and response.  • Eclipse used as Java IDE tool for creating JSPs, Servlets, EJBs, and XML.  • Built new analytics solution for customers. Uses Elastic Search as backend and d3.js for charts. Experience in Elastic Search Engine Lucene/Index based search, ELK log analytics tool, Elastic Search.  • Used Spring MVC, IOC and Eclipse IDE, GitHub, JSF, D3.js, OOAD, AWS, RCP, SPA, Python, Hibernate, Multithreading, NetBeans to develop intranet web application.  • Designed, coded and maintained application components based on detailed design specifications solutions to meet user requirements and structured the application components using EXT JS.  • Develop a web application for developers to generate their own REST API calls in, JAVA.  • Involved in developing several REST APIs for the Auto Insurance Module.  • Developed the application using Angular-JS, Node-JS, React JS, Express-JS, Mongo-DB, Angular-UI, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Involve in implementation of REST and SOAP based web services.  • Worked on improvising the performance of the application.  • Use SVN for software configuration management and version control.  • Worked with NoSQL Mongo DB and heavily worked on Hive, Hbase and HDFS.  • Responsible for making AJAX Calls for the UI Interactions to the Controller Actions using AngularJS and getting the Data back as JSON and parsing it onto the UI.  • Developed front end modules using JAVA, JSP, JSF and Servlets. Created interactive web pages and applications by usage of HTML, CSS, Node JS and jQuery. Created and modified the CSS classes to change look and feel.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report on IBM WebSphere MQ messaging system.  • Developed presentation layer using Java Server Faces (JSF) MVC framework.  • Participated in JAD meetings to gather the requirements and understand the End Users System.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML, XML and JavaScript.  • Generated XML Schemas and used XML Beans to parse XML files.    Environment: JSP, Java, J2EE, Java SE 6, UML, Servlets, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSON, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript , Web sphere Application Server, Struts Sr. Java/J2ee Developer Anthem - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed the user interface components using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery and also created custom tags.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table persistency.  • Used the features of Spring Core layer (IOC), Spring AOP, Spring ORM layer and Spring DAO support layer in order to develop the application.  • Used TOAD as database tool for running SQL queries.  • Deployed the war files in Jboss 5.2 Server in Unix Environment.  • Involved in Hibernate mappings, configuration properties set up, creating sessions, transactions and second level cache set up.  • Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Node JS. And with the creation of RESTful Web service.  • Planning and setting up of Continuous Integration for various properties on Jenkins with Commit, Component, Assembly, Deploy and Smoke jobs.  • Built and Deployed Java/J2EE to a web application server in an Agile continuous integration environment and also automated the whole process.  • Proficient in TDD (Test Driven Development) by writing test cases using Jasmine, J-Unit Framework Working as a Full Stack developer using JavaScript frameworks AngularJS 2 and NodeJS.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework with spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Wrote test cases in Junit for unit testing of classes  • Involved in templates and screens in HTML and JavaScript.  • Used Node.js to run Grunt Tasks and to build the project (Compile, Minify).  • Extensively involved in the development of backend logic or data access logic using Hibernate and thus creating the object relational mapping with the Java beans in the application.  • Install & Configure Oracle Fusion Middleware products on Linux environments.  • Work involving Oracle FMW products (SOA Suite, OSB, ODI, Web Center, and WebLogic).    Environment: JDK, J2EE, Struts, Storm JSP, WebSphere, HTML, XML, ANT, Perl, Python, JavaScript, Junit , Java, J2EE, Java SE, UML, JSP ,Servlets, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSON. Sr. Java / J2ee Developer Accord Software & Systems Pvt Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2010 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the angular JS front-end.  • Worked on RESTful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work in conjunction with Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) functionality.  • Developing User Interface Screens using Spring MVC, to enable customers obtain auto finance. Extensive experience in developing various web based applications using Hibernate 3.0 and spring frameworks.  • Developed Spring REST Exception Mappers.  • Developed JavaScript behavior code for user interaction.  • Created database program in SQL server to manipulate data accumulated by internet transactions.  • Wrote Servlets class to generate dynamic HTML pages.  • Developed SQL queries and Stored Procedures using PL/SQL to retrieve and insert into multiple database schemas.  • Developed the XML Schema and Web services for the data maintenance and structures Wrote test cases in JUnit for unit testing of classes.  • Developed application framework using struts with design principles of the J2EE using Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Domain object and DAO patterns and developed Stateless Session Bean to Achieve Session façade Design Pattern.  • Developed Stored Procedures and triggers using PL/SQL in order to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic.  • Responsible for deployment of application in the Integration/Functional Environment, providing necessary assistance to UA tester.    Environment: JAVA, Java Script, HTML, JDBC Drivers, SOAP Web Services, UNIX, Shell scripting, SQL Server. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), J2EE (8 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Java/J2EE Technologies: JDBC, Java Script, JSP, Servlets, JQuery  Languages: Java, J2EE, PL/SQL, Pig Latin, HQL, R, Python, XPath, Spark  Frameworks: MVC Struts, spring, Hibernate.  Databases: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, Microsoft Access, MS SQL  No SQL Databases: Cassandra, mongo DB  Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, CSS, XSLT, EME AWS.  Web/Application servers: Apache Tomcat6.0/7.0/8.0, JBoss    Operating Systems: UNIX, Ubuntu Linux and Windows, Centos, Sun Solaris.  Network protocols: TCP/IP fundamentals, LAN and WAN.  Hadoop/Big Data: MapReduce, HDFS, Hive, Pig, HBase, Zookeeper, Sqoop, Oozie, Flume, Scala, Akka, Kafka, Storm, MONGODB.