Salesforce.com Admin & Developer Salesforce.com Admin &amp; <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce.com Admin & Developer - Birch communications Atlanta, GA • Experience on Salesforce lightning for Customizing Reports and Dashboards for business use. Customization of Salesforce1 app and Lightning resources.  • Around 8 Years of IT Experience in Design, Development, Testing and Administration spanning all facets of package software and SaaS application implementation.  • Over 4+ years of experience in Salesforce.com CRM space that includes Administration, Development, Configuration, Implementation and Support experience.  • Extensive experience in Agile Methodology of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Scrum Methodology of software engineering process.  • Strong Requirements gathering experience and documentation skills which include Conducting transforming business requirements into user requirement specification, Functional Requirement Specifications Document(FRD) and Use Case Narratives.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, opportunities, Products, Price, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, Dashboards and Tabs.  • Extensive experience of using declarative features like validation rules, workflow rules, approval process, dynamic approval process, sharing rules automation for satisfying complex business process automation.  • Experience in Sales cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud, CPQ cloud, Wave Analytics, Veeva platform, Apttus CLM, Salesforce CRM and Force.com platforms.  • Experience in customization BigMachines/CPQ Cloud and integration with CRM/ERP.    • Experience in Data Migration using Import Wizard, Excel Connector, Workbench and other integration tools like Apex Data Loader and Cast Iron.  • Experience in building VisualForce Pages, Custom Controllers, Advanced Search Functionality, Reports. Developing and implementing Web service integration.  • Strong experience in implementation and Integration using Standard & Custom Objects, Triggers, Workflows, Approvals, VisualForce Pages, Apex Controller Classes.  • Debug APEX script using debug logs console to catch execute Governors and Limits.  • Experience in querying T-SQL scripts and SOQL, SOAL queries using Force.com Explorer.  • Comprehensive knowledge in SOAP UI, REST API, Metadata, used Force.com API for implementing Web services in the application to access data from different users.  • Experience in writing APEX test classes to achieve code coverage before deploying.  • Experience of working with database platforms including Oracle, SQL, BI structures.  • Analyzed Business and Product requirements in order to identify and evaluate of requirements pertaining to all functions of the CRM/CPQ (Configure, Price and Quote).  • Extensive experience in Process Analysis, Process Transformation, Business and Functional Analysis, Business Process, Systems analysis and QA Analysis.  • Strong knowledge of force.com platform including APEX classes, TRIGGERS.  • Ability to build apps on Heroku and experience using Heroku connect.  • Using Service cloud worked on Customer service Automation with our partners.  • Used Selenium WebDriver develop automation testing scripts for web and client server applications using TestNG and Eclipse IDE for automation in Hybrid model. Used Force.com plugin environment setup and to deploy components using change-sets.  • Integrated APEX with external service by making callouts that used WSDL and SOAP.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JAVA. Develop interactive UI using VisualForce, JavaScript and JQuery technologies.  • Good experience in implementing web SSO with SAML 2.0 environment.  • Experienced in working with Salesforce communities to replace customer portals.  • Strong working experience in the Enhancement, Implementation, Support and Testing of Sales force and mainframe Applications.  • Conducting user acceptance testing to ensure the program can be used easily, quickly and accurately.  • Energetic and self-motivated team player. Proven ability to work in both independent and team environments. Quick learner and ability to grasp new technologies.  • Willing to work in a challenging, cross-platform and diverse environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce.com Admin & Developer Birch communications - Atlanta, GA December 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Performed the role of SalesForce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Extensive experience in data migration from traditional applications to salesforce.com using Apex Data Loader Utility.  • Experience in handling different phases of the project life cycle including gathering requirements, analysis, design, development, deployment and maintenance.  • Expertise in design and development of multi-tiered web based applications using technologies like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQUERY.  • Migrated data using Apex Data loader to centralize data and processes across different divisions that were previously using decentralized systems / databases.  • Used Apex classes and Visual force page to customize partner portal and make it convenient for the customers to review and renew the licenses for the purchased products.  • Worked on Sales cloud with Accounts, Contacts, Cases and Solutions to generate towards developing business.  • Worked on Exact target/Marketing Cloud. Created multiple projects to insert, retrieve and update the data from Marketing Cloud.  • Conduct customer trainings and internal team trainings. Work with customers and technical team to identify project tasks & deliverables.  • Expertise in Service Cloud console with exposure to CTI adapters and Mobile App Integrations.  • Used Community cloud to build deeper relationship with customers to provide better service and assist them through online.  • Managed Salesforce.com CRM application and Oracle CPQ Cloud/BigMachines system.  • Knowledge of database such as SQL and Oracle. Experience in managing and maintaining SQL Server 2012 experience with SSRS, SSIS, and SSAS modules.  • Worked on various SalesForce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE for developing Visual Force pages, Controller classes and Triggers.  • Created workflow rules to send auto response emails, email alerts, field updates, and other tasks.  • hands-on experience implementing the General Ledger, Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, Financial Reporting.  • Configured Customer & Seller Communities. Developed Custom Visualforce.com Pages for communities.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application using Force.com IDE.  • Worked an created SSO with SAML 2.0 environment.  • Developed a custom application with Force.com to manage territory, account, and quota assignments, and integrated it with an internal commissions system using Informatica on cloud.  • Experience working under Agile development and test driven environments.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com API, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Web services, Visual Force, SalesForce.com Data Loader, Security Controls, CPQ cloud/Bigmachines, HTML, XML,CSS, Java Script, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Lightning Process Builder, Dashboards, Analytical Snapshot and Data Migration ,Github. Salesforce Developer Cole Capital - Phoenix, AZ March 2015 to November 2016 • Build the organization's role hierarchy by adding the Roles as per the organization structure and created custom profiles to satisfy the organization's hierarchy.  • Setup, maintain and optimize Email marketing campaign utilizing Exact Target/Salesforce Marketing Cloud.  • Work with Marketing, production team to plan and execute development cycle.  • Created policies, realms, rules and responses to protect the applications and configure them to work under the SSO environment.  • Have strong understanding of technology change management specifically on Waterfall to Agile.  • Maintaining CPQ tool updated with latest functionality by Installing Apttus CPQ. Created Custom objects for Quote and Quote lines and captured quote information for CPQ.  • We have provided solutions and support for Single sign on SSO, ensuring compliance with international security standards like SAML 2.0.  • Design and Development of the BigMachines Implementation are the deliverables.  Involved in Quote to Order transformations integrating both business process and with front-end (CRM) and back-end (ERP) platforms.  • Successfully led multiple projects both at Program level and managing multiple work streams of enterprise planning systems in Insurance and Financial Services domain.  • Completion and Implementation of Financial Assessments with appropriately assessed level of care of clients based on information gathered. Continued Case Management with all cases assigned.  • Designed custom formulae fields, field dependencies, validation rules, work flows, and approval process for automated alert, field updates and email generation according to application requirements.  • Created the workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation, alerts and custom coaching plans.  • UI Development within Salesforce which was implemented in Visual Force pages.  • Profound experience in customizing Reports and Dashboards, setting up Analytical snapshot, to dump data on regular basis.  • Experienced in Products standard object and Product Development by using Apex triggers and batch classes.  • Developed various Custom Reports and deployed them for different business user levels.  • Hands on experience on Salesforce lightning for Customizing Reports and Dashboards for business use.  • Experience in Salesforce Lightning Process Builder and Visual Flows.  • Worked in Sales cloud implementation, Service cloud development, Salesforce1, Salesforce Lightning and Feeds on Chatter.  • Utilized Lightning Connect to get real-time data from external system by using external objects in Salesforce1.  • Maintained good test coverage around 85 percent for the code.  • Applied CSS for styling few pages.  • Administrated and monitored the company's Salesforce CRM application.  • Used Community cloud to build deeper relationship with customers to provide better service and assist them through online.  • Deployed applications from sandbox to sandbox/production using ant migration tool, Eclipse and Change set.  • Experience with Salesforce Admin functionalities which involves in administering, configuring, maintaining Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, Permissions, generating security tokens, validation Rule, upgrade installation.  • Applied Quote to cash techniques for our customer.  • Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Good experience in Integrating Salesforce.com with other internal/external applications using SOAP and REST based web services.  • Configured Selenium Web-Driver, Test-NG, Maven tool and created selenium automation scripts in java using Test-NG prior to next quarter release.  • Active participation in Daily stand ups and Sprint meetings in Agile Environment  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, iRep, Vault, Force.com API, Selenium tool, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Web services, Visual Force, SalesForce.com Data Loader, Security Controls, Marketing Cloud, CPQ cloud/Bigmachines, HTML, XML,CSS, Java Script, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Dashboards, Analytical Snapshot and Data Migration ,Github. Salesforce Developer Broad soft - Maryland January 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Performed the role of SalesForce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Designed and developed Visual Force Pages to meet various functional needs.  • Configured Service Cloud features and done service automated.  • Developed a custom application with Force.com to manage territory, account, and quota assignments, and integrated it with an internal commissions system using Informatica on cloud.  • Migrated from partner portal to Partner Communities.  • Worked on Agent console & customizable layouts, Analytics snapshots, Asset management & product tracking, Auto-suggested solutions.  • Developed Custom Visualforce.com Pages for partner communities.  • Used Sales force web services like REST API, SOAP API, Java, XML and partner WSDL.  • Developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Apex Triggers, and Visualforce pages for various functional needs in application.  • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.  • Used Sforce.one for managing navigation and built custom Visual Force components with J Query Mobile and AngularJS.  • Worked on Unit testing, for customizations and developments done during the project.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to deploy instance after testing.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Built Custom GUI using Visualforce page and jQuery.    Environment: Apex Web Services, XML/XSD/WSDL, APEX Triggers, APEX Classes, Custom Pages, Custom Components, JavaScript, JSON, Custom Objects, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JqueryUI, JQuery Mobile, Salesforce Mobile packs, Firebug, Salesforce1, Workbench. Salesforce Administrator/Analyst Calix Inc., Acton - Boston, MA October 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Used the Model View Controller (MVC) architecture to decouple the business logic and data.  • Led corporate-wide implementation of SalesForce.com (SFDC) customer relationship management. Co-ordinate business process review meetings with multiple teams to establish standardized workflow processes.  • Handled day-to-day administration, maintenance and support of salesforce modules for 50 users.  • Designed custom objects, tabs, records, and views within SFDC to support new workflow processes.  • Implemented SFDC web-to-lead functionality into the corporate site and established 30 plus auto-assignment rules for routing to the appropriate internal party.  • Analyzed and imported thousands of account and contact records, prior to using the SFDC import wizard, to ensure the accuracy of data for end users within the application.  • Developed and maintained SFDC analytical reports and dashboards for management review.  • Analyzed policies with regard to customer service efficiency; recommended and implemented process improvements.  • Developed custom portal for customer using apex and visual force pages.  • Designed a custom portal where all the documents related to customer are maintained and automatically updated on a monthly basis for statements.    Environment: SalesForce.com, Apex, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, Dashboards, Reports, Workflows, Sandbox , Data Loader, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, AJAX, Eclipse plug-in for Force.com IDE, Demand tool, Java, J2EE, Web services, SQL Developer, SQL, Windows XP. Java Developer Saint Francis care - Hartford, CT January 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Written low-level design for features Document Creation, Container Creation and Document Relocation.  • Handled assignments in developing UI pages using JSP, Html, DHtml, CSS and JavaScript technologies for modules in BDMS.  • Involved in understanding business requirements and functionality of Cost management  • Developed presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Application developed in MVC architecture using Struts, JSP, Ajax, HTML, Java Script, CSS, JMS and Hibernate.  • Involved in implementing Value Object Pattern, MVC & Singleton Pattern.  • Updated the required data in the DB2 database to save and update the database using hibernate, corresponding to actions performed in the struts class.  • Developed java classes for posting and processing mails using EJB and Java Mail API.  • Added multithreading for distributed applications.  • Deployment of the application in the Web Logic Application server.  • Integrated Struts frame work with ORM implementation, Hibernate for data accessing.  • Performed version control management using CVS.  • Used Bugzilla as a workflow automation tool.2  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com Sites, Apex, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java, Java Script, CSS, Workflow & Approvals, Veeva CRM, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SF Explorer and Eclipse IDE Plug-in. JAVA Developer ValueLabs - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2010 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked directly with user groups in analyzing and specifying business requirements for the design and development of project.  • Designed application with UML (Unified Modeling Language).  • Developed application based on SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).  • Developed complete Web tier of the application with struts framework.  • Developed Session Facade with Stateless Session bean.  • Actively involved in configuring the Application Server and deployed all the modules like Web modules and Business modules.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, JSP.  • Developed the Front-End JSP and HTML.  • Developed JSP's and Servlets to interact with Data Base.  • Extensively used JavaScript for client side validations.  • Used XML parsers to parse and fetch information from XML templates.  • Performed Unit Testing of all Modules. Education Bachelor's Skills Apex (6 years), CSS (6 years), Force.com (6 years), HTML (7 years), Java (7 years), Saleforce.com platform, Force.com API, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Web services, Visual Force, SalesForce.com Data Loader, Security Controls, CPQ cloud/Bigmachines, HTML, XML,CSS, Java Script, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Lightning Process Builder, Dashboards, Analytical Snapshot and Data Migration ,Github. Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    CRM and CRM IDE & Data manipulation Salesforce.com. Eclipse, Maven Ant, Subline& Data Loader, Workbench  Query languages SQL, SOQL, jQuery    Operating Systems Windows 10/8/7/Vista/XP, UNIX  Databases SOQL, SOSL, MySQL, Oracle 8i/ 9i/ 10g/ 11g, Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2  Web Technologies Web services,, Unix, HTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery  Programming Languages C, C++, C#, Java, Apex  SFDC Tools Apex Data Loader, Eclipse plug-in, Informatica Cloud, Apptus  SFDC Technologies  Force.com platform, Custom Objects, Workflow & Approvals, CPQ, Validation Rules, S- Controls, Apex Classes/Controllers, Test Classes, Triggers, Visual Force (Pages, Components), Sandbox development & Testing, Reports, Dashboards, wave analytics, Analytical Snapshot and Data Migration.