Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Dexcom-life science San Diego, CA • Over 8 years experience involved as Java/J2EE developer in Object Oriented development, implementation and maintenance of web and distributed Enterprises applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in designing and developing web-based applications using Java, J2EE, Web Services SOAP/WSDL and REST.  • Experience in Architecture, Designing, Development and Deployment of High-Performance, Scalable, Distributed Applications.  • Experience in developing MVC frameworks using Spring, Hibernate, Struts 1.x/2.X, EJB. Oracle and SQL.  • Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks (Rich Faces, My Faces) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Experience in Software development life cycles like analysis, designing, Integration, Deployment and Maintenance of E-Commerce applications, Web Services coding implementation, Testing and deploying in server of high-volume, high-performance of real-time intensive web and off-line based application.  • Achieved Proficiency in Core Java concepts Exceptional Handling, Multi-Threading, Strings, Generics etc.  • Proficient in XML and its parsing technologies like XSL/XSLT, SAX, DOM, X path, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, XSD, XMI, SOA, JAXB, JAXP, Apache Axis.  • Experience in working with SOA architecture by producing/consuming SOAP based web services using Apace Axis, CXF engines. Experience in producing and consuming Rest-ful based web services.  • Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache ActiveMQ,RabbitMQ,AMQPas JMS provider.  • Experience in Hibernate and in using Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions, Optimistic Locking.  • Experience in building up Spring Application Context with dependency injection by utilizing various versions of Sprig Framework 1.0/2.0/ JSF 2.x these enable to import and work of supporting from external JDBC/Hibernate/Web Services/ Struts /JNDI API frameworks.  • Experience with writing JUNIT test cases and Experience in ANT, Maven Building tools and code debugger using Log4j tools.  • Knowledge of Financial Information exchange (FIX) protocol messaging standard developed specifically for the real-time electronic exchange of securities transactions and real-time trading, historical market data, analysis of this data, and routing of an order to the best trading entity for a transaction.  • Expertise in UML which includes creating Use-Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Interaction diagrams (Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams) using Designer tools like MS Visio 2003/2007, Rational Rose.  • Experience with Web Sphere Application Server of 6.0/6.1 with RAD IDM and other popular servers Apache Tomcat web server 5.0/7.0/8.0 and JBOSS 4.x/6.x/7.x and BEA Web logic 8/9/11.  • Experience in database technologies like Oracle, MySql, and Postgres using Functions, Triggers, And Stored Procedures and involved immensely in the activity of writing of complex queries, by using My SQL, DB2, Oracle 8i/9i/9 g.  • Experience in creating Manage Servers using BEA Web Logic, installations using different methods and Experience in deploying the developed applications along with code patching.  • Experience in NoSql databases HBase, Mongo DB, Cassandra and relational data modeling, object-relational integration (ORM), physical design/tuning.  • Experience in using Subversion, GitHub and SVN as version controlling tools.  • Expertise in static/dynamic web pages development using different technologies HTML5, CSS3, Servlets, JSP, AJAX and also provided web-pages side validation using JavaScript, JQuery.  • Experience in software development Life Cycle(SDLC) in developing and designing user friendly , cross browser complaint web sites, and User Interface(UI) applications using JavaScript, JQery, JSON, HTML4/5, CSS2/3, DOM, AJAX, XML , Solid Professions with IA/UX.  • Experience in Applying the latest development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, and XML  • Experienced on working with PHP, MYSQL, and Apache and Word Press development using its pluggins.  • Extensively utilized the AJAX for database connection, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML, in-Depth Knowledge/Experience of Web 2.0, JavaScript, JQery, W3C standards.  • Experienced in Bootstrap (responsive design), Backbone, and AngularJS, React.JS frameworks.  • Experience in writing Server side coding using React.JS and connected to Fire  • Excellent working knowledge and through exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  • String debugging skills using Firebug, IE Tester, and Chrome Developer Tools  • Good Knowledge in Unified Modeling Language (UML), Flow Charts, Class Diagrams, User Diagrams, Activity and Sequence Diagrams.  • Strong Knowledge in Agile Development, Scrum and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Expert in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of future pages Using Web Standards.  • Experience on working with CSS, CSS3 background, Layouts, Positioning, various open and licensed source Text, Border, Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Expertise in creating DOM (Document Object Modeling) and JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) for developing the front end view and validation purposes.  • Experience in development of JAR, WAR, EAR files using building tools Maven, ANT.  • Expertise in using of Jenkins Continuous integration and continuous testing having good knowledge on it tools.  • Experience in working over Linux, Red Hat, UNIX, and Windows Operating system administration tools and methods.  • Good knowledge on Amazon Web Services(AWS), Amazon Cloud Services like EC2, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon Cloud Watch and experienced in building highly scalable java applications using various architectures.  • Experience in developing the applications using Python and Ruby programming.  • Experienced in Payment Systems (Gate Ways) of its security standards and protocol procedure.  • Provided support and executed automated testing, System integration testing, regression testing and user acceptance testing on various platforms like SIT, UAT and production.  • Ability to quickly adapt to new environments and learn new technologies.  • Excellent analytical capabilities with strong communication skills.  • Have worked on project estimate technologies like Work Breakdown Structure, Use case Points and Function Point Analysis. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Dexcom-life science - San Diego, CA January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Outstandingly involved in iterations of SDLC design, implementation, debugging and testing of functionalities of J2EE components java Beans, Java, XML, Collections Framework, JSP, Spring and Hibernate.  • Applied the advantages of Spring Core container for develop the applications loosely coupled and used Spring MVC for creating the independency in presentation layers from the business layers. Other technologies also were like Spring IOC and Spring AOP.  • Involved in handling transactions using Spring Declarative Transaction management.  • Implemented Caching mechanism using Spring Gem fire Template.  • Implemented DAO layer using different hibernate techniques like strategies, Inheritance, annotations and criteria interfaces.  • Used Ajax for doing asynchronous calls to the Spring controller classes.  • Parsed JSON data and displayed it in the front end screens using JQuery.  • Implemented PL/SQL queries and used Oracle stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.  • Developed web services using RESTFul.  • Used python scripting to create the patches and remove the bugs occurs when using java coding.  • Developed UI using different layout patterns HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQery, AJAX, And Angular JS.  • Experience in writing client side coding used for "V" in MVC using React.JS.  • Experience in using Improved the responsiveness of web-pages using Bootstrap, and Developer tools and firebug for debugging.  • Created Payment Gateways as standards of f PCI and also used HTTP protocols.  • Implemented Ajax and JQuery based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and organic search engine placement.  • Used JSF for internal report generation by fetching data from database with customized view using CSS and AJAX for form processing. Implemented Message Driven Bean Using JMS Implemented enterprise applications with JQuery, AngularJs and Spring MVC, Perl Script.  • Implemented applications using twitter Bootstrap framework.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  • Extensively used Angular UI (Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components.  • Applied techniques for cross-browser and cross-platform interface development (Angular JS)  • Created XHTML pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages.  • Debug the application using Firebug too traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM functions.  • Created images, logos and icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Photoshop and SVG.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Implemented the service using Node.js for performance, development, maintenance and deployment reasons.  • Experience with Jasmine and Karma Unit test  • Using Jasmine and karma test runner extensively for unit testing for end-to-end testing  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Design and develop new web 2.0 features to improve UX and modernize the current web platform  • Worked with JSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Developed the MVC Patterns using Spring 3.0.  • Wrote client Side code using React JS and used npm & gulp directories to generate the server environments and to monitor the application.  • Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C and ADA standards.  • Involved in creating test cases using JUnit for Java classes and Abstract spring dependency Injection test for spring beans.  • Developed and retrieved No-SQL data using Mongo DB.  • Developed and deployed the code in server JBOSS 6.x of Red Hat IDE.  • Created Administrative and manage servers using Web logic 11 followed unicast deployed the applications using GUI's and tested.  • Used maven and Jenkins building, continuous integration and testing purposes.  • Implemented logger for debugging and testing purposes using Log4j.  • Extensively used Linux, UNIX system administration tools to create servers and deploy and run applications in development stage.  • Used SVN as version controlling tool as it provides flexibility and faster solutions.  • Used the JIRA for read and store the requirements.    Environment:  JBOSS, AngularJs,Oracle11g/10g,SQL,Drop wizard, Perl Script, DB2, Maven, Jenkins HTML5,CSS3, AngularJS JQery, PHP MVC Design Pattern, Eclipse 2.1,Jbuilder, VSS, Shell Scripting,Log4j and JUnit, Mongo DB, Linux, Unix. Full Stack Developer Verizon - Tampa, FL January 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed user interface using Struts tags, JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Struts 2.X MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture (Struts Framework) and Hibernate.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework, Hibernate, spring, Java Scripts and Web logic.  • Optimized the inventory levels at retail stores and transport operations using advanced resource planning modules using J2EE, JMS (MQ) and RDBMS technologies.  • Multithreaded Java Swing clients were designed and developed for traded financial products  • The tool helps in alignment of suppliers and retailers around a shared customer focused view of categories  • Taken Care of Multithreading in backend java beans.  • Developed client-side application that navigated intelligence data web sites, issued user defined queries and accomplished result set retrieval. Programmatically applied HTTP (headers, cookies) constructs to accomplish site navigation.  • Applied model-view-controller design pattern using JavaBeans, Swing and conducted simultaneous queries and retrievals using Java multithreading techniques.  • Developed Scalable applications using Stateless session EJBs.  • Used Axis Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount from an application that is remote and global to different financial institutions  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JSPs  • Designed and implemented the AJAX framework for exposing the java methods for asynchronous communication with client using DWR (Direct Web Remoting). Worked closely with back end team to implement AJAX call to REST APIs and update dynamic functionality of HTML in JQuery  • Wrote code to build Views and Models as part of MVC pattern using Angular.js.  • Created web pages using Twitter Bootstrap that cater to Android and IOS web platforms  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity and improve communication  • Developed the client side Server pages using React.JS with Bootstrap and written controllers, headers, and roots JSX files.  • Participated in AGILE SCRUM meetings, sprint planning sessions and retrospective meetings during the 2-week sprint cycles  • Developed Business logics of company using J2EE technologies.  • Code, test and troubleshoot programs utilizing the appropriate hardware, database, and programming technology.  • Involved in using JDBC for storing and retrieval of data from Oracle database.  • Used Eclipse as IDE and Tomcat as server tested the developed application using WebLogic and compatibility with different servers.  • The required changes to the record and save the updated information back to the database.  • Involved in writing shell script to export oracle table's data into flat files and performed unit testing using JUNIT and used Log4j for logging and automatic batch jobs.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL in order to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic.  Environment: Core Java,JSP,Servlets,Struts1.X/2.X,EJB,Framework,Hibernate,WebLogic,Framework,Oracle,UNIXShellScripts,XSL,XSLT,Eclipse3.x,MyEclipse,HTML5,CSS3,JavaScript,JQuery,AngularJS,Node.JS,React.JS, Bootstrap, UML, Java Script, JUnit, JAXP, XML Java/J2EE Developer Jefferson Bank - San Antonio, TX January 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Understanding the client requirements from status meetings and maintaining the screen as per the client needs.  • Followed Agile Scrum Methodology for build the whole projects.  • Highly contributed to the every phases of SDLC from the beginning to end.  • Developed JSP Views, Actions and delegating the tasks to corresponding session beans.  • Developed the database using ORM tools with Spring Hibernate over different database such as Oracle, and MySql.  • Worked on XML Parsing (JAXB/DOM), XML Schemas/DTD and XML Beans  • Implemented business logics using, JSP, Java beans, UI components, and Ajax.  • Many of the functionalities integrated with Struts 2.x MVC and Spring MVC Framework.  • Vastly used Struts validate framework, Java Script for client side and server side validation.  • Developed Hibernate mapping definitions for persistent layer.  • Configured and deployed application on IBM Web sphere Application Server using Maven script.  • Created the Unit test cases, functional tests and connectivity tests for the system.  • Deployment of Web services, JSP, Servlets and server side components in Web sphere 6.0 and Web logic Application server.  • Extensively used Node.js Npm libraries for build the server side. Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS  • Wrote code to perform Form Validations using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript  • Designed and develop creative intuitive user interfaces that address as per client's requirements  • Designing applications User Interface and Widgets using GWT code as per the business requirement  • Used SOAP/WSDL based Web Services to get price from external Business Entities.  • Responsible for creating/generating Hibernate classes and configuration XML's and to also manage CRUD operations (insert, update, and delete).  • Used Web Logic 7x application Server to create, debug and deploy application modules.    Environment: JDK 1.5/1.6/1.7 Core Java (J2SE-Multithreading, IO), TDD Methodology, Struts 2.x, Servlet 2.3, Agile Methodology, J2EE-JSP, Servlets, UML (Rational Rose), BEA Web logic Server, Tomcat, JBoss Ant, CVS, JUnit, Log4j, XML, Oracle, Eclipse, Web Sphere Software Developer Excellence in Service (EIS) November 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Object-orientated analysis/object-orientated design of current system based on agile RUP method.  • Used Servlets, JSP's, XML, XSL and UML.  • Worked with Struts as the Web-container framework using both the validation and tiles add-on components.  • Worked on Struts 1.x framework for developing application and user interfaces.  • Applied multi-threading concepts for application development.  • Used spring annotation for code reducibility and flexibility.  • Extensively used the HTML tags, CSS, JavaScript, JQery, AngularJS, Ajax and the view side of MVC and at browser level validations. Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS  • Wrote code to perform Form Validations using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript  • Designed and develop creative intuitive user interfaces that address as per client's requirements  • Designing applications User Interface and Widgets using GWT code as per the business requirement  • Developed Web Services using SOAP.  • Supported integration efforts between the Spring ,Hibernate and JPA  • Design Patterns implemented are Business Delegate, Session Facade, DTO, and Service Locator  • Used Hibernate as a persistence layer to create ORM.  • Used JNDI lookup for getting the Connection Objects.  • Wrote SQL Queries and Stored Procedures the contents from Oracle database methodologies create table views and inner joins outer joins for RBMS.  • Deployed Applications using the GUI Mode of Web Logic Application Server.  • Extensively used the log4j for logging and debugging purposes.  • Wrote and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Used GitHub repositories for version control.  • Used SDLC methodology    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, Spring, MVC, Hibernate 3.x,JPA, XML, XSLT, XPATH, Design Patterns, JNDI, JMS , Log4j, Oracle, JUNIT, UML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Web Logic, Window XP. Java/J2EE Developer CadsysIndiaLtd 2009 to October 2010 Project:  Intranet based application to view KPI (Key Performance Indicator) dashboard and also generates reports for Production tickets/issues according to the Priority.    Responsibilities:  • Designed Struts to develop the business layer.  • Implemented JSP for views and used Tiles to develop the page layout.  • Used Hibernate for accessing data from the database.  • Involved in POI API to generate Excel reports.  • Configured LDAP authentication to access application.  • Worked on Tomcat to deploy the application in different environments.  • Used ANT to build the application artifacts.  • Implemented HTML and CSS for view page designing.  • Worked on JavaScript and EXT JS client side development for DOM manipulation and Ajax in JSON response format.  • Developed Command Line pattern for AJAX calls.  • Implemented application using Command Line, Factory, DTO and Singleton design patterns.  • Used JDBC to access database.  • Worked on IntelliJ IDEA as IDE and SVN as source code repository.  • Supported the application in production with 24/7 prod support.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, HTML, CSS, JSP, Tiles, Hibernate, Tomcat, LDAP, POI, JavaScript, EXT JS, Ajax, JSON ANT, JDBC, IntelliJ IDEA and SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (9 years), CSS (9 years), database (9 years), HTML (9 years), J2EE (9 years), Node, Java, Javascript, React, Angular Additional Information TECHINICAL SKILLS:    Design Skills and Testing tools  : Design patterns (Singleton, Business0 Delegate, IOC, DAO, SDLC, Active MQ etc.), MVC Design patterns, GOF Design patterns, J2EE Design patterns, EJB Design patterns , J Unit, Testing, , Scala Test, ANT ,DB Unit.    Methodologies: UML, OOPS, VLifecycle Model, Agile and scrum, OSGI, Information Systems Development Methodology (ISDM)  Open Source Frameworks  : Struts 1.x& 2,x Spring Framework 2.5/ 3.0, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Context, Spring JDBC Spring ORM, Spring JMS, GO4,Spring Web Services, Spring Batch, Spring Integration, Node.js ,JSP, JSTL, JNDI, Hibernate    Web/Application Servers & Middleware: Web Logic 8.1/9.1/10.3, IBMDB2, Web Sphere 7.0/8.0, JBOSS 4.0/5.0, Apache Tomcat 6.0/7.0 and Jetty Server.  XML/HTML: XML, JSON, XSD, DTD, XSLT, SAX, DOM Parser, XSL, Path, JAXB, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XHTML, Tiles.  Database & tools: SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, MySQL MSSQL, No SQL, Mongo DB, Cassandra PERL, Toad, DB2, HIPPA, Sybase, IBM web sphere portal, IBMDB2, GWT.  IDE's: Eclipse, RAD6.x/7.x, Eclipse 3.x, CVS, Git, WSAD, Jbuilder, Net Beans, IntelliJ SOAPUI.  Languages Core Java , C, C++, Ruby, Python, Scala, Java script, Shell scripting I/O.  J2EE  : 'J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JSTL, Custom Tags, EJB, JMS, JDBC, Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RS, XML Parsing, XSLT), Servlet, JTA, JNDI, LDAP, Struts, JSF.    Core Java: Collection, Multithreading, concurrency, RMI, Sockets, Reflection, Java Beans.  Scripting Languages: JavaScript, Perl Script, Shell Script, Power shell, Ajax, JQuery, AngularJs, Ember.Js Bootstrap.Js, React.Js  Protocols and UML Tools  : SOAP, LDAP, RESTFul, SOA, Node.JS, Backbone.JS, Ext.JS, HTTP, HTTPS/SSL, TCP/IP, FTP, Telnet, Rational Rose 2002, Microsoft Visio, Jasper/I report    Source Control: CVS, SVN, GitHub  Project Management: Jira1.4, Microsoft Project, TestDirector7.0.  Other Tools: Maven3.x Ant1.x, Log4J, Apache Commons.  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux , Mac OS