Android/ iOS developer Android/ iOS <span class="hl">developer</span> Android/ iOS developer - Key Bank,Ohio Cleveland, OH • Over 8+ years of experience in Java and Android application development.  • Experience in developing apps including the Design, Development and Testing Smartphone and tablet. Developed and architected multiple Android applications across various versions.  • Extensively involved in almost every stage of application development right from collecting requirements, providing guidelines for design, creating application architecture, an implementation that includes various stages in development, QA, code signing and releasing to Market.  • Experience in Native Components of Android applications: Activities, Services, Broadcast Receiver, Content Provider, Web Services, Fragments and Support Libraries to create high quality and stable applications.  • Designed the Cross-Platform Application architecture by using Xamarin Forms and PCL components using Xamarin studio.  • Experience in Android UI toolkit and Layout Managers. Proficient in the Android application framework. Experienced with Android SDK tools.  • Proficient in Android applications development involving User Interface development, Notifications, Adapters, Content Provider, Services,and Telephony Manager.  • Expertise in developing apps using Java, JSP, Servlets, XML.  • Worked with databases like SQLite, JDBC, MySQL,and SQL.  • Experience in working with web technologies like HTML5, CSS, Ajax, jQuery,andJavaScript.  • Able of handling JSON and XML HTTP requests from web services and parsing responses using native implementations and third-party libraries.  • Extensively worked on memory leaks, push notifications, multiple screen support, data offline usage, accounts and sync on Android.  • Expertise in Android application development using Eclipse IDE, Android SDK, Android emulator and ADT plug-in  • Experience with audio features, video features, graphics design, interactive design,and animation.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Architecture, Design and Programming from design to implementation.  • Expertise in Data Structure, Multithreading, Collections, Exception handling and Serialization.  • Experience in working with Google Maps API, GPS Location Data, Google Play Services API, Google Analytics, Google Cloud Messaging API, Location Manager and Notification Manager.  • Worked on various Relational databases like Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL,and DB2.  • Created enterprise architecture/business functionality using Java, design pattern and OOPs concepts.  • Skilled in developing APIs for middleware Framework modules for mobile platforms using C, C++,andJava.  • Strong understanding of managing Development Certificate, Creating App IDs, Assigning Devices, provisioning portal, Installing Development Provisioning Profitless certification for push notification and iTunes connect for deploying applications to the app store.  • Experience in dealing with performance tuning and troubleshooting issues using Systrace, CPU Tuner,and3C System Tuner.  • Experienced in developing consumer ready Native Android Applications Hybrid Mobile Applications Android/iOS/Mobile Web usingPhoneGap, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Knowledge to build apps with Xamarin Studio and Cordova.  • Knowledge in working with ADB, Logcat, and event logs.  • Have hands-on experience in complete project life cycle, with domain knowledge in Mobile Application Development and Web application development.  • Knowledge of project life cycle for web applications using various methodologies such as Waterfall model and Agile Scrum Model.  • Experience in using Design Patterns and Object-Oriented Methodologies to design software for mobile phones.  • Designed Interfaces and GUI with services for mobile applications, Asynchronous programming in Xamarin. Forms and Xamarin. Android.  • Experienced in working on Agile operations process and tools area (Code review, unit test automation, Build & Release automation, Environment, Service, Incident and Change Management).  • Experience in Quality Assurance testing using Unit testing, functional testing,and performance testing.  • Experience in designing automation frameworks for Junit testing.  • Experience in architecture design, development,and implementation of software applications and testing.  • Highly capable of handling multiple tasks, prioritizing, and meeting deadlines.  • Quick learner, excellent analytical, design,andproblem-solving skills.  • A self-driven, goal oriented, customer focused software professional with proven ability to successfully work in all phases of Software development lifecycle. Work Experience Android/ iOS developer Key Bank,Ohio August 2018 to Present Description: KeyBank, the primary subsidiary of KeyCorp, is a regional bank headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, and is the only major bank based in Cleveland. KeyBank is 28th on the list of largest banks in the United States.  Responsibilities:  • Contributed to builds using Continuous Integration, to ensure that each subsequent build was stable  • Utilized AFNetworking for RESTAPI calls, to retrieve user and artist info  • Implemented the RESTful data consumption using Retrofit with an OKHttp, Retrofit Dagger client, a GSON converter, and a custom interceptor.  • Efficiently consumed and managed RESTful web services with XML and JSON formats.  • Converted the multi-threading approach in production builds using RXJava schedulers and observers.  • Developed web apps for iOS (iPhone) and Android using frameworks like jQ Touch, iWebKit.  • Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets, HTML5  • Working on technologies Ionic, Cordova, AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Extensively used the Dojo Toolkit to control and provide the rich functionality to GUI.  • Implemented Grails Taglibs to avoid groovy code in GSP pages.  • Developing web application with Backbone.js and PHP CodeIgniter framework.  • Implement modules into node.js to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Completely designed and coded in Flash using OOPS concepts.  • Participate in Sprint REVIEW MEETING where we discuss the progress of the project and take the necessary steps for the project to be completed successfully.  • Heavily code using ReactiveX for asynchronous programming with observable streams for API using flat map, filter, zip align, map transformational/filter operators of functional RXJava  • Developed the Performance Evaluation Application GUI using flex, ActionScript  • Worked in all the aspects of iPhone and iPad applications development including designing for all types of screen sizes and orientations.  • Execute ADB commands to test the app on Android platform (major release components)  • Using Jhipsterfor developing a Spring Boot and Angular application.  • Executed iOS native app, OS compatible (IOS 9 and 10 version).  • Performed UI, Regression, Functional and Backend testing for the applications.  • Web Accessibility testing by using JAWS screen reader.  • Developed an application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Hibernate, Servlets,and JSP.  • Involved in IOS app build (XCode), PostgreSQL, PostGISand deploy to test locally and multiple registered devices.  • Implemented customized web view component to load an SWF file and HTML data.  • Involved in mobile testing using simulators, emulators, and actual android, iOS, and Blackberry devices.  • Strong experience in Android application development involving User Interface development, Notifications, Content Provider, Intents, Services, and SQLite.  • Intensive use of design patterns such as MVP, View Holder, Singleton, among others.  • Refactored Android mobile app to implement MVP dagger clean-architectural design to improve loose coupling of objects.  • Architected a customized network protocol used by client applications including Android, iOS and Windows Phone 7 to communicate with cloud architectures.  • Involved in mobile testing using simulators, emulators, and actual android, iOS, and Blackberry devices.  • Developed Web Services using Spring Webservices, SOAP, JAXB and XML  • Developed an application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Hibernate, Servlets,and JSP.  • Experienced in monitoring and managing of Oracle instances using Enterprise Manager Grid Control (OEM grid).  • Worked extensively on various Testing platforms like Robotium, Appium, Roboelectric, and Espresso.  • Supported the design, development, testing and implementation of new business and support applications.  • Worked with Cocoa Frameworks, which includes UIKit, CarPlay, Watch, Home Kit, Siri Kit, Foundation, UI Image Picker, and UI Date Picker.  • Created application on both Android and IOS using SDK i.e., as Xamarin studio. (Xamarin Forms).  • Developed applications for IOS and Android using Xamarin forms to share the average code of 80 -90% between the platforms.  • Wrote Apache CXF REST services to add CMTS device.  • Good exposure to RESTful and SOAP-based web services.  • Designing the web client by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Ext JS, and DOJO with JSON.  • Developed the Web Services Client using SOAP, WSDL description to verify the credit history of the new customer to provide a connection.  • Installing and Configuring Eclipse and WebSphere Application Server.  • Constructed custom View Controllers including TableViews with custom TableViews Cells using Programmatic UI  • Developed code for the Custom Menus, Dialogs and Image Views, Push Notifications.  • Implemented code to display all the folders in alphabetical order as well as to display all the files which are present in the mobile.  Environment:iOS 9.0/10.0, iPad, iPhone, UI Kit, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SQLite, Google Maps, AML and SQL Databases, Junit, GPS Services, XCode 6.0/6.3/6.4, Objective-C, SDK 7.1, using ARC, Core Data and Auto Layout, GitHub for version control, XML, JSON Frameworks: UIKit, Core Location, Agile Scrum Methodology, Eclipse IDE, REST Web Services, Crashlytics, Retrofit, Action-Bar, Xamarin Studio, Retrofit Dagger. Android /iOS developer Navistar - Chicago, IL May 2017 to July 2018 Description: Navistar International Corporation (formerly International Harvester Company) is an American holding company, that owns the manufacturer of International brand commercial trucks, IC Bus school and commercial buses, Workhorse brand chassis for motor homes and step vans, and is a private label designer and manufacturer of diesel engines for the pickup truck, van, and SUV markets. The company is also a provider of truck and diesel engine parts and service.  Responsibilities:  • Delivered functional requirements document after detailed Requirements gathering sessions with Business.  • Assisted in designing the User Interface (UI/UX) and overall look and feel of the app.  • Developed the app to adapt to different orientations and various resolutions (LDPI/MDPI/HDPI) based on the device.  • Developed Cross-Platform Mobile app using Xamarin Forms with code sharing between all platforms (Android, iOS, and Universal Windows apps)  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like integrating the customer details into the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc., from the app and designed a suitable GUI for these applications.  • Regularly followed up with Development Team to discuss discrepancies identified during testing and performance tuning.  • Designed the iPhone application using Objective-C and Swift 3.0, also used the current SDK's with XCode8.3, 9.0 to support the latest version of iOS 10, 11.  • Used Native Application Development (NDK- C & C++) to develop the app for Android platform based on the replication of tablet code.  • Implemented REST services using Retrofit and GSON over OKHTTP services to counteract the latency and network issues.  • Implemented the Android IPC's like Intents, Binders, and Broadcast Receivers in the Reader App and on the Audible app and integrated them seamlessly.  • Implemented segmented library to customize the views within the app.  • Worked closely with the build and release team on various platforms like Jenkins, Puppet.  • Used Linux command-line shell to perform various tasks from one single command interface.  • Used Multi-Threading extensively as the immersion reading needed many tasks to be performed at one time.  • Worked with the AndroidSDK and implemented Android Bluetooth and Location Connectivity components.  • Used logcat, DDMS and trace view for debugging and detecting memory leaks.  • Implemented unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  • Handled XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Integrated APIs / SDKs that provide services for media, phone, navigation, and speech-recognition.  • Worked on GoogleAPIs such as Firebase, Google Play services, Email Integration API to examine the viability of the app over Google services exclusively.  • Used Dagger and Butter Knife to inject the dependencies for supporting the Android platform and its compatibility with plugins of Kindle reader app.  • Used RxJava as a library for composing asynchronous and event-based programs by using observable sequences.  • Worked on automated UI Acceptance testing using XamarinTest Cloud.  • Used project libraries like Android Support Library, Dagger, Butter Knife, Event Bus, View Pager, Rx JAVA, ORM-LITE and another common library.  • Used GIT for project management and version control.  • Performed test cases for the smooth functioning of Immersion reading using both Gradle and ANT build System.  • Good knowledge and implemented interfaces like JavaJNI and HAL like issuing requests for captured results to the camera subsystem.  • Broad knowledge of NFC payment which was integrated into the app itself.  Environment:Android SDK, Photoshop, Flash, CS5, JSON, GSON, Rest API, Logcat, Google Maps, XML, HTML 5, GUI, GIT and Windows, Dagger, Retrofit, Rx Java, Appium, Robotium, Roboelectric, Espresso, Agile Environment, OkHttp. Mobile Application Developer Ancestry - Calumet, IL January 2016 to April 2017 Description:Ancestry.com LLC is a privately held online company based in Lehi, Utah. The largest for-profit genealogy company in the world, it operates a network of genealogical, historical record and genetic genealogy websites.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and designing the requirements from clients for product design and enhancements.  • Designed the Cross-Platform software architecture using Xamarin. Forms and PCL components  • Built native IOS and Android applications using Android SDK, IOS SDK in Xamarin.  • Used Xamarin.iOS and Xamarin.Android for creating native user interface  • Created the reusable common user interface using Xamarin. Forms elements  • Developed mobile application GUI elements in XCode, Eclipse, Xamarin Studio for iOS and Android and Universal Windows platforms.  • Developed Xamarin Cross Platform Mobile Application Development  • Developed custom proxy classes for consuming WCF services over mobile platform, to enable high performance web service interaction and data transfers.  • Used Restful services to expose certain functionality to other groups and consume data.  • Designed database and created database tables using normalization techniques.  • Created Stored Procedures, User Defined functions, Cursors, Triggers, Views and Indexes using T-SQL and created indexes for better performance  • Implemented source control setup for all the applications and effectively moving them from on premise servers to a cloud space.  • Worked on AzureMobileServices, using it as a backend for Mobile Applications. Also developed applications for IOS with XCode using C#.  • Implemented Entity Framework to maintain the connection of mobile applications with the cloud.  • Used SCRUM-Agile software development method for managing application developments.  • Worked on the debugging of the application, testing the application in various stages and improving application performance.    Environment:Android Studio, Android SDK 3.2, 4.1, SQLite 3.8, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Cursors, Triggers, Views,Scrum,Agile,XCode, Azure Mobile Services,WCF. Mobile Application Developer Equifax - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to December 2015 Description: Equifax Inc. is a consumer credit reporting agency. Equifax collects and aggregates information on over 800 million individual consumers and more than 88 million businesses worldwide. Founded in 1899 and based in Atlanta, Georgia, it is one of the three largest credit agencies along with Experian and TransUnion (known as the "Big Three").    Responsibilities:  • Developed mobile application for iOS, Android and windows by maximizing shared code components, thus minimizing code development effort and duration.  • Developed custom libraries to implement various design elements to achieve common GUI when required across all the mobile platforms.  • Transitioned multiple mobile applications from iOS 6,7 to successive versions.  • Effectively troubleshooting OS related issues for various mobile applications for iOS and Android.  • Developed mobile applications GUI elements in XCode,Xamarin Studio for iOS and Universal Windows platforms  • Developed custom proxy classes for consuming WCF services over mobile platform, to enable high performance web service interaction and data transfers.  • Performed Lead activities which independent handling of duties from requirement gathering till delivery.  • Worked on SSIS package of order management systems, and re-implement of the logic to effective fetch large amount of data from shared locations, to minimize data discrepancies which lead to order management system failure.  • Used Microsoft Azure Mobile Servicesas a backend for Mobile Applications.  • Experience in MicrosoftVisual C# in script component of SSIS.  • Used iOSSDK and MONO for cross-platform native application development  • Worked closely with a cross-functional team of testers and developers.  • Worked on web service calls using XML parsing in the project.    Environment:Android, XCode, Xamarin, Microsoft Azure, WCF, iOS. Android Developer Hornet InfoTech - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to February 2014 Description: Hornet is dedicated to developing effective outsourcing partnerships with clients in order to accelerate time to market, reduce operational cost and empowering them to devote more time to their core business.  Responsibilities:  • Understanding the requirements of the module.  • Developed the application to adapt to various orientation support and resolutions based on the device.  • Responsible for development of all application components and UI resources.  • Performed testing on Physical device and the android emulator.  • Built compatibility with android version 1.5 to present.  • Custom Alphabetical Dictionary integration, rearrange and move cards in deck feature, search cards feature.  • Developed the SQLite database to store data and enable features to work offline.  • Responsible for executing the code, deploy the application and fix the bugs.    Environment:Android SDK, SQLite database, Eclipse, SVN, ADB, DDMS, Log Cat, Android Emulator. Java Developer Hidden Brains - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to November 2012 Description: Hidden Brains InfoTech Pvt. Ltd is an Enterprise Web & Mobile Apps Development Company. With an industry experience of over a decade, we offer a plethora of client-centric services by enabling customers to achieve competitive advantage through flexible and next generation global delivery models.  Responsibilities:  • Developed a scalable and maintainable application using J2EE Framework, Hibernate, MVC Model, Struts, and J2EE Design Patterns.  • Prepared SOW (Statement of Work) by communicating with agencies and organized meetings about requirements.  • Followed Java & J2EE design patterns and the coding guidelines to design and develop the application.  • Extensively used JSTL tags and Struts tag libraries. Used Struts tiles as well in the presentation tier.  • Done with Server-side validations using Struts Validation framework.  • Processed JSON response data by consuming RESTful web services and used an Angular filter for implementing search results.  • Hibernate is used for database connectivity and designed HQL (Hibernate Query language) to create, modify and update the tables.  • Created new Soap services using JAX-WS specifications.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for testing.    Environment: Java, Struts, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, SOAP UI, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JUnit, Apache Tomcat Server, EJB, NetBeans. Education Bachelor's Skills Android, Android sdk, Angularjs, Cordova, Ibm worklight, Worklight, Ios, Mvc, Restful web services, Soap, Xcode, Ui, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Android studio, Git, Html, Javascript, Json, Objective c Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming/Scripting Languages Android, PL/SQL, Java, J2EE, JDBC, swift, kotlin, UNIX Shell scripting, Swift 3.1  Development Tools  Android Studio, JDeveloper, Net Beans 6.X, MS Visual Studio, IBM Worklight, Photoshop, Sublime Text, Atom, IntelliJ IDEA, Xcode, Eclipse, Debuggers    iOS  XCode 8.3 and earlier, Objective C, Swift 3.1, Cocoa pods, Cocoa Touch, BLE and Bluetooth, core data, core animation, AV foundation kit, UI Kit.    Web Technologies  HTML 5.0, AJAX, DHTML, XSL, XSLT 2.0, jQuery, JSP, JavaScript, Servlets, AngularJS, NodeJS, jQuery Mobile, Spring MVC Framework & Hibernate    Web Services Android SDK, HTTP, Restful Web Services, Google APIs, XML, DOM parsers, SAX parsers, SOAP, JSON  Database technologies MySQL, SQLite, Realm Database, SQL Server, Oracle RDBMS, MS Access  Third Party Libraries Picasso, phone gap, Espresso, Volley, ION, OpenGL, Cordova, Dagger, Retrofit, Jackson.  Testing and QA Tools Espresso, Mockito, DDMS, Logcat, Hudson, Test link, Bugzilla, Quality Center  Package & Version Control Tools: JIRA, Repo, CVS, GIT, VSS, Gerrit, Wireshark  Web/Application Servers Tomcat 4.1/5.x/7.0/8.x & Apache HTTP Server  Mobile Technologies/Tools  Android Emulator, Trace View, Draw 9-patch, Android SDK, AVD, ADB/DDMS Traceview, logcat, lint and Fastboot and ADT tools Eclipse Addon    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, UNIX, Mac OSX, IOS, VMware, Android