Freelance android developer Freelance android <span class="hl">developer</span> Houston, TX Highly skilled and technology driven individual with a proven track record of around 7 years of Java expertise in various flavours spanning across embedded Java, mobile and web development. Excellency in understanding the customer requirements and expertise in designing, developing, implementing various enterprise applications using Java platform. Recognized as a skilled developer and talented communicator.    ? Expertise in Java application development for web applications,networking/embedded systems using   JAVA/J2EE and Web Technologies.  ? Solution architecture expertise in Java multi-threading, Collections,performance tuning and concurrency handling.  ? Expertise in designing and developing Java Client/Server and Web & mobile based applications.  ? Experience in developing and implementing web server’s solutions and deploying Java Application in Jboss and Apache Tomcat servers.  ? Experience in designing, developing multi-tier application using Java/J2EE and MVC architecture.  ? Experience in Database Development using MySQL,Oracle   ? Experience in leading multiple SDLC via both Agile and waterfall models   ? Strong Expertise in front end technologies such Core Java,HTML, HTML5, CSS, Javascript,JSP.  ? Experience in software testing, Junit testing, and regression testing, and defect tracking and management using JIRA.   ? Strong understanding of data structures and OS concepts.  ? Good working knowledge of java Sript frameworks like Jquery,Angular JS,NodeJS and Bootstrap etc.  ? Expertise in Web Development with architecture experience in Struts /Spring, web components like JSP, Servlets and server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.   ? Expertise in creating Process/Data Flow Diagrams, Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and State Diagrams .  ? Proficiency in object oriented concepts and C++ technology.  ? Strong understanding in Web Services like SOAP and REST technologies  ? Expertise in understanding business requirements and translating them to functional/technical changes   ? Worked with version control systems like CVS, Rational clear case for providing common platform for all the developers .  ? Good Working knowledge in ORM frameworks like hibernate.  ? Expertise in Database Design, Creation and Management of Schemas, writing DDL, DML SQL queries.   ? Experience in writing Ant scripts for project development and deployment .  ? Strong knowledge and understanding of android studio for mobile application development.  ? Project Management experience in managing and delivering major developments and enhancement projects.  ? Extensive and proven experience in working and leading teams across multiple geographies  ? Consistently maintained an excellent customer satisfaction results, which was acknowledged at   “Tech Mahindra Ltd”  ? Have won the special recognition awards for the consistent excellent contribution and dedication in the project “Ace performer of the Year – Tech Mahindra Ltd”   ? A committed team player with extensive organizational and interpersonal skills and a quick learner with the ability to work in a fast paced environment Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance android developer Present Developing mobile application supporting various versions of android in phones and tablets which can be downloaded from google playstore.    "Stothra Malya "is the recent application in the playstore. It has a collection of slokas for recital with audio and lyrics features for each sloka  The application supports three different languages English,hindi and tamil with the text size selection option for the user Java Project Lead Tech Mahindra April 2012 to May 2014 • Played a key role in the end-to-end life cycle of the VoIP Gateway product which includes enhancement of the legacy administrative communication system hardware to increase the user's capacity    • Actively worked with the end users, business analyst(BA) in managing all stages of design, development and deployment of new applications in the project    • Worked on developing a web interface which acts as a single point of source for requesting and procuring Bogen Multicom related hardware and services    • Developed Web based Bogen Commander application for the configuration /set up of the system  which can be accessed both via intranet and internet.    • Extensively use of HTML5 with JSP for the presentation layer along with Java script for client side validation  • Suggested and Implemented CDR call logging feature.  • Designed all JSP pages using custom designed tags to populate web page content  • Developed reusable components using Custom Directives in AngularJS  • Designed class diagrams, sequence diagrams and high level technical documents.  • Actively interacted with third party hardware manufactures and got the application services digitally certified for compliance  • Created and implemented process for maintaining source control  • Was in charge of innovation and key initiatives to improvise customer experiences  • Took leadership in solving complex problems and provided thought leadership in implementing the solutions  • Responsible for the entire life cycle development from requirement gathering phase till the timely delivery of the quality product.  • Designed the database and middle ware management systems to connect the Java and C modules  • Conducted code reviews and guided the team in debugging issues for maintaining a quality code  • Consistently maintained an excellent customer satisfaction index across multiple years  • As a lead was responsible for grooming and mentoring of the team members  • Analysed the requirements and developed the prototype and detailed technical design document from the functional design  • Developed generic templates in order to avoid the duplicate common headers and footers  • Developed and implemented client side and server side validations  • Implemented database up gradation from older versions to latest version for the administrative communication and control systems  • Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application  • Designed and successfully implemented schedule database to hold maximum events in each schedule of the administrative communication and control systems.  • Proactively created the source control in clear tool and recreated the clear case code server  • Monitored the 911 digit dialling and added priority check to route the call first in the system backend using C platform.    VOIP Speaker Development Java Project Lead January 2011 to March 2012 • Worked with the customer for requirement gathering, analysis and design of the new project.  • Worked on the development of new web interface with the hardware.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML, JSP, CSS, Java Script, in order to provide specific Look and Feel to the application.  • Proposed alternative solutions to existing applications in the projects.  • Used HTML for developing the front end along with JavaScript for validations  • Debugged database related issues in the code base.  • Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application  • Responsible for the implementation of major call controller calls and applications  • Resolved VoIP phone registration issue with a system with zero in last octet in I.P. address.  • Implemented Direct inward system (DISA) access ring back feature - Achieved the ring back using microcontroller with specified on and off periods.  • Enhanced 911 feature to achieve required pause time before dialling 911 for VoIP  • Worked on bug fixing and enhancements on change requests. Java Project Lead Bogen Performance Dashboard May 2010 to December 2010 • Developed the entire end to end project via Agile project methodologies providing quick turn around to the clients  • Developed in-house Java based web application to track the various components and hardware manufactures information  • Created standalone java application using Install shied software and got it digitally signed from trusted authority.  • Implemented Struts framework according to MVC design patterns  • Developed Portal Dashboards, to show executive summary connecting to different data sources  • Worked with Struts (MVC) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean  • Designed and developed UI screens with HTML and java script for interactive web pages.  • Designed and developed database and communication frameworks.  • Created a web based application to collect feedback and information from the customers (about Product usage)  • Automatic deletion of holiday events on expiry from schedule database and refreshing the screens with correct data    Multicom 2000 communication systems Java Lead Developer February 2009 to April 2010 • As a part of the team worked in development of a full-fledged PBAX server product for the customer  • The product had multiple features like ADSI On-Screen Menu System , call recording, routing ,transfer and waiting Computer technology integration  • Worked on java Multi-threading programming, Synchronization, Java Mail API and Collections API for concurrent product.  • Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using HTML , HTML5 and CSS.  • Developed custom directives in AngularJS for the application independent components  • The application was designed to be scalable with multiple Ethernet Hardware compatibility  • Support of multiple VoIP Protocols (like Session Initiation Protocol,SCCP (Cisco Skinny) )  • Involved in loading and storing objects using Hibernate  • Configured Cisco routers according to the network requirements in the system.  • Used Ant for developing build scripts  • Developed the presentation layer using Java Server Pages (JSP), Tiles and Java Script.  • Developed Application controllers, Business and Data service modules for the web applications  • Used Struts Model-View-Controller approach to help design new features and fix Jira bugs and request.    Quantum test tool development Java/C Developer Tech Mahindra April 2008 to January 2009 Implemented Independent Java based GUI application on Windows installed PC or Laptop to perform various board level function tests.  ? Developed the login and test screens for the test tool applications.  ? Established socket communication between the java app and the C back end system.  ? Developed the presentation layer using Core Java technologies.  ? Worked on bug fixing and lead to the closure.  ? Used ANT for building the application  ? Implemented Collections API to manage Java Objects in Business Logic layer  ? Improvised the system by increasing the runtime flash partition size  ? Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the Testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase. Java Developer Microsoft Cube BI Development June 2007 to March 2008 The technologies used were SQL Server 2005. Microsoft Cube is a packaged ready-to-deploy BI solutions that extract the data points needed to form their pre-built cubes through their ETL layer and into the analytics layer    • Part of enterprise cube development and testing team.  • Involved in the development and unit testing  • Wrote unit test cases covering all scenarios.  • Successfully completed each module testing and delivered the product in timely manne  • Involved in debugging, bug fixing and data analysis. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Avinashilingam Women's University 2003 to 2007 Skills Awt, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate