Hybris Developer Hybris <span class="hl">Developer</span> Hybris Developer - Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines Irving, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Hybris Developer Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines January 2018 to Present • Built an e-commerce platform, which can be quickly configured for new and existing components using Hybris and Spring Framework.  • Built a Hybris based B2B portal site for the maintenance sites where teams can maintain pricing, scheduling and promotions.  • Creating and managing base store, Catalog, catalog version, classification attributes and variant products. Writing and managing Cronjob using instance and service and impex of various Hybris item.  • Worked on core HYBRIS platform such as HAC, BackOffice, Data modeling, and creating flexible search queries.  • Created complex joins using flexible search query and transformed into plain SQL using HAC SQL  • Created Web services in Java, DTO, modifying spring beans, passing JSON data structure, etc.  • Implementing Spring MVC which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations using Commons Validator.  • Configured Hybris using Hybris Administration Console, Hybris Management Console (hmc), HybrisProduct Cockpit, Hybris CMS cockpit, Hybris Multi-Channel Cockpit, etc.  • Creation of Hybris workflows to publish the product online.  • Worked on OCC add-on to create Restful web services.  • Created complex data models  • Designed and provided detailed solution on product modelling, custom enhancements and Product in combination with classification.  • Worked on Classifying Categories and Product Category  • Enhanced Hybris custom data types to support underlying other core data bases.  • Heavily customized data modelling on calcification attributes and product features.  • Experienced in testing Restful OCC web services through postman.  • Worked closely with the QA team and end users to resolve technical and functional issues.  • Pro-active and helped the team in addressing the critical issues.  • Using GIT as version control tool and ANT as build tool.  • Writing test cases using JUNIT for testing.  • Using IntelliJ as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Developed Gene-phenotype search-based application Using R ad Neo4j database and designed front end using Rshiny and JavaScript.  Environment: R, Python, Rshiny, Neo4j, HTML5, CSS3, MYSQL, Spark, JavaScript, VisNetwork.js Hybris Developer Danfoss - Des Moines, IA June 2016 to December 2017 • Managing the content components in Hybris.  • Mapping the components respective places in content.csv file which can be viewed by end user.  • Creating templates in content.csv to place components in respective places.  • Creating flexi search queries for fetching the content from Hybris database.  • Integrating the Hybris with spring.  • Writing csv files for importing data in Hybris database.  • Managing HMC and doing Unit testing.  • Involved in Analysis, design and coding of the Project on Hybris and Java environment.  • Designed class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Involved in business analysis and functional requirements gathering.  • Designed class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Enterprise Architect.  • Extensively worked with the retrieval and manipulation of data from the Oracle database by writing queries using Flexi-search query and PL/SQL.  • Developed test cases and performed unit and integration testing; performed using testing using Used JUnit.  • Generated Reports using Sonar.  • Participated in complete SDLC from inception to deployment to production and maintenance.  • Coordinated with business team, QA and project managers to deliver products on time.  • Proactively tested application and tracked defects.  Environment: Java, Spring MVC, REST API, DB2, MYSQL, Hadoop, Sqoop, Hibernate, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JCL. Java Developer Soniks Consulting LLC - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to December 2014 • Understanding and analyzing business requirements. Participated in all phases of SDLC.  • Involved in designing Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams as a part of design phase.  • Configured Spring framework to inject dependencies and Spring Cassandra module to persist data into MySQL database.  • Used REST to retrieve data from client-side using Microservice architecture and PCF for deploying microservices.  • Used Spring Cloud and Eureka for service registry for the microservices  • Used new JDK 1.8 features for improving the code readability and performance such as Stream, Lambda etc.  • Deployed web components, presentation components and business components in WebLogic Application Server.  • Developed Microservices based architecture to enable the application to be deployed on AWS.  • Implemented Multithread concepts in Java classes to avoid deadlocks.  • Created build environment for Java using Git and Maven.  • Used Log4J to write log messages with various levels  • Developed the test cases with JUnit for Unit testing of the built components.  • Worked on enhancements, change requests and defect fixing. Interacted with product owner and testers.  • Contributed to standardizing project coding, code review guidelines and checklist.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration.  • Used JIRA to keep track of the project, bugs and issues.  • Followed Agile/ Scrum methodology to track project progress and participated in Scrum meetings  Environment: Java, J2EE, My SQL, Spring, Eclipse, RESTful Web services, JSON, JUnit, Maven, GIT, JIRA, Jenkins, Spring Cloud, STS. Java Developer Pelican IT - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to June 2012 • Analyzing the business and functional requirements provided by the client.  • Developing the application by analyzing the LLDs, Involved in the end-to-end project SDLC phases.  • Involved in design flow and scheduling the work to the team.  • Designed and developed application based on Struts 2.x, DB2 using MVC Design Pattern.  • Designed and developed the UI using GWT, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented dynamic loading of JSP using AJAX.  • Integrating remote location services to the application.  • Developed and configured the Java beans using struts framework.  • Developing views using HTML, CSS, jQuery, Ajax, GWT.  • Extensively used JSTL tag libraries and custom tag libraries.  • Used JDBC connectivity for connecting the DB2 Database and written stored procedure.  • Creating connection pools on web sphere.  • Generated KPI reports in MS Excel using VB Script.  • Involved in bugs fixing and perform smoke testing.  • Fixing defects and providing support during QA phase.  • Providing L2 support for mediation processes.  • Managing Change Requests from end to end.  • Responsible to design template of the dashboard.  • Generate graphical representation of reports using Microsoft excel.  • Status reporting - daily, weekly and monthly basis to Management Team.  • Updating transition handbooks after each delivery.  • Adhere to SLAs per the Service Level Agreements  Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts 2, GWT, HTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, RAD, UNIX, IBM DB2, Data Studio, VB Script, Microsoft excel, WinSCP, Putty, WebSphere. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Southern University and A&M Skills Db2, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Eclipse, Java, Spring, Jms, jquery, Struts, Mvc, Sdlc, Android studio, Git, Javascript, Wcf, Python, Scripting, Svn, XML, HTML Certifications/Licenses Driver's License