ServiceNow Admin/ Developer ServiceNow Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> ServiceNow Admin/ Developer - LENNAR CORPORATION California, MD ? A qualified IT professional with total experience of 8 years including 4+years of experience in Service-now admin and developer  ? Extensive knowledge and experience in implementation and Administration of ServiceNow, Java.  ? Service-Now Administration and Production support including maintenance of lower life cycle instances.  ? Working experience of various phases of SDLC such as Requirement Analysis, Design, Code Construction and Test.  ? Direct hands on experience on various IT Services of Service-Now tool like Service Catalog Requests, Asset Management, Configuration Management, Service-Now Administration, Incident and Problem Management, Knowledge Management, Reporting, Gauges, Integration with Web Services.  ? Experience with complex integrations within the ITSM environment such as ServiceNow -Siebel, ServiceNow - Webservice integration with third party application.  ? Experience in designing, developing, customizing & administering ITSM suite of applications.  ? Good knowledge of CMDB and Asset Management Services: Business Services and Configuration item relationships.  ? Expertise on creation of workflows for Service Catalog items in Service-Now.  ? Excellent knowledge on SLA's, activating plugins, elevated privileges, roles, skills, import sets, knowledge base, service catalog  • Functional knowledge and implementation experience of ITSM frameworks.  • Good understanding of object oriented analysis design and application development  • Strong team player, ability to work independently and in a team as well, ability to adapt to a rapidly changing environment, commitment towards learning, Possess excellent communication, project management, documentation, interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Admin/ Developer LENNAR CORPORATION - Miami, FL April 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with process owners and business stakeholders to translate business requirements into functional requirements within ServiceNow.  • Use JavaScript to create Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions.  • Created various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Service Requests and SLA's.  • Assist in the import of configuration and asset data.  • Implementation, customization and configuration of different Service Manager Modules like Change Request, ESS, Service Desk, Service Catalog, Problem and SLM.  • Working on Report, dashboard designing.  • Working on Design and development of CMDB(Configuration Management).  • Defined SLA, OLA and Contract for the customer.  • Configured SLA workflow for the advance SLA configuration.  • Developed automated mappings to schedule the load of flat files on daily, weekly and monthly basis.  • Involved in testing Service-Now form and reports for correct mapping of the objects and data correctness.  • Prepared documentation for requirements, design, installation and unit testing and system integration of Service-Now.  • Working with integrating and developing Service watch.  • Trained all the users of the reports on using Info View and exporting reports to various formats.  • Involved in testing reports for correct mapping of the objects and data.  • Worked in production support for all the Service-Now and report related issues.  • Involved in basic SOAP message creation and Web service implementation.  • Implemented Social IT and Chat Application for the end user support.    Environment: ServiceNow Berlin, Business Objects XI R2, Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2005, UNIX. ServiceNowDeveloper/Admin Western Digital - San Jose, CA June 2013 to March 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Consultation, Implementation, design and development.  • ServiceNow Technology Analyst with experience on implementing end-to-end Service Catalog, Incident Management, Knowledge Management, Configuration & Asset Management, Change Management and Release Management with extensive knowledge on Content Management System.  • Worked mostly on Service Catalog, CMS and Incident module customizations and enhancements.  • Configurable SLA implementation in Incident and Service Catalog management based on user defined parameters.  • Worked with process owners & business stakeholders to translate business requirements into functional requirements within ServiceNow and proposing resolution and design suggestions.  • Service Catalog and Request Workflow Design and Configuration.  • Designed and implemented new functionality using Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Policies, UI Scripts, UI Actions, UI Pages, Script Includes, and Access Control Lists.  • Worked with email notifications, inbound actions, reports, gauges, and home pages.  • Creation of catalog items, wizards, record producers, interceptors, user guide.  • Worked on creation and customization of complex workflows and custom workflow activities.  • Involved in developing the custom reports using the Tableau reporting tool.  • Developed lot of Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Actions and UI policies for the HR Portal and Forms.  • Worked on Business Service mapping and wrote scripts in the sensors in order to map CI's so that the end user can have a graphical representation of CI's and their relationship through BSM.  • Worked on creating users, roles, groups and Configured LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating the user and group table record.  • Hands on experience in web development using HTML, JavaScript, Angular.JS and CSS and working with UI pages, UI Policies, workflow and Core Configuration.  • Loaded Assets and Configuration Items and Created relationships between CI and Assets.  • Involved in POC for integrating the Bomgar remote access tool into ServiceNow.  • Designed the Content Management System for Various system which involved layout, UI pages, CSS and service catalog work.  • Configured Employee self-service portal using Content Management (CMS).  • Involved in development of Content Management System using Jelly Scripting for Creating UI Pages and UI Macros.  Environment: Service-Now/Istanbul, Jakarta, JavaScript, Java, Angular JS, Html, CSS, Glide Script, AJAX. Java Developer Comerica Bank, NJ April 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis and Design of the several modules in the Project.  • Created use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, deployment diagrams.  • Design & Development of technical specifications using design patterns and OO methodology.  • Developed presentation tire using HTML, JSP, Java Script, and JSF.  • Involved in the Configuration, development and deployment of EJBs, and JSPs & Servlets in Web logic Test Environment  • Developed Database Access Objects (DAO) using the Spring Hibernate Support and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Developed the java beans (POJO) to represent the model classes and mapped them to the tables using the Hibernate Mapping files.  • Control Layer is Implemented using the Struts Actions classes like Action, DynaAction and MappingDispatchAction classes  • Design and Development of Session Beans for implementing Business logic.  Involved in all phases (Unit/Integration/System) of testing.  Environment: Java Server Pages (JSP), Struts 2.0, JSF, JavaScript, Java 1.4, Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.2/ 3.3, Spring 2.0/ 2.5, Web Services, EJB, Servlets, SOAP, XML, IBM DB2, IBM WebSphere 6.0, IRAD 6.0, CVS, WinCVS, ANT BuildScripts Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Html, Javascript, Php, Scripting Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    ITSM Tools ITSM Suite, ITIL, ServiceNow(Geneva/Istanbul/Helsiniki)  Languages C, C++, Java, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, PHP, HTML, CSS, AJAX.  Scripting Language JavaScript, Jelly Script, Client Scripts  Database Oracle 10g/ 9i/8i, MS Access, MS SQL Server 2005/2012, CMDB  Database Tools SQL Server  Web Technologies PHP, HTML, Java, Java Script, VB Script, SOAP  Operating System UNIX, Linux and Windows(XP, 7,8,9,10)  Packages MSOffice (Word, Access, Excel Outlook and PowerPoint).