Senior Java/J2EE Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java/J2EE Developer - American Express Billerica, MA • Senior developer with 8+ years of strong experience in software analysis, design, development and architecture.  • Extensive experience in developing application using Java/J2EE technologies(JSP, Servlet, JMS, JDBC, JNDI) including the latest open source technology framework like Struts1.2, Spring4, Hibernate4, etc.  • Experience in design and development of Multi-tier Web Based, Standalone & Multithreading Application using Object Oriented analysis and design.  • Strong experience in developing application using Spring Boot.  • Strong hands on experience in Java8.  • Strong experience in developing Web Application using open source MVC framework like Struts1.2 and Spring MVC 4.x.  • Experience in using RESTful Web Services by supporting JSON, XML and Text format.  • Experience in persistent framework Hibernate 4.x, messing service framework JMS using ActiveMQ, job scheduling frameworks like Quartz. and logging framework Log4J.  • Good experience in various UI frameworks like AngularJS1, Bootstrap3.x, JQuery and XML technologies like XML, DTD, XSLT and parsing XML with SAX & DOM parsers.  • Experience in applying GoF design pattern such Singleton, Factory, Builder, Adapter, Facade, Chain of Responsibility, Observer, Strategy, State etc and also have good hands on J2EE design patterns such as MVC, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Data Access Object, and Transfer Object.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design in software development.  • Strong experience in on APIs, data structure and algorithm such as set, list, map, queue, etc.  • Having knowledge of micro service architecture using Spring Cloud, Springboot along with Netflix component Eureka discovery service, configuration servers, ZUUL.  • Having knowledge of AWS services S3, EC2 servers, Cloud front, RDS.  • Extensively worked with IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Web Storm, NetBean and proficient on tools like Edit Plus, Sublime, TOAD, Putty, WinCP, etc.  • Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  • Expertise in Maven for build, Jenkins for continuous integration for software development.  • Sound RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle 10g and Sybase 16.  • Having domain knowledge in developing web based applications for the verticals such as Heath Care, Telecom and Banking.  • Received Client Appreciation for successful delivery of new implementation of Write-Off service. Work Experience Senior Java/J2EE Developer American Express - New York, NY September 2016 to Present Merchant Sales & Service System  Merchant Sales and Service System (MSSS) is a customer support application and used by Amex Customer Representatives to support their Merchant and Card Holders. It categories the Merchant and the card holders data into various logical groups and display into the system accordingly. It is also a place to receive a complains from merchant as well as card holders with case tracking. By displaying a merchant tracking data is used for auditing. Creating new case updating, closing related to merchant issues/concerns as part of case management.    Responsibilities  • Design and implemented Spring Boot application for new UI application using Java8, Junit4, Spring JPA, Hibernate, JMS, Log4j2,JSON etc.  • Analyzed, designed and implemented new feature Write-Off for both claims and payments from their corresponding screen at various place in the application.  • Designed and Implemented new feature Add-Notes and notes maintenance features on various screen (claim & payments).  • Improved the performance of backend services such as filter, validations, searching and sorting of data etc. by using Java8 Stream APIs.  • Actively participated and suggested many new screen designs to Business Analyst and implemented by using UI frameworks like JQWidgets.  • Worked on various Jasper reports using iReport 3.x tool.  • Optimized the performance of the many screens and reports of the application by saving multiple DB calls, query tuning, multiple visits of the screen screen, adding cache, etc.  • Designed and implemented Spring MVC REST in existing system for adding new features in the application which also includes introduction of Spring JDBC in the system.  • Designed and implemented JQWidgets framework to improve the application performance for the activities like pagination, sorting , searching of huge data screens.  • Designed and developed Caching framework by using Spring Cache with database. Used Java's concurrent framework to support thread safety for all cache APIs.  • Implemented Spring Security to various screens for role based access and actions.  • Worked extensively as a team in re-writing many modules of the existing framework.  • Responsible for requirement analysis and preparation of DOU containing functional and technical analysis.  • Core member of application design team of new parallel application by using new UI technologies like AngularJS, Bootstrap, CSS, Spring MVC.  • Onsite/Offshore coordinator for handling various solutions and design implementation.  • Improved code quality and test case coverage with Sonar by adding unit and integration test cases to existing framework components.  • Contributed in reviewed code and suggested improvements.  • Worked on various legacy bugs and also provides bug fixing for production issues.  • Provided active support for the product verification during monthly release deployment.  • Involved in design & implementation of automation testing using Selenium.  • Worked on Agile Methodology with Stories, Sprint and Scrum. Analyzed the requirement and divided into user stories and tasks.    Environment Senior Java /J2ee Engineer August 2015 to August 2016 Description:  Enkon's advisors are seasoned energy professions and through leaders with 20+ years of hands-on project development, commercial, business development and operation experience gained at Fortune 500 energy companies as well as consulting firms. The team's geographical experience spans all major gas, NGL and LNG producing and consuming regions with demonstrated ability to work with government and private enterprises.    Responsibilities  • Analyzed, designed and implemented role based Access Control on each field type check box, text, dropdown etc by using Spring AOP.  • Implemented various data validation rules and creates various utility for the field type.  • Designed and implemented Escalation feature to make time bound action on the request submitted by the user at specified times by using Quartz Scheduler to escalate it to assignee and then to the supervisor.  • Implemented various base templates of view forms and vendor forms for the user to make custom template out of it.  • Implemented autocomplete feature for the text type field to make the search faster.  • Worked on Optimization of application performance, workflow of the system.  • Understand the existing feature of the application and provides solution using Object Oriented design and analysis.  • Provided various root cause analysis of the existing and new system issues.  • Bug fixing of View Forms and Vendor forms related defects by comparing existing legacy application.  • Onsite/Offshore coordinator for handling various solutions and design implementation.  • Implemented test suits for various business scenarios of the application using JUnit4.  • Implemented logger for various core services using Spring AOP and log4j.  • Contributed in code review and suggested improvements.  • Involved in design discussions of the existing flow to handle in new application.  • Handled all the testing phase of the deliverables like SIT, UAT etc.  • Worked on Agile Methodology with Stories, Sprint and Scrum. Analyzed the requirement and divide into user stories and tasks.    Environment  Core Java 8, JDBC, Multi-threading, Spring 3.x(Core, ORM, AOP), Hibernate3, Log4j, Slfj, AspectJ 1.8.1, J Oracle 10g, Eclipse Galileo, SVN, Maven 3.x, Junit 4, Mockito, Sonar, Linux. Senior Java/J2EE Developer PDXInc - Fort Worth, TX November 2014 to August 2015 PDXInc provides services and integrated technologies to the pharmaceutical industry. It offers software solutions for chain of pharmacies such as prescription filling, billing, third party claim submission and reconciliation, thorough reporting, Electronic Pharmacy Record, etc.    Responsibilities  • Analyzed, designed and implemented Case Tracking System as part of Case Management and providing various features such as create case, update case, close case, comments on case etc by creating various new screens in the system.  • Designed and implement a complete flow of the case tracking system including both front end and backend. JSP, Servlet, Struts, DOA and SQL queries are used.  • Implemented role based access security feature by using JSPTag Library.  • Implemented form bean level struts validation for various new screen as well as existing screens.  • Implemented DAO for case tracking system using core JDBC.  • Responsible for requirement analysis and preparation of DOU containing functional and technical analysis.  • Onsite/Offshore coordinator for handling various solutions and design implementation.  • Support all testing phases System Integration, System Test, UAT and Production.  • Reviewed code and suggested improvements.    Environment  Core Java 1.5, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Struts1.2, Weblogic, Oracle, Unix Java/J2ee Engineer Amdocs Private Limited - Pune, Maharashtra July 2012 to October 2014 Account Receivable General Ledger(ARGL)  Amdocs is a leading telecom solution provider company having various products like Ensemble a billing solution, Order Management System, Customer Service Management System, AR General Ledger System, Activation Postal System etc. ARGL is application to generate various reports by collecting data from billing, router, OMS system etc to generate various EoD reports, EoW reports, EoM reports, EoY reports.    Responsibilities  • Implemented various utility classes of validation and formatting for Jasper Report of various kind such EoD,EoM,EoY reports by using Jasper Reports as well as excel reports.  • Implemented data fetching feature from various connected application by using JDBC and implemented a DAO layer to handle such data into the amdocs framework for various validation and formatting for the excel & csv reports.  • Handling various issues such as Optimization the performance, memory leaks, multithreading issues etc.  • Analyzed, designed and implemented to make a reusable component for EoW report feature from existing EoD system.  • Implemented varied Job Scheduler for the reports.  • Responsible for requirement analysis and preparation of DOU containing functional and technical analysis.  • Onsite/Offshore coordinator for handling various solutions and design implementation.  • Support all testing phases System Integration, System Test, UAT and Production.  • Reviewed code and suggested improvements.    Environment  Core Java 1.5, JDBC, Jasper Report, Multi Threading, Java File System, Weblogic, Oracle, Unix Java/J2ee Engineer Maks Technologies - IN September 2010 to July 2012 Description:  Maks Technologies take immense pride in introducing ourselves as the leading manufacturer, supplier and exporter of Tin Plated Copper Wire and Bare Copper Wire. These wires are widely used in power transmission, telecommunications, power distribution and power generation.    Responsibilities  • Designed and implemented Order Flow of the activation portal by using JSP, Servlet, Struts framework and by calling exposed FDT services.  • Implemented placing Port-In & Port-Out request functionality.  • Implemented various validation for order type compatibility, phone type compatibility, suggest phones by order type selection etc.  • Responsible for requirement analysis and preparation of DOU containing functional and technical analysis.  • Onsite/Offshore coordinator for handling various solutions and design implementation.  • Support all testing phases System Integration, System Test, UAT and Production.  • Reviewed code and suggested improvements.    Environment  Core Java 1.5, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Struts1.2, Weblogic, Oracle, Unix Enkon Energy Advisors LLC - Houston, TX March 2004 to May 2004 Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering RGPV University Skills integration (7 years), INTEGRATOR (7 years), Java (8 years), JDBC (8 years), Oracle (5 years) Links http://www.mrccsolutions.com Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    Languages Core Java 8, JavaScript ECMA5, XML, HTML 5  Web Technologies/ APIs JSP 2.2, Servlet 3.0, JSTL 1.2, JDBC 4.2, UML 2.5, JNDI, Spring MVC 4.x, JMS 2, Struts1.2.9, JSON, AngularJS1, Bootstrap , JQWidgets 3.x, CSS 3  Frameworks  Spring 4.x (Core, AOP, Data, JDBC, ORM, Caching), Hibernate 4.x (Core, Annotation, JPA), Log4j, Slfj, AspectJ 1.8.1, Eh Cache, JUNIT 4.8, Mockito, Selenium 3.4, AWS, Netflix    Database Oracle 10g, Sybase 16  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse Neo, IntelliJ 16, Putty, TOAD, Source Tree, DBVisualizer 9, iReport 3.7, WinCP 5,  Servers Apache Tomcat 8, Weblogic 12  Build Tool/ Continuous Integration/Version Control Maven 3.x, Jenkins, Subversion, Git  Code review Tools Sonar, CheckMarx  Issue Tracker System Mercury Quality Center, JIRA, Rally  Operating System Windows 2000/2003/XP/7, UNIX