Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Volkswagen Michigan City, IN ? Sun Certified Java Developer with 9+years of strong experience in Object Oriented Design and programming for Web based Enterprise applications using Java/J2EE ? Strong expertise in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle - Software requirements, analysis, design, development, Implementation and Testing ? Proficient in developing client-server distributed architecture applications in Java/J2EE technologies ? Good understanding of Core JAVA components such as Synchronization, Persistency, Run-Time Optimization. Working with the JVM, Parallel Processing and Multi-Core Utilization.  ? Experience in designing and developing Enterprise Applications for J2EE platform using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS ? Expertise in Core JAVA with knowledge of Multithreading, Concurrency, Memory Management and NIO.  ? Experience in developing applications using frameworks like Struts ? Experience in building web applications using Spring framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), DAO ( Data Access Object) ? Thorough understanding of J2EE design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session façade, Business Delegate, and Service Locator.  ? Proficiency in Front-end development using languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSP tag libraries, XML, XSLT ? Good working knowledge on using Object/Relational bridge technologies such as Hibernate ? Excellent experience in Web services development using RESTful web services, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, XSD and JAX-RPC ? Experience in database design and development using SQL, T-SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle (10g), DB2 and SQL Server environments.  ? Experience in unit testing using JUnit and Oracle AOT ? Experience in XML (Extensible Markup Language) related technologies XSD, DTD, SAX, XSLT, XML-RPC, DOM, JAXP and XPath ? Good working knowledge on design patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Service Locator, Builder pattern, DAO ? Experience in using Application servers and Web servers such as BEA Web Logic server, JBoss server, IBM Web Sphere and Tomcat ? Experience in using the tools like Ant and Maven for build automation ? Experience in using bug/issue tracking, project Tracking and Management tool JIRA ? Experience in using the Integrated development environments like Eclipse, NetBeans, Rational Application Developer and J Builder for Java/J2EE development ? Experience and working knowledge of Agile Methodology (Scrum, extreme programming and Unified process), Rational Unified Process and Test-driven development ? Experience working on Web Services SOAP & REST, JAX-WS, JAXB, WSDL and UDDI registry.  ? Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) using XML based Web Service such as SOAP, UDDI and WSDL ? Experience in developing Use cases, Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams and class diagrams using UML Rational Rose ? Diverse industry experience which include mainly Financial services and also Health care, Insurance ? Experience in using version control tools like SVN, CVS and Rational Clear Team Explorer ? Involved in developing Test plans, Test Cases, Test Procedures, white-box and black-box testing ? Experience of working in both Windows and Unix platforms including programming and debugging with shell scripting ? Excellent team player with good problem solving and interpersonal skills. Experience in end to end implementation and integration of projects and completed them successfully under tight deadlines. Work Experience Java Developer Volkswagen March 2018 to Present Volkswagen , Inc. is a Fortune 500 industrial supply company that supplies facilities maintenance and other related products in North America and Asia. The company operates in three segments, Branch-based Distribution, (Canada) and GHC Specialty Brands. Most of the revenue is generally from business-to-business sales rather than retail sales. Involved in maintenance of product Catalogs of various products supplied by Volkswagen with the main focus on business-to-business sales. The Grainger team works closely with customers to better understand their challenges and provide cost-saving solutions and strive to serve customers and the community in exceptional ways focusing on delivering the highest level of service.    Responsibilities: ? Involved in all phases of SDLC including requirements collection, design & analysis of the client specifications, development and customization of the generated forms from application.  ? Followed Agile Methodology in analyzing, defining, documenting and developing the functional and business requirements of various clients.  ? Used Spring Model View Controller Framework and achieved Dependency Injection using Spring IOC ? Developed DAOs (Data Access Object) using Hibernate as ORM to interact with DBMS-Oracle 10g ? Web services are implemented under RESTful architecture and they are consumed by clients ? Designed and developed front end of the application using HTML5, CSS, JQuery, AJAX ? Used Extensible Stylesheet language (XSL) to transform and render XML documents and XPath to address the parts of XML document.  ? All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  ? Developed critical components of the application including Spring forms, Spring controllers, JSP views, and business logic and data logic components that include Hibernate Entities, Spring-Hibernate DAO and Spring models following MVC architecture.  ? Involved in implementation of matching functionality between account and offers and also the functionality to manage customer communication and channel preferences using Spring and Hibernate.  ? Oversee and develop Notification Service microservice to use across the enterprise.  ? Utilize Camel to integrate microservices with other microservices and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges.  ? Build microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise ? Spring 2.5/3.x/4.0, Struts 1.x/2.0, Hibernate 3.0/4.0 Involved in the system requirements ? Used the WebLogic Server Administration Console to control production-specific deployment details.  ? Configured High Availability based environments in clusters.  ? Configured JDBC and JMS servers on webLogic server.  ? Web services are implemented under RESTful architecture and they are consumed by clients ? Used RESTful web services to communicate with different layers within the application ? Worked with SQL server data base as backend data base ? Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures ? Used JDBC, SQL queries, prepared statements and batch processing ? Maintained internal and external interfaces to enhance web business applications ? Monitored and analyzed revenue generation from website traffic information.  ? Created, configured and maintained Weblogic managed servers and server clusters.  ? Deployed and maintained web, Java, and enterprise applications.  ? Installed and configured plugins such as Apache, Tomcat, and Sun One with Weblogic ? Used Jenkins to deploy on server for deploying applications in various environments ? Worked on Junit, Mockito, spring-test and worked with end user for User Acceptance Testing(UAT) ? Used Jasper java API to display reports ? Worked on J2EE technologies such as JSP, JSF, JMS, JMX, JCA, JAAS, EJB ? Worked on JBoss application server, Tomcat server, Maven, SVN, Git, Eclipse  Environment: JDK1.6, JSP, JSTL, EJB, Eclipse IDE, Struts 1.1, Jquery, Struts Validation frame work, WebSphere, UML, Oracle 10g, Angular JS and SVN. Java Developer W. W. Grainger - Chicago, IL May 2016 to 2018 W. W. Grainger, Inc. is a Fortune 500 industrial supply company that supplies facilities maintenance and other related products in North America and Asia. The company operates in three segments, Branch-based Distribution, Acklands-Grainger Inc. (Canada) and GHC Specialty Brands. Most of the revenue is generally from business-to-business sales rather than retail sales. Involved in maintenance of product Catalogs of various products supplied by Grainger with the main focus on business-to-business sales. The Grainger team works closely with customers to better understand their challenges and provide cost-saving solutions and strive to serve customers and the community in exceptional ways focusing on delivering the highest level of service. Grainger's employees serve customers more than 115,000 times every day through multiple channels.  Responsibilities: ? Involved in all phases of SDLC including requirements collection, design & analysis of the client specifications, development and customization of the generated forms from application.  ? Followed Agile Methodology in analyzing, defining, documenting and developing the functional and business requirements of various clients.  ? Used Spring Model View Controller Framework and achieved Dependency Injection using Spring IOC ? Developed DAOs (Data Access Object) using Hibernate as ORM to interact with DBMS-Oracle 10g ? Web services are implemented under RESTful architecture and they are consumed by clients ? Managed and maintained vendor relationship for BEA and VeriSign.  ? Managing and coordinating ongoing upgrade and migration of platform to stay up to date with the software versions and patches being released to mitigate bugs and issues.  ? Designed and developed front end of the application using HTML5, CSS, JQuery, AJAX ? Used Extensible Stylesheet language (XSL) to transform and render XML documents and XPath to address the parts of XML document.  ? Spring 2.5/3.x/4.0, Struts 1.x/2.0, Hibernate 3.0/4.0 Involved in the system requirements ? Implemented new GUI components permissions concepts based on user roles.  ? Developed JSP 1.1 Screens related to security matrix for user details and the allocation of permission, roles, and various resource groups in Internet Explorer and Netscape.  ? Installed, tuned, and administered Weblogic Server 6.0 for Adea Group client (UPS) ? Involved in developing mapping of fields in the forms generated from the data of source application ? Experience in working with Eclipse IDE ? Back end coding and development using Java Collections including Set, List, Map, Multithreading, Servlet, Action, Action Forms, Java beans, Exception Handling etc.  ? SVN is used for version control ? Analyst in project using CMM Level 3 method using CMM ? Analyzed and resolved e-commerce and engineering problems using the Tomcat.  ? Kafka used with Comprising two distinct but interrelated plots ? Involved in Unit, integration and QA testing and documenting the results ? Used JSON to specify various rules that needs to be applied while generation of online forms ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-service ? Used Oracle database for developing the configuration and storing the metadata of client forms ? Database development also required the creation of new tables, stored procedures, functions, indexes, triggers and constraints ? Angular JS 2.0 used in production environment ? Log4j utility is used to generate logs ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services ? Experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Businesss Intelligence tools Using adhoc.  ? Worked on solving the production tickets from clients with using the Bugzilla ? Assisted in development of applications for integration as per technical and functional specifications.  ? Supported team members in implementation of software systems and applications by case and supporting documentation.  ? Performed regression tests for reduction of errors in existing ecommerce applications ? ContextConfig implementation derive from SingleRouteCamelConfiguration which is a helper Spring Java Config class which will configure the CamelContext for us and then register the RouteBuilder ? Create RFP (Request for Proposal) microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Recommend and develop strategy for integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Security and Spring Boot.  ? Responsible for creating back end Restful web services with Java utilizing Spring in applications that are used by customer service ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  ? Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Netflix OSS components(Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix), Pivotal Cloud Fundry, AWS, Rabbit MQ, Kafka, Zookeeper, Cassandra, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  ? New library development with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot and pivotal cloud funsdry.  ? Maintained internal and external interfaces to enhance web business applications ? Monitored and analyzed revenue generation from website traffic information.  ? Oversaw expenses sales and other aspects of business budgeting.  ? Working with QA team and fixed QA bugs with quick turnaround time    Environment: Eclipse IDE, Hibernate 3.2, Spring MVC Framework, XML, XSL, XPath, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, Oracle10g, Web services, angular js,JDK 1.7, PL/SQL, DAO, SVN. Java/J2EE Developer Milwaukee, WI January 2014 to May 2016 Total Administrative Service Corporation (TASC) is a third-party company which provides innovative solutions. It provides healthcare benefits, flex benefits and services. The web application is updated with new functionalities and details. Java production support role handles all incoming issues of J2EE application.  Responsibilities: ? Application is updated with new functionalities ? Followed Bugzilla Methodology and deployed for Bug/Issue tracking ? Responded to service tickets and service requests. Coordinated with resources to isolate and troubleshoot issues resulting with service disruption and outage ? Analyzed and recreated the issue that caused the errors in the application ? Researched and evaluated alternative solutions and made recommendations to obtain efficiencies and cost effective solutions ? Marking the issue as code fix/data fix based on bug details ? Strong experience in Reporting System eclipse Birth to generate Excel and PDF reports, and developing reports generation in Excel, PDF, and Flash for application using JXLS, IText.  ? Maintained appropriate software design, developments and documentations. Experience in built web services using Spring and CXF operating within ESB, offering both REST, AWS and SOAP interfaces.  ? Angler js 2.0 for the web application frameing In back end. Extensive experience in developing applications using Java, Java Beans, JSP, JSF, Servlets, ApacheStrutsframework, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, JDWP, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring dynamic modules (OSGI), Hibernate, Ajax, JUnit, Oracle.  ? Supports plain TestNG based tests with or without CDI, Spring or Guice for Dependency Injection which does not require an in-depth knowledge of CDI, Spring + Spring Test or Guice.  ? Provided hands-on technical governance on all aspects of production support ? Worked with Spring and Hibernate frameworks to build backend of the application ? Worked with SOAP & REST client web services to pull data from web service. Created and Configure micro service architecture for CDTDirectory project and integrated with AngularJS application.  ? Used RESTful web services to communicate with different layers within the application ? Worked with SQL server data base as backend data base. Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying microservices using Jenkins CI server.  ? Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures ? Used JDBC, SQL queries, prepared statements and batch processing ? Used requireJS, renderJS to deploy on server for deploying applications in various environments ? Worked on Junit, Mockito, spring-test and worked with end user for User Acceptance Testing(UAT) ? Used Jasper java API to display reports ? Worked on J2EE technologies such as JSP, JSF, JMS, JMX, JCA, JAAS, EJB ? Worked on JBoss application server, Tomcat server, Maven, SVN, Git, Eclipse ? Also involved in writing JSP/HTML/CSS /JavaScript and servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content ? Used SPLUNK to get the Audit and Debug logs ? Performed version control management using SVN.  ? Used Log4j for logging  Environment: Spring MVC, Hibernate, Java script, JDBC,JQUERY, JSTL, JSP, HTML 5, CSS, Ajax, JBoss Server, SQL server, SOAP & REST Web services, Pl/SQL, JDBC, Maven, ANT, SPLUNK, Log4j, SVN, eclipse, angular js, JMS, JIRA, Jenkins, Agile, Scrum Java Developer Highmark - Camp Hill, PA July 2012 to December 2013 Highmark is one of the nation's largest insurance companies. It provides healthcare coverage throughout Pennsylvania and offers variety of insurance related products. Highmark customers include government units, labor groups, employees etc. This project is regarding the development of web based application that helps customers to find the insurance plan that best suits for them.  Responsibilities: ? Actively involved in defining and designing the tiers of the applications and implementation using J2EE best design practices ? Identifying the technical areas that contributed to the issues and documenting them ? Worked with development of presentation tier using JSF, JSTL, Java Script, Ajax, JQuery ? Developed classes using Spring framework to handle user requests.  ? Developed DAOs (Data Access Object) using Hibernate as ORM to interact with DBMS-Oracle 10g ? Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions and cache concepts ? Implemented design patterns such as Singleton, Session Façade and Service Locator ? Involved in writing the Java utility classes to convert MQ based control claimant information.  ? Worked onJBoss application server ? Provides the ability to do unit testing on blueprint configurations ? Oversaw successful website launch and continuing operation.  ? Increased conversion rate and traffic through Internet marketing and promotions.  ? Supports JUnit 3.x (deprecated) or JUnit 4.x based tests that bootstrap a test environment using Spring without needing to be familiar with Spring Test. The plain JUnit 3.x/4.x based tests work very similar to the test support classes in camel-test.  ? Supported technical teams and seniors in designing and development of digital ecommerce API.  ? Prepared support plans, schedules and assignment for production applications ? Marketed new products with regular website updates.  ? Designed and deployed server side EJB (Session Beans and Entity Beans) components on Eclipse IDE.  ? Used SVN for version control ? Worked with IDE tools WebSphere ? Kafka used in part of Active MQ and RabbitMQ.  ? Used Quality Center for defect tracking ? Implemented JMS for asynchronous auditing purposes.  ? Supported technical teams and seniors in designing and development of digital ecommerce API.  ? Prepared support plans, schedules and assignment for production applications.  ? Design Adhoc report using business object orientation ? Responsible for change requests and maintenance during development of the project    Environment: JDK1.6, JSP, JSTL, EJB, Eclipse IDE, Struts 1.1, Jquery, Struts Validation frame work, WebSphere, UML, Oracle 10g, Angular JS and SVN Java Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ November 2010 to June 2012 American Express is an American multinational financial services corporation which is best known for its credit card, charge card and traveler's check businesses. This project involved the development of a Web based applications for customers, brokers, sales representatives, under writers and other company personnel. The customers can access account information, different plans available from the company, customize the existing plans, process insurance claims and complete the application process. The representatives can generate and sell plans and authorize claims of the customers.    Responsibilities: ? Involved in designing and programming for the system, which includes development of Process Flow Diagram, Entity Relationship Diagram, Data Flow Diagram and database connectivity.  ? Designed and developed the Member Eligibility Screens by collecting the requirements and writing business rules for processing the data collected from customers.  ? Java language is used for coding the server side programming and also the entire application.  ? Understanding the business need for solving the tickets from the clients.  ? Understanding the client requirements from status meetings and maintaining the screens as per the client needs.  ? Developed web services using Restful API ? Agile methodology is used to release the product.  ? Involved in Test Driven Development.  ? Use of core java, which includes Generics and Annotations.  ? JPA 2.0 is the ORM Framework for persisting the java object to DB2.  ? Designed and developed JSF components, implemented event handling using Java, JSF, JavaScript and JQuery for various modules.  ? Implemented Struts, J2EE Design Patterns like MVC ? SVN is the version tool ? IBM RAD is the programming editor ? Maintaining the business standards and deployed entire code in the JBoss application server  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts 2.0, Hibernate, Servlets 2.3, Tomcat, HTML, JSF, XML/XSL, XSLT, XSD, AJAX, JavaScript, DB2, Eclipse 4.2(IDE), ANT, Windows, Subversion (Version Control), SOAP web services and DB2. Java Developer ADP June 2009 to October 2010 ADP provides comprehensive payroll services, employee benefits administration, financial services and human capital management solutions for businesses of all sizes. It takes care of the processing of all payroll status changes including new hires, rehires, terminations etc.  Responsibilities: • Involved in Agile - Sprint methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning.  • Involved in preparing High & low level design docs with UML diagrams.  • Involved in preparation of developer test cases, execution.  • Used HTML, Java Script, AJAX, JQUERY, XML and JSP technologies in developing the application.  • Used Struts to define Controller, action mappings, forms and View pages for ADP portal.  • Involved in doing spring programmatic transaction management using AOP and using Spring batch.  • Used SOAP technology to create web services • Implemented Maven as build and configuration tool • Used SVN for version control • Used JMS to pass messages as payload to track different statuses, milestones and statuses.  • Involved in creating JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool.  Environment: JAVA/J2EE, HTML, JS, AJAX, JQUERY, CSS3, Servlets, JSP, XML, XSLT, XPATH, WSDL, SOAP, REST, JAX-RS, JERSEY, JAX-WS, Web Logic server 10.3.3, JMS, Eclipse, JUNIT,JNDI, Java/J2EE design patters, EMMA, spring framework - DI, AOP, Batch and Hibernate mode Education Technology JNTU 2006