Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - SAP CX Work Experience Developer SAP CX October 2018 to Present WeAreBrain  Project: International B2B Marketplace - Itsme  Migrating Company from their legacy platform to SAP Hybris. This engagement will focus on deploying a Minimum Viable Product ("MVP") based on the SAP Hybris B2B Accelerator storefront and get all info from CPI. Setup the out-of-box capabilities of SAP Hybris, and configure or customize  only where explicitly stated herein.  Used technologies: SAP Hybris (B2B, B2C, Backoffice, HAC, ImpEx), Hybris v.6.7, Java, J2EE, Spring, HTML, CSS, JSP, JS, Tag, JUnit, Mockito, Git, Jira, Ant, Tomcat, Scrum, JIRA, Intellij IDEA. Developer SAP CX February 2018 to January 2019 Zaelab_  Project: International B2B Marketplace - Topcon  Used technologies: SAP Hybris (B2B, Backoffice, HMC, HAC, ImpEx), Hybris v.6.2, v.6.7, Java, Spring.  Design and implementation of new features, bug fixing.  Participate in functional design phase evaluation, estimation and planning.  Work closely with the team, product management, and QA to design and develop software  applications.  Project: US B2B Marketplace - TDSC  Used technologies: SAP Hybris (B2B, Backoffice, HAC, ImpEx), Hybris v.6.6, Java, Spring  Design and implementation of new features, bug fixing.  Participate in functional design phase evaluation, estimation and planning. Java/Hybris/AEM Developer Valtech_ April 2016 to August 2018 Valtech_  Project: Ruralco  Took part in the development of new features and bugfixing for Ruralco's new B2B E-commerce built on Hybris 6.3 Performed BE tasks.  Project: Ascom  Customization existing functionality and adding new features using AEM.  Project: MoCU  Customization existing functionality and adding new features using AEM.  Project: PAT Adobe - DAM Extensions  Customization existing functionality and adding new features for core AEM system.  Project: Booking meeting room.  Developed Android application for quick meeting schedule in office.  Used technologies: Java SE/EE, Hybris 6.3 (Data Hub), Spring integration, Adobe Experience  Manager 6.2, Apache Sling, Apache Felix, JCR, Sightly, JS, JQuery, OSGI, HTML/CSS, Git, Jira, Maven, Ant, Tomcat, Intellij IDEA, Scrum. Middle Java Software Engineer Qoderoom May 2015 to April 2016 Project: Electronic document management system (EDMS).  Technologies: Project is highly performance, user-friendly solution that allows business to increase the information security, enhance the decision-making time and improve the quality and efficiency of each  decision, to reduce the turnover of paper versions of documents that helps to increase the speedof the system, the speed of whole system as well as its stability and availability. EDMS contributes greatly to  increase level of employee loyalty and employee engagement.  Used technologies: Java SE/EE, Spring framework, Oracle & H2 databases, Hibernate, Liquibase, Apache Tomcat, Apache Thrift, HTML, CSS, JS, XML, JUnit, Mockito, Git, Maven, TeamCity,  Scrum, Agile, JIRA Java Software Engineer PrivatBank April 2014 to February 2015 Project: MySalary.  MySalary is a service for reporting for accounting, payroll accounting and timesheet.  Used technologies: Java SE/EE, JSP, Glassfish, Tomcat, T-SQL, MyBatis, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, JavaScript, Spring, Git, Subversion, JUnit, Mockito, Maven, Scrum, Unix, Redmine. Java Software Engineer June 2013 to April 2014 Freelance  Project: Parus.  Development business solution for office management and administrative document that is intended for businesses and organizations that use large amounts of documentation nomenclature.  Used technologies: Java SE 6, JBoss, PostgreSQL, Subversion, Unix.  Project: Ipron.  Development of an automated system that allows organizations to build management process based on the turnover of the necessary documents for employees in multiplayer mode.  Used technologies: Java SE 7, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, Subversion. Education Master's Degree in Computer science National Technical University of Ukraine "Kiev Polytechnic Institute - Kiev, UA 2014 Links http://ua.linkedin.com/in/novikovdmytro/en