Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Administrator Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Administrator - AIG Insurance Charlotte, NC • Certified Salesforce developer with 7 years of experience in the IT industry, with 6 years of experience as a Salesforce developer/administrator.  • Participated in all phases of the software development lifecycle including requirements definition, solution design, configuration, code development, testing, deployment and support.  • Good understanding of cloud computing services, such as SAAS, PAAS and IAAS.  • Experience in designing of custom objects, custom fields, custom page layouts, workflows, dependent pick lists, and role based page layouts, validation rules, approval processes, custom reports, custom tabs, report folders, designing Visual Force pages, record types, formula fields and email generation as per requirements.  • Hands on experience in writing Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, developing Visual Force pages using standard and custom controllers.  • Experience in writing batch apex classes, Schedule Apex, dynamic apex, single e-mail methods, mass e-mail methods, test classes, wrapper classes.  • Proficient in administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, e-mail services, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Approvals and Tasks.  • Experienced in customizing standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, opportunities, Products, Price books, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Proficiency in defining lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and creation of junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Proficiency in security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization.  • Experience in deploying various components between different environments using change sets and Force.com IDE.  • Good Experience in integrating third party applications with salesforce using SOAP API and REST API.  • Knowledge on Lightning App Builder, Lightning components, Process builder and Schema builder.  • Hands on experience in automating the Lead & Case Management like Web-to-Lead, Web-to-Case, Email-to-Case.  • Have good working knowledge in querying salesforce.com database using SOQL&SOSL queries and Governor Limits.  • Experience in analyzing business requirements, entity relationships and converting them to Salesforce custom objects, lookup relationships, junction objects, master-detail relationships.  • Experience with data loading and extraction using Data Loader, Salesforce.com Import Wizard, Informatica cloud and workbench.  • In depth understanding of the sales cloud (partner portals) and service cloud (customer portals) automations using Salesforce.  • Highly flexible and accustomed to work in both large and small group settings.  • Excellent Problem solving, Analytical, Communication and interpersonal skills with the ability to communicate confidently with all levels of employers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Administrator AIG Insurance - Charlotte, NC May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering the requirements by coordinating with the business analysts, developers and project managers, to better customize, and utilize the full functionality of the Salesforce.com CRM solution.  • Efficiently worked with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases and Opportunities.  • Designed, developed and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components.  • Proactively created Apex Triggers and Apex classes and developed and managed complex workflows, approvals, validation rules, assignment rules and system triggers.  • Defined the lookup relationship and master-detail relationship on the objects that helps in associating the records and defining a parent-child relationship in which the master object controls certain behaviors of the detail object respectively.  • Effectively created the picklists, dependent picklists and junction objects to establish the connectivity among objects.  • Responsible for writing SOQL & SOSL queries with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Developed different Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application using different Visual force components.  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE plug-in to manage, author, debug and deploy Force.com applications in the Eclipse development environment.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, force.com IDE, workflows and triggers, data loader, web services, custom and standard object, sharing rules, apex classes, test cases - unit testing, validation rules, formula fields. Salesforce Administrator Enterprise, TN January 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Business requirement meetings like gathering information for IT team and analyzing the information provided by Business.  • Interfaced with Business user to update the business requirement document as well as testing document.  • Analyzed the existing process to build an Architectural Design for Real Time Process.  • Developed Technical Design Document after analyzing the different scenarios.  • Mainly worked with Lead & Case Management in SFDC.  • Expert in Salesforce Sales and Service cloud implementation.  • Created page layouts, organized fields and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Developed Classes, Triggers, Visualforce pages and controllers.  • Integrating the application with SOAP Web services.  • Worked on lightning Component framework which is a UI framework for developing dynamic web apps for mobile and desktop devices as well  • Worked on Email handling for assigning the leads to Agents.  • Used Dashboards and reports to show the performance of the offices and time taken to assign Leads.  • Been a part of Unit testing and guided my offshore Developers.  • Developed custom objects and custom tabs for various modules of applications.  • Written numerous SOQL and SOSL queries using Force.com explorer.  • Prepared various test cases to test the functionality of the code in accordance to the governor's limits.    Environment: Salesforce Enterprise Edition, Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Data Loader, HTML, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Escalation rules, Security controls, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, chatter, Force.com Eclipse plug in, Eclipse, Unit testing, Import Wizard. Salesforce Developer BCBS - Omaha, NE August 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, Validation rules, Workflow Rules, Email Alerts, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Involved in developing design documents (both LLD and HLD).  • Designed high level customized Visualforce pages using extension controllers, custom controllers and standard controllers.  • Developed Apex triggers, asynchronous classes, Batch Apex, Apex Scheduler, test methods to achieve users' desired functionality.  • Involved in deployment, deployed all the classes, triggers, objects, components, pages from sandbox environment to production environment  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com objects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Developed and configured various Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Interacted with business user groups biweekly for updating the status of the new developments in production and gathering new requirements and documented the requirements based on Priority Level.  • Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to Salesforce.com Objects and fields using DB Amp tool.  • Customized page layouts for Opportunity, Contacts and Accounts depending upon user roles and groups.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SF Explorer and Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Java Developer Persistent Systems - Pune, Maharashtra March 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked directly with user groups in analyzing and specifying business requirements for the design and development of project.  • Designed application with UML (Unified Modeling Language).  • Developed application based on SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).  • Developed complete Web tier of the application with struts framework.  • Actively involved in configuring the Application Server and deployed all the modules like Web modules and Business modules.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, JSP.  • Developed the Front-End JSP and HTML.  • Developed JSP's, Java Beans and Servlets to interact with Data Base.  • Extensively used JavaScript for client side validations.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, MS SQL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Osmania University Skills HTML (6 years), APEX (5 years), ECLIPSE (5 years), LOADER (5 years), CSS (4 years), Salesforce Admin, Salesforce, COM, Visualforce Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Salesforce Technologies:  Apex Language, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Apex Scheduler, Workflow and Approvals,SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force (Pages, Components and Controllers), Custom Formulas, Validation Rules, Email Templates, Roles and Profiles.    Salesforce Tools:  Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com Platform (Sandbox and Production).    Languages: C, Java, JSP, Servlet, Apex  Web Technologies: HTML,CSS, JavaScript  Databases: MS SQL Server, Oracle  Operating Systems: MS Windows, LINUX, MAC OS-9/10  Documentation Tools: Microsoft Office Suite  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall