SFDC Developer /SFDC Administrator SFDC <span class="hl">Developer</span> /SFDC Administrator SFDC Developer /SFDC Administrator - Fair Health Inc New York, NY • Hands on experience in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) i.e. Systems Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  • Extensive experience in designing of custom objects, custom fields, Junction objects, Pick list, page layouts, Workflow Alerts, Actions, Approval Workflow, Validation Rules, Approval Processes, custom Tabs, custom reports, reports, design of Visual Force Pages, Snapshots, Dashboards, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Strong Knowledge of SFDC standard data structures. Defined lookup, master-detail relationships between objects and created junction objects to establish many to many relationships among objects.  • Expertise in developing UI Components using VisualForce Pages, VisualForce components, Apex Controllers, HTML, Java Script and CSS.  • Expertise in Backend programming using Apex, Triggers, Scheduler, Web services, Batch Apex.  • Strong Knowledge of SFDC standard data structures. Defined lookup, master-detail relationships between objects and created junction objects to establish many to many relationships among objects.  • Experience in working with the Eclipse IDE with Force.com plug-in environment for writing Business logic in Apex Programming Language, testing and deploying.  • Experience in working with Force.com Explorer for querying Salesforce database using SOQL &SOSL queries and Data Loader for data migration, insert, update, and bulk import or export of data.  • Experience in creating and managing Roles, Profiles, Email Services, Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, managing profile level access& implementations.  • Expertise in creating architecture plans, phased implementation plans and data migration strategies.  • Excellent communication and inter-personal skills, accustomed to working in both large and small team environments.  • Proficient in Database Programming and Development using MySQL, Oracle and SQL Server.  • Good development experience with Apex Language, Apex Trigger, Apex Scheduler, Batch Apex,Apex Class & Apex Web Service, Partner WSDL & Enterprise WSDL, VisualForce (Page, Component & Controllers) and S-Control.  • Strong Knowledge in Salesforce Customization, Workflow Approvals, Data Validation, Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Support Administration.  • Experience in web technologies like XML, CSS, SOAP and WSDL.  • Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks and actions.  • Hands on Experience on Salesforce lightning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SFDC Developer /SFDC Administrator Fair Health Inc - New York, NY February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Experienced in Migration of metadata using ANT, Eclipse and Migrating data using Import wizard and data loader.  • Experience in using Service console for cases for Internal and External users.  • Configured Lightning version to change the environment from Classic to Lightning. Converting Visual force pages into Lightning components and Lightning App builder.  • Used refined global search in Lightning by developing Apex classes and Controllers.  • Implemented Web to Case from Salesforce Communities. Experienced in solving cases for internal users.  • Experience in creating Lightning Apps and Custom objects and tabs related to the apps for Internal and external users.  • Developed Lightning Apps using Lightning Components and made them compatible with Salesforce 1 mobile apps.  • Implemented Workflows, email alerts, Templates, UI Changes, Triggers, Time alerts.  • Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge templates and was involved in mail merge for different standard and custom objects in Lightning experience.  • Worked with Business Users and Involved in requirements gathering and Design Sessions with client.  • Created page layouts, search layout to organize fields, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Worked on Batch apex classes on scheduling apex classes to send survey emails for the users every week.  • Good hands on experience on Visual force pages, apex classes and Test class, Rest API, SOAP API.  • Created Salesforce communities for customers and partner users.  • Hands on experience on creating Reports and Dashboards and Report folders for Managers depending on Reports accessibility.  • Hands on experience in documenting the developments and also documenting Salesforce fundamentals and reporting for easy understanding and navigation for business users.  • Created training materials and power points for Business users and have done many presentations on new developments and training users.  • Used TaskRay to assign tasks to internal users. Worked on Borads, Filters etc on TaskRay.  • Used QUIP to maintain documents and added it as related list on Standard and Custom Objects to maintain the documents in an organized way.  • Experience in creating permission sets based on users and profiles depending on their roles.  • Experience in performing new release evolutions with Business owner and managing functionality roll outs.  • Maintained three production instances and several sandbox instances.  • Worked on automating command prompt Apex data loader for loading .CSV files into salesforce.com.  • Experience working on creating Knowledge Articles. Worked on Knowledge, Ideas and People.    Environment: Eclipse IDE, ANT, Salesforce.com, Force.com Sandbox, Lightning Components, Workflows, Triggers, Data Loader, Web to Case, Service Cloud, QUIP, TaskRay. SFDC Consultant Trusted Media Brands Inc - New York, NY February 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented the Salesforce.com applications using Agile SCRUM Methodology that involves the iterative development methodology.  • Preparation of design documents of various silhouette application based on gathered requirement.  • Involved in coding for modules for all the Sub-Application of the CRM application which involves extending existing SFDC standard components using Apex, VisualForce and other utilities.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Implemented Web-to-lead to track and solve leads from the website.  • Created different Workflow rules and Approvals for various campaign processes.  • Designed, and developed the Custom objects, Validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, packages for various functional needs in the application.  • Integrated with PeopleSoft FT at the back end with Salesforce as User Interface and it is a bi-directional integration using Informatica on demand.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visualforce Pages and Controllers  • Administered, configured, maintained Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, assigning Permissions, generating security tokens, validation Rule, upgrade installation  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com IDE.  • Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboards.  • Created Summary reports, Tabular reports, Matrix reports, Charts and Dashboards to assist the business team.  • Extensively involved in Unit Testing using Test Methods using Force.Com utilities.  • Developed several Apex Triggers, Classes and Apex API based - Java classes during the project lifecycle.  • Participated in the training sessions provided by the Salesforce team and support end users.  • Experience in working with Salesforce.com sandbox and production environments.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using Import Wizard and Data Loader Utility.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Quotes, Role Hierarchies, Sharing Rules, Email Templates, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Service, Security Controls, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Security Controls, Sandbox Data Loading. SFDC Developer IcicI Bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the applications to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Performed the role of Salesforce.com Developer in the organization.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather and documented the requirements. Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Closely worked with SalesForce.com teammates while implementing the solutions for the requirements.  • Developed several Triggers, Apex classes and Visualforce pages as part of the application development.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Opportunities.  • Customized the Dashboards to track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Designed, Implemented, and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish many-to-many relationship among objects.  • Created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements  • Customized tabs for different business user's groups and business centers.  • Created the workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation, alerts, and custom coaching plans.  • Experienced in the use of Data Loader and scheduling timely data backup operations using Apex scheduler.  • Implemented escalation rules, automatic case generation and their escalation to call center representative, and generated email alerts for quick issue resolution.  • Used Salesforce Chatter to provide real time notifications of changes in accounts, leads and opportunities to help sales and service teams to be more efficient.  • Performed the role of support engineer for the internal users and helped them in getting used to the application, generated reports and saved them for further access to the users.  • Integrated Salesforce CRM and the legacy system using Cast Iron Integration Systems.  • Customized the entire Salesforce.com applications to incorporate the business requirements which involved creating Web Forms and processing the data in SFDC with the extensive usage of Web services API.  • Installed and maintained AppExchange apps such as Experian QAS, Smart sheet and Zuora.  • Implemented Sales Cloud and incorporated the enhanced features as required to streamline the business process  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help of salesforce.com support.  • Provided the training to the internal business users to use the application and develop their own custom reports.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visual Force, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SF Explorer and Eclipse IDE Plug-in, AppExchange apps, Flows, SOAP and REST API. Java Developer Broadcom Hyderabad, India July 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirements based on business data and user requirements.  • Implemented the modules using Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern  • Developed business logic to calculate asset depreciation based on Straight Line and Written down value approaches.  • Wrote a controller Servlet that dispatched requests to appropriate classes  • Developed GUI related changes using JSP, HTML and client validations using Java script.  • Developed Java beans, helper classes and Servlets for interacting with user interface written in JSP  • Wrote SQL queries and PL/SQL stored procedures to access the asset information and rates from database.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat server at client locations. Dealt with code versions using CVS.  • Involved in various stages of the project life cycle primarily design, implementation, testing, deployment and enhancement of the application.  • Involved in designing the system based on UML concepts which include data flow diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, state diagrams using Rational Rose Enterprise Edition.  • Designed and developed web pages using JSP, HTML and used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Involved in design and development of the application in n-tier fashion based on MVC architecture standards and utilized Struts frame work.  • Developed data model and stored procedures. Used JDBC for communicating with the database.  • Solid understanding in Object-Oriented analysis and design. Worked on various Design Patterns, UML and Enterprise Application Integration  • Responsible for maintenance and production support of the application documented design and functional aspects of the application.    Environment: Java 1.4, Servlet, JSP, HTML, Java Script, CVS, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, MySQL. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE (6 years), APEX (5 years), FORCE.COM (5 years), LOADER (5 years), SALESFORCE.COM (5 years), Sharepoint Administrator, Sharepoint, System Administrator, Hadoop, Vmware Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Apex, C, Java, PHP 5, Visual Basic 6.0, SQL  Salesforce.com Technologies  Salesforce Sales and Service Cloud, Salesforce CRM, Apex Language, Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages / Components, Apex Web Services, Workflow & Approvals, Analytic Snapshots    Salesforce Tools  Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com Platform (Sandbox, and Production).    Web Technologies/Tools HTML, XML, Java Script, CSS, SOAP, JAVA/J2EE  Databases MySQL, Oracle 9i, MS SQL Server 2000/7.0/6.5, MS Access 7.0  Office Package MS Office, Open Office  Operating Systems Linux, Windows 2000/NT/XP, Pro / Vista, Windows Server 2000 / 2003, Mac