Full stack Java Developer Full stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Full stack Java Developer Irving, TX • 8+ years of software experience in designing, development and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications using Java/J2EE technologies, Application frameworks.  • Strong experience in all the phases of software development life cycle including requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, deployment and support.  • Proficient in applying design patterns like Singleton, Builder, Factory, Prototype, Facade, Decorator, Bridge, Proxy, Visitor, Observer, Interpreter, Mediator, Iterator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  • Good understanding of Data Structures, Algorithms and Object-Oriented design concepts.  • Knowledge on Front end UI development skills using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX.  • Experience on large scale java script projects / front end development.  • Built Spring boot Microservices for the delivery of software Products across the Enterprise.  • Expertise In java concepts like Spring, Web services, Hibernate, JMS, Multi-Threading, JDBC, JSP, Servlet, Collections, Struts.  • Implemented the Spring Micro services to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Good experience in developing web Applications using Spring MVC framework implementing Action Controllers, Action Forms, Spring Validation Framework and Spring Tag Libraries.  • Experience in working on various Spring modules (Spring Core, Spring MVC, DAO and AOP) along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Self-starter, fast learner and a team player with strong personal and group communication skills.  • Extensive development experience in different IDE's like Eclipse, STS, IntelliJ and IBM RAD.  • Good working knowledge on SVN and GIT for code management and version control.  • Experienced in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices. Involved in planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings.  • Involved in migrating application from Angular 4 to Angular 5.  • Used GitHub version control system as a source repository to organize the code base.  • Excellent analytical, logical and programming skills, Self-Motivated, Self-Starter, Team Player can work with minimal supervision with effective Communication skills and Time management skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full stack Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Irving, TX January 2019 to January 2019 Description: Order Management System-Order Rewire (OMS-OR) is an online application to support and enhance the order management system of Verizon. The previously developed order management system is based on COBOL and legacy java code. Now they are rewiring the entire system using Java and Cassandra. It uses REST API's to interact with different components and tools. Data inputs are provided through multiple sources.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze requirements, designs and develops software applications in client/server environment and/or web deployed applications.  • Build and Deploy to all Runtime environments (From DEV to PROD) and resolve issues on the fly.  • Resolve issues related to Customer Portal for business and end users as and when required.  • Interact with Project Manager to understand requirements and scope the systems  • Working with technologies in the platform stack, to include Java, HTML, CSS, Spring Boot, Spring Micro Services, REST Services and Database etc.  • Developing API's for Verizon's Order Management system using REST Services and Verizon's internally developed Action Engine Framework. It is a system that consumes a dependency graph of actions and runs those actions.  • Action Engine will utilize the Java Work Manager API to achieve parallelization for non-dependent actions. Action Engine has the mechanism of Error Handling, will handle any exceptions generated by the engine itself.  • Working with Cassandra database to read the data for the API's. There is an external Verizon system called PNO which interacts with Cassandra database.  • The PNO layer takes the input as XML file (Typedef) which has the queries in CQL and fetch the data from Cassandra DB by making use of Typedef.  • Wrote join conditions in Groovy Script.  • Worked with PL/SQL Stored Procedures to fetch the data from DB2 and implemented those NSP's in Java layer.  • Worked with Ibatis persistence framework which automates the mapping between SQL database objects and objects in Java. This mapping is created and maintained using xml configuration files.  • Worked with IBM RAD for Development and Deployed the EAR on WebSphere Application Server WAS 8.5.  • Worked with Postman and Soap UI for testing the Web Services.  • Experienced in monitoring the API performance and traffic in production using Kibana.  • Also observed the API's in Emulation and Prod-parallel tool. Resolved the issues identified in the production.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with CI/CD tools like Jenkins.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  • Deploying J2EE application EAR to Testing and Production environment using IBM WebSphere Application server.  • Participate in unit testing, integration testing, and system test procedures.  • Used JIRA for tracking the defects and mostly used JIRA to update the JIRA ticket s as the work progresses.  • Used GIT, Tortoise GIT version control tools for code management check-ins, checkouts and synchronizing the code with repository.  • Handle multiple tasks - ensure that tasks are being completed in timely manner with limited direction  • Participate in team meetings to discuss approaches to current projects.  • Comply with all established procedures and policies of Verizon.  • Proven experience meeting large deliverables with fixed and aggressive deadlines.  • Ability to present clear, concise reporting on concurrent projects and issues.    Environment: J2EE, Spring framework, Agile Scrum, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Drools, Jira, JDK 1.8/1.7, Java 8/7, JSON, JSF, AJAX, Web services, POSTMAN, JSON, Agile Methodology, SQL, Cassandra DB, Design Patterns, Apache Maven. Full stack Java Developer Tucson Electric Power - Tucson, AZ April 2018 to January 2019 Description: Tucson Electric Power is an electric utility company serving southern Arizona in the United States. It is a subsidiary of Fortis, which announced its acquisition of parent company UNS Energy in 2013.TEP provides the energy behind Tucson's economy. We deliver safe, reliable power to more than 417,000 customers in the Tucson metropolitan area. TEP's community service efforts have earned nationwide acclaim.    Responsibilities:  • Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Built REST full web service using spring  • Developed Spring Boot applications with Microservices and Deployed into AWS using EC2 Instances.  • Did the testing and monitoring and visualized how our mobile app built is being used.  • Developed Microservice with Spring MVC to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each Microservice in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway  • Has created PL/SQL procedures, functions and complex SQL queries for admin services.  • Using Java Messaging Service JMS for messaging, configured queues and topics on the WebLogic 10.3 Application Server and used them for messaging.  • Developed Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process.  • Debugging and testing done with Google chrome developer tools and Firebug.  • Created unit test with Jasmine, Karma for frontend and Junit, DB Unit tests for Presentation, Business and Data Access layers.  • Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces based on J2EE design patterns.  • Experience in using JSP and Servlets to create web interfaces and integrating apache tools like Kafka.  • Worked on Angular2.0 version for mobile app development.  • Used ECMAScript6 (ES6) for writing complex applications and modules.  • Design and develop webpages components to improve user experience and features using HTML, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript  • Experience with the features of Angular 5 such as directives, modules and routing.    • Worked on Angular Bootstrap for templates designing and to create mock-up data.  • Extensively used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  • Analyzed changes in online transactional processing, business processes, and modifications, to improve quality of applications and meet additional requirements through MongoDB.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Written JUNIT (TDD) test cases for testing Spring Framework classes and wrote many JavaScripts to do client side validations.  • Used Jasmine testing framework for JavaScript. Run the Jasmine tests by using Karma, a simple JavaScript test runner tool.  • Highly used Angular 4 router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals.  • Involved in migrating application from Angular 4 to Angular 5  • Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Adopted a cross browser and cross platform approach to make the websites most versatile and supportive.  • Used GitHub version control system as a source repository to organize the code base.  • Manipulated data using CRUD operations of MongoDB database management system and handled database access using Node JS    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Rest, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, JSP, WebSphere, Mongo DB, , PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, Eclipse, Maven, JavaScript, Angular 2.0& 4,Typescript,CSS,Jasmine, Jasper Report. Full Stack Java Developer J.B. Hunt - Lowell, AR September 2016 to March 2018 Description: J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. is a trucking and transportation company that was founded by Johnnie Bryan Hunt, and based in the Northwest Arkansas city of Lowell. J.B. Hunt is a Fortune 500 Transportation Company dedicated to helping our customers move freight efficiently. Learn how we can help you today.    Responsibilities:  • Was responsible for designing and developing Manage Purchase Order Web Service and presentation layer with Spring MVC.  • Responsible for Requirement gathering, coding, testing and documentation.  • Architected and deployed Java based web product matching framework that matches products across multiple retailers.  • Designed and integrated the full scaleSpring/Hibernate persistence solution with the application architectures.  • Designed and developed the messaging framework for communication between workflow manager and other Enterprise Applications over Java class and MQ-Series using JMS.  • Designed and integrated the full scale Spring/Hibernate persistence solution with the application architectures.  • Implemented RESTfulWebservices to retrieve data from client side and made RESTAPI calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to the client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  • Designed and developed business components using SpringBoot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Worked with the development team to create appropriate cloud solutions for client needs.  • Implemented database layer using EJB 3.0 and Java Persistence API(JPA) in maintenance projects  • Responsible for developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  • Involved in Preparation of the technical design documents and involved in identifying and implementation of different J2EE design patterns like Singleton and DAO etc.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, JSTL, HTML, JSON, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, indexes, sharing, replication, schema design.  • Using Apache Camel frame work provided concrete implementations of all the widely used EnterpriseIntegrationPatterns (EIPs) and connectivity to a great variety of transports and APIs.  • Contemporary applications rely on relational databases, NoSQL databases and messaging infrastructure for achieving the internet scale. Cloud Foundry exposes MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, RabbitMQ and Redis as services that offer the database and messaging capabilities  • Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, JavaScript and JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  • Developed the application using My Eclipse 8.5 and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, and formatting and build automation.  • Handling user requests such as code enhancements, bug fixes.  • Created stored procedures, triggers and functions using SQLPlus to meet user requirements.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance l.  • Integrated with MDM for managing user data, login and registration information are retrieved from MDM and synced with E commerce database    Environment: Java, J2ee, Java beans, Servlets, Angular 1.2.0 , Servlets, , Hibernate, EJB, JPA, Spring, Java Script, JDBC, UNIX, HTML, Eclipse, Web Services, MySQL, SQL Plus, Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA January 2016 to August 2016 Description: Vanguard is one of the world's largest investment companies, offering a large selection of low-cost mutual  Funds, ETFs, advice, and related services. Whether you are an individual investor or a financial professional, or you  Represent a corporate or institutional investor, you can benefit from its expertise, stability, and reliable investment approach.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate framework in conjunction with validation.xml functionality.  • Extensively used DAO patterns, including mapping DAO objects, configure file and classes to interact with the database.  • Used Jenkins plugins for code coverage and to run all the test before generating war file.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using Hibernate (ORM) framework.  • Developed rich User Interface using jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Used AJAX function calls using jQuery functions to handle the user requests asynchronously and to have faster responses from the server by directly connecting to the server.  • Implemented web services, used to retrieve data that tells whether the claimant is incarcerated or not.  • Developed applications using Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping files, configured XML files, hibernate query language.  • Developed JSP pages for correspondence team.  • Implemented web services using WSDL/SOAP and created web services and clients to use those services.  • Designed and Developed Rating Engine as a Web service following the top-down approach using ApacheAxis2.  • Developed Custom Tags to represent data in a desired unique table format and to implement paging logic.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access.  • Business logic is implemented using SpringCore and Hibernate.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit integration, bugfixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Codereviews.  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  • Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.  • Involved in initial project setup and guidelines.  • Implemented Multi-threading concepts.  • Developed the application using CoreJava, J2EE and JSP's.  • Different Types of testing viz Unit, System, Integration testing etc. is carried out during the testing phase.    Environment: Java/ J2EE, CSS, JavaScript, Hibernate, Spring MVC, XML, Web Services, SOAP, Eclipse, Rational Rose, HTML, XPATH, DOM and JDBC. Sr. Java Developer/Front end UI Developer Pearson - Princeton, NJ October 2014 to December 2015 Description: Pearson is based on educational platform, which is one of the leading educational and professional publishers around the globe. The rapid growth in usage of Tablets, Laptops and smart phones which transforms education to everyone virtually anytime and anywhere, this project focuses on e-learning web portal and application development.    Responsibilities:  • Developed multiple user tools with core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  • Implemented multiple design patterns like factory, façade, etc.  • Extensive code reviews on adherence to design and performance.  • Extensive real time production support.  • Wrote HQL queries as part of development.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  • Created database pool, multi-pool, data source and mapped them to roles.  • Used spring for creating the object using dependency injection (IOC).  • Developed the web-services and analysis of SOAP envelope using SOAP UI.  • Created Rest web services using JAX-RS, Hibernate framework.  • Configured action mapping (in XML) for each logical request that may be submitted.  • Seed Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data.  • Have used DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML5 and JavaScript, Angular JS.  • Monitored the error logs and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used Sub Version (SVN) for version control.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Developed additional UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Developed web pages using HTML5/CSS and JavaScript, Angular JS  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.  • Used GWT and Smart GWT for web application development  • Wrote batch jobs and was involved in performance tuning of complex queries.    Environment: Core Java, SQL Design Patterns, Spring, OOPS/OOAD (UML), XML, Hibernate, Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN source control, JIRA. Java Developer Montek Technology Services - Pune, Maharashtra June 2011 to September 2014 Description: Montek Real Estate and Construction software focuses on providing information technology solutions and services to home builders, real estate agencies, and commercial construction companies and facilities management service providers. Montek combine industry domain knowledge with in-depth, specialized technical expertise to help our customers leverage information technology and achieve measurable business impact    Responsibilities:  • Developed multiple user tools with core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  • Implemented multiple design patterns like factory, façade, etc.  • Extensive code reviews on adherence to design and performance.  • Extensive real time production support.  • Wrote HQL queries as part of development.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  • Created database pool, multi-pool, data source and mapped them to roles.  • Used spring for creating the object using dependency injection (IOC).  • Developed the web-services and analysis of SOAP envelope using SOAP UI.  • Created Rest web services using JAX-RS, Hibernate framework.  • Configured action mapping (in XML) for each logical request that may be submitted.  • Seed Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data.  • Have used DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML5 and JavaScript, Angular JS.  • Wrote batch jobs and was involved in performance tuning of complex queries.  • Monitored the error logs and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used Sub Version (SVN) for version control.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Developed additional UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Developed web pages using HTML5/CSS and JavaScript, Angular JS  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.    Environment: Core Java, SQL (DB2), Design Patterns, Spring, OOPS/OOAD (UML), XML, Hibernate, DOJO 1.5, Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN source control, BugZilla, Autosys, Aqua Studio, JIRA, Cygwin. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, jQuery, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, Git, GRADLE, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, ORM, REPORTING TOOLS, SCRIPTING, SVN, XML, AJAX, Angular, C#, React, Nodejs, Node Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Java/J2EE (JSP, Servlets and other java related technologies.)  Scripting jQuery, JavaScript  Frameworks  Spring (MVC, AOP, ORM, Web Service, DAO, Social, Security, etc.), Hibernate, Bootstrap, Struts, Spring Data JPA , ,Angular1.x, Angular 2,4,5,6,7    IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD)  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS, SSL, XML, AJAX, Web Services, REST  Web Servers Web logic, Web Sphere, Tomcat, J  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL Server, Cassandra  Database Tools SQL Developer, MSSQL Server Management Studio  Reporting Tools Jasper Reports  Build Tools Gradle, Maven, ANT  Other Tools JIRA, Confluence, Bamboo, Sonar  Version Control Git, SVN, CVS  Operating Systems Windows (XP, 7, 8/8.1, 10), Linux, Unix