Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Citi Bank St. Louis, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Citi Bank - St. Louis, MO March 2017 to Present Description: We developed a loan application which is used for mortgage section, where my duties are establishing middle ware interaction with sales service layer using springs and hibernate validator by using most customized annotation and we take input data from UI and map it to the sales service layer which hits the business layer and get response from DB.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on High level and low level system design, planning, estimation and implementation  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript.  • Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS.  • Design and develop template based User Interface using Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQuery.  • Worked on Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions for making anonymous inline function calls by using Functional Interfaces which makes code readable and concise.  • Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that must be stored in AWS S3.  • Utilized Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 to deploy Docker containers.  • Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro Services and Lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.  • Worked on development and implementation of the MVC Architectural pattern using Spring Framework.  • Designed and integrated the full-scale Hibernate persistence solution with the application architecture.  • Involved in design and development of the Hibernate Domain Model for the service.  • Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs as JDO and Hibernate.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring, Hibernate template support  • Using Spring Framework implemented dependency injection, Action classes through Application Context XML and initialized managed beans and services.  • Designed and implemented application using JNDI, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP.  • Used Spring IOC for injecting the Hibernate and used Hibernate annotations to design the modeling part of the application.  • Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller  • Enterprises Integrated Pattern Implemented with Apache Camel(ESB).  • Developed a RESTful based service for data retrieval to make it independent of the current application.  • Involved on development of RESTFul web services using JAX-RS in a Spring based project.  • Proficient in Application Development/Maintenance using Legacy RPI languages.  • Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Websphere is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.  • Experience in using JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN.  • Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications  • Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Ajax, Hibernate, JPA, Spring MVC, Spring, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Web Services, SOA, SOAP, REST, Apache Camel, Servlet, JSON, JSP, JDBC, Docker, Oracle, Websphere, Maven, Log4J, SVN, XML, Scrum, Unix, Junit. Full Stack Developer SABRE HOLDINGS - Southlake, TX June 2015 to December 2016 Description: SabreSonic Web is the industry-leading e-commerce solution. It includes a Best-in-class, Internet booking engine, configurable shopping and pricing capabilities, Third-party insurance, car and hotel and Travel bank form of payments that provides the flexibility and to meet the demands and needs of customers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle process using Agile Methodology.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Design and developed template based User Interface using Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQuery.  • Designed and developed application using Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP and handled security using Spring Security Oauth.  • Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller and Spring AOP for logging purposes.  • Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and developed controllers for handling Http requests and providing Http response.  • Developed REST and SOAP based Web Services for data retrieval to make it independent of the current application.  • Implemented RESTful web services using JAX-RS and Jersey as provider.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture by SOAP based Web Services with JAX-WS and WSDL.  • Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  • Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs as JDO and Hibernate.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Integration and Hibernate template support.  • Used JMS API for communication between the components.  • Established connection to Oracle database with Spring Integration, Hibernate and created POJOs for mapping with the database tables.  • Experience in writing complex PL/SQL queries using joins, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, cursors, and indexes in Data Access Layer.  • Developed test cases for Unit Testing, Integration Testing with JUnit.  • Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications  • Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Used Maven as build automation tool and deployments are on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Spring Tool Suite (STS) IDE for application development.  Environment: Java1.7, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Hibernate, JDBC, REST, SOAP, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, Service Oriented Architecture, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Unit Testing, JUnit, Log4j, Maven, Web Sphere Application Server, Jenkins and Spring Tool Suite (STS). Sr. Java/J2EE Developer BCBSA - Chicago, IL January 2014 to June 2015 Description: BCBSA - a health insurance company that improves the customer's well-being, productivity and health by providing them with benefits, service and expertise. In this project we have developed a real-time, fully automated claims processing system for online mediation of disability, medical, vision and dental claims. The timely and efficient management of all the data related to clinical, administrative and finances throughout the organization is done by the application which in turn enables the information sharing between subsystems.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Design, Analysis, Development and Testing.  • Involved in developing and designing the User Interface for Web applications with the help of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Foundation frameworks  • Implemented RESTful and SOAP based web services using for JAX-RS and JAX-WS respectively.  • Designed and implemented application using Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Spring JDBC.  • Implemented Batch jobs using Spring Batch created various item readers, item writers and item processors.  • Validations are done using SoapUI and Ready API testing tool framework in different environments.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application  • Used GoCD for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery to build pipelines during deployment.  • Design and implemented the backend layer using Hibernate.  • Develop named HQL queries and Criteria queries for use in application.  • Implemented transaction management for ORM project using Spring Transaction Management API.  • Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities and JUnit for unit testing  • Used Spring Tool Suite(STS) IDE tool for application development.    Environment: Java, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular2, NodeJS, CSS, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring batch, Hibernate, XML, GitHub, JSP, Spring MVC, JDBC, JUnit, WebSphere, JMS, RESTful, SoapUI, Jenkins. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Assurant Inc - Miami, FL June 2011 to July 2013 Description: Assurant Inc is a holding company with businesses that provide a diverse set of specialties, market insurance products in the property, casualty, life and health insurance sectors and including placed insurance product.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  • Developed User Interface using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed client side application with Angular JS in a clean Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture.  • Involved in component development using J2EE principles and used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Data Access Object (DAO) in the implementation of the application.  • Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  • Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate & Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  • Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  • Worked on Hibernate for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to fetch the data, insert and update the data from the database.  • Used Hibernate in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  • Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  • Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.  • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using Apache CXF framework and worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  • Created tables, triggers, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, SQL queries, Joins, i2ntegrity constraints and views for IBM DB2.  • Used Multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Implemented Restful and SOAP based Web Services and used Soap UI for testing.  • Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners.  • Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Performed deployment of applications on Web Logic Server.  • Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  • Involved in day to day handling of JIRA issues (production issues at time) that involved data inconsistencies that required to be solved in very less time.  • Worked with Eclipse IDE and used Gradle build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process and used Git as Version Control tool.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  • Participated in Code Reviews of other modules, documents, test cases.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSTL, Spring, Hibernate, XML, XSD, Web Services, Restful, SOAP, WSDL, Log4j, JUnit, DB2, Web Logic, Jenkins, Gradle, GIT, Eclipse, JIRA, Agile Methodology, Windows, Linux, Rational Rose. Java/J2EE Developer Login IT Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2010 to June 2011 Description: This project was designed to build a Common Access Platform for customers and insurance agents using the Internet to interact with the system from any part and allow the customers to buy insurance online. Also, used by the HR department to manage the vast information generated due to massive business operations. The main objective is to help in tracking HR related issues, optimize and increase the productivity.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the risk workflow system.  • Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support in WATER FALL methodology.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using Struts, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in J2EE using Struts MVC.  • Implemented Struts framework (Action & Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate classes.  • Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Achieved synchronization of multiple threads through Multithreading and Exception Handling.  • Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  • Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and performed action mapping using Struts.  • Developed batch job using EJB scheduling and leveraged container managed transactions for highly transactions.  • Involved in developing Web Services to send XML request and reading the response SOAP UI from Java platform.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs, Garbage collections for dynamic memory allocation to implement various features and enhancements.  • Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC for Oracle.  • Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.  • Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements.  • Implemented JUNIT test cases for unit testing and Suites for end to end testing.  • Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories and bug fixing.  • Used SVN to check-in and check-out and co-ordinate among team members for Version Controlling.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, XML, Struts, JDBC, IBATIS, Web Services, SOAP UI, Restful, HQL, SQL, JBOSS, Oracle, ANT, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, Tortoise SVN, and UNIX. Jr. Java Developer Kofax India Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2009 to April 2010 Description: Aim of this Project to sale and allocate the flat to customer and generate agreement such as UDS agreement, allotment letter, sale agreement, amenities agreement based on the project, document, survey, survey direction, tower, floor, flat area price, flat booking and customer details.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application based on MVC architecture.  • Developed web application using JSP, Servlets, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Wrote JavaScript for client side validation.  • Used Java Swings in designing user interfaces.  • Used Java Fundamentals and OOPS concepts like inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction to develop the code.  • Implemented core java concepts like Multithreading, Exception Handling and Collection wherever necessary.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating Servlets, JSP, and XML.  • Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from database.  • Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problem.  • The Application was deployed on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Involved in build and deploying the application using ANT.  • Used Configuration Management Tools for version control which is built on CVS.  • Worked on bug fixing and Production Support.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, MVC Design pattern, PL/SQL, Log4J, Apache Tomcat server, My SQL, Eclipse IDE, CVS, ANT, Log4J. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (7 years), JDBC (7 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (7 years), MVC (7 years) Additional Information Skills  JAVA (7 years), JDBC (7 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (7 years), MVC (7 years)    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages C, C++, Java, J2EE, and PL/SQL.  Tools and Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Struts, JSF, JUnit, SOAP UI, JReport.    J2SE/J2EE Technologies  Java, J2EE, RMI, Sockets, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Java Beans, JSTL, JSF, Jakarta Struts, EJB, Spring, Hibernate, JTA, JNDI, JPA JMS, Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI and RESTFUL), Groovy/Grails.    Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSF, AJAX, NodeJS, JSON Restful.  XML Technologies XML, XSL, DOM, SAX, DTD, XQuery, XSD and XSLT.  Cloud Technologies AWS EC2, S3, Dynamo DB, ELB  Databases Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, MS SQL, IBM DB2, MongoDB, NoSQL.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Glassfish, Web logic Application server, JBOSS.  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Gradle, Vagrant, Docker and Jenkins  IDE / Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite(STS), RAD  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Mockito, Soap UI, Log4j and JIRA  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS and GIT  Platforms Windows, Mac, Linux and Unix.  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Test Driven Development