Salesforce Admin/ Developer Salesforce Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Admin/ Developer - TD Auto Finance Farmington Hills, MI Over 7+ years of IT experience in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes 4 years of experience as CRM consultant, Administrator, Business Analyst and Developer on Salesforce.com platform.  * Experience in SFDC development using Apex classes and Triggers, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL  * Experience in Developing, Administration, Configuration, Implementation, and Support of Salesforce CRM based on Apex Language by leveraging Force.com Platform.  * Experience in realizing the business requirements to design on salesforce.com platform by designing the required entities like custom objects, creating the relationships, junction objects like Master-Child, Lookups, and Entity relationship data model, Pages, Classes and Interfaces.  * Proficient in performing detailed analysis of business and gathering technical requirements.  * Experienced in use of Standard and Custom controllers of Visualforce in development of custom Salesforce pages as required by business requirements.  * Experience in working on Eclipse IDE with Force.com plug-in, command line interface.  * Worked on managed packages installation and configuration from Salesforce.com AppExchange  * Experience in creating various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders.  * Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce.com using Data Loader Utility.  * Participated in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDFC) i.e., System Analysis, Design, Development and Testing. Expertise with Object Oriented Design (OOD), Analysis (OOA), based on Unified Modeling Language (UML) architecture.  * Experience in Database Design, writing stored procedures, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries.  * Knowledge on Informatica ETL and Jitterbit tools for data migration.  * Expert in preparation of functional and technical design documents. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Admin/ Developer TD Auto Finance - Farmington Hills, MI September 2018 to Present Description: TD Auto Finance is a competitive U.S. auto financing company focused on providing customers with a personal, worry-free and easy automotive finance experience. TD Auto Finance is part of TD Bank Group, ranked as one of the safest banks in North America by Global Finance Magazine and one of the few Aaa-rated banks listed on the New York Stock Exchange. With offices around the world, TD Bank Group offers a full range of financial products and services.    Responsibilities:  • Migrated data from Oracle to Salesforce using Data Loader, Import Wizard  • Involved in requirement gathering from users  • Monitoring and troubleshooting Informatica ETL jobs on production server  • Created Managed Packages with deprecated annotations to be available for partner Salesforce users.  • Set up Marketing Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, Lead Queries, Assignment rules, Web-to-Lead and Auto-Response rules.  • Implemented Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approval Processes, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks, Events and Audit Trials  • Generated different kinds of reports and Dashboards as per the user's request  • Worked on Visual Workflows for taking survey on company's product  • Debug Apex scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute Governors and Limits.  • Deployed Apex using Force.com IDE, Force.com Migration Tool and Web Services API  • Implemented Classes, Interfaces, Keywords and Annotations  • Worked with Apex Scheduler to invoke Apex classes at regular intervals  • Worked with Dynamic Apex to access Objects and Field describe information, execute dynamic SOQL, SOSL and DML queries  • Implemented escalation rules, automatic case generation and their escalation to call center representative, and generated email alerts for quick issue resolution  • Implemented security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy and created public groups  • Implemented web-to-lead and web-to-case  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing by using change sets  • Worked in Salesforce Production Support to identify the root cause of the issue and fixed the same  • Created Custom Visualforce components and attributes to override the look and feel of standard Visualforce components.  • Created Visualforce pages that could be rendered as PDF's, build dashboard components and define email templates.  • Created Visualforce pages which identified a region to be updated to enforce partial page refreshes and display the status of Ajax requests to display different values depending on whether it is in progress or completed.  • Implemented Visualforce pages with public-facing websites by using Force.com Sites.  • Specify timers that send Ajax update requests to Force.com according to a specified time interval.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows. Salesforce Admin/ Developer Blackboard Inc - Washington, DC February 2016 to August 2018 Description: Blackboard Inc. is an educational technology company, provides education, mobile, communication, and commerce software and related services to clients including education providers, corporations and government organizations.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups to gather the document requirements  • Customization using Apex and Visual Force  • Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information  • Worked closely with business analysts to perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC)  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, Custom Objects, Components, Visual Force Pages, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic  • Worked with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads and Opportunities  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects  • Implemented Case Management Automation to track and solve Customer's Issues  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visual-Force pages as user interface  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages  • Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visual force pages to develop custom business logic  • Data migration from ACT, Excel, MS outlook and Legacy Systems using Data Loader, Import Wizard, Informatica Data Loader    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Custom Component, Custom Controllers, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, ETL Tool ( Informatica On Demand), Email Services, Security Controls, HTML, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, Reports, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows Vista. Sales force Administrator/ Developer Assurant - Wayne, PA July 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:    * Closely worked with Business Team and SalesForce.com consultants while implementing the solutions for the needs of organization.  * Designed and configured the various Roles, Profiles and Sharing Rules to entire Salesforce Organization.  * Designed and developed on Force.com Platform.  * Designed, developed and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages, Apex classes to suit to the needs of the application.  * Implemented Case Management Automation to track and solve Customer's Issues. Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case to enter generated cases to Case Object.  * Designed and developed SFA based Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visual-Force pages as user interface.  * Created Apex REST methods which supports into formats JSON and XML.  * Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  * Worked on Opportunity Page Layout Enhancements.  * Integrated the web services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from internal systems.  * In-depth understanding of SFDC CRM applications like Sales cloud and Service Cloud  * Designed and developed workflow rules, validation rules, and customizations within Sales force.  * Implemented Apex Classes & Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows implemented in the system.  * Created and deployed Several Reports using salesforce.com platform.  * Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  * Coordinated development activity with Offshore Team.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com platform, Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script,, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Sales force Admin/ Developer Catholic Health December 2012 to June 2014 Eaglewood, CO    Responsibilities:  * Created various Profiles, Roles and configured the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  * Wrote all the APEX classes required for the proper working of the batch process.  * Used custom Settings for the configuration needs of the application.  * Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, workflows and Auto Response for automating business logic.  * Participated in end-to-end implementation cycle of various releases.  * Being the only developer on this project I designed and developed the complete process  * Created and managed technical and business process documents.  * Created few custom objects to store the archived Case records and its child records.  * Created some custom settings to provide the configuration management functionality for the APEX Batch process.  * Developed the APEX test classes required for deployment the Batch process  * Created multiple Visualforce pages for various requirement needs.  * Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects. Also created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  * Created VF pages using custom Controller to develop the functionality of updating multiple records on SFDC Designed various HTML Email templates for Auto-Response to customers.  * Used Translation Workbench on SFDC in-order to translate the custom labels, validation rules and email templates in different languages.  * Implemented escalation rules, automatic case generation and their escalation to call center representatives, and generated email alerts for quick issue resolution.  * Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  * Developed APEX Classes, Controller Classes and APEX Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  * Developed and deployed workflows and approval processes for opportunities and products/ assets management.  * Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.    Environment: Reports, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE, Saleforce.Com CRM, Force.Com Platform, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Workflow & Approvals, WSDL, Windows, Apex Classes, Chatter. Java Developer Spartan Solutions January 2011 to November 2012 India    Responsibilities:  * Designed and Developed User Interface Screens using HTML, Java Script.  * GUI screens were created using AWT.  * Developed Java Servlets for handling requests and responses from the client web pages and database updates.  * Maintenance of the system and updating of the system as per client requirements.  * Used different packages to meet the functionality and business requirements.  * Developing and modification of Servlets that handle the database update and to handle user requests and to send required responses.    Environment: Java (JDK1.3), JAVASCRIPT, AWT, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, and Oracle 8. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JSON, MAGIC, VISIO, XML, ECLIPSE, FORCE.COM, DATABASE, MS ACCESS, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, ORACLE 11i, SQL, APEX, AJAX, CSS, CRM Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information Technical Skills  Sales force Technologies  Approvals, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management Automation Sales force Applications, , WSDL, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages / Components, S-Controls, Workflow , Apex Language, Apex , Sales force CRM, Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers    Sales force Tools Force.com Platform Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data Loader, Force.com.  Web Technology SOAP, REST, WSDL, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular, XML, JSON, CSS, HTML  Database Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle 11g, Oracle 11i, Microsoft Excel, MS Access  UML Tools MS Visio, Rational Requisite Pro, Magic Draw UML