Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Artech Inc Seattle, WA • Certified Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator around 8+ Years of IT experience that includes 8+ years' experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform and Two years of experience with Java technologies. Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, requirement gathering, design, developer, enhancement, testing, deployment and maintenance of standalone object-oriented enterprise applications.  • Highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies.  • Excellent work experience in designing of custom objects, custom fields, role-based page layouts, custom Tabs, custom reports, report folders, report extractions to various formats, design of Visualforce Pages, Snapshots, Dashboards, Apex Classes, Controllers & Triggers, Validation Rules, Workflow Alerts & Actions, Pick Lists, Record Types, Process builder and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Strong experience in Steel Bricks and Oracle Big Machines CPQ implementation. Used Apptus CPQ to enable sales reps to configure complex product and service combinations and set prices that will positively impact deal profitability.  • Experience in working with Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in environment for writing Business logic in Apex  • Experience in creating lookup relationships and master-detail relationships on the objects and creation of junction objects to establish connectivity among other objects.  • Hands-on experience in using New Lightning UI to bring Salesforce into the responsive UI era of web-based applications.  • Understanding and writing user stories for the implementation of SOSL, SOQL and WSDL.  • Good Experience in data migration and integration using Data Loader, Import Wizard.  • Excellent in Administrative tasks like Creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Permission Sets, Email Services, Approvals and Activities.  • Hands on experience in implementing security and sharing rules at object, field and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also, created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Good knowledge on mobile applications like Salesforce1 and Salesforce classic.  • In-depth understanding of CRM business process that include Forecasting, Campaign Management, Lead Management, Order Management, Account Management, Case Management and Merging Management.  • Strong knowledge about Sales cloud, Service cloud, Community cloud & Marketing cloud configuration and customization and good understanding with Client/Server architecture.  Experience with Web and Web application servers (e.g., Apache, Jetty) and No-SQL databases like MongoDB & Cassandra  • Hands on experience in using enterprise integration tools, extract transformation and load(ETL), enterprise information integration tools and enterprise architecture initiatives(EAI).  • Experience in developing mobile applications using Bootstrap & Heroku and has good knowledge in PhoneGap.  • Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleansing activities while transferring the data to the external system using Informatica on Demand.  • Experience in developing UI using Visualforce pages and providing business logics using Apex.  • Hands on experience of Salesforce Web Services API like REST, Bulk & SOAP.  • Experience with environments consisting of Object Oriented Languages like C++, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets and other Java technologies.  • Experience on Java Multi-Threading, Collection, Interfaces, Synchronization, and Exception Handling.  • Hands on experience working with HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Angular JS and AJAX.  • Proficient in dealing with the functionalities related to the Sales Cloud, Service Cloud and Marketing Cloud.  • Experienced in Sandbox Management (Like Refreshing Sandbox, Creating New Sandbox and Migrating code from one sandbox to the other).  • Work well alone and as part of a team with excellent troubleshooting mechanisms and highly adaptable to different work environments.  • Strong knowledge and working experience in software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) methodologies such as Agile, Scrum and Waterfall model  • A quick learner to new concepts and ability to meet deadlines and handle pressure in coordinating multiple tasks in a work/project environment.  • Strong Technical and Analytical skills. Work Experience Salesforce Developer Artech Inc - Seattle, WA April 2018 to Present Description: Worked on Enrollment management, support services, academic departments and advancement which depend on Salesforce to perform functions such as tracking donations, making appointments with advisors, monitoring student progress in courses scheduling tutors to increase successful completion, and providing crisis management. Integrating salesforce with other platforms used by the university such as the myNEU portal Microsoft Outlook, Banner and Folder wave, it underlies many services and functions of university departments.    Responsibilities:  ? Design Requirement documents and functional document for the development team.  ? Set up Marketing Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, Lead Queries, Assignment rules, Web-to-Lead and Auto-Response rules.  ? Deployed Apex using Force.com IDE, Force.com Migration Tool and Web Services API.  ? Created Dashboards and Dashboard Components and implemented multiple levels of Dashboards and scheduled Dashboard refresh.  ? Used Visualforce Templates and Placeholders to encapsulate page elements to be reused across several Visualforce pages.  ? Used Organization security, Network-based security and Session security to implement platform security.  ? Used Tab permissions, Record type permissions and Field Level Security to implement component-based security.  ? Used Tabular, Summary and Matrix reports to create Standard reports and Custom reports.  ? Designed and modified Approval processes and created Approval steps which used email alerts and field updates.  ? Performed analysis, troubleshooting, data testing and environmental refreshes as needed.  ? Used Process Visualizer to study Approval steps.  ? Implemented various advanced configurations like Visual Flows, Process builder, service cloud console and Salesforce.com Community setup.  ? Worked on the Page Layouts, enhanced search results by modifying Search Layouts, provide Custom links, Related lists and other components on Record detail pages and Edit pages.  ? Provided training to internal business users to use application and develop their own custom reports.  ? Created workflow rules on Leads, Accounts, Cases and Contacts to automate the Email Alerts, Field Updates and sent Outbound, Inbound, Messages to external partners, defined Time Triggered Tasks.  ? Implemented Approval processes, created Email Templates and Approval Page Layouts and tested using Sandbox.  ? Created Many-to-Many relationships and created Junction objects to implement Roll-up Summary  fields to aggregate data from child records on the parent.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Workflow and Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Tabs, Email Services, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Components and Controller, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Data Loader. SFDC Developer/ Administrator BCBS, Maryland March 2016 to April 2018 Description: Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink. It is produced by the Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia and is often to simply as Coke. The Coca-Cola Company has on occasion, introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, and developed the new interface for implementing a better solution that replaced the old interface.  • Served as a SFDC liaison between end users and IT. Worked closely with the business and IT teams to understand business strategy and contributed to achieve business goals from assigned applications for SFDC.  • Created Custom objects, validation rules, Custom tabs, Components, Visual force Pages to meet the application requirements.  • Created modularized and Reusable custom components.  • Worked on web services to integrate Salesforce using REST API calls.  • Worked with compatibility in a team to Gather, Analyze, Create technical, functional documents and System design.  • Developed and Customized User interface in Salesforce.com using Visual force, Apex controllers and Force.com IDE.  • Worked on Accounts, Opportunities, Quotes, and Orders and implemented the logic based on the business needs.  • Created Page layouts, Record Types, Profiles, Roles, Permission settings, Users, and Sharing settings.  • Created Multiple Sandboxes to migrate all the related Development, Customizations, and Configurations from one system to another system.  • Created Email Alerts, Email templates, Sharing Rules, Reports and Dashboards, Salesforce1 mobile.  • Used Inbound/Outbound change sets and Eclipse for deploying components from Sandbox to Production Environment.  • Migrated Data and associated the relationship for Standard as well as Custom objects using data loader, Import Wizard.  • Used SKUID to create custom components as an extension to Lightning.  • Implemented/Worked on Apps such as Conga Composer, Conga Solutions, and Quote Sync to meet the business requirements.  • Designed and developed Visual force pages and controllers.  • Used Salesforce Lightning Connect Integration with third party tools.  • Used Canvas tools and JavaScript API's to integrate a third-party application in Salesforce.  • Exposed various applications as a Canvas app and made them available to user as part of their Salesforce experience.  • Served as a marketing product expert and administrator of SFMC processes (manage subscriber-level data).  • Setup, maintained, and optimized Email marketing campaign utilizing Exact Target/Salesforce Marketing Cloud.  • Designed and automated campaigns in the marketing cloud through campaign tools (Journey builder).  • Created different journeys of emails like which email to which person on what time and keep track of responses from clients to accomplish the intended tasks and conclude journeys by the journey builder.  • Embedded HTML emails, push notifications and created applications by writing AMP Script and made application to call at the end of the email send.  • Upgraded from Exact target 1.0 to Salesforce marketing cloud 2.0 org.  • Migrated data to E2.0 to share the content and give access to the content.  • Involved and implemented Sales cloud, configuration, dealers, contacts, territory management, commitments, metrics, workflows, validations reports, dashboards and dealer grouping.  • Experience with Service cloud including Service console, case feed, knowledge base and entitlements.  • Constructed number of wave analytics using business object web reports.  • Used business object integration instead of reporting tool for full wave analytics.  • Used wave analytics to explore the data and share it with customers and sales team for the efficient sales of the products.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Created and deployed several Reports using Salesforce.com platform.  • Worked intensely on custom objects, triggers and workflows.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and established connectivity among objects.  • Managed dependencies, risks and planed for contingencies to ensure minimal effect on deliverables.  • Deployed from DEV to QA, UAT, Staging, and Production using Force.com.  • Written Apex Test classes to achieve above 90% code coverage to test apex methods.  • Written Test scripts for various scenarios.  • Automated Process for updating fields values between different objects.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Service Cloud, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Lookup and Maser Details Page, Security Controls, Apptus CLM, Ant scripts, Salesforce1 Mobile, Java Script, Web Services, Sandbox, CloudCraze, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer and Administrator Coca Cola - Atlanta, GA April 2015 to February 2016 Description: Blue Cross Blue Shield Association (BEBSA) is a federation of 36 separate United States health insurance organizations and companies, providing health insurance to more than 106 million Americans. Blue Cross was founded in 1929 and became the Blue Cross Association in 1960, while Blue Shield emerged in 1939 and the Blue Shield Association was created in 1948. The two organizations merged in 1982.    Responsibilities:  • Discussed and analyzed the requirements with the business team and converted the requirements into detailed technical requirements.  • Used Force.com Developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Implemented Security Settings, configured profiles and permission sets.  • Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  • Implemented Apex Data loader "Command Line Interface (CLI)" to automate the data loading process for the sand box refresh activity.  • Designed various Webpages in Visualforce for customers to select a variety of services offered by the org and integrate them with the pricing team  • Involved in UI and DB Design for Mobile application  • Involved in replication of Salesforce CRM data to SharePoint.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Customized existing Visualforce to align with Salesforce new Lightning UI experience  • Built apps visually with Lightning App Builder, Lightning Components and lightning connect integrations across multiple connections.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Created Apex Controller server for Salesforce Lightning experience and added Lightning Component to lightning pages and record pages.  • Responsible for setting up web service integrations.  • Implemented OAuth 2.0 for authentication by Force.com Canvas to integrate the applications.  • Made Canvas applications available in the chatter, Visual force pages, Salesforce1, page layouts and Salesforce console  • Implemented Inside sales telephonic plug-in application.  • Customized Salesforce alerts and notifications regarding new business acquired via the Sales process.  • Created many tasks using wave analytics to help sales team to take an action.  • Worked with wave analytics assets like apps, dashboards, lenses, data sets to explore and import the data.  • Driven deep with wave analytics to identify top performances and ensure best practices to succeed.  • Configured Salesforce and marketing cloud integration user along with configuration in Salesforce.  • Created data extensions, list to load data into Salesforce marketing cloud.  • Automated emails, customer events and activities and set criteria to shoot emails by creating the Journey's page.  • Created data extensions to admit contacts into a journey and determined action and executed Journey builder.  • Worked on Automation studio and created related activities.  • Created, build, and executed campaigns.  • Extracting the reports according to the requirements to send follow-up email.  • Used AMP Script to use data from Data Extensions.  • Executed data driven campaigns, email, mobile push, sms.  • Used Health cloud packages to convert lead records to patient records and also installed risk stratification package to make admins view dashboards of at-risk patients.  • Mapped clinical data from EHR to health cloud objects and fields that hold patient and engagement data.  • Imported Historical medical information associated with patients to health cloud through custom integration and created patient job flow.  • Created custom health cloud console to align with how organization works with patients.  • Asssited with use case and test case development and worked with project manager and/or business manager to test and accept new functionality.  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and user requirements, designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC).  • Used the sandbox for testing and migration of code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Implemented SKUID for building user friendly interface (UI) for both standard and custom objects and to add custom functionalities in Force.com.  • Conducted interviews with key business users to collect requirement and business process information.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Deployments, Force.com Migration Tool, Jenkin, Translation Workbench, Sandbox, Ant scripts, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Lightning Components, CTI integration and Email Services. Sr. Salesforce Developer Nationwide Pet Insurance - Brea, CA May 2013 to March 2015 Description: Pet insurance pays, partly or in total, for veterinary treatment of the insured person's ill or injured pet. Some policies will pay out when the pet dies, or if the pet is lost or stolen. AS veterinary medicine is increasingly employing expensive medical techniques and drugs, and owners have higher expectations for their pets' health care and standard of living than previously, the market for pet insurance has increased.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirement gathering and development of Design Document and Technical Design Document.  ? Implemented Security Settings, configured profiles and permission sets.  ? Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  ? Implemented Apex Data loader "Command Line Interface (CLI)" to automate the data loading process for the sand box refresh activity.  ? Designed various Webpages in Visualforce for customers to select a variety of services offered by the org and integrate them with the pricing team  ? Involved in UI and DB Design for Mobile application  ? Involved in replication of Salesforce CRM data to SharePoint.  ? Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  ? Responsible for setting up web service integrations.  ? Implemented OAuth 2.0 for authentication by Force.com Canvas to integrate the applications.  ? Made Canvas applications available in the chatter, Visual force pages, Salesforce1, page layouts and Salesforce console  ? Implemented Inside sales telephonic plug-in application.  ? Customized Salesforce alerts and notifications regarding new business acquired via the Sales process.  ? Created many tasks using wave analytics to help sales team to take an action.  ? Worked with wave analytics assets like apps, dashboards, lenses, data sets to explore and import the data.  ? Driven deep with wave analytics to identify top performances and ensure best practices to succeed.  ? Configured Salesforce and marketing cloud integration user along with configuration in Salesforce.  ? Created data extensions, list to load data into Salesforce marketing cloud.  ? Automated emails, customer events and activities and set criteria to shoot emails by creating the Journey's page.  ? Created data extensions to admit contacts into a journey and determined action and executed Journey builder.  ? Worked on Automation studio and created related activities.  ? Created, build, and executed campaigns.  ? Extracting the reports according to the requirements to send follow-up email.  ? Used AMP Script to use data from Data Extensions.  ? Executed data driven campaigns, email, mobile push, sms.  ? Used Health cloud packages to convert lead records to patient records and also installed risk stratification package to make admins view dashboards of at-risk patients.  ? Mapped clinical data from EHR to health cloud objects and fields that hold patient and engagement data.  ? Imported Historical medical information associated with patients to health cloud through custom integration and created patient job flow.  ? Created custom health cloud console to align with how organization works with patients.  ? Asssited with use case and test case development and worked with project manager and/or business manager to test and accept new functionality.  ? Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and user requirements, designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC).  ? Used the sandbox for testing and migration of code to the deployment instance after testing.  ? Implemented SKUID for building user friendly interface (UI) for both standard and custom objects and to add custom functionalities in Force.com.  ? Conducted interviews with key business users to collect requirement and business process information.  Environment: Salesforce Force.com, Service Cloud, REST API, Apex and Visualforce, SOQL, SOSL, Data Loader, Eclipse, Java Server Faces (JSF), Servlets, Directory Server, Documentum Composer. Java/J2EE Developer KeerraanTechnoAnalysis Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to April 2013 Description: Keerraan Techno is a software services company delivering transformational IT solutions through customer specific Centers of Excellence. Keerraan Techno serves Software Product to companies and enterprises in the Banking, Travel, Finance, Retail and Distribution verticals across the country. Its key service lines include Business Intelligence and Analytics, Application Development Management.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirements gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Developed Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  ? Extensively designed and developed web pages using JSP, HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS and CSS in the front end.  ? PAGE FLOW is used to drive user interfaces.  ? Used JDBC to invoke Triggers, Stored Procedures in Oracle10g.  ? Used Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  ? Developed Restful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  ? Developed ANT scripts for automating build process  ? Extensively worked on XML DOM Parser.  ? Used Spring Model View Controller (MVC) 2 architecture. Used JSPs in front-end, Used XSL/XSLT for transforming common XML format into internal XML format.  ? Used Log4J API for logging and debugging.  ? Used JIRA as bug tracking tool.  ? Implemented the Web Services with WSDL, UDDI, and SOAP from the scratch by using Apache Axis.  ? Deployed the application on WebSphere server.  ? Debugged the code using Java debugger and Eclipse and used exception, condition and other break points.  ? Involved in installation of Oracle Client, troubleshoot and establish the connection to Oracle database.    Environment: J2EE, Struts, Servlets, EJB, AJAX, HTML, CSS, XML, Ant, JavaScript, Oracle 10G, Eclipse 3.0, WebSphere 5.x, Log4J, Junit, Rational Rose AngularJS. Education Bachelor's Skills .net, C#, Html, Eclipse, Java, Security, Web services, Apex, Force.com, Data analysis, Data migration, Database, Ms access, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Sql, Data cleansing, Qtp, Exchange, SFDC, Visualforce, Certification, Soql, COM, Salesforce Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Salesforce technologies: Apex, visual force, SOQL, SOSL, Email template, formula, Validation rules, apex trigger, workflow and approvals, App exchange, Eclipse, sales force.com IDE, Apex data loader, web services. Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects, Lightning.    • Salesforce Tools: Eclipse, Force.com, Eclipse IDE plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data Loader, Force.com Excel connector, Force.com Platform (Sandbox, and Production) QTP and Sandbox Testing.    • Data Migration Tools: Data Analysis, Data Cleansing, Data Normalization, Data Migration, Data Loader    • Database: SQL Server 2005, Oracle, MS Access, PeopleSoft    • Programming Languages: Java, C#, .NET, HTML, Apex, DL/SQL    • Configuration Skills: Workflow: time-dependent actions, field updates, email alerts, Field Level and Object level security, role hierarchies, sharing models, SFDC Standard Object Configuration: Campaigns, Reports, Dashboards, Formula Fields and Cross Object Formula Fields Configuration Skills, Overall User Management, Security and Sharing Model, Translation Workbench, Documentation Templates, Salesforce Lighting.    • Project Management: Agile/Scrum, Waterfall, Agile