Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Bain Capital Boston, MA • Around 8+ years of total IT experience, 5 years of experience on salesforce.com, involves working on configuration, customization and integration in Salesforce.com. 4 Years of experience on Java/J2EE.  • Extensive experience in developing Enterprise applications using Core Java and various J2EEtechnologies including Multithreading, Collections, exceptions, JSP, Servlets, JSP Custom Tags  • Experience in Analysis/Design/Development/Testing and Implementation, Client/Server Architecture.  • Expert level in understanding of Salesforce.com CRM and its Development Life Cycle.  • Experience in SFDC Configurations/Customizations - as Administrator and Developer.  • Experience in developing Custom Objects, Custom Fields, Page Layouts, Tabs, Custom objects, Field Dependencies, Relationships, Validation Rules, Workflow Rules, Approval Process and Data Management.  • Worked on the entire breadth of the APTTUS CPQ (Config, Price & Quote)  • Worked with client side developers and business analysts in developing configuration models in the CPQ workflow.  • Experience in working Sales Cloud and Service Cloud.  • Expertise at administrative tasks such as User management, creating Users, Profiles, Roles and Permission Sets, Workflow, Tasks and Events, Email notification and templates, Reports and Dashboard.  • Worked on customizing and development of Communities.  • Used data migration tools such as Apex Data Loader, Salesforce Import and Export Wizard, and Force.com Migration tool.  • Worked on following deployment techniques  ? Change Sets  ? Force.com IDE Tool  ? Force.com Migration Toolkit  • Experience on implementing Apex classes, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, Triggers, and working with Force.com IDE.  • Have exposure in Customer Portal and Self -Service Portal.  • Have good experience in Trigger, Test Methods, and writing SOQL and SOSL queries.  • Worked on Migration tools Force.com IDE, Eclipse and have knowledge of Changeset migration code and configuration from the Dev sandbox to Production. Work Experience Salesforce Developer Bain Capital - Boston, MA January 2019 to Present Intuit Inc is a business and financial software company that develops and sells financial, accounting and tax preparation software and related services for small businesses, accountants and individuals. Intuit makes TurboTax, a consumer tax preparation application, the small business accounting program QuickBooks, professional tax solutions ProSeries and Lacerte, and multiple payroll products.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performed the role of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Custom Objects.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Worked on the development of client/server and web Applications using JAVA, J2EE, J2SE  • Experience in working SFDC Service Cloud implementation experience - Service Console, Live Agent and Communities.  • Strong experience in Oracle Big Machines and Apttus CPQ implementation.  • Maintained CPQ tool updated with latest functionality by Installing Apttus CPQ releases.  • Experience with Salesforce Service cloud implementation and Sales cloud  • Developed a SOAPUI based framework to enable testing of legacy SOAP/REST API implementations and Salesforce Service cloud integration  • Implemented Agile Scrum Methodology to improve communications between Engineering, Product Management, and Business to provide more transparency across the departments  • Selected and implemented agile development practices according to the application requirements for every project  • Improved team velocity by incorporating capacity planning into sprint planning sessions.  • Stored procedures and triggers are created for high performance.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse and also Apex Classes, Apex Language Apex Triggers.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML, Custom (without using Letterhead), Text and Visual force.  • Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.  • Responsible for all the activities related to configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files into salesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data.  • Involved in Business requirement meetings like gathering information for IT team and also analyzing the information provided by Business users.  • Interfaced with Business user to update the business requirement document as well as testing document.  • Developed Technical Design Document after analyzing the different scenarios.  • Created page layouts, organized fields and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Validation rules.  • Used Dashboards and Reports to show the performance of the offices and also time taken to assign Leads.  • Implemented new enhancements including creation of custom objects, workflows, email alerts and templates  • Developed and maintain visual force, Force.com pages and integration to other third party solutions  • Maintained multiple user roles, security, profiles, workflow rules, etc.  • Demonstrated ability to effectively communicate technical issues and resolve problems at all levels of the organization both internally and externally  • Having solid business analysis and good inter-personal skills    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, Oracle CPQ Cloud, HTML, Java Script, S-Controls, Dashboards, Reports, Production environment, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse, IDE Plug-in Salesforce Developer Deutsche Bank - Jersey City, NJ January 2016 to December 2018 Wipro Technologies helps customers do business better by leveraging our industry-wide experience, deep technology expertise, comprehensive portfolio of services and vertically aligned business model. Our 55+ dedicated emerging technologies 'Centers of Excellence' enable us to harness the latest technology for delivering business capability to our clients. Wipro is globally recognized for its innovative approach towards delivering business value and its commitment to sustainability. Wipro champions optimized utilization of natural resources, capital and talent.  Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and user requirements, designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC)  • Used Force.com developer toolkit Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Customized application to extend Salesforce functionality and wrote Apex Classes to provide functionality to the Visualforce pages.  • Implemented Security Settings and configured profiles and permission sets.  • Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Worked on Batch Apex and Schedule Apex for birthday notifications and other scenarios.  • Worked on the security level setting in the company for all the levels.  • Used Salesforce Automation Process, created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts, and field updates to implement business logic.  • Designed and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Worked as enhancement developer and team member, performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Responsible for setting up web service integrations.    Environment: Saleforce.com, Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Triggers, Visualforce, Apex Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page layouts, Email Services, SOQL, SOSL, Sandbox, Force.com IDE. Salesforce Developer WELLS FARGO (Banking) - Minneapolis, MN July 2014 to January 2016 Bain Capital is a global alternative investment firm. It specializes in private equity, venture capital and credit products. It invests across a range of industry sectors and geographic regions. As of June 2014, the firm managed more than $75 billion of investor capital across its various investment platforms.  Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and user requirements, designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC)  • Worked with Scrum team using Agile Methodology of 3 weeks sprint cycles to deliver software on time and within budget.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Customized application to extend Salesforce functionality and wrote Apex Classes to provide functionality to the Visualforce pages.  • Implemented Security Settings and configured profiles and permission sets.  • Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Worked on Batch Apex and Schedule Apex for birthday notifications and other scenarios.  • Worked on the security level setting in the company for all the levels.  • Used Salesforce Automation Process, created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts, and field updates to implement business logic.  • Designed and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Worked as enhancement developer and team member, performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Responsible for setting up web service integrations.    Environment: Saleforce.com, Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Triggers, Visualforce, Apex Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page layouts, Email Services, SOQL, SOSL, Sandbox, Force.com IDE. Salesforce Developer/Administrator Valvoline Inc - Lexington, KY February 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:    • Maintain Communication between multiple divisions within WKH (Wolters Kluwer Health) and Responsible for streamlining system configurations for all WKH divisions  • Specify and design solutions across business areas or systems.  • Analyzes Salesforce configuration and make recommendations on best practices and process improvements.  • Work with Demand Tools for data loads, exports, marketing list bounces and monthly audits.  • Create and maintain all development code in SFDC including APEX, Visual Force, JAVA, CCS, and HTML.  • Evaluate and undertake impact analyses on major design options and assess associated risks.  • Ensure that the system design balances functional, service quality, security, and systems management requirements.  • Capture project scope and achieve agreement on deliverables and completion dates in partnership with various stakeholders.  • Design and Maintain Integration with desk.com, HubSpot and NetSuite, JIRA, LinkPoint360.  • Implemented JIT (Just in Time Provisioning) for the entire application as Single Sign-on Module.  • Implemented the Job Close Functionality through various validations, callouts and data  • exchange process through local services.  • Integrated EDS (Expert Diagnostic System), QSOL, SRT, INSITE, BMS, SIEBEL (Warranty Information),  • WWSPS, Connected Diagnostics and Many more to CSS (Cummins Service System) using REST and • SOAP web services.  • Designed and developed Validation Rules to maintain data quantity and data consistency.  • Supported in onboarding new locations through Account Creations, Role mapping and group  • access across the world (Australia, Mexico, Spain, France & Canada)  • Implemented Salesforce Service Cloud & Opportunity Management (Case Management, Entitlement Management, Product & Price Book, High Volume Customer Portal, Partner Portal, Visual Force Sites) for business support and technical support for its channel customers.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Service Cloud, Sales Cloud, Apex Language, Visual force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP. Java Developer Zensar Technologies - Pune, Maharashtra March 2011 to February 2012 Zensar Technologies is an information technology services and infrastructure services provider. It provides the services on salesforce, SAP, Oracle, business Intelligence, Testing, Application Management, Infrastructure Management & Cloud, Business Process Management  Responsibilities:  • Application development using J2EE Architecture.  • Development of Java business components using the Struts framework.  • Involved in writing SQL queries for the application in Oracle.  • Coordinating with QA for testing  • Developed User Manual and Installation Manual  • Track project delivery commitments and ensure the adherence to schedule  • Establish and maintain project communications with onshore and offshore divisions  • Business process review and modeling  • Data modeling and ER diagrams  • Develop Functional Requirements Specification (FRS)  • Requirements gathering- Proto-typing, Walk-through to business groups and gap analysis  • Use case, design - class, sequence diagrams. User Interface design  • Data Modeling - logical and physical models  • Mitigate technical risks and issues  • Create POC for first time patterns and vendor integrations.  • Code review with the developers and delivery team  • Co-Ordinate and manage Global Delivery teams at offshore locations.  • Schedule and organize weekly or daily stand up meeting with the whole development teams both onshore and offshore.  Environment: Java, J2ee, EJB, JSF, JMS, JPA, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Web Service (SOAP, REST API), Spring, Hibernate, OWSM, SSO, ADF, WebCenter, Oracle SOA, Apex, UCM, WLST and Python, LDAP, NoSql and Sql. Skills APEX (8 years), HTML (7 years), LOADER (7 years), DATABASE (5 years), FORCE.COM (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    SFDC Technologies Apex Classes, Controllers and Extensions, Apex Triggers, Visual Force Pages, SOQL, SOSL.  SFDC Tools Apex Data Loader, Force.com IDE (Eclipse), Dupe Catcher, Conga Composer  Languages Apex, Java, My SQL database  Operating System Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Window 7  Web Technologies CSS, Web Services, HTML