Sr. Android Developer Sr. Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Android Developer - Time Warner Cable Philadelphia, PA • Over 7+ years of professional IT experience in Android application development, testing & deployment in Consumer and Enterprise Applications.  • Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Requirements Gathering, Project Design, Development, Support and maintenance phases to meet requirement of project and familiar with agile software development methodologies as well.  • Proficient with Java, C++, Objective C and Android SDK version Android 1.5 to Android 6.0(Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop and Marshmallow).  • Expertise in creating and developing applications for android operating system using Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  • Extensive experience in building mobile applications using Android framework APIs such as (Location, Camera, Animations, Maps).  • Experience in developing applications using Third-Party APIs such as ESPN, YouTube and Social Networking such as Facebook and Twitter.  • Hands on experience using media framework using Android API and skills like multimedia usage, video, sound and networking.  • Experience in design and development of Rich Mobile Applications using JavaScript, XML, CSS, and HTML.  • Excellent in troubleshooting and debugging software applications, creating, executing and documenting test cases for Android app.  • Experience in using SQLite Database, Content Providers and Sync Adapters for mobile data management.  • Experience on Android UI components such as TextView, ListView, Customized ListView, Menus, Edit boxes, Buttons, Checkboxes, Dialog boxes, Alert boxes, Action bars, and Spinners for various layouts in Application development.  • Experience in Graphic designing in Adobe Photoshop, MS Visio and Front Page for rich user friendly front end contents.  • Experience to working with the different UI component in Android along with MP charts, Action Bar and View Pager.  • Experience in working with XML parser's, REST/SOAP and server side technologies like Apache and PHP.  • Solid understanding of interfacing to back-end system using XML/JSON, OAUTH 2.0, etc.  • Experience in branching, pushing and merging codes with remote repository such as GIT&SVN.  • Good knowledge in using Stash to maintain software version control, pull requests for committed codes and peer-to-peer code review.  • Good Exposure in using Material Design.  • Good understanding in Testing Mobile applications and bug tracking for the production team fixing.  • Proficient with UML Diagrams, Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams to design programming solutions.  • Self-motivated and excellent abilities to learn new languages and other concepts quickly, excellent interpersonal skills and abilities to communicate with team players. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Android Developer Time Warner Cable - Philadelphia, PA June 2016 to Present Project Description: Designing, developing, testing and debugging an Android application using JAVA, XML and JavaScript in Android studio and in Eclipse. TWC TV app allow subscribers watch thousands of TWC On Demand(TM) TV shows and movies anytime, anywhere, even when they are offline. Created and maintained the project status reports for the team to upper management    Responsibilities:  • One of the senior most developer in my team and mentored three interns working on enhancement of TWC TV Go Android application.  • Implemented Recycler view in our existing Android application and working on various other features including Material Design.  • Constantly updating our application to keep pace with Android best practices and Google design guidelines.  • Played with variety of third-party libraries to either reuse or fork and tailor it to our needs with their existing codebase.  • Also worked on other apps fleet in debugging complex issues that other traditional applications are unable to observe, worked on persistent logging apps to search for various hardware and communication problems from service providers, device hardware quirks and other client server anomalies.  • Improved the video quality to HD Fleet apps provide for collection of data at vehicle incident site.  • Familiar with the media business from subscription to content delivery.  • Historical background in nearly all modern operating systems and low level system API, toolkits and frameworks.  • Worked on the custom List View which showing the picture, name and address of the places, ordered the places by the distance from current location.  • Worked closely with the team to set up the most reasonable way to create and get intents to achieved best user experience.  • Texted the application with automation tool Seletium and Robotium.  • Worked directly with backend server teams providing a multitude of services including; audio and video streaming content delivery, database lookups, mapping, customer history, documents, contracts and many more.  • Work on strict schedules that have requirements extensively analyzed for accuracy. Involved in process from gathering requirements to coding, testing and defect resolution.  • Extensive experience in full SDLC from conception to reality.  • Experience working with all levels of software development personnel and various teams including onsite, off site and offshore.  • Good understanding of entire Android programming model from front end GUI and widgets to back end server communication protocols.  • Emphasize the changing best practices and adhere to native practices to provide best performance and end user experience.  Environment: Android SDK, JSON, RESTful services, OPENGL, Robotium, HTTP, Git. Android Developer Wal-Mart, Sunny vale March 2015 to May 2016 Project Description: This app saves you time and money online and at your local Walmart for shopping millions of items at unbeatable prices. Availability of products that are near to the customer.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing the requirements of application, testing, stage, deployment, production and maintaining the application.  • Responsible for testing the application in stage, code review fixing the bugs and providing post-production support.  • Designed the User Interface with navigation bar, view pager.  • Making the Restful Service Calls using Google's Volley Library at the various stages in the app development cycle and parsing the responses back from the web servers according to the application requirement.  • Integrated the QR Code scanning library in to the application for the scanning.  • Responsible for adding the Reader API, this allows reading the payment card data.  • Worked with Google Maps AndroidAPI V2 to display the AIL locations with markers using Geocoder.  • Worked with the version control SVN to push the code.  • Designed custom dialogs, custom notifications for displaying the generated payment code.  • Responsible for storing the Payment code within the app using the Shared Preferences in SQLite database.  • Registered the Broadcast Receivers for the android system announcements.  • Designed the Custom Action bar, Custom Progress bar while making service calls.  • Implemented the mail feature of sending mail with billing information as an attachment.  • Worked with Application Activity Lifecycle callbacks for providing the security and showing the login screen when the app goes to background.  • Responsible for adding the update module for checking the latest version of app.  • Extensively worked on designing the layouts to be compatible with multiple screen sizes.  • Worked on testing the application using J UNIT testing framework.  Environment: Java, JDK, Eclipse IDE, windows 7, Google Maps API V2, Google Volley, SVN, JUnit, XML, JSON. Android Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN May 2014 to February 2015 Project Description: Application provides a way to manage deliveries, track status of packages, find store locations and customize shipments and deliveries.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Fragments on the main screen, On Click of each fragment takes to another tab.  • Implemented List View, so as to show the different shipments and maps as a form of list  • Integrated location based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest stores.  • Worked closely with the testing team  • Worked in an Agile based environment.  • Collaborated with web services team to implement the backend support  • Designed and developed the request and response data to and from database.  • Implemented SQLite databases to monitor shipments  • Implemented customized web view component to load an SWF file and HTML data.  • Created test cases and test data for testing the application using JUnit Extensions  • Performed Unit testing on the various modules/functions to ensure that the output is as expected  • Used JIRA to track issues  Environment: Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, Google Maps, AML and SQL Databases, JIRA, JUnit, GPS Services. Android Developer Dow Chemical Company - Midland, MI January 2013 to April 2014 Project Description: Dow Snow globe is an interactive snow globe. We can choose from different scene backgrounds and choose your own picture to resize and fit inside of the globe .Application allows you to shake or use your finger to swirl the snow around.    Responsibilities:  • As a team member, I was involved in the design and implementation of the UI, classes, architecture and activities of the mobile application.  • Used Frame Layout to show background images of the app.  • Involved in implementing Async task for the background operations.  • Developed the app to adapt to different orientations (Landscape/Portrait) and various resolutions (ldpi/mdpi/hdpi) based on the device  • Implemented MotionEvent method to swirl the snow around with a shake.  • Implemented TouchEvent method to swirl the snow around with the use of finger  • Developed analytics for the application so as to keep a track of the app on which device and in which places it has been used.  • Designed and developed the request and response data to and from gallery.  • Participated in all the phases of SDLC from design, development through testing, porting and support of application  Environment: SDK, Eclipse IDE, Frame Layouts, DDMS console and User Interface Design. Java Developer Riktam Technology Consulting Pvt.Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to September 2012 Project Description:  FRESH direct Pvt Ltd is fruit/vegetable vendor. The website developed by Fresh direct Pvt allows people to purchase Online. The Objective of the product is to provide a comprehensive solution for Online Shopping and also automate the process involved within the sales, stores, finance, and purchase departments. System is integrated with the Credit Card Company and payment can be made online. System sends automated email messages to its customer with the latest promotions and discounts.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the client in understanding the requirements.  • Walkthrough the Detailed Designs and General Designs.  • Developed the User Interaction Screen using HTML and JSP.  • Developed the module to handle the access roles of the users for front-end system.  • Wrote Stored Procedures for MQSQL Database.  • Developed test cases for unit testing.  • Coordinated with the team member on different issues and referrals.  • Deployed the jar files on the tomcat Server.  • Provided Onsite Support after the system went Live.  • Worked under the UNIX environment.  Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, MQSQL, UNIX, Tomcat. Jr. Software Developer Logitech - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2009 to July 2010 This project was developed to provide access to the digital curriculum of the school to their students. A unique user name and password would be provided to each student and the authenticated users were given access to digital resources that include teaching material, student material etc.    Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and data driven GUI using Java Script, JSF and HTML.  • Client side validation was done using Java Script and AJAX.  • Used core spring for setter dependency injections.  • Spring framework and MVC design pattern were used to develop the application.  • Oracle database was used to save the data (both the user data and the digital resources).  • JDBC-ODBC bridge driver was used to connect to the database.  • Involved in creating the required database schema and in writing the SQL queries.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSF, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Apache Tomcat, Windows vista, CVS. Education JNTU Hyderabad Skills Android (4 years), Eclipse. (4 years), JAVA (5 years), JDBC (2 years), tomcat (2 years), Android SDK, JSON, RESTful services, OPENGL, Robotium, HTTP, Git. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0 (Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop and Marshmallow).  Languages Core Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP (JDK 1.5-1.7), C, J Query.  Scripting Language JavaScript  Web Designing HTML5, CSS3, XML, UML, WebLogic  IDE IntelliJ, NetBeans, Eclipse IDE, Android Studio  Web/Application Servers Tomcat , IBM Web Sphere  Framework Struts, Hibernate, spring, JUnit, AJAX  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN,GIT  Databases ,SQLite, MySQL, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2