SR SALESFORCE LIGHTNING DEVELOPER SR SALESFORCE LIGHTNING <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SR SALESFORCE LIGHTNING DEVELOPER - COMMUNITY HEALTH CHOICE Houston, TX • Around 7+ years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which involves requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, implementation & enhancement of projects in Salesforce.  • Certified Salesforce Admin and Developer with 5+ years of Salesforce application development.  • Proficient with understanding of CRM business processes like Account, Contact, Opportunity, Lead, Campaign and Case Management.  • Good experience with salesforce out of the box data model and modeling in salesforce by creating Custom Objects, Formula Fields, Rollup Summary Fields, Field dependencies, creating new relationships using Lookup, Master-Detail and Junction Objects.  • Experience on creating Users, Profiles, Permission Sets and Roles & designing Reports and Dashboards and managing Communities.  • Strong salesforce development experience with Apex Classes, Apex triggers, Batch Apex, Schedule Classes.  • Good experience with Steel brick.  • Extensive experience in creating Visualforce pages and integrating with external source by developing SOAP, REST, Apex Web Services and Force.com API.  • Extensive experience in writing SOQL, SOSL queries, relationship queries in Apex Triggers, Controllers and used Statements and Database methods for performing DML operations.  • Worked extensively in developing, customizing of Visualforce pages with Visualforce components, Custom, Extension controllers and developed dynamic components.  • Hands on experience with Inbound and Outbound Integration of salesforce with external systems by developing custom Apex SOAP, RESTful classes for inbound class and written Apex callout for invoking outbound applications.  • Experience in Veeva CRM and Veeva Vault Content Management applications.  • Experience working across various SFDC implementations that are covering Sales cloud, Service Cloud and Apttus CPQ (Configure price quote).  • Good experience in rollout of Saleforce1 for mobile and customized visualforce pages with Aura components.  • Worked on embedding the wave dashboards into Visual Force pages and lightning using lightning components and App Builder.  • Expertise with salesforce.com administrative activities: Creating Profiles, Roles, User, Permission Sets, Record Types, Page Layout assignment, Search Layouts, Field-Level Security, Custom Tabs, Validation rules, Formula Fields, Email Services, Workflows, Approval Process, Reports and Dashboards.  • Proficient in building business logic using salesforce declarative programming like Validation rules, Formula Fields, Workflow Rules, Approval process and its actions Field update, Email alert, Outbound message and Creating Task.  • Experienced in handling the functionalities related to the Sales Cloud, Service Cloud and Marketing Cloud. Strong experience in implementing salesforce new features like Process Builder and performed actions Creating Records, posting a Chatter post, Email Alert, Invoking an Apex Class.  • Extensive experience in building Reports, Dashboards, Analytics Snapshot using Standard and custom Report types for the business users, management for higher visibility.  • Performed data analyst roles and used tools: Apex Data Loader, Informatica, Demand Tools, Import Wizard, Workbench and Excel for data analysis, transforming, importing and exporting.  • Deployed salesforce components from Sandbox to other Sandboxes and Production instances using Force.com Migration tools (Ant based), Change Set and Eclipse IDE.  • Worked on Salesforce Marketing cloud Connector V5.  • Extensive experience with different methodologies like Agile and Waterfall.  • Interacted with Customers in requirements gathering, brainstorming sessions, preparing, BRD, Technical Solution Design (TSD) for Salesforce.com implementations.  • Proficient with Object Oriented Programming and development web based applications using Java Technologies: HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, and J2EE.  • Good experience in developing salesforce Apps, Components, Controllers and Events.  • Excellent Communication skills, good team player with ability to work as a part of both large and small teams.  • Developed Salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers, and Events. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR SALESFORCE LIGHTNING DEVELOPER COMMUNITY HEALTH CHOICE - Houston, TX March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and implemented the Security model (Object level, Field level and Record level) using Profiles  • Created Permission sets to give access to the new users based on the roles that are migrated to SFDC from DIW system without impacting the current users and profiles.  • Worked with AppExchange Products like Grid Buddy, Data Sortable Grids to implement solutions faslty and effectively.  • Interacted with business users to understand the requirements and to come up with the POC.  • Provided resolution for high priority cases without impacting the SLA's.  • Worked on change requests and Enhancements as required.  • Created custom objects and custom fields in Lightning experience.  • Involved in creating a component for custom buttons which are not supported in lightning.  • Created Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the mail merge for different standard and custom objects in lightning experience.  • I was involved in developing Salesforce Lightning applications using Lightning Components, Controllers and Events and used custom CSS in the components.  • Developed Lightning Component Framework and built Lightning component using aura framework.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report folders as per user criteria.  • Created Sharing rules, Validation rules and Approval process and other out of the box features.  • Implemented work flow rule out bound messages to sync data with the Open text and Swift systems.  • Designed Custom formulae fields, Work flow field updates, field dependencies and email generation as per the application requirements.  • Created Page layouts, Picklists and Record types as per the business requirements.  • Created user required queues and Groups as required by the project needs.  • Defined Master-Detail, Lookup and Junction objects to establish the relationship between the objects.  • Customized Page Layouts as per the custom objects depending upon user roles and groups.  • Developed Visual force pages based on the business requirements.  • Worked on BIG OBJECTS to store lots of data.  • Developed Apex classes, Controllers and Triggers to apply the business logic and to perform the database events.  • Participated in Code walk through and suggested best practices to be implemented where ever required.  • Implemented CPQ solution using Apttus CPQ & Contract Management (CLM) for various customers in industries.  • Worked on Apttus Advanced Workflow approvals, Apttus order management, Apttus Approvals, created agreement wizards, validation rules and contract templates.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex, Web services API, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, CSS, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Page Layouts, HTML, Java Script, Reports, Dashboards, Windows XP, Sales Cloud SALESFORCE DEVELOPER/ADMIN C&J ENERGY SERVICES - Houston, TX June 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer in the organization.  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce.com CRM implementation.  • Responsible for JIRA and Salesforce Administration.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Active contributor to Salesforce MVC Communities.  • Updated and repaired outdated SQL database.  • Worked within the Lightning Service Console for the organization through Omni-Channel.  • Development of SFDC B-2-B solutions using CloudCraze & Service Cloud Infrastructure.  • Worked in creating relationship models in Salesforce based on Current Siebel data model used.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Maintaining the Salesforce Applications and Veeva Instances for various operations.  • Implemented CPQ solution using Apttus CPQ & Contract Management (CLM) for various customers in industries.  • Integrated with Salesforce by using Marketing cloud connector (V5).  • Used Siebel data mapper to map external IO to Internal IO for web service calls.  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like VisualForce, Force.com IDE.  • Worked on Apttus Advanced Workflow approvals, Apttus order management, created agreement wizards, validation rules and contract templates.  • Built a custom app with Lightning experience for sales to monitor their performance close details.  • Used Angular JS as the development framework to build a web-page  • Have built custom user interfaces using Lightning components and also used Lightning Components to create stand-alone applications that are hosted on Salesforce.  • Cloudcraze development and Salesforce backend development + APEX & Visualforce  • Worked with Angular-Js during the time of development environment.  • Worked towards explaining the capabilities of Veeva IMS to the business in layman's terms while also being able to be "hands-on"  • Expertise working on Visual force pages, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on the different requirements from user on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Experience with Apttus CPQ for subscription, billing, invoicing and can take control of sales process from Quote to Cash. Implemented in Pricing Configuration and Product Configuration into Apttus CPQ using Salesforce Principles.  • Involved in Developing Lightening pages using Aura, implemented lightening Controllers, Components using Lightening Design system (LDS) for Lightening Community builder.  • Developed a Human Resources Service Cloud and customer community.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Responsible for setting up new instances of JIRA, data import, customization, and backup  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visual force Pages.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom Reports and configured the Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the sales performance and lead generation statistics.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed Lightening Components, Lightening apps using Lightening Design System (LDS) to provide more interactive interfaces to end users.  • Maintained user roles, security, profiles, and workflow rules wherever necessary.  • Working experiences on Salesforce.com intranet sites and Salesforce external sharing.  • Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, MuleSoft, Cloud Craze , Siebel ,Apttus CPQ , Visual force Pages, JIRA,SQL, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Lightning design system (LDS), Reports, Lightening design system(LDS), Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP. SALESFORCE DEVELOPER SUN LIFE FINANCIALS - Boston, MA November 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business users for requirements gathering, analysis and development.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard objects like Accounts, Opportunities, Leads, Campaign, Events, Tasks, Contacts, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Agile Development Methodology was followed for the implementation.  • Managed Salesforce integration with existing systems and third-party providers.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, validation rules, formula fields.  • Implemented custom Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for Visual force pages.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Worked on Apttus CPQ configuration and integration.  • Made enhancements to Apttus CPQ (Configure Price Quote) tool, shopping cart by adding new fields. Run batches in order provided to project changes by following the instructions provided by Apttus.  • Expertise in Development of applications in SOAP and Restful Web Services using.  • Developed Visual Force pages to change the entire look and feel, tabs and views of the Salesforce.com UI in accordance with the company requirements.  • Worked on Apttus CPQ (Configure Price Quote) tool, shopping cart.  • Developed various angular components and reusable modules throughout development lifecycle.  • Worked on UI/UX of the application by translating design from mockups to HTML/CSS.  • Created relationships among objects using Lookup and Master-detail relationships.  • Developed a custom MARS Application to implement Change Management and Configuration Management for all Veeva applications.  • Experienced with Oracle CPQ (Configure-Price-Quote), for creating Quote proposals.  • Implemented CPQ System to improve user experience in the Quoting process using Salesforce.  • Integrated Marketing cloud instance and Sales cloud using marketing cloud connect to personalize marketing campaigns and provide services for email, mobile, social and online marketing.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, Page Layouts, and Record Types and configured the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  • Cross-Program Deployment Lead for integrated release involving Oracle, IBM, Informatica, and Salesforce  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like Visual Force, Force.com IDE.  • Extensive experience on S controls, Visual force pages and Page layouts according to the Business requirements.  • Worked with Business on Design and Implementation of Product catalog and product attributes to expose on CPQ application.  • Installed the Call Center Applications and allowed the end users to maintain a track history of customer's complaints.  • Managed and deployed Salesforce.com CRM solution to multiple departments within the organization.  • Performed data cleanup and/or Data migration to/from salesforce.com.  • Experience on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response for automating business logic.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Developed several Custom Reports & Dashboards that are used by Business user and Managers.  • Integrated applications using web services by consuming the WSDL files for extracting the data from the external systems.  • Involved in various user stories and worked with QA team to test in various sandbox environments and update fields in Production.  • Configure and Maintained the Sandbox Environment for easy facilitation of Development and QA Activities.  • Created custom Java Application to Interact with Salesforce using SOAP and Rest web services.  • Implemented Data Loader through the Command Line Interface to extract the data from database.  • Developed visual Force pages with JavaScript and Apex classes.  • Written Apex Test classes to Unit test Apex classes before moving to Production.  • Created and maintained the documentation for Design, Migration and Integration.  • Deployed applications from Sandbox to Production.  Environment: Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Data loader and Data management, Workflow rules and 9Approval processes, sandbox, workflows, Custom objects, Reports and Dashboards, Partner Portal, Custom Profiles, Page Layouts, Security Settings, Data Sharing Rules. SALES FORCE DEVELOPER/ADMIN APOLLO HEALTH CARE - Phoenix, AZ September 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Created relationships among objects using Lookup and Master-detail relationships.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard objects like Accounts, Opportunities, Leads, Campaign, Events, Tasks, Contacts, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, Page Layouts, and Record Types and configured the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  • Implemented Data Loader through the Command Line Interface to extract the data from database  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, Email alerts, and field updates.  • Created and maintained the documentation for Design, Migration, Integration and Training.  • Involved in deploying applications from Sandbox to Production.  • Developed Custom Reports and Dashboards as per given requirements.  • Created Custom Formula fields and Validation rules.  • Imported/Exported data from various resources/Org like spreadsheets, emails, and databases with tools: Data Loader, Data Import Wizard, DML Statements, Data class method and Batch Apex.  • Created Many-to-Many relationships and created Junction objects to implement Roll-up Summary fields to aggregate data from child records on the parent.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboards.  • Performed Gap Analysis using AS - IS process flow document and TO-BE process flow document with respect to gathered details to understand what needs to be achieved and developed User Stories.  • Developed an application extensively for Case Management utilizing salesforce out-of-the-box functionality with the combination of Force.com platform components such as Apex Classes, Triggers, and Visualforce Pages.  • Created/Developed Apex triggers to check/verify/identify errors, record updates and alert users / administrators / developers to perform corrections/changes for effective results.  • Involved in Service cloud, Sales cloud & Marketing Cloud for Implementation/Customization.  • Implemented Quote-to-Cash solution using APTTUS CPQ, Involved in CPQ (Configure, Price& Quote) design and mapped to the Salesforce custom objects and involved in Apttus Advanced Workflow Approvals.  • Implemented Live Agent customer service and customized chat windows, buttons, and pages.  • Developed new custom functionalities in Global Customer Connect application (SFDC Service Cloud) and integrated the same with Salesforce Cloud.  • Project planning and coordination with offshore team for various project deliveries.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Workflows and Approvals, Triggers, Apex, Visualforce pages, SOQL, SOSL, Salesforce Data Loader, Jitter-bit, Force.com IDE, Eclipse, Profiles, Roles, Sharing rules, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, Reports and Dashboards, Web Services, WSDL. JAVA DEVELOPER PARCO - KARACHI, PK June 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Played an active role in the team by interacting with welfare business analyst/program specialists and converted business requirements into system requirements.  • Developed analysis level documentation such as Use Case, Business Domain Model, Activity & Sequence and Class Diagrams.  • Conducted Design reviews and Technical reviews with other project statehood Implemented Services using Core Java.  • Developed and deployed UI layer logics of sites using JSP.  • Struts (MVC) is used for implementation of business model logic.  • Worked with Struts MVC objects like Action Servlets, Controllers, and Validators, Web Application Context, Handler Mapping, Message Resource Bundles and JNDI for look-up for J2EE components.  • Developed dynamic JSP pages with Struts.  • Used built-in/custom Interceptors and Validators of Struts.  • Developed the XML data object to generate the PDF documents and other reports.  • Used Hibernate, DAO, and JDBC for data retrieval and medications from database.  • Developed JUnit Test cases for Unit Test cases and as well as System and User test scenarios  • Involved in Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing.  • Implemented mid-tier business services to integrate UI requests to DAO layer commands.  Environment: HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, Eclipse, Sub Version. Education BBA in finance DHA Suffa University - Karachi, PK Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, C++, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Ms project, Visio, Xml, Database, Ms access, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Java, Force.com, Salesforce.com, Ajax, Salesforce.com platform, Apex, Web services API, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, CSS, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Page Layouts, HTML, Java Script, Reports, Dashboards, Windows XP, Sales Cloud Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Salesforce.Com Technologies  Apex Language, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, AJAX Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Reports, Custom Objects, Validation Rules, Visualforce (Pages, Components and Controllers), Import Wizard and Data Loader, Lightning, Apttus.    ETL/ Integration Tools Force.com Data Loader, Force.com IDE Plug-in, Mulesoft, Ant Apache Migration, GitHub, Jenkins. Bamboo, CPQ.  Web Technologies/ Tools HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Adobe Photoshop, AJAX, Dream weaver, XML, Visual Studio, MS Project, MS Visio, SharePoint.  Languages Apex, C, C++, Java, PL/SQL, VB, UML  Database Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access  Operating Systems Windows Variants, UNIX, LINUX