Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - AdviNow Medical Scottsdale, AZ • 8 years of experience in analysis, design, development, implementation and testing client, server and enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Extensive experience in Android application development.  • Good understanding in Android OS, interactive application development and memory management.  • Proficient with common Android Framework API's (Location, Camera, Notifications, Maps).  • Experience in implementing native libraries in application by using Android SDK and Android NDK.  • Experience in using Fragments, Activity workflow, Action Bar Navigation, Menu designs, custom views, and Loaders.  • Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications, Asynchronous Programming in Android (such as Thread pool, Tasks and services). Implemented the monetization of apps, which has capabilities to do in-app purchases.  • Good experience in Object Oriented Design (OOD), analysis (OOA), modeling (OOM) based on Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Worked extensively in developing mobile-based and advanced web-based applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, spring, Hibernate, JDBC, UML, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JDBC, and Oracle.  • Proficiency in developing applications using Spring and hibernate frameworks.  • Worked on with AndroidAPI's (Content Provider, Google Maps, API SQLite, and WebView).  • Worked on GUI applications using Java SWING and AWT.  • Experience with source code control management like subversion (SVN) and GIT, good at using the markup languages like JSON and REST.  • Expert in writing client side validations using validation framework, Java Script  • Knowledge in working with audio and video codec is like .3GPP, MPEG-4.  • Designing and implementation of User Interfaces and Navigation elements.  • Excellent debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, IntelliJIDEA, IDEA, and Android Studio.  • Experience in various methodologies (SDLC) like agile development and waterfall development.  • Experienced in developing apps involving RSS feeds.  • Extensive experience in requirement analysis, functional analysis, excellent conceptual and logical thinking.  • Experience in performance optimization of Android applications and exposure to tools such as TraceView, Lint, and Hierarchy Viewer.  • Ability to grasp and master new technologies, excellent analytical and problem solving skills.  • Able to take initiative; work independently and as a team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer AdviNow Medical - Scottsdale, AZ January 2017 to Present AdviNow Medical's solutions improve the quality of health care while dramatically reducing the costs in delivering care. Utilizing artificial intelligence, we give providers the most accurate information to diagnose, treat and care for patients in any environment. Patent pending innovations across diagnostics, measurement and treatment technologies deliver a comprehensive health care service packaged into a simple and easy to use system. Our solutions fit well into the Urgent Care Market, primary care physicians, hospitals and clinics  environments. AdviNow Medical enhances patient satisfaction while enabling more cost effective solutions for providers.    Responsibilities  • Participated in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for proper analysis, development, testing, Deployment and enhancement of the code  • Developed App screens and its workflow using Activity and Fragments, which has views such as List View and Scroll View  • Implemented designs and wireframes into high quality code  • Ensured the best possible performance, quality, and responsiveness of the application  • Experienced with offline storage, threading, and performance tuning  • Strong competency with RESTful APIs and JSON structures to connect Android applications to back-end services  • Strong knowledge of Android SDK, different versions of Android, and mobile first implementations  • Worked with outside data sources and APIs  • Worked in an Agile software development based environment.  • Collaborated with cross-functional teams to define, design, and ship new features  • Worked on bug fixing and improving application performance  • Involved in Unit-test code for robustness, including edge cases, usability, and general reliability    Environment: Java, Android SDK, XML, Restful APIs, JSON Android Application Developer Sears - Chicago, IL March 2015 to December 2016 Project Name: - Shop Your Way  LINK: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sears.shopyourway  Sears and Kmart are m-commerce applications that provide a fast, easy and a convenient way to shop a variety of products from a mobile device. They provide a fun ecommerce experience where users can manage their online accounts, find help from a personal shopper, manage their shopping cart, track the status of their orders, find local ads, deals and nearest store locations for store pickup etc.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the full life cycle of the project including planning, designing, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked in an Agile software development based environment.  • Design screens using MVP pattern for the application with Eclipse.  • Worked on Linear, Frame and Relative layouts.  • Implementing Broadcast Receivers for Android.  • Key resource for layout and UI work utilizing xml, Views, Webview, ListView, Menu Item, Activities, Fragments, Frame, Animations, Notifications, Carousel, Push Notifications, Loaders, AsyncTask, handler etc.  • Integrating the Ingenico ICMP EMV card reader into the Android payment application.  • Implementing Android pay, Samsung pay, Apple pay for application.  • Refactored the code base in such a way that it follows android clean architecture.  • Worked on toast, Dialog notifications.  • Experience in XML parsing on client side using JSON, implemented DOM-based implementation of feed parser.  • Took care of Code Review, Code Fixes and bug Fixes.    Environment: Java, Android SDK (4.1 to 6.0), Android Studio 2.2, Github, SOURCE TREE, JSON, XML. Sr. Android Developer Park Me - Santa Monica, CA September 2014 to February 2015 Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.parkme.consumer  Description: Park Me is the leading global provider of real-time and static on-street and off-street parking data to navigation companies, internet search and mapping portals, municipalities, parking operators and consumer smart phone platforms. Park Me's mission is to make parking easier.  This app allows the user to view informative maps of parking lots and garages, check daily & monthly parking rates, set parking timer to avoid overstaying, overpaying or getting a ticket, see real-time info on exactly how many spots are open in a particular garage or lot.    Responsibilities  • Participated in all the phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) which includes Development, Testing, Re-Design  • Involved in collecting client requirements and preparing the design documents.  • Design screens using MVP pattern for the application with Android Studio IDE.  • Involved in full life cycle of the application including sprint planning, prototypes, design, develop and test.  • Implemented Fragments, Activities.  • Developed different features for the application.  • Implemented Notification Manager to display updates on the notification bar.  • Utilized GPS location-based services and Google Maps API to enable Google map search for locations in close proximity.  • Enabled GPS/Wi-Fi to detect user location from where to begin searching.  • Integral in internationalizing of the app to support different languages.  • Used web view to show html 5 pages.  • Improved crashes handling, and made the application awesomely stable.  • Took care of Code Review, Code Fixes and bug Fixes.    Environment: Java, Android SDK (1.6 to 5.0), Android studio, Git, JSON, XML. Android Developer Penske Logistics Technologies - Cleveland, OH May 2013 to August 2014 Link:https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.crowdcompass.appVIeEG9fVx5  Description: Cell Com is an internal application, which is used by Penske truck drivers to manage their route and process their orders. In this the application, driver can update their arrival and delivery details, update their fuel, meal, rest and few other breaks which they take on their way for delivery.    Responsibilities  • Participated in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for proper analysis, development, testing, Deployment and enhancement of the code.  • Extensively utilized AsyncTask, Thread, handler, services to provide smooth UI experience.  • Implemented auto-sync feature to allow users use the app completely offline and to synchronize the app data with the cloud when the network becomes available.  • Participated in designing the app architecture.  • Participated in constructing the specification documents including Unified Modeling Language diagrams  • Use Cases, System Features, Data Flow Diagram, Class Diagram, Functional and Non-Functional Requirements.  • Participated in constructing automated unit testing, performing usability testing on UI, ad hoc testing based on test and fault models.  • Developed user-friendly user-interfaces using widgets like Menus, Dialogs, Different Layouts, Buttons, Edit boxes and Selection widgets like List View and Scroll View as per the need.  • Integrated Support Library to make the app compatible from API 1.6 up to 4.0.4  • Implemented NotificationManager to display updates on the notification bar.  • Provided assistance and feedback on login design and implementation.  • Used Apache Subversion (SVN) for version control.  • Played a key role in writing application logic using Eclipse IDE and Android SDK.  • Implemented XML service to parse user's data coming from server.  • Developed App screens and its workflow using Activity and Fragments, which has views such as List View and Scroll View.  • Debugged and tested the application on different android devices.    Environment: Android SDK, DDMS, adb, Eclipse 3.5, RESTFul Service(JSON), XML, Windows and, Logcat, Tortoise SVN. Mobile Application (Android) Developer Health Tap - San Ramon, CA January 2012 to April 2013 AppLink:  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?  id=com.healthtap.userhtexpress&feature=search_result#?t=    Project Description: Health Tap is a mobile application developed for HealthTap.com. It is created to provide and share information among the social network of community members. The members can report symptoms, conditions, actions, and the results of the actions they are taking to live happier, healthier lives. Experts can post their answers and suggestions to the user's questions.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the User Interface layers and the web modules for the activities including Home Screen, Sign In, Profile, Settings, and Questions.  • Used multi-threading to implement parallel processing.  • Utilized web-services (HTTP based, XML, SOAP, JSON or other services), in order to tie our applications to critical server-side APIs.  • Developed necessary DAOs (Data Access Objects).  • Researched technical issues and provided recommendations.    Environment: Java, Android SDK, Eclipse 3.4/3.5, JSON, SOAP, Image Downloader. Java Developer MetLife Financial Planner August 2009 to October 2011 Application: MetLife Financial Planner  Financial planner helps the financial advisors for advising customers on Retirement, Insurance, Education, Tax, Estate and Mortgage planning. It gives the monetary benefits at each period and projection till the end of period. It also helps the customers to apply online for insurance claims and online purchase of insurance plans.    Responsibilities  • Designing UI screen for Insurance Quote to get User information with JSP.  • Writing custom tag handlers for Insurance Quote page to calculate the age of the person using the date of birth information entered.  • Developing Action Classes, Service Classes for Resident Insurance Premium payment module.  • Developed reusable web components, JSP, Servlets and Java Beans that use the MVC pattern to access EJB (Entity Beans) for the modules of user registration.  • Writing PL/SQL Queries to get schedule of policy payment and defaults.  • Developing Session beans for Insurance Quotes.  • Writing JSP files for Online Quote for Resident Insurance.  • Fixing the bugs identified in test phase.  • Had coded various data adapters for processing XML.  • Used Java script and JQuery to handle client-side validations.  • Writing JUnit Test cases for Unit testing in Pension Manager Module.  • Documenting CR impact analysis and prepared implementation documents.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Web Services, XML, Oracle, JUnit, Eclipse, UML, Websphere, Spring, java script, JQuery. HTML. Education Bachelor's Skills Android (5 years), Eclipse. (6 years), Java (6 years), testing (6 years), XML (8 years), Java, Android SDK (4.1 to 6.0), Android Studio 2.2, Github, SOURCE TREE, JSON, XML. Additional Information SKILLS    XML (8 years), TESTING (8 years), ECLIPSE (7 years), JAVA (6 years), ANDROID (5 years)    ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TECHNICAL SKILLS  Technologies Java JDK 1.5/6/7, J2EE (JSP 1.2/2.0, Servlets 2.3/2.4), Android SDK [ ] Spring 2.5, JDBC, JavaScript, CSS3  Android App  Mobile Development    SDK 2.x, 3.x, 4.x, 5,6 API - Activities, ListViews, Adapters, SQLite, Horizontal scrolling, Notification Manager, Contact Content Provider, DDMS, Location, Map, HTTP Client, JSON based Web Services, Camera API, Facebook API.    Debugging and Testing Tools JUnit, DDMS, Logcat Markup Languages HTML 4.0.1, HTML5 and XML 1.0. Application Servers JBoss, Tomcat [ ] WebSphere 6.0 IDE Eclipse 3.x, NetBeans, Android Studio 2.2  Data bases SQLite 3.6, Oracle 9i/10g, MySQL 5.0/5.5 OS Windows, Ubuntu, Macintosh