Java developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> JAVA DEVELOPER McLean, VA • 8+ years of experience involving Software design, Development and Maintenance of web based, multi-tier applications and implementing Java/J2EE based solutions involving Core Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, XML, JDBC), Oracle.  • 3+ years' experience as an Ecommerce developer  • Expertise on IBM WCS 6.0 - Java/J2EE  • Expert in Java based technologies including Core Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Ajax, Hibernate, Web services and frameworks like Struts, Spring and SDLC process.  • Strong Knowledge of Object Oriented Analysis & Design with experience in full Software Development Life Cycle  • Experience working on Agile Methodologies.  • Well versed with JAVA/J2EE design patterns and have hands one experience implementing design patterns like Data Access Objects (DAO), Factory and MVC  • Expert in multi-open source framework, like Struts, Spring and Hibernate O/R mapping.  • Solid understanding of Object-Oriented designs, MVC Architecture, Enterprise Java Beans, Java Design Patterns and successful implementation of the same.  • Experience in web design technologies, such JSP, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, JSTL, CSS, Bootstrap framework.  • Experience in J2EE servlet technologies, such as Servlets, JDBC, Web Services, etc.  • Experience in various databases, such as Oracle, DB2,MySQ¬¬¬¬¬L  • Strong experience in data analysis and Proficient in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL.  • Sound knowledge in working with version control tools like SVN and CVS  • Working experience in SAX Parser, Sales Force API, LDAP  • Excellent experience in Application Design using Object Oriented Analysis and Design  • Experience with IDEs like RAD, Eclipse and Netbeans.  • Familiar with integrated testing and development process like Junit and Soap UI.  • Experience Core Java concepts, such as, Collection Framework.  • 3+ years' experience as an Ecommerce developer and familiar to Agile Methodology  • Expertise on IBM WCS 6.0 - Java/J2EE  • Worked on the order management subsystem of WCS.  • Good exposure to Ecommerce domain.  • Extensive experience using Web sphere and Tomcat application servers.  • Involved in Unit Testing, work with the QA team in documenting test cases and test scenarios.  • Possess sound working knowledge of Ecommerce and Banking domains.  • Prepared technical designs, coding guidelines and other technical documents, delivered training for new members of team.  • Mentored junior team members.  • Involved in client interaction, requirement gathering and analysis, testing, bug fixing and meeting deadlines with quality work.  • Excellent communication skills, creative problem solver, proactive listener and ability to work in a team or individually.  • Strong analytical, problem solving skills coupled with excellent communication, inter-personal skills, Self-motivated and quick learner who is willing to adopt new challenges & technologies. Work Experience Java developer McLean, VA July 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing functionalities both backend and front end using AngularJS, Java 7, Restful Web services and Spring framework.  • Used Spring Common with Eclipse Link JPA implementation to persist and access data from the database.  • Implemented the notification engine for VRDB2.  • Developed the playlist matching rules for VRDB2.  • Created Restful web services to implement the VRDB2 core functionalities.  • Used JMeter to test the Restful services.  • Involved in enhancing the VRDB2 UI using the AngularJS.  • Implemented business rules for determining the Repertoire Manager using Drools.  • Created data access layer using Eclipse Link as the persistence provider.  • Performed unit testing, documented regression test case scenarios and use cases.  • Used agile-scrum methodology. Java developer JIRA , Eclipse IDE - Reston, VA February 2015 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in high level and low level design of the application and created class diagrams, sequence diagrams using MS Visio.  • Developed the application using core Java  • Parsed complex configuration XML using SAX Parser  • Extracted and manipulated data from Oracle and LDAP  • Created audit logging for the application by implementing a CSV writer  • Integration with SalesForce using standard APIs for provisioning users.  • Performed unit testing, documented regression test case scenarios and use cases  • Define and monitor compliance with unit test coverage, code check-in, security, code quality, and versioning processes  • Helped testing team in performance testing  • Used agile-scrum methodology    Tech. Environment: Java 1.7, SAX Parser, Web Logic, ANT, SalesForce, JUnit, Oracle 11g, SunOne LDAP Server, XML , XSD, SOAP Webservices, Subversion , JIRA , Eclipse IDE. Java developer Business Objects (BO) s - Columbia, MD August 2014 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating case diagrams, object model diagrams, class diagrams, and deployment diagram using UML/Rational Rose and followed Agile-scrum methodology.  • Implemented the business rules of the application separately using JRuleEngine.  • Used Struts2 framework and Java Server Pages on top of Spring Core to control the presentation to the user.  • Designed and developed Rich user interface using front end technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Java Script.  • Additionally, dynamic user interface behavior is presented to the user using jQuery and AJAX.  • Designed and implemented the Data Transfer Objects (DTO) s, Business Objects (BO) s.  • Designed Persistence layer using the Hibernate framework for Object-relational mapping and converting data between incompatible type systems.  • Involved in integration of external systems using Service Oriented Architecture.  • Involved in writing test cases using JUNIT for various modules.  • Involved in logging using Log4J and working with defects using Quality Centre.  • Involved in testing, bug fixing and documentation of the system deployment.    Tech. Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JRuleEngine 1.3, HTML5, CSS3, Spring Core, Hibernate 3, Struts2, WebSphere 6.1, JPA 2, Maven, JUnit. Java developer Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) February 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented Second level authentication in addition to the Single Sign On functionality for the Ameriprise Applications  • Documentation of high level Technical/Functional designs.  • Using Spring IOC (Dependency Injection) developed Java Beans, with getter and setter properties to be configured by spring. Configured & implemented Spring Application Context to instantiate all bean classes  • Configured policy using Siteminder to make new applications SSO protected.  • Implemented database access using DAO design pattern  • Developed front end using JSPs, Ajax, JSTL, Java Scriptand CSS Style sheets.  • Used Hibernate to store the persistent data as an Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool for communicating with database.  • Implemented Java 1.5 new features like generics, auto boxing/unboxing, enhanced for loops etc in the application.  • Report generation and analysis  • Status meetings with stakeholders  • Using Identity Manager APIs for SSO - Application integration  • Policy configuration using Siteminder to enforce respective policies for all application resources (URLs).  • Review of the security code based on the Security code review checklist for Ameriprise requirements.  • Manage handoff to SSO support team and resolving the defects found using the Causal Analysis.  • Utilized Java Script for the web development  • Involved in mentoring other team members.  • Supported UAT testing.  • Provided E2 environment support and worked on fixing the issues.  • Day to day status track of issue.  • Responsible for new development and change request within the scope of the project.    Tech. Environment: Java 1.5, JEE, Spring3, Restful and SOAP Web Services, JSTL, Java Script, Eclipse, Oracle, SQL/PLSQL, CVS, CSS, Ajax, Windows, XML, CA SiteMinder, IBM ITIM and SUN Directory Server, Manage now Java developer Infosys Technologies Limited - Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala October 2007 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Developed application using Struts MVC, JSP, JSTL on the presentation layer  • Performed Client Side Validations using Validation concept of Struts Framework.  • Involved in the development of JSP with custom tags, Java Beans and also performed integration into the Application System.  • Extensively involved in struts components development like action mapping in struts deployment descriptor file Action Class for handling the Http request from the front-end..  • Coded the backend functionality using the WCS command design pattern  • Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application.  • Involved in development of SQL Queries  • Involved in writing queries, stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with oracle.  • Implemented Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) to interact with the database to insert, update, delete and retrieve values efficiently.  • Consumed SOAP Web Services  • Implemented logging mechanism using Log4j  • Created and used Access beans which encapsulates the entity bean(EJB)  • Created entity beans for new tables created  • Used databeans in JSP to retrieve the dynamic content.  • Prepared Integration Test Plan and Unit Test Plan  • Involved in unit testing and integration testing  • Cross browser testing    Tech. Environment:WCS 6.0 , Core Java, Java/J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, IBM Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere Commerce Server, IBM Rational Application Developer, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, Subversion, JIRA, SOAP    Sears Holding Corporations, Hoffman Estates, Trivandrum - INDIA  Java developer    Description:  This project increased the performance of shopping cart. The Commands and JSPs were refactored for well-organized code; functionality was modularized and conditional execution of flow wherever applicable. Minimum business logic was implemented in the presentation layer.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Developed application using Struts MVC, JSP, JSTL on the presentation layer  • Coded the order summary section using the WCS command design pattern  • Used Access beans which encapsulates the Entity bean(EJB)  • Created entity beans for new tables created  • Used databeans in JSP to retrieve the dynamic content.  • Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application.  • Involved in development of SQL Queries  • Implemented logging mechanism using Log4j  • Prepared Integration Test Plan and Unit Test Plan  • Involved in unit testing and integration testing  • Cross browser testing    Tech. Environment: WCS 6.0 , Core Java, Java/J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, IBM Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere Commerce Server, IBM Rational Application Developer, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, Subversion, JIRA, SOAP    Sears Holding Corporations, Hoffman Estates, Trivandrum - INDIA  Java developer    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Developed application using Struts MVC, JSP, JSTL on the presentation layer  • Used databeans in JSP to retrieve the dynamic content.  • Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application.  • Prepared Integration Test Plan and Unit Test Plan  • Involved in unit testing and integration testing  • Analysis and Design.  • Provided production support.    Tech. Environment: WCS 6.0 , Core Java, Java/J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, IBM Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere Commerce Server, IBM Rational Application Developer, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, Subversion, JIRA, SOAP    Sears Holding Corporations, Hoffman Estates, Trivandrum - INDIA  Java developer    Responsibilities:  • Designed frontend using JSP and JSTL.  • Requirement Analysis, Client Interaction &Design. Developed application using Struts MVC, JSP, JSTL on the presentation layer  • Involved in backend coding using the WCS command design pattern  • Involved in development of SQL Queries  • Implemented Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) to interact with the database to insert, update, delete and retrieve values efficiently.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with oracle.  • Excellent working experience with oracle 9i including storing and manipulating data.  • Prepared Integration Test Plan and Unit Test Plan  • Involved in unit testing and integration testing  • Analysis and Design.  • Provided production support.    Tech. Environment: WCS 6.0 , Core Java, Java/J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, IBM Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere Commerce Server, IBM Rational Application Developer, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, Subversion,    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Developed application using Struts MVC, JSP, JSTL on the presentation layer  • Using AJAX to complete the checkout process in a single page  • Coded the ordersummary section using the WCS command design pattern  • Recalculated Tax and promotions based on the dynamic changes on every module  • Used Access beans which encapsulates the Entity bean(EJB)  • Created entity beans for new tables created  • Used databeans in JSP to retrieve the dynamic content.  • Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application.  • Involved in development of SQL Queries  • Prepared Integration Test Plan and Unit Test Plan  • Involved in unit testing and integration testing  • Cross browser testing    Tech. Environment: WCS 6.0 , Core Java, Java/J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, IBM Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere Commerce Server, IBM Rational Application Developer, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, Subversion, JIRA, SOAP    , Trivandrum - INDIA  Java developer    Responsibilities:  • Designed front end using JSP and JSTL.  • Requirement Analysis, Client Interaction &Design. Developed application using Struts MVC, JSP, JSTL on the presentation layer  • Involved in backend coding using the WCS command design pattern  • Involved in development of SQL Queries  • Implemented Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) to interact with the database to insert, update, delete and retrieve values efficiently.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with oracle.  • Excellent working experience with oracle 9i including storing and manipulating data.  • Prepared Integration Test Plan and Unit Test Plan  • Involved in unit testing and integration testing  • Analysis and Design.  • Provided production support.    Tech. Environment: WCS 6.0 , Core Java, Java/J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, IBM Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere Commerce Server, IBM Rational Application Developer, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, Subversion, JIRA, SOAP    Sears Holding Corporations, Hoffman Estates, Trivandrum - INDIA  Java developer    Description:  This project is aimed at providing support for the entire sites (Sears, Kmart, The Great Indoors, Kenmore and Craftsman) during the QA phase and in production. This involves fixing bugs reported in QA phase and in production.    Responsibilities:  • Production support and Maintenance with defect fixes and deployment.  • Analysis of server logs  • Modifying the code for defect fix.  • Deploying the modified code  • Tracking the issues  • Sending the issue track report  Tech. Environment: WCS 6.0 , Core Java, Java/J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, IBM Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere Commerce Server, IBM Rational Application Developer, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, Subversion, JIRA, SOAP Tech. Environment JIRA , Eclipse IDE March 2003 to May 2003 Eclipse Link ,Drools 6.1.0,Elastic search, Web services, JMeter, Active MQ, AngularJS, JSON. Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java, JEE (JSP, Servlets), JSTL, XML  Enterprise Java JSP, Servlets, Various J2EE and Standard Design Patterns  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Ajax, Jquery, JSON  Tools, Framework& APIs  WebSphere Commerce Server Suite, Struts, Apache Common Library, Sitescope, Firebug, Siteminder, IBM ITIM, Hibernate 3.0, Spring Framework, JRuleEngine 3.x, Log4j, Junit, Maven, Ant, SAX Parser, Sales Force    Web Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere (WAS) 7.0, WebSphere (WAS)6.0  Web Service SOAP, UDDI,WSDL,XML, REST  XML Technologies XML, XML Schema(XSD), DTD, XSL, XSLT, JAXB  DBMS MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle,DB2  Source Control Systems CVS, SVN, Clearcase, Git  Defect/Bug Tracking JIRA, Managenow  IDE RAD, Eclipse and NetBeans  O/S & Environment Windows XP,UNIX