AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - Autodesk ? AEM / Adobe CQ Developer with over 6+ years of IT experience in developing and implementing Enterprise Solutions for Distributed Software products and distributed applications using Adobe Experience Manager (AEM).  ? Worked on full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in Agile and Waterfall Methodologies projects.  ? Extensive experience in design and implementation of modules on Adobe CQ 6.3/6.2/6.1 / 6.0 / 5.6. Have a solid understanding of CQ5 building blocks, CRX repository, leveraging web content management components for customization and porting of websites.  ? Expertise in developing and updating web pages quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, DOM, Flash, Node JS, Angular JS, EXT Js and JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) with the webpage cross browser compatibility and Responsive design.  ? Hands on programming experience in Web Technologies likes JSP, XML, Adobe CQ5 APIs, Apache Sling, OSGi bundles.  ? Installed and configured AEM 6.1 of Adobe CQ Web Content Management System.  ? Experience in Design, Development, Testing, Administration, and Troubleshooting in Adobe CQ5 and Exposure to Social Collaboration and Users/Groups Administration in AEM.  ? Extensive experience in working on version control systems like Subversion, and GIT and used Source code management client tools like GITBash, GitHub, GitGUI and other command line applications etc.  ? Implemented AEM Templates, Components, Workflows, Client Libs, Dynamic tagging (DTM) and performed CMS administration tasks.  ? Experienced in developing static/dynamic HTML pages, providing client-side validations in JavaScript and providing interactive front-end GUI using CSS, HTML.  ? Experienced in developing enterprise applications using MVC frameworks such as Struts, Spring MVC. Also worked in developing light weight and integrated business applications using Spring Frame work.  ? Worked with various Web and Application servers including Nginx, Apache Tomcat, JBoss and WebLogic.  ? Implemented Maven and RESTful Web Services.  ? Experienced in Object oriented analysis, design and development using Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSPs, JDBC).  ? Experience of development in different environments like Windows, UNIX, and LINUX.  ? Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Phases such as Requirement gathering, analysis, designs, development and unit testing.  ? Experience with client interaction, user story creation/grooming, delegation and assumed responsibility of development and delegation of tasks on multiple projects  ? Experience in working with small and large groups and successful in meeting new technical challenges and finding solutions to meet the needs of the customer.  ? Team player with excellent interpersonal skills, self-motivated, dedicated and understanding the demands of system maintenance and has good customer support experience and always ready to discuss on latest changes in technology and their automation concepts.  ? Ability to adapt and learn new technologies. Work Experience AEM Developer Autodesk - Milwaukee, WI January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirement gathering and communicating various teams.  ? AGILE development methodology has been followed to develop the application.  ? Design Verification flow for Autodesk customers.  ? Implemented verification services supported APIs.  ? Extensively worked with SheerID to understand their library and use that library in Autodesk verification process.  ? Involved in design of components, templates and site structure.  ? Developed AEM 6.2 templates and reusable components using Sightly.  ? Worked on localization of pages.  ? Worked on OSGi configuration required in current application.  ? Involved in GitHub branching strategy.  ? Written Junit test cases for backend code and Jest test cases for frontend code.  ? Integration and use of oxygen services.  ? Involved in building, deploying and moving code to different environments.  ? Perform complex analysis to design and communication between various layers used in verification process.  ? Developed webhooks and got configured at SheerID side.  ? Worked on SQL database to create tables and fields for storing verification data.  ? Implemented code coverage plugins/frameworks to ensure the code coverage quality.  ? Documented written API in stoplight for easy access and detailed explanation.  ? Extensively worked on technical design documents.    Environment: AEM 6.2, HTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON, NodeJS, Java, Servlets, Sonar, IntelliJ, Eclipse, GIT, SQL Server, JDBC, Junit, Postman, Stoplight, SheerID (third party library). AEM Developer J2 Global - Los Angeles, CA January 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Worked as an AEM developer involving gathering business requirements and converting them to technical solutions, application development, Integration and deployment.  ? Involved in design of the Templates, Components, Widgets and the page content using AEM 6.3.  ? Worked on TouchUI Design Dialog of components to have the same content for the component, used either in different templates or in same templates.  ? Worked extensively on multifield and composite multifield components in AEM touchUI dialogs.  ? Extending out of box components to achieve the additional functionality for the project.  ? Modifying the existing Workflow structure by designing, implementing Custom Workflow functionality. Developing launchers to trigger the workflow.  ? Creating users and user groups, giving appropriate permissions to them according to the environment. Created System Users to access the resource Resolver in different services.  ? Configuring replication and reverse replications agents in different environments to replicate content from author to publish and vice versa.  ? Worked with Launches to support parallel releases.  ? Using the Query Builder API to query AEM content depending upon the requirement and usage.  ? Working with Adobe DTM Developer to provide the required data from the pages by creating services that maps the AEM data to the specified variables in DTM.  ? Creating OSGI Configuration for environment and run modes specific configurations.  ? Involved in configuration of replication agents, reverse replication, and dispatcher flush agents. Worked on configuring the web servers for load balancing, writing the caching rules.  ? Supporting the front-end team by involving in front end development in AngularJS.  ? Trained the Business users / Content Implementers in Content Authoring and using the Site Admin to work with launches and using the workflows according to the release.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Adobe CQ5.  ? Improved the code quality, coding standards, unit tests and code coverage using Sonar Cube.  ? Gathering business requirements and converting them to technical solutions.    Environment: AEM 6.3/6.2, HTML, HTML5, CSS, Adobe CQ5.5, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON, Grunt, NodeJS, Java, Servlets, Nginx, Dynamic Tag Management, Sonar, GIT. AEM Developer JP Morgan Chase - Salem, NH August 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Development and Deployment of complex enterprise level CQ WCM application.  ? Created templates and other components for CQ5 and clipped applications.  ? Used Sling, Apache Felix, and JCR for the new Content Management System.  ? Involved in creating the Adobe CQ5 Campaigns, Teasers in CRXDE Lite environment.  ? Development of modules and installing them as bundles on OSGI Container.  ? Working knowledge on Apache Sling Platform.  ? Integrate LDAP for user access to the CMS system for authoring, publishing, automatic deployment, user permissions & creations and workflow management.  ? Developed digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the Adobe CQ/AEM product suite used DAM for image management.  ? Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM 6.1/CQ dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  ? Created/Modified custom widgets in Adobe CQ.  ? Worked closely with the product managers to understand the requirements and develop the components accordingly.  ? Knowledge on Classic/Touch Modes of AEM 6.0 also created few dialogs using version 6.0  ? Experience creating workflows, CQ templates and CQ Administration.  ? Working knowledge on Importing, Exporting CQ Packages & Bundles.  ? Knowledge of backup and restore using CRX's integrated backup tool.  ? Developed every aspect of the web page, starting from title tags and Meta information to paragraphs of the content is designed and developed in such a way that it can be adjusted by content authors or restricted to only advanced administrators.  ? Designed various modules using technologies like JSON, and JavaScript.  ? Created responsive designs using HTML5, CSS and Bootstrap.  ? Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Adobe CQ5.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, Adobe CQ5.5, AEM 6.1/6.0, HTML5, JavaScript, Bootstrap, CSS, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, Java, Servlets AEM Developer Huntington Bank - Columbus, OH February 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Created and maintained AEM content management systems.  ? Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  ? GIT is used as a distributed revision control system. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer's machine.  ? Held responsible for designing and implementing cloud-based solutions, including private, community and public cloud deployment models.  ? Experience developing UI, OSGI components in CQ 5.  ? Experience developing event handling and related components in CQ 5.  ? Effective use of component properties to meet the business requirements like actions, drop targets and in place.  ? Utilized REST, Java, Sling, CQ5, and Java script for custom Coding.  ? Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  ? Developed static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system.  ? Provided estimates, designs, and specifications for AEM templates, components, and workflows.  ? Built various web pages using HTML, Angular JS, CSS, Java Script and JQuery.  ? Setup and configured Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages' html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  ? Used Angular JS to provide services to different components of portal.  ? Worked on Angular JS for reading and Posting JSON data.  ? Worked on Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.    Environment: Adobe CQ5.6/AEM 6.0, DAM, CQ Tagging, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Java, J2EE, Apache Maven, Angular JS, Restful Web Services, JAXP, JAXB, Axis 2.0, Jersey 1.2, Servlets, JDBC, MS SQL Server, HTML, Angular JS, JSP, AJAX, JUnit, log4j, Linux, Windows. Java/J2EE Developer Patni Computers Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in end-to-end development of SDLC using Waterfall methodology  ? Collaborated with the business and technical teams to discuss about the issues  ? Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Tag libraries, JQuery and AJAX  ? Used Core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handlings, Serialization, Multi-Threading, Concurrency, Latest java features.  ? Used Struts framework to define Controller, action mappings, forms and View pages.  ? Integrated the application with Validation Framework.  ? Used Core Java & J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Business Delegate, Adapter, MVC, DAO, VO, DTO, Service Locator etc.  ? Used WSDL, SOAP, AXIS and JAX-WS technologies to create web services, generate stubs and consuming the existing services.  ? Developed EJBs - Session beans for Business logic & Entity Beans for Persistence.  ? Used JNDI to do connection pooling.  ? Written SQL Queries and PL/SQL - stored procedures, functions, indexes, triggers and sequences to interact with the database.  ? Used JMS to pass messages as payload to track different statuses, milestones and states in the workflows  ? Developed and documented Test cases, Test scenarios & Test scripts for Unit testing and Black box testing and after all wrote show case documents for showing to the users and other teams.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, DB2- SQL, PL/SQL, EJB- Session beans, Entity Beans, RAD, CVS, JUnit, Maven, IBM WSDL, SOAP, Validation Framework. Education Master's in Computer Software Engineering in Computer Software Engineering University of Houston - Houston, TX Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology in Information Technology JNTU Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Struts, C++, Content management, Git, Gradle, Html, Svn, Visio, Xml, Ajax, Css, Iis Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Technology Tools  Web Content Management (WCM) CQ 5/AEM 6.x.x, Apache Sling, OSGI, Felix, HTL(Sightly).  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, CRXDE, Brackets.  Frameworks / Methodologies Struts, Hibernate, Spring, SOAP, REST, JMS, Maven, ANT, Gradle.  Languages and Tools Java, J2EE, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL.  Application Web Servers Apache Tomcat, Jetty, IIS, Web Logic, WebSphere, JBoss.  Version Controls Systems GIT, SVN and BitBucket.  Web Technologies HTML 4.0, XML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery.  Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9.x, DB2, Sybase, MS Access, MS SQL Server, TOAD.  Other Tools Share Point, Lotus Notes, HP Service Manager, MS word, MS Excel, MS Visio.  Operating Systems MS DOS, Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/10, Linux and UNIX.