Back end developer Back end <span class="hl">developer</span> Back end developer - Sprint Corp Overland Park, KS • Around 5 years of experience as a Software developer in analysis, design, development and implementation of Client-Server and Enterprise applications.  • Experience in JAVA/JEE, AngularJS, Angular 4, REST and SOAP services, Spring 4, Spring web flow, Hibernate 3, Cloud Foundry, Jenkins, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, NoSQL.  • Expertise in ORM and JPA tools - Hibernate, Spring JDBC template.  • Maintained GIT repositories for DevOps environment: automation code and configuration  • Sound knowledge of Spring DI, AOP, Transaction Management, and MVC.  • Sound knowledge of OOAD and distributed computing concepts. Conversant with UML and creating class sequence diagrams.  • Good experience in Waterfall based approach and Agile methodologies for development.  • Experience in deploying, configuring and administering application servers such as WebSphere Application Server and Apache Tomcat.  • Proficient in developing and deploying Enterprise Applications on AWS elastic beanstalk.  • Proficient in configuring RDS (Relational database service) on AWS.  • Collaborated with Application Design, Framework Design, User Interface Design and Coding. Well versed with all the phases of System Development Life Cycle namely Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation.  • Proficient in using MySQL, Oracle, MS SQL.  • Expertise in development of multi-tier application using Design Patterns: MVC, DAO, DTO, Singleton, Builder, Decorator, Factory, Composite.  • Hands on Experience with version control tools like SVN and GIT  • Possess excellent communication and written skills, leadership and mentorship qualities. Process oriented and good team player. Work Experience Back end developer Sprint Corp - Overland Park, KS October 2018 to Present Description: Development of activate layer in Guided selling tool. This app is used by sales representatives to upsell the sprint devices, products and services.  Responsibilities  • Development of activate layer which was designed used spring web flow and honey bee framework.  • Implemented service layer to interact with other back end services like EAI/RMS to fetch the data.  • Storing and fetching logs from MongoDB to debug issues.  • Used Jenkins for continuous build integration and deployment.  • Written and coded JUnit tests using Mockito framework.  • Worked on ITSM production tickets and triaging issues related to production.    Technologies Used: Java 8, Spring web flow, Angular JS, Jenkins, maven, Git-hub, Spring-security, JAX-RS, REST, SOAP, Mulesoft etc. Java Engineer JP Morgan Chase bank - Chicago, IL April 2018 to September 2018 Description: Development of Digital app called pre client onboarding. This app is developed to keep the record of prospective customers.  Responsibilities  • Pushing, scaling and configuring application instances using Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Implemented service layer on top of Oracle database 12c using Springboot, JDBC template API and Restful APIs.  • Designed/ developed DAO components using Hibernate.  • Used Jenkins for continuous build integration and deployment.  • Developed JUnit tests using Mockito framework.  • Development and registration of Micro services using Eureka web server.  • Enabled swagger 2 for automatic documentation.  • Creation and initiation of flow diagram using activiti BPM(business process management).  • Used QPID to enable the publisher and listener which will listen to the Onboarding queue.    Technologies Used: Java 8, Springboot, HTML, Angular 4, Jenkins, Oracle databse 12 c, maven, Bitbucket, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Eureka Server, Spring-security, JAX-RS, QPID, JMS etc. Java Engineer Ford Motor Company - Dearborn, MI October 2017 to March 2018 Description: Development of tablet application for Benchmarking of application  Responsibilities  • Pushing, scaling and configuring application instances using Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Implemented service layer on top of MS SQL Server using core Java, JDBC template API and Restful API.  • Created build and deployment scripts using Gradle 4.2.  • Designed/ developed DAO components using Spring JDBC template.  • Used Jenkins as the integration tool and improved scalability of applications on cross-platforms.  • Developed JUnit test framework and executed unit test cases by using JUNIT for fixes.  • Development of Micro service based architecture using Zuul.  • Enabled swagger for automatic documentation.    Technologies Used: Java 8, Springboot, Bootstrap, HTML, AngularJS, MongoDB, Jenkins, Microsoft SQL Server, Gradle, Github, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Zuul, Spring-security, JAX-RS etc. Java Engineer Reliable Software Resources - Farmington Hills, MI July 2017 to September 2017 Description: Devops and development Engineer    Responsibilities  • Pushing, scaling and configuring application instances using Pivotal cloud Foundry.  • Designed Micro service applications with fail safe methodology using Circuit Breaker pattern with Hystrix/Dashboard and load balancing using Spring Ribbon.  • Hands on experience with Netflix cloud and fall back technologies like Eureka, Hystrix and Ribbon.  • Scalable data design for MongoDB and Redis, worked on pre-splitting mechanism to distribute data across shards, managed and maintain MongoDB servers across multiple environments.  • Used Jenkins as the integration tool and improved scalability of applications on cross-platforms.    Technologies Used: Java 8, Springboot, Bootstrap, HTML, Angular 2, Maven, STS, Netflix, Netflix Ribbon, MySQL, MongoDB, Jenkins, JFrog Software Engineer Teleperformance - Jaipur, Rajasthan October 2012 to March 2015 Project: TMS  Role: Java Developer    Description: Teleperformance Management System (TMS) integrates data from many systems and departments into a comprehensive view of performance at every level    Responsibilities  • Contributed as Application developer in JAVA/J2EE (version 7) , Spring Framework, AngularJS, Hibernate  • Maintained SVN repositories for DevOps environment: automation code and configuration.  • Worked with production management to identify issues and create a summary issues report each week.  • Deployment of the project using pivotal cloud foundry.  • Performed continuous build and integration using Jenkins.  • Often asked by management to do a production metric audit and submit a report.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture, Spring 4, Spring Annotations, Hibernate 3, Spring JDBC, Spring Transaction management.  • Involved in creating the detail design document using requirement document.  • Used JAX-RS Jersey framework for the development of RESTful APIs using Richardson maturity model (State 2).  • Participated in QA and have good experience involving in Functional testing, Integration testing, and Performance testing.    Technologies Used: Java/JEE 7, REST(state 2), SOAP, Spring 4, Maven 3.2, Hibernate 3, CloudFoundry, STS, MySQL 5.7, Servlet, JSP, Jenkins, HTML5, Angular 2, Junit, Jersey    Project: E-learning web portal  Role: Java Developer    Description: E-learning website designed for members interested in learning online courses.    Responsibilities  • Developed Spring Controllers, Service Components, DAOs, Web Services and UI Integration  • Hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework Implemented client side validations using JavaScript.  • Daily interaction with production support (customer facing) team and gathering requirements and specification to enhance the functionality of the application.  • Performed patch management, set up cron jobs, user account maintenance, disk quota controls.  • Participated in QA and have good experience involving in Functional testing, Integration testing, and Performance testing.  • Client interactions for requirements gathering and feasibility analysis using agile methodology.  • Having Experience in all phases of SDLC as Requirement gathering and Designing (Object-Oriented Design, Technical document), Implementation, Bug fixation and UAT/Production support for monthly releases  • Created repository in GIT and managed source code.  • Involved in creating the detail design document using requirement document.    Technologies Used: Spring MVC(version 4), GIT, AngularJS, Maven, Hibernate 3, Java/JEE (verison 7), STS, JMS, MySQL 5.7 Assistant Engineer Cyber Futuristics - Jaipur, Rajasthan September 2011 to September 2012 Education Master of Science University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC May 2017 Bachelor of Tech in Tech Rajasthan Technical University 2011 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, Jsp, C++, Git, Visio, Xml, Dbms, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Mongodb, Angularjs, Soap, Selenium, Css Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ravi-v-98716710b/ Additional Information Software Skills:  ? Languages: Java, JEE, Scala, C, C++  ? DBMS Packages: MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, MS-access  ? Technologies: Spring JDBC, Hibernate, SOAP, REST, JPA, Tomcat, XML, JSP, CSS, JMS, Springboot, GIT, Spring, Angular 2, Angularjs, Selenium, MongoDB  ? SDLC methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Sprint  ? Tools: Visio, Eclipse, STS, Wireshark, PuTTY, STS, Eclipse, Netbeans, Visual Studio 2013