Full/ MEAN Stack Developer Full/ MEAN Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full/ MEAN Stack Developer - Cisco Systems San Jose, CA Work Experience Full/ MEAN Stack Developer Cisco Systems - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2018 to Present Project Title Digitized Acquisition Integration & Migration (DAIM)  Role Full/ MEAN Stack Developer  Environment Angular 6.0, NodeJS, MongoDB, ExpressJS, Docker    Description:  Digitized Acquisition Integration & Migration (DAIM) is a platform that would help Cisco migrate all the contracts/ subscriptions from acquired companies to Cisco's subscription based platform by using predefined mapping logic and business criteria.    Responsibilities:  • Create single codebase for a NodeJS & Angular application.  • Develop REST API in NodeJS to be consumed by client.  • Develop Angular 6 based reusable components.  • Configure docker container to be deployed in Cisco's cloud.  • Write unit test cases at server side (NodeJS) using mocha & chai.  • Write unit test cases at client side (Angular 6) using Jasmine & karma.  • Write Grunt jobs/tasks (tasks to run unit test cases & minify files) in NodeJS application.  • Integrate with API's exposed by the legacy and the new systems.  • Write integration test cases to validate the API's from other systems.  • Write schedulers using node-scheduler library, so that system will itself by pulling the data from legacy system and push the data to new system at a given time of the day in a week.  • Use GIT for version control.  • Integrate with node-mailer to send out emails to customer based on the given time in NodeJS scheduler at regular intervals.  • Analyze and debug the logs on the server and fix any issues found in the system.  • Interact with sales team on daily basis to find out issues in migrated contracts. Java & MEAN Stack Developer Cisco Systems - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2013 to April 2018 Project Title Cisco Collaborative Knowledge  Role Software Engineer  Environment Springs, NodeJS, MongoDB, EmberJS, Apache Kafka 0.8, Elasticsearch    Description:  Cisco learning workplace, Changing to meet the needs of the new digital economy, Real-Time Knowledge, Experts and Analytics, knowledge, learning, speed and flexibility to solve real world business challenges, re-imagine the way individuals work, learn, share ideas and innovate together, Best-in-class digital experiences and digital tools to access experts, knowledge and learning in real-time, make smarter business decisions, securely - anytime, anywhere.    Responsibilities:  • Used Spring IOC (Inversion of Control)/DI (Dependency Injection) to wire the object dependencies across the application.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules and followed AGILE/SCRUM methodology. Participated in Estimation size of Backlog Items, Daily Scrum and Translation of backlog items into engineering design and logical units of work (tasks).  • Used Jenkins continuous integration tool to do the deployments.  • Developed REST API both in Java & NodeJS in a micro-services architecture to make the components exchange data.  • Developed a NodeJS application module from scratch, which takes data from upstream components and pushes data to MYSQL using "mysql" npm.  • Written Grunt jobs/tasks (tasks to run unit test cases & minify files) for both Java & NodeJS applications.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection properties to provide loose coupling between layers.  • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit and Integration Testing as part of TDD (Test-Driven Development) process.  • Used junit for Java and MOCHA (npm module) for NodeJS unit test cases.  • Implemented the log functionality by using Log4j and internal logging API's.  • Written ElasticSearch (1.3.2) queries to perform a full-text search, partial text search and analytics.  • Written MongoDB aggregations queries for high performance of application.  • Integrated existing NodeJS or Java micro-services with Kafka Connector to act as publisher or subscriber to a particular Kafka topic.  • Analyze Kafka logs to fix failures at application level and to increase or decrease number of partitions for a Kafka topic based on load to improve performance by altering partitions per topic.  • Developed screens using Ember MVC Architecture, and integrated with REST API calls to project data on UI.  • Used Maven build tools and GIT for version control.  • Responsible for productions support and analyzing the Kibana logs for application errors.  • Written migrations scripts using Ruby to move data from Mysql Database to Mongo/Elasticsearch.  • Worked on performance issues to make sure that application will support more than 80 K + users. Education Bachelor of Technology in Aurora's Scientific Technological & Research Academy (JNTU) - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Angular (2 years), Java (5 years), Nodejs (4 years), Mongodb (3 years), Elasticsearch (2 years), Apache kafka (2 years)