Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - PRA Group New York, NY • Profound experience as a Full Stack Java/J2EE Developer building web-based enterprise application for  various domains.  • Expert in Core Java with a strong understanding of Collections, Multithreading, Concurrency,  Exception handling, Stream API, Lambda Expressions, and Functional Interfaces.  • Experienced in all stages of Software development life cycle (SDLC) using methodology like Waterfall,  Agile.  • Experience with different modules of Spring Framework like Spring Core , Spring MVC, Spring AOP,  Spring Data JDBC, Spring Data MongoDB, Spring Data REST, ORM Integration Module, Spring  Security, Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  • Hands-on experience in Object Relational Mapping (ORM) using Hibernate 5.2 and Spring Data JPA  frameworks.  • Strong experience in producing and consuming REST and SOAP Web Services by using different APIs  like JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAX-B and implementing using Jersey, Jackson.  • Expertise in Back-end/server-side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA),  Java. Messaging Service (JMS), ActiveMQ, Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and  Directory Interface (JNDI).  • Developed Interactive UI using front-end technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4/3,  JavaScript and designed Single Page Application using Angular7/4 and processing JSON data to render  on UI.  • Good experience in working with Relational Databases like MySQL 5.4, Oracle 11 g and NoSQL  Databases like Mongo DB 3.  • Hands on experience in bash scripting, Python scripting.  • Strong experience in different IDEs like Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite and IntelliJ IDEA and worked on  various application and web servers like JBoss 4, BES Web Logic 12.0, IBM Web Sphere, Glassfish and  Apache Tomcat 9.  • Experienced using build tools such as Maven, Gradle and scripting Docker files and deploying onto  Docker containers.  • Expertise in Amazon Web Services (AWS) such as EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, RDS, IAM,  Cloud Watch, Ops Works, Simple Queue Services, Simple Notification Services.  • Expertise in developing enterprise applications using Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous  Deployment (CI/CD).  • Experienced in Test Driven Development (TDD)with thorough knowledge in Unit testing with Junit 4  and Mockito 1.3.  • Strong experience with version controls like SVN, GIT.  • Extensively used Building tools such as Maven 3.1, Gradle.  • Implemented JMS ( Java Message Service) using Kafka to receive and read messages in the application.  • Used JIRA as a defect tracking system and Log4j 2.3 for logging.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and a very good team player with the ability to work  independently.  • Highly hard-working individual and quick learner with good technical and analytical skills. Work Experience Java Developer PRA Group - Piscataway, NJ April 2019 to Present Project Description: PRA Group is a global leader in acquiring and collecting nonperforming loans through their  local subsidiaries, it returns capital to banks and other creditors to help expand financial services for consumers in the Americas and Europe.  The project is about creating a web application which tracks record of total money lent, tracking EMI's , E-mail and text reminder system for monthly interest payments to clients , calculating penalty amounts, portal to apply for the  loan and getting monthly revenue information company is making. The major scope of the project is to redesign the legacy application in to microservice.    Responsibilities:  • The application is built on Micro-services architecture and was implemented using Spring Boot 2.0  Framework.  • Implemented Spring Security for the login authentication, credit reports and applicant information using  JWT.  • Used Hibernate 4.3.0 as an ORM tool to communicate with MySQL 5.7 to design and create the mapping  classes, sessions, transactions.  • Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks such as validation  of the client account details.  • Involved in building a single page and cross browser compatible web application using HTML5, JavaScript,  CSS3, Angular7 and Bootstrap 4.2.1  • Worked on Apache Tomcat 7 in creating mock API's for testing purposes.  • Followed Test driven development (TDD) and written test cases using JUnit 4.0 and Mockito2.0.  • Utilized Git Version Control system and Jenkins for the continuous integration and continuous deployment of the project.    Environment:  Java 8, J2EE, MySQL, Spring Boot 2.0, Spring Security, LDAP Mail Server, Restful Web services, AJAX,  XML, jQuery 3.x, HTML 5, CSS 3, GitHub, Jenkins 2.x, Maven, Junit 4.x. Full Stack Developer January 2018 to December 2018 Description:  It is a web-based portal for a university's HR department to manage data about the students doing  on-campus employment. System can create vacant positions, scheduling interview, storing interview results for the applicants and also hiring the applicants. It has added functionality such as request for leave by the employee and  personalized employee portal to connect with the HR.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in the design, analysis, development, and deployment of the SDLC (Software development life- cycle).  • Developed project in Spring Framework like Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring REST,  Spring Boot, Spring MVC.  • Configured Oracle 11g DB database schema and binding are done using Spring Data Java Persistence API.  • Build RESTful services using Spring REST and consumed SOAP APIs to fetch data from external APIs.  • Deployed the application on EC2 and configured environment using Elastic Bean Stalk.  • Enhanced UI by implementing front-end using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and Angular 2.  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL queries to perform data analysis, extraction, and various functions.  • Wrote various stored procedures, functions, and triggers etc.  • Using JUnit designed and implemented test cased for various modules of the project.  • Used Maven as a build tool and IntelliJ for the application development.  • Performed deployment of the applications; well versed with CICD (Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment) technique.  • Collaborated with Production Support and Testing teams to fix Issues during UAT testing and Production.    Environment:  Java 1.8, SpringBoot1.4, Spring Security, Spring REST, Oracle, Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap,  JSON,SQL, JPA, Micro-Services, Junit 4.0, Mockito, Tomcat 8.0 Wireframes, Maven, Git, Agile. Full Stack Developer New York, NY April 2017 to December 2017 Project Description:  KeepSecure Vault is an internal web application to store documents in multiple formats such as Images, PDFs,  Word and Excel. It provides platform for students and professor to store their documents in a secure format.  Created the application by using Shamir Secret Sharing and Advanced Encryption Standard cryptographic  algorithms.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented SPA in Angular6 and presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Consumed and produced RESTful Web Services using Spring REST.  • Worked on Shamir Secret Sharing and Advanced Encryption Standard cryptographic algorithms for creating two REST services, one for encryption and another for decryption.  • Introduced Spring AOP techniques for handling Data Access Exceptions during the transactions by using  Controller Advice Annotations.  • Integrated the Hibernate-4.0.6 with spring using the jdbc Driver Manager DataSource class.  • Utilized log4j for logging, debugging and information extracting purposes.  • Performed Unit Testing/Integration Testing, JUnit, Debugging and Implementation.  • Integrated Docker, git and maven plugin with Jenkins for the Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  • Used Defect Management tool Jira for Issue/Bug tracking and monitoring of work assignments in the system.  • Configured and managed some of the AWS services like IAM and involved in AWS Elastic Beanstalk for app deployment.  • Configured Elastic Beanstalk for app deployment and Elastic Load Balancer with EC2 Auto Scaling  groups.  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories,  participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.    Environment:  Java 8, Spring Framework 4.2.1, JMS 2.0, RESTful Web Service, Hibernate 4.0.6, Oracle 11g, HTML5,  CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap 3.x, Angular6, Maven, Tomcat 7, Jenkins, Docker, Git, JUnit 4, Log4j,  Jira 7. JAVA Developer Facebook and Google - Mumbai, Maharashtra October 2015 to December 2016 Description: App for travel lovers. JourneyPlanner gives information about nearby places like restaurant, cafe,  hospital, movie, local stores , best time to visit etc. It uses single sign-on using Facebook and Google. User can view  reviews of another user along with maps which would help them to navigate to their destination. Along with that,  user can add a destination in watchlist and can also check upcoming events.    Responsibilities:  • Developed web application using Struts, Servlets, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating Servlets, JSP and XML.  • Created ANT build files to create the EAR and WAR files.  • Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from database.  • Used the Log4j frame work to log the system execution details to log files.  • The application was deployed on the Tomcat.    Environment:  Java, JDBC, Struts, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat, Oracle 11g, Eclipse IDE, CVS, ANT, Log4J. Software Engineer Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2014 to September 2015 Description:  Project Scope - Library Management System is to register new account , login/logout , cancel membership, search  book by title , subject name , author name , update catalog , add ,remove book item from the cart    Responsibilities:  • Developed web-based application components using JSP, Java Servlets, JSTL, XML, CSS3 and HTML5.  • Developed Spring MVC, Services, DAOs.  • Wrote SQL queries using JDBC prepared statements for fetching data from the database.  • Developed application using agile Methodology.  • Used Log4J logging framework for logging message at various levels.  • Unit test and writing Test scripts using JUnit Framework. Used LDAP Mail Server for sending detailed  notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is complete and also for mailing administrator for any system related problem.  • Used GIT as a Version Control system and Maven for Continuous Build Integration.    Technology Stack:  JSP, Java Servlets, JSTL, XML, CSS2, HTML5, SQL, JDBC, Junit , LDAP Mail Server , Git, Log4J Education Master's Skills TECHNICAL SKILLS: Programming Languages: JavaScript Framework/Libraries: Java 8/7/6, SQL jQuery, Angular7/4 Server Side: Cloud Technologies: Spring MVC 5.x/4.x, Hibernate 5.x/4.x, Struts 2 EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, SNS, SQS, RDS, Spring boot 2.x/1.x, Spring Cloud Cloud Watch, IAM UI/Web Technologies: Database: CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL 5x, Oracle 12c/11g, MongoDB 3.5 \ Bootstrap 4.x/3.x, AJAX, JSON, XML Design Patterns: Development IDE’s: Factory, Singleton, DAO, MVC Eclipse, IntelliJ Web/App Servers: Version control: Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, Apache HTTP Git, CVS, SVN Operation System: Testing Tools: Windows 10/8/7/XP, Linux, Mac JUnit and Mockito Methodologies JAVA EE Technologies Agile, Client/Server Architecture, Object JSP 2.x, Servlets 3.0, JDBC, JMS 2.0. Oriented Analysis & Design (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: JavaScript Framework/Libraries:  Java 8/7/6, SQL jQuery, Angular7/4  Server Side: Cloud Technologies:  Spring MVC 5.x/4.x, Hibernate 5.x/4.x, Struts 2 EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, SNS, SQS, RDS,  Spring boot 2.x/1.x, Spring Cloud Cloud Watch, IAM  UI/Web Technologies: Database:  CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL 5x, Oracle 12c/11g, MongoDB 3.5 \  Bootstrap 4.x/3.x, AJAX, JSON, XML  Design Patterns: Development IDE's:  Factory, Singleton, DAO, MVC Eclipse, IntelliJ  Web/App Servers: Version control:  Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, Apache HTTP Git, CVS, SVN  Operation System: Testing Tools:  Windows 10/8/7/XP, Linux, Mac JUnit and Mockito  Methodologies JAVA EE Technologies  Agile, Client/Server Architecture, Object JSP 2.x, Servlets 3.0, JDBC, JMS 2.0.  Oriented Analysis & Design