Python Developer Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - METLIFE Greenville, SC • Over 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with an analytical programming using Python, Django.  • Experienced with full software development life cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and Post gre SQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Created video publishing toolkit using WordPress (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video by non-technical content mangers.  • Developed a data migration feature using GZ File Compression and AES 256 encryption.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer METLIFE - Greenville, SC October 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing • Selenium testing performed.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used • Python/Django based web application, Postgre sql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Used PowerShell for DevOps in Windows-based systems • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Test and validated the custom scripts.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure • Anticipated potential parts of failure( database, communication points, file system errors) • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell  Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Sr. Python Developer Eli Lilly & Company - Indianapolis, IN June 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities: • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile) • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used JQuery for the data manipulations on client side.  • Leveraged CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Performed DevOps for Linux Mac and Windows platforms • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Monitored developed applications and fixed bugs.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, and Implementation of the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer NBC Universal - New York, NY June 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities: • Worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS, complex Flash integration.  • Consolidated many previous websites onto one dedicated RHEL hosts.  • Maintenances PHP/MySQL (primarily Joomla), Classic ASP/MSSQL. Communicating and interfacing with previous developers on a regular basis.  • Created and helped deploy advertisements with Advert Serve.  • Used AWstat and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Started developing with Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0 • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod python • Upgraded Python 2.3 to Python 2.5 on a RHEL 4 server, this required recompiling mod python to use Python 2.5. This upgrade was necessary because in lined models with UTF-8 characters were causing unexpected errors. Submitted a ticket to the Django project documenting this incompatibility with Python 2.3.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgres SQL with complete data integrity.  • Using Django and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • AJAX with JQuery • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Created Python/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings. Used Wire shark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. The webpages for displaying the data uses AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel  Environment: XML Schemas, XML, JSF, Java Script, CSS, HTML, Angular JS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Python 2.6, Java Script, JQuery, JSON, XML, MySQL Java Developer Baya Tree Infocom Pvt Ltd May 2011 to May 2013 Client: Ace Hardware Corporation, India    Description: This is enhancement of Acehardware.com website with "My Store" pages. This website features new functionality to greatly enhance the consumer's online experience, as part of "My Store" enhancements consumers will be able to access their local store's information through online. Retailers will also have the ability to show off their niches and specialties by posting additional videos and images. Retailers will get more flexibility to showcase their store.    Responsibilities: • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Designed UI screens using JSP, Struts tags and HTML. Used JavaScript for client side validation and developed the AJAX based modules.  • Used Struts Framework in the application which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database and worked with all kinds of Hibernate mappings.  • Actively involved in designing and implementing Session Faade, Service Locator and Data Transfer Object design patterns.  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Struts Framework and Hibernate.  • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP code.  • Used DAO pattern to retrieve the data from database.  • Used SAX and DOM XML parsers in the application.  • Administration and configuring Web Sphere application server for deploying application, creating JDBC Data sources, creating servers.  • Used JDBC to access MySql database for accessing customer information.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  • For Administrators provided Swing GUI to inspect the Database of the customers.  • Designed tables, scrollbars for inspection of the data • Developed some web services using restful.  • Used Log4J for error logs.  Environment: Window XP, Hibernate 3.0, Struts, JSP, Servlets, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, UML, HTML, JNDI, CVS, Log4J, JUnit, MySql. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:  Application servers Apache Tomcat, Nginix, J Boss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases MySQL, PL SQL,PostgreSQL, Oracle (9i,10g,11g)  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins.  Frameworks Django, Flask, CSS Bootstrap and Struts  IDE's Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and Sublime Text.  J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JDBC and JMS.    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Programming Languages Python, Java, SQL and PL/SQL  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.  Version Control Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS  Web Services AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS