Sr. AEM Developer Sr. AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. AEM Developer - Sony Play Station(Looking for new positions) San Mateo, CA • Experienced professional in IT industry with strong experience in Web content management (WCM) & J2EE development technologies with solid experience of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) as well as Test-Driven Development (TDD) in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Overall 8.3 years of IT experience.  • Overall4.6 years of hands-onAEMexperience in development of content management solutions using Adobe AEM Content Management System.  • Experience in AEM 6.4, 6.3, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.0, AEM 5.6.1.  • Experience in developing Templates, Custom Components, creating and launching Workflows and customizing out of the box Widgets.  • Experience in developing different applications using CRXDE, Eclipse IDE and Rational Application Developer (RAD).  • Experience in Workflow development and integrating AEM with other applications.  • Strong experience with setting up AEM using Maven and standard Eclipse tools.  • Knowledge of using MVC and version control tools like SVN and GitHub.  • Efficient in WCM, DAM, CQ5, CRX (Content Management Extreme), Components, Widgets and Apache Sling.  • Experience in using Management (DTM).  • Worked with MSM in AEM for creating Blueprints, live copies, configuration of rollouts.  • Using sling built content-centric applications with the help of Apache Oak or Crx3.  • Experience in Adobe AEM WCM, CMS, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, JCR, Apache sling, AEM Component Development, template development, Architecture, Administration and installation of Publish and Author instances etc.  • Experience in design and development of, Object Oriented (OOPS), distributed OOAD based system using UML/ Rational Rose.  • Experience in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes Requirement Coding, Design, Analysis, Testing and Implementation using Agile, Waterfall, Test Driven Development and other development methodologies.  • Experienced in developing Custom OSGi bundles.  • Well versed in setting up or upgrading complex AEM environment with expertise in AEM Author, Publisher and Dispatcher administrations.  • Expertise in developing editable templates.  • Proficient in MEAN Stack development, using RESTful web services.  • Proficiency in deploying n-tier Enterprise / Web applications using ApacheTomcat.  • Efficient use of various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Service locator, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object), and BusinessDelegate in the development of distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience with SDLC process (Agile, Waterfall models) of performing detailed analysis, collecting use cases, documenting requirements.  • Ability to build tables, stored procedures, indexes, create jobs in SQLServer, use SQLServer Management Studio and tools such as query analyzer, activity monitor, and query profiler  • Good experience in coordinating and working with developers (Offshore and Onsite) and End Users in Team based environment. Work Experience Sr. AEM Developer Sony Play Station - San Mateo, CA December 2016 to Present Responsibilities  • Created custom editable templates using AEM 6.3.  • Developed multiple custom touch UI components using AEM 6.3 and 6.4.  • Worked on Content Fragment Models, Content Fragments and Experience Fragments.  • Involved in the migration project from AEM 6.3 to 6.4.  • Created context aware configuration under /conf and created custom policies for components.  • Responsible for coordinating with the dev team and perform build and deploying the components  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages HTML and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Also, been in to using other Enterprise Management Tools like Adobe Target and Adobe DTM.  • Worked on setup and configuration of the SAML authentication servers  • Used Jenkins to build, package and deploy the application and used Log4j for the Logging system.  • Worked on Sling Models and Use Classes.  • Responsible for design, development, unit, and integration testing of AEM components, templates and the corresponding web services.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Collaborate with Architects on the design and architecture for our team's deliverables.  • Consumed Restful Web-service sand created service bundle to interact with the third party servers.  • Documented each and every user story. Review of Code and prepared test cases.  • Integrated web pages using AEM, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and J Query as part of client libraries.  • Work on components, forms, templates and workflows.  • Create Users and Groups for workflow management.  • Document each and every user story. Review of Code and prepared test cases.  • Develop custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Main code changes were done in JSP, J Query, and AJAX and JavaScript environment.  Environment:AEM 6.4, AEM 6.3, JCR, Apache Felix JAVA, J2EE, POJO, JSON, Adobe Experience Manager, Sightly, HTML5, Ext JS, CSS3, Maven, GITHUB, Restful Web services, Agile, SCRUM, Akamai, JIRA, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON. AEM Developer Coca Cola - New York, NY February 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities  • Creating templates of the website using the framework and developing custom components, widgets as per the requirements in AEM 6.1.  • Have been using DAM Assets, Package Manager, Package Share, Replication and other tools provided by AEM with core knowledge on implementation of utilization part.  • Utilized HTML, CSS, and JS, jQuery for designing and implementing custom CQ components and building responsive designs.  • Used Data source to dynamically populate any element value in Touch UI dialog.  • Built complete dialog in single request and return complete dialog HTML using Touch UI.  • Implemented Component renditions using slightly framework.  • Developed WCM Use Classes and Sling Models to meets the requirement.  • Verify/Validate testing to ensure that the team generates high-quality output.  • Developed Custom AEM Workflows, OSGi Services,and other Dynamic/Static web content management components.  • Worked on stories related to Adobe AEM in sprints which includes feature development and production issues (Agile Scrum methodology)  • Worked with Personalization teams to develop Adobe Target strategy  • Developed GUI using HTML5 and JavaScript  • Implemented Custom widget to support multi-composite fields.  • Implemented complex workflows like multilevel approver workflows, Custom process steps etc.  • Proficient in AEM foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, the AEM platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix. Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Requirements gathering and analyzing them with BA, grooming them to stories and keep track of development.  • Used Bootstrap CSS framework that helps in designing web applications  • Interacted with java controllers (Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems) using RESTFUL Services.  • Involved in building the Client pages using HTML, CSS, JSP, angular.js, JavaScript/jQuery.  • Designed a solution to integrate angular single page apps into AEM  • Defined implementation processes, quality gates, and standards.  • Setup and configured Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEMdispatcher to cache the landing pages HTML and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Worked on AEM Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level and the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix.  Environment: AEM 6.1 (WCM),TDP, Slightly, DAM, Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JSON, HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, Angular JS, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, JIRA, Jenkins, GIT, Maven, Soap web services, Apache Tomcat, Apache Jackrabbit, Workflows, and Agents. AEM Developer Panasonic - Peachtree City, GA April 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured version 5.6.1 of Adobe AEM System and Apache Felix Admin Console.  • Migrated project from AEM 5.6.1 to 6.0.  • Created Classic UI component in 5.6.1.  • Used Dialog convertion tool to convert classic UI components to Touch UI components.  • Installed CRXDE Integrated development environment and Configuration of the project with Subversion version control.  • Involved in creating customized templates, components customizing AEM DAM (Digital Asset Management).  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application.  • Worked on style sheets to maintain the structure and improvise the appearance of Webpages.  • Involve with content management strategies, architecture, and multichannel content delivery.  • Wrote test cases for testing of AEM components and templates in both authoring and publishing environments.  • Developed sling servlets to perform various actions.  • Involved in daily meetings and worked in Agile Environment.  • Involved in complete AEM related design and framework development using templates, components, AEM bundle, JCR/Sling API.  • Worked on Multisite Manager (MSM) to get same structure and content on all the versions of the website.  • Maintenance and packaging of content, delivery, and installation across all environments.  • Performed AEM customization on foundation components, core CMSandworkflows to extend functionalities, improve performance as per the requirements.  • Developed digital consumer experiences based on a foundation of the Adobe AEM product suite, including AEM, CRX, and DAM.  • Used JIRA for project management and bug tracking.  • Developed unit test cases for modules developed.  • Provided estimates, designs and specifications for AEM development modules.  • Used Apache Maven for build automation.  • Developed reusable components in CQ.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented REST, Apache Sling, AEM for Custom Coding.  • Used log4j for logging the messages.  • Involved with content management strategies, architecture, and multichannel content delivery.  Environment:AEM 5.6.1, AEM 6.0, Java (jdk1.6), J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, Apache Maven, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Oracle, Maven, Web Services (SOAP, REST), Eclipse, Log4j. Java/J2EE Developer Bloomberg - Dayton, NJ March 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, Client interaction and Used Agile Methodology for the entire module.  • Requirements gathering from stake holders.  • High/low level designs and development of key changes.  • Worked with Web Sphere consultants to design JNDI connection and connection pool.  • Developed Business logic with Spring MVC frame work and ORM mapping using Hibernate ORM frame work.  • Developed UI by using JSP, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax calls.  • Creation of technical specifications, coding, unit and system integration testing for the enhancements and conducted reviews with users.  • Identifying common functionalities across the divisions in the existing application and recommending changes to improve performance.  • Guiding the team to achieve quality results and help in inducting new team members.  • Responsible for developing DAO layer using Spring MVC and configuration XML's for Hibernate and to manage CRUD operations (insert, update, and delete).  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, and UDDIand JAX-WS programming model.  • Used WS-Security for providing security within soap messages.  • Configured log4j to enable/disable logging in application.  • Used Maven to build a project structure and war files.  • Drawing UML and Sequence diagram Testing Open source Code review using PMD (TOOL) and testing with JUnit cases and Involved in unit testing.  • Used JProfiler to identify memory leaks in the application.  Environment: JAVA 1.5/1.6, J2EE, JNDI, JUnit, Servlets, Web Services, JSP, Hibernate, HTML5, Spring, XML, Hibernate, Maven, WebSphere, Linux, Oracle 10g, JProfiler, Ajax, Log4j. Software Developer Care Hospitals - IN July 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in the entire application life cycle including design, development, debugging and testing of the system.  • Worked with Business Analysts in analyzing and finalizing requirements.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Used the Core Java concepts to implement the Business Logic for Scheduler Framework.  • Used client side Java scripting, JQUERY for designing TABS and DIALOGBOX.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using JSF Framework  • Involved in debugging the application for any existing issues.  • Involved in providing the testing support and fixing the issues for the many modules in the application.  • Involved in the design discussions with Business Analysts and developed/delivered the code as per the design.  • Worked with DBA to deploy SQL scripts.  • Developed REST based Web services.  • Jersey implementation of JAX-RS is utilized to develop RESTFUL service.  • Used Rational Application Developer for the Java development  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework  • Used Aldon version control to track and maintain the different versions of the application.  • Developed Jasper reports using iReport tool.  Environment: Java, Spring, Struts, JPA, MVC, Servlets, JSP,JSF, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, JNDI, RAD, Log4J, Jax-RS, Websphere Application Server, Jasper Reports. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), jQuery (8 years), JSP (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages Core Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets)  Scripting/Markup Languages HTML, XML, Sightly HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, AngularJS  CMS Platforms AEM 6.4, 6.3, 6.1, 6.0, 5.6.1.  Framework Spring, Struts, EJB, Hibernate.  Build Tools Maven, Ant, Jenkins.  IDE Eclipse, Intellij.  Tracking Tools JIRA.  Version Control SVN, GIT.  OS Windows 98/XP/7/8/10, Linux, Mac OS X.  App Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere 6.1, JBoss, WebLogic.  Web Server Apache 2.2.  Database Oracle, MySQL.