Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Sony Pictures Entertainment Los Angeles, CA • Over 7 years of Technical proficiency in the Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, JPA, Hibernate, Microservices, Angular 4, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, XML.  • Experience in working with AWS Lambda Functions, Terraform and ECS cluster.  • Worked on setting up AWS infrastructure using Terraform.  • Experience in Agile (Scrum) and Waterfall software development process.  • Configuration management using Git Hub, IBM RTC, Rational Clear-case on Unix as well as Windows (software code branch management, Code Merging)   • Extensive experience in Microsoft Project Management, Microsoft SQL Server.  • Worked on several application servers like WebSphere 8, Jetty Server and Tomcat 8 and Oracle application server.  • Extensive experience in Development and Software Process Improvement. This involves the preparation of Program Specification, Analysis, Estimation, Coding, Testing, and Process related Activities.  • Experience with Object-Oriented Design (OOD) and Object-Oriented Analysis (OOA), SDLC, RUP, UML associated Tools such as Draw IO, MS Visio.   • Accomplished a series of internet/intranet projects (using J2EE) and Java-based applications.  • Extremely diligent and possess good communication skills. Strong Analytical and problem-solving skills.   • Ability to quickly master new concepts and applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Sony Pictures Entertainment March 2017 to Present The SPT B2B is a Marketing and Research web site that is highly integrated with other Sony Applications such as GPMS, Runner, EAGL, etc. Assets are used and distributed from this site to internal and external customers. Additionally, there is a section which manages distribution U.S. Documents. SPT B2B has sub components like Digital Asset Delivery System - The vendor delivers the promos and they are watermarked in EAGL, then based on the client profile the B2B will deliver to the client. SPT Presenter is a web application for sales. Gives ability to create presentations for a potential customer.    • Analyze, design and develop software applications using JAVA, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Microservices, Gradle, Maven, JMS, MVC JSP, REST WebServices, Jetty Server, HTML5, Angular JS, JBoss, Apache Camel Routes, UML, JSON, Apache Solr.  • Meet with BRM team to interact with business users, business analyst and technical leads to clarify functionality, comprehend the requirements and business requests. to work on Japanese meta-site migration and integration with existing B2B website.  • Developed complete independent microservice for Giya Integration (An Identity Management System)  • Wrote Microservices to fetch and display data from interfacing applications like ODIN for Japanese meta-site migration and integration.  • Built Angular Components and Services to display data and get data from REST end points.  • Working in SCRUM methodology and communicating with offshore DEV and QA team to provide overall direction.  • Review, write code, lead programming, unit testing, bug tracking and debugging of source code in the B2B project and work with IT software architect to design the complex integrations.  • Worked on POC and develop prototypes for future enchantments of the current B2B application related to technology and platform migration. (Developed prototype of current microservices to be ready for Eureka Server-service discovery and registry and AWS Bean stack deployment.)  • Worked on Securing Spring Boot Microservices using Oauth 2.0  • Developed code for in application custom reports for specific clients: Front End Design, backend business logic.  • Experience in using Chrome Developer Tools and Firebug for debugging and troubleshooting the code Java Developer Baudville Brands January 2016 to September 2016 Developed code for in application custom reports for specific clients: Front-end Design, Back-end business  logic.  • Worked on Data Migration: wrote complex data migration scripts using SQL Server  • Resolved performance issues on the portal that involves working on SOAP and REST based web-services  used by the application.  • Worked on resolving performance issues in Database (SQL Server): wrote index defragmentation scripts.  • Wrote database scripts to remove unprintable characters from the database.  • Worked with Jenkins and Git hub  • Worked on OA Builder (Model Driven Development Tool)    Application Developer at IBM Application Developer IBM - Pune June 2011 to December 2014 Project – Vodafone Essar Mar 2013 – Dec 2014  Application Developer/MDM Data Specialist - PIM    • Worked on development Requirements like - validations for new attributes based on certain conditions, worked on export of newly added specs/attributes, worked on value rules, string enumeration rules for a list of attributes.  • Developed code for updating existing items in catalog based on new validations requirement.  • Developed code for export to excel file for all the existing as well as new added attributes and specs.  • Resolved client issues, productions logs and provided guidance to Vodafone MDM support team on issues, conduct knowledge transfer sessions.  • Created Functional and System Design specification documents for assigned requirements.  • Involved in code reviews and defect tracking  • Worked on putting builds for fix-pack releases.  • Analysis of new change requests and its Implementation in MDM.   • Carry out necessary quick POC for customers to demonstrate changes in MDM application.   • Discussing Technical approach with customer for production problems and for application change requests.  • Analysis of Performance issues in production environment and discuss solutions with customer and Architect teams.   • Analysis of Production problems, and give quick solutions to customer through debugging of logs.   • Integration of MDM with Downstream or surround systems using XML, CSV and XLS format.     Project – Barclays Jan 2013 – Mar 2013  Application Developer/MDM Data Specialist – WCC    • Worked on development requirements like - New entity Creation, Behavior extension and Addition implementation.  • Developed code for Composite Services based on client requirement.  • Worked on configuring default Probabilistic matching engine(PME)   • Learned to install, configure MDM workspace on RAD, and learned to configure Web Sphere (Server).    Project – Contracts Online  Application Developer/MDM Data Specialist Aug 2011 – Dec 2012    • Worked as a part of development team of COL - Contracts Online (COL) which is a strategic asset for IBM.   • Responsible for handling Level 2 and Level 3 production tickets and assigning them based on level of severity  • Coordinated with team from Philippines for resolution of tickets as well as for working on requirements   • Responsible for Level 2 support of Contracts Online (COL) for EMEA and Asia Pacific region  • Led five developers for V -17 implementation – a requirement to migrate to new IBM GUI standard  • Responsible for generation of monthly and other reports related to COL which were shared with stake holders   • Selected as the SPOC for the interfacing application which required resolving issues and supporting process workflows.  • Implemented requirements using Spring MVC framework.  • Responsible for implementing validations and notifications using Spring MVC.  • Designed and developed DAO interfaces & implementations using spring, Hibernate  • Recommended solutions for stake holders/clients queries thereby earning their confidence and appreciation.  • Implemented Hibernate annotation pojo classes.  • Worked on SOAP based web-services  • Extensively used log4j for logging the log files.  • Involved In Performance and SQL Query Optimization.  • Used Maven for dependencies and configuration management.  • Automated manual monthly/weekly reports and added new functionality to the application (COL) which not only saved client’s time but also reduced the complexity.  • Created Functional and System Design specification documents for assigned requirements.  • Implemented unit testing, functional testing and integration testing using Junit.  • Implemented test cases for all developed scenarios  • Awarded a ‘Pat on the Back’ certificate from my manager in addition to accolades from the senior management and the client for my contribution to the project.  • Supported quarterly fix pack deployment testing which led to successful deployment of requirements in the production environment Application Developer Intern Philips July 2010 to June 2011 Enhanced my knowledge by working on the Medical Imaging project on CT Virtual Planning for Malunited  radius fracture.  • Worked on Medical Imaging project using combination of Open-source libraries ITK, VTK and using Java  Platform.  • Worked on DICOM Images - segregation, segmentation of CT scan medical Images.  • Chosen from among four interns for a database project requirement which was developed to store  information to check Prevalence and Pattern of Heart Disease in School Children in Udupi, Karnataka Education Master's in Computer Science Manipal Academy of Higher Education 2009 to 2011 Skills JAVA (7 years), MS SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), DATA ANALYTICS (Less than 1 year), Spring (5 years), Angular 4 (Less than 1 year), Hibernate, Java J2Ee, Soap, Rest Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Databases:SQL Server, DB2, MongoDB, MySql, Oracle  • Project Management: MS Visio, MS Office  • Programming: JAVA, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX, HTML, OOPs  • IBM InfoSphere MDM Server    Area of Interest:  • Data Analytics/ Programmer Analyst/Application Developer/Data Science    Strengths:  Negotiation, Strong Analytical Skills, Effective Problem Solving Abilities, Efficient Communication Skills,  Global Perspective.