QA Engineer QA Engineer QA Engineer - EHE /EHE Health Brentwood, CA ? 6+ years of extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Web Application Design, Development, Programming, Testing, Support Maintenance, and End-User support in Manual and automation Testing.  ? Working experience in automated testing with tools like Selenium and Soap UI  ? Experience in Bug tracking and reporting in Jira.  ? Good Working knowledge on testing of Mobile and Web applications and Services.  ? Knowledge in Soap UI to test the services.  ? Experience in testing methodologies and Manual testing.  ? Working knowledge on analyzing production issues using tools like Splunk and Putty.  ? Experience in writing test plans, defining test cases, running scripts and analyzing the results of scripts, Integration with developers in fixing the errors.  ? Experience in web-based testing including GUI Testing, Regression Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing and Performance Testing.  ? Working Experience in Agile methodology.  ? Working experience on testing the data on Salesforce sandbox.  ? Working experience in using SQL log for the database testing.  ? Good Working knowledge on JavaScript MVC frame work -Angular JS.  ? Minification of contents/scripts/libraries using Gulp and giving builds using CQ5.  ? Experience using Cherwell to create tickets for Production release.  ? Working knowledge on the servers like Apache tomcat, WebLogic and IBM WebSphere.  ? Extensive Knowledge on databases like Oracle 9i/10g, MySQL. Experience in writing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions.  ? Expertise in various open source frameworks like Spring, and Object Relational Mapping Technology like Hibernate.  ? Experience in working with small and large groups and successful in meeting new technical challenges and finding solutions to meet the needs of the customer.  ? Motivated team player with ability to work under minimal supervision possessing strong analytical, problem solving and communicational skills.  ? Able to effectively organize and prioritize multiple tasks. Work Experience QA Engineer EHE /EHE Health - Pleasanton, CA December 2018 to Present Description: EHE is America's leading prevention company. We work with major clients from diverse fields to help their employees reach optimal health through comprehensive exams and year-round mentoring and resources. Our holistic, personalized approach improves longevity, productivity, and performance. EHE have clinician and patient side websites. Where we can schedule the physical and non-physical and health mentor appointments and creating labs requisitions and heath history and report filling by clinician happens.    Responsibilities:  ? Created the test cases for every functional change in QA complete.  ? Created bugs and assigned them to appropriate team member using Jira.  ? Wrote the WIKI in Confluence and some times in Share point for the documentation purpose  ? Performed Smoke and Functional testing on every build.  ? Did automation testing using Selenium.  ? Used the toll Git and Bitbucket for the code commits.  ? Used SQL log for the Database testing by creating and executing the queries  ? Worked on the Salesforce sandbox testing.  ? Performed Defect Reporting, Analyzing, Tracking and Report Generation.  ? Attended the daily Bug review meetings, weekly status meetings and walkthroughs and interacted with Business Analysts and Developers for resolving Defects.  ? Participated and Initiated Team meetings on a regular basis and involved in active discussion to improve the testing quality by better strategies and testing approach.  ? Conducted test case reviews and presented the test cases/test scenarios to the team members for all iterations.  ? Participated in daily meetings and gave the daily status of testing.    Technologies/Environment: Selenium, Git, Java, QA Complete, Jira, Salesforce, Confluence, Share point, SQL log, Eclipse. Engineer Western Union, SFO, CA March 2016 to January 2017 Duration: Mar' 16 to Jan'17  Description: Pluto is WU Digital mobile application to interface with social media partner Viber to send money from their mobile application. This will be built on an engine-based framework and interface with the existing Channel and the eWallet services. This solution will be hosted and managed by WU. This mobile website will be launched with the ability to send transactions from the U.S an EU (GB, Ireland, France) countries outbound to all WU receive countries.    Responsibilities:  ? Daily reviewing the team code changes and ensure smooth working of daily builds.  ? Created the test cases and assigned them to appropriate team member using Jira.  ? Worked as onsite/offshore coordinator for Pluto Intl.  ? Using Soap UI tested the REST API services.  ? Checking production and UAT logs using Splunk.  ? Performed Smoke and Functional testing on every build.  ? Did testing with annotations using Junit.  ? Performed Defect Reporting, Analyzing, Tracking and Report Generation.  ? Attended the daily Bug review meetings, weekly status meetings and walkthroughs and interacted with Business Analysts and Developers for resolving Defects.  ? Participated and Initiated Team meetings on a regular basis and involved in active discussion to improve the testing quality by better strategies and testing approach.  ? Conducted test case reviews and presented the test cases/test scenarios to the team members for all iterations.  ? Participated in daily meetings and gave the daily status of testing.  ? HTML Templates and externalization of content to support for multiple countries.  ? Using Cherwell created tickets for Production release.  ? Ensure services are up and running, restarting mobiliser and verify the error on CS logs files using X-Shell.    Technologies/Environment: Gulp, Java, CQ5, Perforce, Cherwell, Splunk, Jira, Confluence, Eclipse. Engineer Western Union October 2015 to February 2016 Duration: Oct '15 to Feb' 16  Description: Mars is WU Digital mobile application to interface with social media partner WeChat to send money from their mobile application. This will be built on an engine based framework and interface with the existing Channel and the wallet services. This solution will be hosted and managed by WU. This mobile website will be launched with the ability to send transactions from the U.S. outbound to all WU receive countries.    Responsibilities:  ? Production support for Mars applications, Debugging/Analyzing the UAT and Production errors using Splunk tool.  ? Tested the application on browser using automated tool Selenium.  ? Created and executed detailed test cases with step by step procedure and expected results and maintained the test logs, test reports, test issues, defect tracking using Quality Center.  ? Documented the defects in Jira and assigned them to relevant developer.  ? Responsible for software QA and analysis, with emphasis on performance testing and functional decomposition of web-based (SOA) and legacy systems architecture.  ? Created automation test scripts to test all end-to-end components.  ? Conducted test case reviews and presented the test cases/test scenarios to the team members for all iterations.  ? Participated in daily meetings and gave the daily status of testing.  ? Inserted checkpoints where needed, to compare the current behavior of the application being tested to its behavior in the earlier version.  ? Developing the new web flows using the Angular JS.  ? CQ5 deploying package for FE Code.  ? Integrating the services to front end framework and checking performance measures.  ? Minifying the browser static content using the Gulp build.  ? Creating tickets for Production release using Cherwell.    Technologies/Environment: Angular JS, Gulp, Java, Cherwell, Splunk, Jira, Selenium, Eclipse.    4. Project/Client: Automated Test Framework - Internal Application / Cybage, Pune, India Software Developer Cybage Software Pvt. Ltd June 2011 to December 2012 Description: Automation is the use of software to control the execution of tests, the comparison of actual outcomes to predicted outcomes, the setting up of test preconditions, and other test control and test reporting functions. Commonly, test automation involves automating a manual process already in place that uses a formalized testing process.  ? Adding the test cases and test steps to database.  ? Get test steps from xml and create new xml with steps and asserts.  ? Defining and running of the Suites and creating of the Excel sheet for suites    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the design and development of JSP pages.  ? Implementing the business logic in middle tier.  ? Analyze and fix all coding and functional defect.  ? Created the Excel workbook and sheets from java code.  ? Extracted data from XML to Java and Vice Versa.  ? Refactored, fixed and merged Java code for credit and debit portion of automation independently.  ? Deployed and managed the appropriate testing framework to meet the testing mandate  ? Involved in analyzing the application to determine Scope of Testing and Test Techniques.  ? Created Helper classes and methods  ? Conducted various knowledge sharing session on project functionality and technical sessions for project members.  ? Involved in Performing Back-End Testing by writing SQL queries to extract the data from MY SQL database.  ? Participated in the design walkthroughs and meetings.  ? Developed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript.  ? Implemented the design patterns like DAO Factory, Singleton, Service Locator and Business Delegate  ? Using Spring validation framework for server-side validation  ? Performed coding of Action classes, Business Layer and DAO, wired them using Spring Framework.  ? Integrated spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  ? Developed Object Model from Hibernate mapping files  ? Involved in System and Integration Testing using JUnit.  ? Used CVS as a source code management system.    Technologies/Environment: Java, HTML, JSP, XML, XML Parsing, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, Junit, My SQL, Eclipse Indigo, Apache tomcat web server 6.0    5. Project/Client: Bill pointe - Fidelity National Information Services/ Cybage, Pune, India Software Developer FIS Global January 2010 to May 2011 Description: Bill Pointe is an electronic bill presentation and payment acceptance system handled through a single point. Consumers can pay their bills through:  Full service electronic billing website.  ? Telephone billing information and payment through a company's customer service representative, and telephone with fully automated and operator assisted options.  ? One-time and recurring/scheduled payments that includes options for fast and easy repeat payments.  ? Credit card payments.  ? Electronic check payments    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the application using agile methodology.  ? Implementing the business logic in middle tier using Spring and hibernate.  ? Responsible for maintenance of code in MKS repository.  ? Analyze and fix all coding and functional defects.  ? Involved in scrum meetings and story assignments.  ? Involved in requirements gathering and analysis in SDLC  ? Involved in studying the Current Legacy Systems, User Requirement and Creating Design Document.  ? Maintain and enhancing the existing application using JSP, HTML, and CSS.  ? Managed inter-component Knowledge Transfer.  ? Build and deployment on WebSphere server.  ? Implemented best practices for performance, code coverage and source versioning.  ? Used Oracle 8 as back-end database.  ? Used Web Sphere IDE for the development.    Technologies/Environment: Java, Struts, HTML, JSP, JDBC, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 8, WebSphere IDE, IBM Web Sphere Server    6. Project/Client: Telecom Land Services/RTS Java Developer RTS January 2008 to December 2009 Description: This project is developed for telecom service provider for providing the telephone facility to their customers. It consists of three modules, customer module, commercial module and Technical module. Customer module is basically for raising the demand from the subscribers for the new product and also involves in providing the value-added services. Commercial module involved in Invoicing of customers, Technical module is mainly to all the technical staff of the company for performing transactions like Outdoor, MDF, Switching, Final testing etc. in fulfilling the task. I involved in the two modules customer and Technical module.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in design and development of UI using the JSP, HTML, CSS and Java Script.  ? Developed server-side program and validations using Struts framework.  ? Database management and JDBC connectivity.  ? Testing - unit testing & integration testing.  ? Build, release, integration testing, configuration of servers.    Technologies/Environments: Java, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JavaScript, SQL Server, Eclipse Education Bachelor of computer applications in computer applications Nagarjuna University Master of Computer applications in Computer applications Acharya Nagarjuna University Skills Java, Git, Html, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Manual, Selenium, QA, Quality Assurance Certifications/Licenses SCJP5