Senior Web /Lead Developer Senior Web /Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web /Lead Developer - Brooks Brothers Work Experience Senior Web /Lead Developer Brooks Brothers June 2014 to Present Technologies: Java, JSP, J2EE, Web Services, Demand ware Framework, XML, Oracle, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Eclipse editor for Java, Subversion for Source control.    Role & contribution:    • Responsible for development of both front end and back end applications and functionalities for the Brooks Brothers E-commerce site.    • Implementing OCAPI (Open Commerce API) and OCAPI hooks customization to support mobile site.    • Customization of pricing, promotion and shipping for BAGA (Buy Anywhere Get Anywhere) based on user's location.    • Integrated Adyen for Payment Method Authentication.    • Work closely with business partners, project managers and team members to clearly define scope of work and provide accurate schedule estimates  • Provide status reports to Manager and review boards on complex development projects  • Defines development tasks, assigns tasks to development team, and monitors and reports status of development tasks.  • Integrated the new oms in demandware.  • Implemented store locator functionality on the website.  • Implemented the loyalty program.  • Site Setup and Environment Maintenance  • Development and maintenance of several java process to generate the feeds for day to day activities on the site.  • Development and maintenance of several Java based processes and interfaces across different systems within the IT organization.  • Worked on all cycles of software development.  • Worked and collaborated with other teams within the IT department and external third party vendors in implementation of several projects and tasks.  • Implemented the interfaces required for mobile app from demandware platform.  • Implemented extensive logging throughout the application using the standard Apache Jakarta Log4j  • Implemented the system using Agile Development Methodology. Web Developer Brooks Brothers February 2013 to June 2014 Technologies: Java, JSP, J2EE, Web Services, Demand ware Framework, XML, Oracle, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Eclipse editor for Java, Subversion for Source control.    Role & contribution:    • Responsible for development of both front end and back end applications and functionalities for the Brooks Brothers E-commerce site.  • Development and maintenance of several java process to generate the feeds for day to day activities on the site.  • Development and maintenance of several Java based processes and interfaces across different systems within the IT organization.  • Worked on all cycles of software development.  • Worked and collaborated with other teams within the IT department and external third party vendors in implementation of several projects and tasks.  • Implemented extensive logging throughout the application using the standard Apache Jakarta Log4j  • Implemented the system using Agile Development Methodology. Java Developer Hexaware Technologies July 2011 to March 2012 July 2011 to March 2012  Hexaware is a global provider of IT and Process outsourcing services which has extensive experience in managing large IT applications.Hexaware has specialized expertise across verticals including Telecom,Insurance ,Investments.    Role: Java Developer  Client:AON Hewitt, US  Project:Pension PayRoll    Description:  The Pension Pay Roll Project is developed to provide an online application where the members will be able to see their pension account details. Using this application the member can be able to see all his account details of all the companies where the member is having pension accounts. Developed using extended java script to provide rich look for the members  Responsibilities:  ? Developed the front end design using JSP,Extended Java Script.  ? Developed Web services for interacting with front-end tools developed in different technologies using Apache.  ? Developed API and integrated them with the front end UI that is created.  ? Was involved in writing JSPs, and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Involved in data base connectivity to relate data base to the java application.  ? Worked with J2EE technologies including JSP's, Servlets, Java Web Components and JBOSS.  ? Used JBoss for application deployment in the clustered UNIX environment.  ? Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases.  ? Involved in unit testing the application.  ? Involved in fixing the issues in integration testing.  ? Involved in Production support and provided training and knowledge transfer to the user.    Environment: Java1.4/5.0, J2EE,Servlets, JavaScript, CSS, Extended Java Script, HTML, Oracle 9i, JBoss, Junit,Tortoise SVN. member information and send Advice America August 2010 to June 2011 Project: Naviplan Replacement August 2010 to June 2011    Description:  The primary aim of the project is to retire the current planning product by a vendor Naviplan and integrate with a new vendor Advice America advice engine to enable modular and comprehensive financial planning for USAA wealth management. It will develop a dynamic data collection tool, Client Profile to collect member information and send to Advice America. The Client Profile will be launched from Sales Force.  Responsibilities:    ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Responsible for Requirements capturing & Preparing Software Requirements Specification.  ? Designed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams and Object Diagrams in the detailed design phase of the project  ? Developed the front end design using JSP, Struts  ? Developed Web services for interacting with front-end tools developed in different technologies using JAXRPC.  ? Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory interface (JNDI) for looking up web services.  ? Was involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Worked with J2EE technologies including JSP's, Servlets, and IBM Web Server.  ? Used WebSphere Application Server 6.1/7 for application deployment in the clustered UNIX environment.  ? Used JavaScript for client, server validation through expression language.  ? Developed web-based application using Struts.  ? Involved in code management using Star Team.  ? Involved in Production support and provided training and knowledge transfer to the user.    Environment: Java1.4/5.0, J2EE,Servlets, JSP,Struts,XML , CSS, HTML, JavaScript, IBM Web Application Server, Web Services. Java Developer TATA Consultancy Services November 2008 to June 2011 TATA Consultancy Services , November 2008 to June 2011  Tata Consultancy Services is an IT service,business solutions and outsourcing organization that delivers real results to global businesses.TCS has specialized expertise across verticals including Telecom,Insurance ,Investments.  CLIENT: United Services Automobile Association,US  ROLE: Java Developer Java,J2EE Developer United States Automobile Association November 2009 to August 2010 Project: EAP Product Recommendation Fulfillment project November 2009 to August 2010    Description:  This project helps the customers in opening a suitable investment account according to his profile and prefills the recommendations of the advice given by wealth planning tools. The business of the project mainly includes three steps. Firstly, it determines the type of account to be created for the customer, based on the assets given by the member as input for the wealth planner tools. Second is the part where it comes to gather all the information related to recommendations and creates an xml application which will be used to create the investment account. Lastly, an investment account creation process will be given to the customer with all the data pre-filled. Thus it helps the customer in reducing the manual efforts The challenge involved in this project is building a bridge between two independent projects - wealth planning tools and the investment account creation tools. This require complete knowledge of all the projects related to them, need to identify where can we collect the required data, and prefill all the information which was gathered.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Implemented the front end design using Struts,JSP,Servlets  ? Implemented Web services for interacting with front-end tools developed in different technologies  ? Used JavaScript jQuery Library for building user interface.  ? Developed Enterprise Java Beans (EJB)/Web Services for various business transactions.  ? Involved in consuming the web-service calls through Client invocation.  ? Used Websphere Application Server 6.1/7 for application deployment in the clustered Unix environment.  ? Used Javascript for client, server validation through expression language.  ? Created SQL queries, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using Oracle 9i. Designed and implemented the Hibernate Domain Model for the services.  ? Develop distributed applications and supporting applications using J2EE , JDBC, Oracle.  ? Used Star team for maintaining the component and for release and version management.    Environment: Java1.4/5.0, J2EE,Servlets, , XML, XSD, XSLT, CSS, HTML, Oracle9i, Sql, JavaScript, Websphere Application Server 6.1/7, Windows, JMS. Java/J2EE Developer United States Automobile Association July 2009 to November 2009 Description:  The primary aim of the project is designed to benefit the customers having trust accounts. This project mainly fetches the accounts of the member from the data base and checks whether the member is having trust accounts or not. Based upon the presence of trust accounts it will show the trust accounts on the members accounts page.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for Requirements capturing & Preparing Software Requirements Specification.  ? Designed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams and Object Diagrams in the detailed design phase of the project  ? Implemented MVC 2 Architecture using Jakarta Struts Framework 1.1  ? Used design patterns like Business Delegate, Session Façade and Service Locator to facilitate clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of data processing.  ? Invoked Web Services for retrieving the data from the data base.  ? Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  ? Extensively used SOAP message for service to service Communication  ? Developed and debugged the application using RAD  ? Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application.  ? Participated in the production support and maintenance of the project.  ? Used Star Team for Version Control.  ? Used WebSphere server for deploying various components of application.    Environment: J2EE, Agile Methodology, WebSphere 6.1/6.0 / 5.1.1., RAD 6/7, Web Services (Apache SOAP 1.2), JSP 2.0, HTML, JNDI 1.1, JDBC 3.0, Servlet 2.3, Struts Java Developer AXA UK November 2008 to July 2009 Description:  This project primarly designed for those customers those who want to take a Health Insurance policy online by providing all the details. Once the details submission completes it will save it as a quote(as reference number). In case of nothing purchased right now, but can use this quote as reference in case of purchasing policy in future instead of providing all the details again. Here the added advantage is that it provides the details of all the kinds of insurance policies and their advantages so that the member can select the policy whatever he wants.    Responsibilities:  ? Created JSP pages to get user information such as Personal details and other details.  ? Struts Framework was used in creating the front-end application and providing proper validations using validator plugin. Custom validations were written for some fields.  ? Team orchestration to effectively carry out all project activities such as analysis & design, coding, integration and testing.  ? Tortoise SVNwas used as the Version Control Software.  ? Database Queries were handled using SQL PLUS.    Environment: J2EE, JSP 2.2, Struts,Eclipse,SQL, Starteam 7.0, XML,Tomcat, HTML,JavaScript. Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Jboss Certifications/Licenses Sun Certified Java Programmer Present