IT Secuirty Analyst (Moline, Usa) IT Secuirty Analyst (Moline, Usa) IT Secuirty Analyst (Moline, Usa) - Infotree Service Inc Bettendorf, IA Skilled IT Security analyst with 2.5 years of experience in the IT security, Java developmnet creating dynamic web applications. Updates, enhancement based on customer requirements to ensure excellent user experience, Secuirty    Experince in Agile methodlogy, Softwre developmnet process.    CONTACT  PHONE:  563-528-3379    WEBSITE:  LinkedIn    EMAIL:  Adekar.sonali@gmail.com Work Experience IT Secuirty Analyst (Moline, Usa) Infotree Service Inc April 2018 to Present Currently working as IT security analyst while working with client john Deere. I am working on managing security of User, system for different applications such as Host, Networking etc. Working on high to medium priority incident, request.    ? Provisioning of Outlook resources, service accounts, application IDs, and auto logon security.  ? Identify the security aspect of applications, working on service now ticket such as incident, request, order, catalog.  ? Experience in navigation through HOST to view and create administer data sets, transactions, and resource profiles.  ? Developed and maintained group policies.  ? Liaise communication between company and system developers.  ? Experience in conducting information security policy awareness campaigns to train and educate employee.  ? Global user exit management process, user introduction process.  ? Experience on handling Critical separations.  ? Managing security of financial application. NET Developer PETHKAR SYSTEM - Pune, Maharashtra August 2016 to March 2017 Front-end developer to create 360° assessment application detailing an individual's work performance based on peer, manager, and direct report perception; as part of 360° feedback process, employee's also complete self-evaluations. Tool aims to increase an individual's drive for success using constructive feedback given during 1:1 debriefing sessions. This application provides a dashboard to the user that would provide a view of all pending feedback requests and other feedback details.    ? Developed business and data access layer using C# and ADO.NET Worked with ADO.NET for data access to retrieve and/or consume the data returned by the stored procedures.  ? Extensively worked with Data Grid View control as a part of the application.  ? Used Master Pages and style sheets for achieving uniformity across all the web pages.  ? Designed and developed code behind classes for web application using C#.  ? Work on change requests/bug fixes.  ? Involved in Web service's (SOAP) utilization inside web application.  ? Tested applications/websites on different web browsers to standardize the user experience across all platforms.  ? Fixing the Bugs and working on the change requests.  ? Used SQL queries to store and retrieve data from the database. Java Developer CDAC - Pune, Maharashtra February 2016 to August 2016 Supported project to build website enabling E-Housing Society members to conveniently raise complaints online from any location, thereby improving interactions between residents/higher authorities and ensuring prompt problem resolution.    ? Developed applications, including architecture layout design with team members and code development in HTML, CSS, and JSP pages.  ? Worked on data integration module to develop components using J2EE and Hibernate to consolidate date from various source definitions and persist in local databases  ? Used spring, Hibernate libraries for database transactions in the application.  ? Developed SQL queries, stored procedures wherever applicable.  ? Conducted software analysis, programming, testing, and debugging.  ? Developed various Use Cases using Singleton, Factory and DAO Patterns in the above modules.  ? Developed business requirement specification (BRS) and software requirements specification (SRS) documents.  ? Developed the whole application using Java for backend, SQL to maintain the database, HTML and CSS for enhanced front end visualization. Java Trainee IMPETUS IT SERVICES PVT LTD - Pune, Maharashtra July 2015 to December 2015 This project was developed to allow student to register, search courses, Instructor profile.    ? Researched trends in current technologies and methodologies of web design.  ? Had developed Business Object, POJO and helper classes to access database. My SQL was the database.  ? Graded and conducted lab sessions on various concepts like writing queries using  ? Graded and conducted lab sessions on various concepts like writing queries using Triggers, Functions, Stored Procedures and Joins. Education CDAC Pune - Pune, Maharashtra February 2016 to August 2016 Bachelor Of Engineering in Engineering Mumbai university - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2011 to June 2015