Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer Bentonville, AR • Master level understating of Salesforce.com CRM and its development Life Cycle. Over 8+ years of experience in IT industry and 5 years involvement in the Salesforce as Salesforce Developer, Administrator, Analyst, Classic to Lightning migration, Lightning component development.  • Good knowledge on all phases of software development life cycle including functional analysis, development of technical requirements, prototyping, coding, testing, deployment and support.  • Experience working in Agile/Scrum development methodology, involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Configuration, Customization, Administration, and application Support on Salesforce.com and Force.com Platform across various industry verticals.  • Hands on Experience as a Einstein Developer where created different prototypes of dashboards using external as well salesforce data in Analytics Cloud.  • Hands on experience with Inbound and Outbound Integration of salesforce with external systems by developing custom Apex SOAP, RESTful classes for inbound class and written Apex callout for invoking outbound applications.  • Pervasive experience in performing the administrative and development related tasks like consigning Roles, creating Profiles, Visual Force pages, Validation Rules, Users, Custom Reports, Workflows, Email Alerts, Page Layouts and developing the presentation layer in Visualforce and business logic in the Apex Programming by creating/using the Classes, Triggers, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers, Controller Extensions, S-Controls and WebServices API.  • Expertise in developing Salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers, events and Skilled in understanding and implementing the new Salesforce Lightning Experience  • Maintained a holistic view of all business processes and users in the system and identify cross-functional impacts regarding configuration, process, workflows, and reporting.  • Highly skilled in the reporting function within Salesforce with the ability to create and troubleshoot complex reports and dashboards.  • Experience as the technical developer on projects focused on Salesforce - Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud and the Force.com platform and which Used REST and SOAP web services.  • Experienced in Data Migration from other applications to Salesforce using Apex Data Loader and worked on different Salesforce.com environments such as sandbox and production environments.  • Experience is using ETL tools mostly Jitterbit, Informatica.  • Strong in SFDC Functional areas - Accounts and Contacts, Case Management, Leads, Campaigns, Opportunities, Dashboards and Reports.  • Familiarity with partner relationship management, and customer portal, debug logs, documents tab, forecasting.  • Expertise in implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization.  • Update on SFDC pricing and editions and their features, chatter option, security and sharing models, delegated admin features.  • Experienced in deploying the AppExchange applications and integrating with third party applications and developing the Big Machines.  • A result-driven, analytical and coherent software developer with excellent skills in programming languages like Java, C#, C++, J2EE, j2SE and web technologies like HTML5, XML, JSP, BootStrap, AJAX, Spring MVC Framework and JavaScript.  • Expertise in querying salesforce.com database using SOQL& SOSL queries using Force.com Explorer.  • Experience with Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery tools like Jenkins, and JIRA.  • Experience with customization of Salesforce Communities and platforms ExactTarget, Apttus CPQ.  • Designed, build and supported Wave apps, datasets, Lenses and dashboards, beginning with a MVP, iterating into full-featured sales tools.  • Experience to utilize and work with Eclipse IDE, GIT, and Urban Code to package deployments with the offshore deployment lead.  • Capable enough to work in a fast-paced environment and under time constraints as necessary.  • Possessed a focused urgency and willingness to manage multiple short and moderate-duration projects simultaneously and had professional written and verbal communication skills for interaction with engineering team, technical support personnel and customers. Self-motivated energetic team player. Work Experience Salesforce Developer Roseville, CA February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • As a SFDC developer interacted with various business areas to gather requirements and developed data model to suit complex business needs.  • Developed APEX triggers, classes, Test methods & Visual Force pages to implement the custom functionality.  • Customized standard sales force objects like products, price books, case management andsolutions.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects. Also created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Administered Salesforce.com SFA setup, which involved modifying roles and profiles, creating/ modifying dashboards/reports and managing users.  • Setting up Service Cloud Console, Cases (Web to case, Email to case), Solutions, Case Assignment and CTI Integration.  • Created Profiles, Roles based on Organization role hierarchy and implemented Record-Level andField-Level security and configured their sharing settings.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Designed very complex Visualforce pages using JavaScript, CSS, HTML, jQuery and Controllers  • Development of SOAP and REST based web services used for custom development  • Integrated the external system like CSP, Workbench and making callout to them using SOAP.  • Created and managed Live Agent, Omni-channels and Routing configurations for routing queued service requests to the agents.  • Created Lead/Case Queues, Lead/Case Assignment Rules, Case Escalation Rules, Web-to-Lead & Email-to-Case.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Created Visual force Pages for Lightning Experience, Alternates for Java Script Codes, Sharing Visual force pages between Classic and Lightning.  • Developed Cascading Style Sheets CSS for creating effects in Visual force pages.  • Worked on Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Service Max web service, Force.com Community Portal, Chatter Knowledge One and App-exchange on Salesforce.  • Maintained users with Service Cloud to communicate with customers and partners.  • Experienced in reporting the data or results in different ways in user friendly way using salesforce wave analytics.  • Implemented Wave analytics and designed Wave dashboards, lenses and datasets.  • Imported data from excel sheets in to Leads, Accounts, Contacts and Opportunities using Data Loader/ DBAmp and Import Wizard.  • Evaluated Salesforce.com support module for call-center and help desk application.  • Created many Lightning Components and server-side controllers to meet the business requirements.  • Involved in migrating the standard and custom objects in standard experience to lightning experience.  • Used Change Sets to deploy components between sandboxes.  • Configured Data Loader and uploaded data in CSV files into Salesforce, checking for the correctness of the data.  • Worked on MS SQL Server for CRUD operations on database.  • Configured customer and seller communities  • Performed code review of the application to make sure the source code confirms to industrial coding standards and followed good programming practices.  • Used the Sandbox for Development and Testing and Migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Worked with call configuration and customization in Veeva online and Irep application. Allowing users to capture every aspect of their interactions with HCPs.  • Created Surveys for the Business users, added Survey questions and publish the Survey to end users online and Veeva Irep.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex, Visual force, triggers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox Data loading, Veeva CRM, Sandbox data loading, workflow, validation rules, SOSL, SOQL, AppExchange, data loader, report, dashboard, Force.com IDE Salesforce/Lightning Developer Prudential - Roseland, NJ October 2018 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Provided technical walk-throughs to various stake holders (QA Team, UAT Team, etc.)  • Built custom user interfaces using Lightning components.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers, Controller Extensions, and Web Services API and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Migrated data from external sources and performed insert, delete, upset, and export operations on millions of records.  • Worked on translating several Visual Force pages to lightning framework.  • Worked with SOQL & SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Involved working in the integration components by consuming Restful APIs.  • Involved in creating a user interface in Lightning using Aura components, for a user to enter details and submit in to Salesforce.  • Implemented change control from development sandboxes to production and across the development lifecycle.  • Used Salesforce Automation (SFA) for Sales Lead Management, Campaign Management, Opportunity Management, Account and Contact Management.  • Experience in creating Lightning Components and used Salesforce Lightning Design System (SLDS) to convert existing Visualforce pages to lightning components.  • Hands on experience in Sales Cloud and Service Cloud functionalities.  • Generated Apex Classes using WSDL and wrote business logic layer for integration with external web services to the system for functional needs.  • Hands-on experience on Salesforce Lightning Inspector to debug the lightning components during the development process.  • Turned ETL jobs/procedures/scripts, SQL queries, PL/SQL procedures to improve the system performance.  • Developed Lightning components and used Lightning App builder to use those components in Lightning pages.  • Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DMLoperations on the case records.  • Worked extensively on SOAP and REST API web service calls.  • Key role in gradual transition of company's application from Salesforce Classic to LightningExperience.  • Data migration from SQL Server to Salesforce using Jitter bit tool.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Deployments, Bit Bucket, Apttus, Lightning components, Apex, Visual Force, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SF Explorer and Eclipse IDE Plug-in, AppExchange apps, SOAP and REST API. Salesforce/Einstein Developer BNSF - Fort Worth, TX April 2016 to September 2018 BNSF is a Rail Road company where cars carry different types of material which will be specified by Equipment numbers and cust c333. Shop and Trace is the project which keeps track of the units in cars and notifies about their material near destinations based on event codes. Shop Is where customer can ship their materials to different destination by selecting tanks and can see the different prices based on the ship date.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as Einstein Developer where involved in creating Datasets from external database using Custom Code as well internal using Data flows.  • Customized Designer Dashboards using multiple Datasets.  • Experience with SAQL language for creating different widgets based on requirement.  • Worked on Binding for connecting static steps in dashboard.  • Experience in Json Customization which include Edgemart, Agument, SFDC Register.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com Lightning platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Deep knowledge in Einstein Analytics where played around and created a prototype dashboard which includes both external data sets and Salesforce data.  • Good Knowledge on Data Recipes ,Data Flows  • Experienced in migrating the standard and custom objects in standard experience to lightning experience.  • Created many Lightning Components and server-side controllers to meet the business requirements.  • Used Lightning process builder for visualizing and creating automated business processes.  • Retrieved customer data from third party APIs and migrated the data to be displayed on Salesforce Lightning Components.  • Familiar with External Objects and OData 4 connections.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications  • Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the Lightning component look and feel better.  • Used SOQL queries with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.    Environment: Salesforce.com Platform, Analytics Cloud, Force.com Eclipse IDE, Lightning Experience, Lightning Components, Apex classes and Controllers, HTML, CSS, Data Loader, WSDL, SOQL, SOSL, SASL, Custom objects, Custom fields, Web Services. Senior Salesforce Developer/Admin Zurichna - Doral, FL October 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the user group for requirement gathering throughout the planning and implementation.  • Designed and developed Visual Force Pages to meet various functional needs.  • Performed day to day User Management on SFDC Org by configuring Sharing Rules, Permission Sets, Roles and Profiles.  • Started using Lightning Experience for new modern user interface.  • Migrated data using Apex Data loader to centralize data and processes across different divisions that were previously using decentralized systems / databases.  • Implemented Data segregation through Record Types and Field level security.  • Developed and maintained validation rules, Auto responsive rules and custom workflow.  • Create and Customize Custom Objects, Formula Fields, Cross Object Formulas, Roll up summary fields, validation rules, and dependent pick lists, and complex page layouts.  • Developed and maintained custom Reports and Dashboards. Tested thoroughly and deployed to production.  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE for developing Apex Pages, Controller Classes and Triggers for deploying the projects components into different Sandbox Environments.  • Used Email to Case, Web to Case features and created a community where the customers can create, update and manage their cases.  • Created case escalation rules to escalate cases automatically if they are not resolved within a certain period, also worked on app-exchange tools for tracking orders.  • Strong experience in deploying Salesforce components across various sandbox and production instance using Change Sets, Force.com Migration tool (ANT) and Eclipse.  • Involved in the integration of salesforce with share point using a Custom Coded Adapter.  • Worked within a Scrum team comprised of onshore and offshore developers, testers and business analysts to implement user stories in an agile fashion.  • Implemented Service Cloud for customer service, including configuration of email to case, case assignment rules. Managed migration and release of Service Cloud.  • Worked on real time User Stories and creating Test Scenarios, Test Plans, and Test Cases.  • Created journeys and implemented marketing campaigns using marketing cloud tools like Journey Builder, Email Studio and Automation Studio.  • Made new feature enhancements on Service cloud console view and developed some Visual force components.  • Involved in implementing salesforce and CTI integration.  • Created call center softphone layouts and custom console components.  • Involved in migrating call center from CTI toolkit to Open CTI.  • Integrated the SOAP/REST API based Web Services on Demand for extracting the data from external systems.  • Installed and implemented various thirdparty applications (Apps) from App Exchange like DocuSign, Apttus, Informatica, Draw loop, Lightening App Builder, Workbench tool, Chatter.  • Migrated large volumes of external data on to Salesforce.com using Jitterbit and Apex Data Loader as part of data management functions.  • Worked with Jitterbit tool to load data into Salesforce. Worked with Jitterbit to develop process builder automation.  • Used Jitterbit to import/export of Dealers data. Managed weekly bulk role updates using Data loader (Jitterbit).  • Created Jitterbit Jobs to Sync data between Salesforce and SQL Server.  • Extensive experience using Draw Loop for building forms, creating PDF files and sending them out automatically.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com API, Workflow & Approvals, Escalation rules Reports, Custom Objects, Marketing Cloud, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Web services, DocuSign, Draw loop, Jitterbit, Visual Force, SalesForce.com Data Loader, Security Controls, HTML, XML, Workbench, Sandbox, Informatica Power Center 8.6.1, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Dashboards, Analytical Snapshot and Data Migration, ANT. Salesforce Consultant Farmers Insurance - Woodland Hills, CA August 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Setting up the business user's access so they can login to Salesforce using SSO (Single Sign On), Site minder.  • Performed a complete GAP Analysis to identify problems and inconsistencies with the business requirements and specifications. Agile Development Methodology was followed for the implementation.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, and Page Layouts and configured the permissions based on the organization hierarchy requirements.  • Used Salesforce Automation (SFA) for Sales Lead Management, Opportunity Management, Account and Contact Management, Data Quality Management, and Approvals and Workflow.  • Implemented Apex Classes & Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows implemented in the system.  • Implemented case management automation (on Case Object) to track and solve customer's issues. Implemented Email- to- Case entry and manual case entry for entering customer's cases in Cases Tab.  • Developed Case Escalation rule to escalate the case depending on SLA.  • Involved in Functional, Regression, Integration, System and Performance testing of client server and web applications. Implemented JSON classes to convert JSON format content into local apex classes.  • Used Jira to synchronize between Salesforce automatically created Salesforce cases from Jira.  • Setup, maintain and optimize Email marketing campaign utilizing Exact Target/Salesforce Marketing Cloud  • Worked with scheduling Apex Batch jobs for processing large records. Performed IDE, Change Sets and ANT Script deployments as needed and validated the components before deployment to ensure a smooth process.  • Used Salesforce Data Loader and Jitter bit Data Loader to import and export the data.  • Setup Live Agent as part of Case Management implementation inside Service Cloud.  • Implemented search, filtering, and tagging features to make it easier for sales to locate relevant marketing content and documents in SalesForce.com CRM Content.  • Authored Systems Requirement Specification (SRS), Use case, System Requirement Change Request, and Data Dictionary to Delta's SFDC implementations such as Sales Cloud, Marketing Cloud and Salesforce Chatter.  • Created outbound messages and generated WSDL files for multiple end points. Consumed WSDL files into java platform by generating java API using axis tool.  • Developed custom UI using CSS, HTML, Visualforce components and used JQuery, Java Script for front-end validation.    Environment: Force.com Platform, Salesforce.com Custom/Standard Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Force.com Web Services API, SOQL/SOSL Queries, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse Plug-in, Service Cloud, Sales Cloud, SalesForce.com Sandbox, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, HTML, Java Script, CSS, SRS, WSDL, SOAP. Java Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH November 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Gathered/analyzed functional requirements for the new phase in design.  • Worked on building high performance core java multi-threaded modules utilizing (thread pools, thread locals, re-entrant locks wait/notify, latches, deadlocks etc.).  • Developed front user interface modules using JSP, JSF and Servlets.  • Developed Use-case diagrams, class diagrams according to the UML standards.  • Developed both client and server-side functionality using Struts and J2EE technologies.  • Developed Action classes to delegate the request to the business models and Action Form  • Developed web application using JSF framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view in the front end.  • Worked on WSDL's files in SOAP web services.  • Involved in writing complex queries using PL/SQL to extract data from database and to delete the data and to reload the data on Oracle database.  • Developed functional test cases for Integration and Functional testing, regression testing using JUnit, and user acceptance testing.  • Created XML files to provide Context and Hibernate Mapping for database persistence.  • Used ANT as deployment tool to handle platform specific properties such as file separators and automating complicated repetitive tasks.  • Developed various scripts for Creation and deployment of the code package using  • WebLogic.  • Implemented the SQL queries for database interaction.  • Worked as support in production for various production issues.    Environment: J2EE, Struts, JSP, AJAX, JDBC, Oracle, Web Logic, JavaScript, Java Beans, EJB, HTML, UML, JUnit, ANT, JSF, Tiles Framework, Validation framework and Design  Patterns, Windows XP. Java Developer Mouri Tech Global Enterprise Solutions (P) Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to September 2012 Mobile nodes in military environments such as a battlefield or a hostile region are likely to suffer from intermittent network connectivity and frequent partitions. Disruption-tolerant network (DTN) technologies are becoming successful solutions that allow wireless devices carried by soldiers to communicate with each other and access the confidential information or command reliably by exploiting external storage nodes.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed UI using JSP, dynamic JSP and page validations using JavaScript.  • Developed java database using JDBC to access database.  • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and common re-usable components.  • Associated in UI designs using Java and Swings.  • Used various Java and J2EE APIs including JDBC, XML, servlets, JSP, JavaBeans.  • Associated in performance tuning, debugging issues in testing and deployment phases.  • Utilized PL/SQL for querying the database.  • Developed customer care related web pages using JSP, JSP Tags and Servlets.  • Created and used lot of business objects related to Customers, Work Orders and Invoices.  • Used JUnit extensively to create unit test cases for the wrapper classes.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, SQL, HTML, JavaScript, XHTML, DHTML, CVS, XML, Oracle 8i and WebLogic 6. Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, C++, Dtd, Html, Bootstrap