Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - Hartford Insurance Hartford, CT • More than 7 years of experience in Object Oriented Designing, Developing, Implementation and testing in Client/Servers e-business applications using Java & J2EE Technologies.  • Good exposure to all phases of SDLC process, including system use case, functional & technical specification documentation based on business requirements.  • Review design documents with stake holders and collect approvals  • Excellent Knowledge of Object Oriented Analysis & Design using UML.  • Good experience with RUP, Agile methodologies.  • Experience implementing SOA, Webservice applications.  • Experience in Microservices and Spring Boot application development.  • Strong Experience in developing the application using frameworks like Struts, Java Server Faces (JSF) and Spring Frameworks Worked on maintaining the persistence using Hibernate, JPA ORM.  • Experienced in implementing presentation layer using JSF, JSP, HTML5, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2, Ext JS, Node JS, JSON and Servlets.  • Proficiency in developing web services (Soap, Restful) that include several components like SOAP, WSDL, XML, XSD, Axis2, JAXB, JAX-RS and JAX-WS. Also Developed SOAP web services using Apache CXF and Drop Wizard, IBM MQ, Mule Soft ESB.  • Experience in using XML based technologies and parsers DOM, SAX, JAXP, and JAXB.  • Good knowledge in Python and Hadoop, HDFS, Map Reduce, Hive, HBase, Flume.  • Experience in database design, NoSql, data modeling and developing stored procedures, functions and triggers using SQL plus, SQL developer in Oracle 9i, My SQL and DB2.  • Created REST APIs by using spring, exposed them from my existing system so that it is consumed by other application.  • Experience in several agile frameworks like Scrum, XP, and Using TDD and ATDD approach.  • Experience in writing test-cases in Java environment using Junit, Mockito and Power mock, JIRA.  • Experience in managing the build files using ANT and Maven.  • Experience deploying applications on Apache Tomcat 6 Web Server, BEA Web logic 8/9/10, Web sphere 5.0/6.0 application server environments.  • Designed and developed multiple J2EE Model 2 MVC based Web Application using J2EE• Technologies, Patterns and popular open-source framework Struts, Spring MVC, spring, JPA and Hibernate.  • Experience with Software designing and modeling using UML on Rational Rose and Enterprise Architect.  • Deployed Spring Boot based Microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console.  • Hands on experience in deployment of J2EE applications on JBoss, Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere and Web logic Application Servers.  • Good experience maintaining the project in IBM Rational Clear Case, SVN, CVS, StarTeam version control repositories.  • Experience in Managing Crystal Report, ADBASE for Use of Relational Database, and ACE framework combination of JSON, JQuery, and JSF.  • Experience in DB2 for storing and analyzing Data.  • Experience in using the Log4j framework for Logging Java Application.  • Experience in developing, designing in UML, Package, Class and State Diagrams.  • Well versed with Core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Serialization, Java Beans and Network programming.  • Excellent communication, problem-solving, interpersonal, organizational skills.  • Experience in Java Framework Integration with Apache Camel. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Hartford Insurance - Hartford, CT January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile/TDD environment utilizing a test-driven development and SDET approach and pair-programming.  • Developed the application using spring framework that leverages model view layer architecture, also configured Dependency Injection.  • Used Hibernate ORM tools which automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Design of GUI using Model View Architecture STRUTS Frame Work.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  • Implemented unit test for testing Angular components with frameworks using KARMA and JASMINE  • Created hibernate mapping files to map POJO to DB tables  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers  • Developing application using spring core module and POJO's using Eclipse and worked on Messaging service.  • Designed and developed the XSD for WSDL.  • Deployed code in Apache Tomcat and Web logic serve  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries JSTL, HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Worked with NoSql databases such as Cassandra, Mongo DB, and Riak  • Supported and provided important feedback to various development teams with regards to the grid computing and caching technology.  • Design and development of a proof-of-concept real-time notification system using Node.js and Socket.IONGINX  • Developed User Interface in JSP, JavaScript and HTML5 with Backbone JS Framework  • Designed and developed REST-ful style Web Service layer and WSLD.  • Implemented a generic interface to Hibernate criteria API for UI search functionality.  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures along with Shell Scripting- database application scripts.  • Deployment of web, enterprise java components, messaging components and multi-threading.  • Developed XML Schemas - XSD, DTD for the validation of XML documents, also used Subversion.  • XML SAX and DOM API, JDOM, XSLT was used for informative view.  • Used XML web services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is Used SWING for GUI based  • Built Micro Services using spring boot with continuous deployment and continuous integration using Docker and Jenkins. Provided LDAP security for the application.  • Used JSON objects, ECMAScript6, Typescript, JavaScript and Bootstrap intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Develop AWS Lambda based Microservices interacting with DyanamoDB & SNS/SQS using AWS SDK.  • Involved in developing the Pig scripts.  • Currently working on fitness tool which aids in Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Used JMS for the asynchronous exchange of critical business data and events among J2EE components and legacy system. Configured Kafka message source with Spring XD.  • Extensively Used Jenkins as Continuous Integration tool to deploy Spring Boot Microservices to Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) using build pack.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Microservices and Hibernate ORM.  • Designed and developed the Presentation layer using Angular 2 and written logics using Typescript.  • Used NodeJS to resolve dependencies via Angular 2, typescript, jasmine.  • Worked with Map/Reduce and stream processing e.g. Storm coding.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, JSP 2.0, PL/SQL, Spring 2.0, EJB 2.0, Angular 2,JMS, JNDI, Oracle, XML, DOM, SOAP, Junit, Apache Camel, Web Sphere 8.5, Hibernate 3.0, Microservices, AWS,JDBC, Kafka, MS SQL Server 2012, JESS, REST-ful Web service, Web logic 8, JBoss Drools, SOA Design Patterns, Cassandra, LDAP, NOSQL, Hadoop Sr. Full Stack Java Developer NBC Universal, NJ January 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities  • Involved in developing Webservice operations in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Analyze requirements with team; write High Level design documents, System Use Case, analyze risk factors.  • Followed agile methodology during complete SDLC process.  • Validated forms using Angular 2 and regular expressions there by providing client side validation and server validation  • Participated Agile/Scrum development and deployment teams  • Used Spring Framework 4.1 for the application development.  • Created a custom analytics frame work to gather useful user behavior data using Mongo DB  • Responsible for Web UI development in JavaScript using JQuery, AngularJS, and AJAX.  • Involved in front end development using Struts, JSP's, JSF and JSTL.  • Used JAXB for marshalling and unmarshalling of work order, billing XML documents, and JAXP for processing.  • Worked with React JS to build bootstrap components for UI web objects. Linked with API data to view render virtual DOM dynamically.  • Worked on project to retrieve log messages procured from Kafka by leveraging Spark Streaming  • Used JSP, JSTL, Angular 2 and Spring tag lib to create dynamic and responsive pages  • Created instances in AWS as well as worked on migration to AWS from data center.  • Developed REST Web services to make web service calls simple and easy for the client to access it with the help of standard HTTP URIs.  • Developed DAOs using JPA, hibernate persistence API for the database operations to interact with Oracle Database.  • Performed system monitoring using Sensu and Cloud Watch in AWS Cloud.  • Implemented Microservices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Developed web service client using Spring Framework and REST HTTP protocol to get customer credentials and information.  • Experience in implementing and hosting Docker and Kubernetes containers.  • Design and develop RESTful API capabilities on Java/node.js technologies and deploying in AWS and implement API proxies on Apigee Edge.  • Responsible for creating and designing APIs using Apigee Edge.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST APIs application with Spring Boot and Microservices.  • Configuration and maintenance of Virtual IPs hosted on ATS and Nginx.  • Integrated with third party Sale point API to make Restful Webservice call.  • Designed and developed necessary PL/SQL for the database operations as needed.  • Involved in deployment of the application at various environments (Development, QA Testing, Staging, and Production.  • Used GIT for version control and handled unit testing using Protractor, Jasmine and Karma.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services(AWS) Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, Cloud Formation  • Deployed application on Apache Tomcat server.  • Used GIT for version control and repository.  • Used Selenium for UI automation. Implemented authentication by checking the credentials with the PLCB's LDAP  • Used Fitnesse for Integration testing.  • Used log4j for logging errors, info, and exceptions.  • Involved extensively in Code Reviews, Unit testing and Process Improvements.  • Developed and tested extraction, transformation, job and load (ETL) processes  • Worked with Groovy/Grails to support both static and dynamic typing as well as for operator overloading.  • Used Spring Batch to setup batch jobs to email the daily reports and that which run on Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) with Spring Boot as its MVC layer.  • Developed security framework with support for database security and integration with external security data stores such as LDAP  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Implementing JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) along with Expression Language (EL).  • Creating custom, general use modules and components, which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application and reusable AngularJS applications.  Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring 4.1(DI, MVC, Tran Management, Integration, Angular 2/4, JavaScript, DOCKER,JDBC, ReactJs, AOP,REST, PL/SQL ,Transaction Management), Hibernate 4.0, JAX-RS Web services, JAX-WS Web services, JSON, Apache CXF, JQuery 1.9, JQueryUI, AJAX, UML, MS Visio, JSTL, Oracle 11g, Web sphere 7.1, Eclipse 4.2, Apigee, Junit, XMLSPY, SOAPUI 5.1, Log4j, Maven 3.1, GIT, AWS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, , HTML5, CSS3, Toad, Maven, Jenkins, TcpMon, Sun Jersey, Swagger, Junit 4.1, Selenium, JIRA, Rally, Free marker, Apache POI, Quartz Scheduler, Groovy, TcpMon, Mockito, DB Unit, Dynatrace, Cucumber, JAAS, Full Stack Developer First National Bank - Omaha, NE December 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities  • Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session facade, Value object and DAO design patterns.  • Implemented AWS client API to interact with different services as Console configuration for AWS EC2.  • Used Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator Design Pattern into Action Classes.  • The application consisted of a monolithic codebase being slowly migrated to a microservices environment. Each microservices backend and frontend tech stack varied slightly from one another.  • Implemented Unit testing using Junit.  • Integration of spring modules with AWS modules in order to consume third party services.  • Developed Webpages using UI frameworks bootstrap, Angular JS.  • Created DHTML pages, used JavaScript for client-side validations and AJAX, AngularJS to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Managed and maintained Oracle and NoSql databases in production domain.  • Designed and implemented a NoSql based database and associated RESTful web service that persists high-volume user profile data for vertical teams.  • Created Scala and Java based ETL streaming framework, using Spark, Cassandra, Hadoop and Hive.  • Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS and React JS.  • Used Angular libraries like angular-UI-router, angular-resource to create the effective single page application and used angular-cookies to temporarily store the data used in this application.  • Used LDAP Authentication for logging and Validating User Credentials.  • Designed the real time analytics and ingestion platform using Storm and Kafka  • Incorporated Basic authentication and JSON threat protection by using Apigee API gateway.  • Used Struts tag libraries in the JSP pages. Used Swagger to interact with API end points of the Microservices.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to quickly build, deploy & update the applications.  • Developed a controller Servlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes.  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic and JSP.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) and Hibernate for performing the Database Transactions.  • Used join point and advice Spring AOP modules for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Designed extensive additions to existing Java Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  • Used Spring Batch to setup batch jobs to email the daily reports and that which run on Pivotal Cloud Foundry with Spring Boot as its MVC layer.  • Extensively worked on Spring Bean wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOPmodules.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various Webpages using AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, JSF, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Followed Agile Methodology and TDD (test driven development).  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Identified and resolved programming issues, Servlets and EJB s performance tuning opportunities.  • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, and UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development life Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment using agile methodologies.  • Involved in the analysis & design of the application using UML with Rational Rose  • MVC architecture is implemented by struts framework.  • Exposed Survey API to other applications in DOE using Apache Axis2.  • Page design and development are done using OracleBPM.  • Experienced in code review and represent as a team lead across all functionalities and used lambda expressions.  • Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  • Written Test cases using Junit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.  Environment: JAVA, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, UML ,JQuery, Struts, Design Patterns, HTML5, CSS3, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Apache, Oracle ECM, Struts, Webservice, SOAP, ILOG, AWS, ETL, Web2.0, LDAP, Kafka, Microservices, Apigee, OracleBPM, JSF, WSDL, Apache CXF, Apache Axis2, Apache Tomcat Server, SOA, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, UML, Web logic, Junit. Sr. Java Developer Parallon HealthCare - Nashville, TN January 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Contributed to system design by developing Sequence Diagrams and Class diagrams using Rational Rose Tool.  • Designed the Application using Object Oriented Concepts.  • Developed web pages using HTML, JSP, CSS, spring tags.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC, Spring Web flow and added asynchronous features using AJAX.  • Developed controller and bean classes using spring and configured them in spring configuration file.  • Developed and configured Flow Definitions using Spring Web flow.  • Implemented the Concept of Multiple Inheritance in spring using Auto wiring.  • Used Spring Hibernate Template helper class for performing the database operations using Hibernate.  • Designed middleware components like POJO (Plain Old Java Objects such as Java beans).  • Used Hibernate for data persistence and designed hibernate queries and Hibernate specific configuration and mapping files for Oracle Database.  • Developed and executed test strategy and coordinated QA testing in Agile Environment.  • Defined the Data Source, associations, components, Inheritance and configured the hibernate environment using HQL. Defined the Scope of testing for User Acceptance Testing.  • Developed Web Services for getting prescription details and services based on RX-number.  • Designed XML Pull Parser to parse the XML Data.  • Used MQ Series for Messaging and queuing purpose in the application.  • Worked on Enhancements, Change Requests and Bug Fixing.  • Involved in writing spring based Junit test cases.  • Used Shell Script to deploy the application on Web Sphere and Database Updation.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version Control.  • Used MQ Command Line utilities for starting, stopping and monitoring the MQ Queue Managers and MQ Queues in the test and production environment.  Environment:  JDK 1.6,AngularJS,Bootstrap, spring 2.5, spring Web flow, Oracle 10g, MQ Series, JMS, Shell Script, Linux, JSP, Java Beans, Hibernate 3.x, SAX,DOM, Web Sphere 6.1,RAD 6.0, XML, Altova XML Spy, Rational Rose, Rational Clear Case, Junit. Software Developer Infosys - IN June 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Used the light weight container of the Spring MVC Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases such as Requirement Analysis, Design and Implementation of the project.  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection.  • Implemented and deployed several EJB (Session and Entity).  • The front end of the project is designed on MVC architecture using struts, Tiles frameworks.  • Involved in Configuring tiles-def.xml, web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the strut framework.  • Used LOG4J for error logging at the development box and used ANT for building the deployable EAR/WAR components.  • Used Web Sphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • EJB's were running under the hood of Web Sphere container/server.  • Implemented Back office loan services and web applications using Session Façade, Service Locator, Data Access Objects, Business Delegate, MVC, Front Controller and Data Transfer Object design patterns.  • Created DB2 SQL Procedures, Functions & Stored Procedures, Nested Tables, Cursors, DB2 Packages, Reports & SQL Functions for Reports.  • Developed the application using RAD model.  • Worked with VSS Version control in order to create virtual library of computer files.  Environment:  Java 1.4, JSP2.0, Servlets2.4, EJB2.0, Struts1.2, Spring 2.0.3, JDBC3.0, Design patterns, Html, XML, CSS, Log4j, Ant, Web services, RAD6.0, IBM Web Sphere server6.1, IBM DB29.0, VSS. Education Bachelor's degree Visveswaraya Technological University - Bengaluru, Karnataka Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxp, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jdk, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi, Struts, C++ Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sushmanth-k-210660188 Additional Information SKILLSET    Platforms Windows 2000/NT/ XP/Vista and Sun Solaris 2.8/2.9, UNIX  Programming JDK 1.5, 1.6, 1.7,1.8, C, C++  Server Scripting JSP1.2,2.1, JSP-EL, JSTL, Custom Tags  Client Scripting JQuery 1.8,1.9, JQueryUI, Dojo, ExtJs, AngularJS, Angular 2/4, JavaScript, CSS2, CSS3, HTML4, HTML5, React JS, NodeJS  Java Frameworks Struts 1.2, Struts 2.1, Spring MVC,DI, AOP, JSF 1.1, JSF 2.1, GWT, Vaadin  Database Tools Toad for Oracle, Toad for MySQL, Toad for DB2, Toad for MS-SQL, ERWin, Altova Database Spy, MySQL Workbench,  Databases DB2, MS-SQL Server, HSQLDB, PostgresSQL, MySQL  Middleware EJB 2.1, EJB 3.0, CORBA, RMI, JMS  Version Control Tortoise SVN, Rational Clear case, Accurev, GitHub, CVS  IDEs Eclipse 3.0, 3.1, My Eclipse 4.1, IntelliJ, Net beans, JBuilder 2007, JDeveloper.  Build Tools ANT 1.7,1.8,1.9, Maven, Gradle  Continuous Integration Jenkins, Hudson  XML Tools Altova XML Spy 2005,2008  XML Technologies XSLT, JAXP, JDOM, SAX, DOM, XPATH, XPOINTER, XML, XSD,DTD  Webservice Specifications JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Webservice Tools SoapUI 4.0,5.1, TcpMon  Webservice Implementations Axis 1.0,2.1, JWSDP2.1, Sun Metro, Sun Jersey, Apache XFire, Apache CXF  White box Testing Junit 3, Junit 4, DB Unit, JUnitPerf, HttpUnit, Load Test, Timed Test, Selenium, Fitnesse, Easy Mock, Power Mock  Black box Testing JMeter, LoadUI, Load Runner, HP Quality Center, Win Runner,  Application Servers Web logic 8.1, 10.0, Web sphere 6.1, JBoss 4.0, Glassfish 4.0  Web Servers Tomcat 5.0,6.0,7.1, Joans  UML Tools Altova UML Model, Rational Enterprise, MS Visio  ORM Fra ORM Frameworks Hibernate 3.0,3.1,4.1, TopLink, OpenJPA, iBatis  Defect Tracking JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clear Quest  Methodologies Agile (XP, Scrum), Rational Unified Process(RUP), Waterfall, Kanban  Reporting iReports, JReports  Batch Jobs Quartz Scheduler, Cron, Spring Batch  HTML Editors MS-FrontPage 2003, Adobe Dreamweaver, Coffee Cup HTML  Templating Velocity, Free marker  Cloud Pivotal Cloud Foundry(PCF) , AWS