Lead Salesforce Developer Lead Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Salesforce Developer - General Communication Inc Chicago, IL • 8+ years of professional experience as a Software Developer which includes 5+ years of experience on Salesforce CRM platform as developer & administrator and 3+ years of experience in Java/J2EE technologies.  • Proficient in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like analysis, requirement gathering, design, development and testing.  • Thorough understanding of all SDLC models like RAD, Waterfall, Agile, RUP, FDD etc.  • Expertise with salesforce.com administrative activities: Creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Permission Sets, Record Types, Page Layout assignment, Search Layouts, Field-Level Security, Custom Tabs, Validation rules, Formula Fields, Email notifications and Templates, Outbound Messaging, Tasks, Events and Actions, Creating Flows, Process Builders, Workflows, Approval Process, Reports and Dashboards.  • Experience in using different tools - Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard, SFDC Data Export, Mass Delete etc.  • Implemented Security and Sharing Rules at Object, Field, and Record Level for different users at different levels.  • Implemented various fields such as Pick list, Dependent Pick list, Multi-Pick list & Custom Formula Fields, Lookups, Junction Objects, and Master-Detail Relationships.  • In-depth experience in CRM business processes like Campaign Management, Lead Management, Contact management, Order Management and Case Management.  • Good development experience with Apex Language, Apex Trigger, Apex Scheduler, Batch Apex, Apex Class & Apex Web Service, Partner WSDL & Enterprise WSDL, Visual Force (Page, Component & Controllers, Controller Extensions), Testing Methods.  • Proficiency in installing App Exchange applications.  • Prepared Unit Test Cases using apex test classes and to fulfill the 75% of test cases for the development in Salesforce. Experienced in handling Production releases.  • Implemented Configuration, Customization and Development with Salesforce.com on Sales Cloud and Service Cloud. Worked on Exact target/Marketing Cloud.  • Hands on project experience in developing Lightening Applications and Components. Developed salesforce Lightening applications using Lightening components, controllers, and events and used custom CSS in the components.  • Experience developing Custom UI with AJAX functionality using Visual force pages, Visual force Tags, Attributes. Proficiency in installing App Exchange Applications.  • Wide exposure to Test Management tools such as Jira, Rally, and Test Director.  • Hands on Experience of Salesforce Web Services API like REST, Bulk & SOAP.  • Experience in writing SOQL, SOSL queries.  • Extensively worked on Salesforce.com sandbox and production environments including creating Sandboxes and refreshing it time to time. Deployment between Production and Sandboxes using Eclipse, Force.com Migration Tool, and Change Set.  • Expertise in system integrations with ETL tools, Boom, Informatica On-Demand, Cast Iron and bulk data load process automation.  • Experienced in Web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and Java technologies like JDK, J2EE, JSP and Servlets. Good command in database development using SQL/PL-SQL in MYSQL, Oracle and SQL Server. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Salesforce Developer General Communication Inc - Chicago, IL January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Visualforce Pages, Custom Controllers, Advanced Search Functionality, Custom Objects, Analytic Snapshots, Tabs, Tags and Components  • Developed APEX Classes, Controller Classes and APEX Triggers for various functional needs in the application  • Used Debugger making use of Breakpoints to monitor data movement and troubleshoot the mappings  • Developed Test cases for Unit Testing of the Mappings, and was involved in the Integration Testing  • Imported data from excel sheets in to Leads, Accounts, Contacts and Opportunities using Data Loader and Import Wizard  • Developed Visualforce Pages to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes to provide functionality to the visual pages  • Worked with Data loader for loading the attachments into Salesforce.com related to objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, and Activities  • Involved in fallout analysis and fixing the issues  • Worked on Salesforce Communities and created VF pages for Communities  • Involved in SAP integration with Salesforce and finalized the mapping between the systems using Web Services, WSDL files and SOAP protocol  • Good working knowledge for GIT and Continuous Integration process flows  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects  • Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleansing activities while transferring the data to the external system using Informatics on Demand  • Used STEELBRICK (CPQ) for Salesforce to configure, price and quote new deals, add-on sales and renewals  • Performed STEELBRICK CPQ related configuration for product setup, approval matrices, approval rules, process builders and flows  • Along with experience in using and implementing APTTUS CPQ on Production environment, also supporting the Business users with Quoting related help  • Working as a part of UAT team to test the APTTUS implementation Project before going live  • Setting up & Customization of APTTUS product configurator and quote application according to business needs assist in administering and monitoring the company's Salesforce CRM and Salesforce CPQ application  • Responsible for designing and implementing cloud-based solutions, including private, communities and public cloud deployment models for a variety of mid-size companies  • Used Salesforce shield for Event monitoring, Audit trial purposes  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help Salesforce.com support. Implemented SFDC CRM to deliver various reports in departments of Sales, Administration and Marketing  • Administered, configured, maintained Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, assigning Permissions, generating security tokens, validation Rule, upgrade installation  • Responsible for helping to capture business requirements, identifying appropriate data sources, Data quality issues, Business transformation rules, mapping source to target  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects  • Worked with IBM Sterling CPQ (AppExchange tool) for Quote Generation with related discounts and automating the process through various stages of the life cycle  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages  • Worked with Management on the planning, implementation of Salesforce Lightning Business Process  • Using Lighting Components made them compatible with salesforce1 mobile app Developed Lightning apps  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Sales force as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using Import Wizard and Data Loader Utility    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Data Loader, HTML, XML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Customer Portal, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Service Cloud, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Admin/ Developer JPMorgan Chase & Co - Westerville, OH August 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Administrator / Implementer in the organization.  • Implemented dashboards of Wave Analytics for business customers.  • Involved in articulating Wave design and implementation best practices.  • Integrated Salesforce data and external data into Wave Analytics to enable users to explore and visualize the data with explorer and designer.  • Collaborated with different business colleagues to assemble and record the prerequisites. Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Performed the detail analysis of functional and technical requirements, designed & deployed the custom objects. Created Many to Many relationships and created Junction objects to implement Roll-up Summary fields to aggregate data from child records on the parent.  • Development work is done using AGILE methodology with strict budget and time lines.  • Worked with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Enabled Chatter for the Organization and to effectively communicate with the users in the Organization. Organized Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was committed in doing the mail merge for various standard and custom objects.  • Implemented Service Cloud for customer service, including configuration of email to case, case assignment rules. Managed migration and release of Service Cloud.  • Implemented public access settings for sites, restricted login hours, and restricted login IP ranges on profiles.  • Build applications using the Eclipse IDE. Loaded the JQuery JS file as a Static Resource in Salesforce  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Controller Classes for various functional needs in the application.  • Integration of Sales cloud with external information systems using SOAP API web services.  • Used @Http Get and @Http Post annotations for creation of restful Web service AP.  • Used GitHub, Jenkins for code migration from Personal Sandbox to Dev and used ANT tool to migrate from Dev to QA.  • Integrated with external system using Web Services Callouts for cleansing the Address and save the data in the pages of salesforce.com and SOAP and REST based Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.com.  • Executed SOQL queries in workbench and data loader to verify Product/Pricing staging data in SFDC/CPQ. Experience in Quote-to Cash tool, APTTUS CPQ and integration with DocuSign.  • Worked with Bootstrap to design the size of the Visualforce pages  • Extracted the Salesforce CRM information into BI Data Warehouse using Force.com API/Informatica to provide integration with oracle financial information to perform advanced reporting and analysis.  • Deployed Salesforce components from Sandbox to other Sandboxes and Production instances using Force.com Migration tools (Ant based), Change Set and Eclipse IDE.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Salesforce API (SOAP, REST), Wave Analytics, Apex Language, Triggers, SOQL, Visual Force, Change Set, CPQ, Service cloud, Sales cloud, Data Loader, Custom Objects, Workflows & Approvals, Email Services, Custom Tabs, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE plug-in, Sharing Rules. Salesforce Consultant Time Warner Cable - Herndon, VA March 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Admin in the organization. Interacted with different business teams to gather the requirements and to document the requirements.  • Experienced in deploying the CRM tool Salesforce.com to include: business requirement development, dashboard development, report & list view development, process flows and documentation.  • Proficient in dealing with the functionalities related to the Service Cloud, Sales Cloud and Marketing Cloud.  • Developed Apex Classes, Visual Force pages, Triggers (with HTML, XML) to meet business requirements. Creating HTML Email Templates, Visualforce Templates.  • Implemented app-exchange applications.  • Integrated the web services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.com  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes, and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages. Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Integrated Salesforce CRM and the legacy system using Cast Iron Integration Systems.  • Created custom Dashboards for manager's home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people.  • Experienced in Unit Testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project.    Environment: Eclipse IDE, Salesforce.com, Service Cloud, Sales Cloud, Marketing Cloud Force.com Sandbox, S-Controls, Import Wizard, Apex, XML, JavaScript, Controllers, Sharing Rules, Visual Force Pages, Workflows, Email Updates, Web services API. Salesforce Developer Vonage Business - Atlanta, GA December 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Provided technical support for over 1600 users of Salesforce and Marketing Cloud CRM tools.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, and S Controls to suit to the needs of the application.  • Worked with Conga Mail Merge application from AppExchange.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Worked on Sales cloud and Service cloud communities sharing Business Process extend them across offices and departments, and outward to customers and partners.  • Created process flows utilizing the software development life cycle and agile development methodology.  • Customized the entire Salesforce.com applications to incorporate the business requirements which involved creating Web Forms using S Controls functionality and processing the data in SFDC with the extensive usage of Web services API.  • Developed Apex Classes, Visual Force pages, Triggers (with HTML, XML) to meet business requirements. Creating HTML Email Templates, Visualforce Templates. Implemented app-exchange applications  • Integrated the web services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.com  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help salesforce.com support.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce Objects.  • Setup, maintain and optimize Email marketing campaign utilizing Exact Target/Salesforce Marketing Cloud.  • Used series of Ant Scripts to commit and pull files from GitHub.  • Developed Case Escalation rule to escalate the case depending on SLA.    Environment: Force.com Platform, Salesforce Enterprise Edition, sales cloud Salesforce.com Custom/Standard Objects, Tabs, Page layouts, Approvals, Reports, Workflows, SOSL/SOQL queries, Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse Plug-in, Salesforce.com Sandbox, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Data Loader, Web Services, WSDL, AJAX, Email Services, Sandbox data loading. Java Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH January 2011 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Gathered/analyzed functional requirements for the new phase in design.  • Worked on building high performance core java multi-threaded modules utilizing (thread pools, thread locals, re-entrant locks wait/notify, latches, deadlocks etc.).  • Developed front user interface modules using JSP, JSF and Servlets.  • Developed Use-case diagrams, class diagrams according to the UML standards.  • Developed both client and server side functionality using Struts and J2EE technologies.  • Developed Action classes to delegate the request to the business models and Action Form  • Developed web application using JSF framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view in the front end.  • Worked on WSDL's files in SOAP web services.  • Involved in writing complex queries using PL/SQL to extract data from database and to delete the data and to reload the data on Oracle database.  • Developed functional test cases for Integration and Functional testing, regression testing using JUnit, and user acceptance testing.  • Created XML files to provide Context and Hibernate Mapping for database persistence.  • Used ANT as deployment tool to handle platform specific properties such as file separators and automating complicated repetitive tasks.  • Developed various scripts for Creation and deployment of the code package using WebLogic.  • Implemented the SQL queries for database interaction.  • Worked as support in production for various production issues.    Environment: J2EE, Struts, JSP, AJAX, JDBC, Oracle, Web Logic, JavaScript, Java Beans, EJB, HTML, UML, JUnit, ANT, JSF, Tiles Framework, Validation framework and Design Patterns, Windows XP. Java Developer Accenture - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of different phases of the Process Flow module.  • Prepared technical design documents including sequence diagrams, flow charts, class diagram etc.  • Developed and implemented GUI functionality for Process Flow module using JSP, Struts, JavaScript, CSS, Struts, Action Forms and Struts Action Servlets.  • Redesigned the web applications by replacing the Custom MVC framework with the Spring MVC module.  • Used JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) to implement the logic inside the JSPs.  • Extensively used Validation framework for client and business logic validations.  • Developed various test cases and performance unit testing using JUnit.  • Used ASP.Net MCV, Html, CSS to design the presentation layer of the website  • Wrote SQL queries and PL/SQL procedures for JDBC.  • Used JQuery and JSON for designing the front end and Java Portlets as it enhances portability and customization.  • Did Packaging and Deployment of builds through ANT script.  • Involved in Oracle 11g database development by creating DB2 Database for fetching different records for the details provided by the user.  • Developed Logical data model, Physical data model and Entity Relationship Diagrams. Apache Tomcat server administration. Built the Application based on Rational Unified Process (RUP).    Environment: Java 1.7, Linux, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JavaScript, JDK, AJAX, Java Script, Hibernate, JBoss, ANT, HTML, XML, CSS, Oracle 11g, Java Portlets, Struts2, JUnit, Eclipse, SOAP, WSDL, Web Services, SQL, PL/SQL, JMS, Eclipse, Windows XP Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Vignan University Skills Eclipse (6 years), HTML (8 years), Java (6 years), Web Services (8 years), XML (7 years) Links http://salesforce.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Salesforce.com Technologies  Salesforce CRM, Apex, Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Web Services, Workflow & Approvals, profiles & permission sets, sharing rules, OWD, Validation rules, Apex data loader, App Exchange, Escalation rules, Sales cloud, Marketing cloud, Service cloud, Pardot, Email Template, formula, Apex Test Methods, Visual Force Pages, Visual Force Components, S-controls, Sandbox, Email Templates, Roles & Role Hierarchies, Profiles, Dashboards, Reports, Force.com IDE, Salesforce Lightning, Communication cloud, Steelbrick, Case feed, Omni channels , entitlement Management ,Contact centre Module, Jenkins.    Salesforce Tools  Workbench, Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Apex Data Loader, Force.com Platform (Sandbox and Production), Salesforce API (SOAP and REST).    Web Technologies CSS, XML, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, UI Concept Modeling/Wire framing, Toad.  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall Model, TDD  Operating Systems Windows, Unix  Languages C,C++, JavaScript, Oracle(SQL, PL/SQL), Java  Databases MySQL, Oracle 11g/10i/9i, SQL Server 2008/2012, ETL.  Documenting Tools MS Word , MS Excel , MS Power Point , MS Project , MS Visio