Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - The Hartford Insurance Raleigh, NC • Around 9+ years of experience as a front end developer for Web Applications.  • Have excellent experience in working on Agile development lifecycle involving standups, sprint planning, retrospective sessions and managing user stories in Rally, JIRA.  • Have an extensive experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, JSP, HTML5, DOM, AJAX, JQuery, CSS3, SASS, SCSS and Bootstrap 3/4.  • Worked on JavaScript frameworks like Node JS, Angular 1.x, Angular 4, React JS.  • Experience working on AngularJS implementation custom directives, reusable components, MVC, data-binding.  • Used AngularJS dependency injection concepts using modules, factory and service.  • Experience in implementation of responsive web design RWD using Bootstrap and CSS3 Media Queries.  • Used Responsive Web Design so that the website is compatible with different devices like desktops, laptops, tablets and smart phones.  • Worked on IDE's such as Eclipse, IBM RAD, Sublime text, Brackets, IntelliJ.  • Good exposure with Application Servers like IBM WebSphere, Nginx and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in writing unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Have a very good experience of working with ES6, ES7 features and typescript.  • Strong experience with version control tools like GIT, SVN, Bit bucket and GERRIT for code review.  • Integrated various 3rd party tools like WalkMe, Wistia, Glance in the application to provide an enhanced user experience.  • Sound knowledge in working with cross browser's compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Chrome.  • Used Splunk for application log monitoring and Jenkins for build automation.  • Used NodeJS npm modules like Gulp, webpack.  • Have hands on experience working with concepts of Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Demonstrated competence of a good tech lead and ability to work on multiple projects.  • Role includes a mixture of responsibilities requiring strong technical background with excellent problem solving and communication skills.  • Expertise in application servers including IBM WebSphere 7.0/8.5, WebLogic, JBoss, Tomcat web servers.  • Experienced working in a cloud platform created FW to apply mobile automation using See Test tool.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript. Built the UI using Bootstrap. Work Experience Sr. UI Developer The Hartford Insurance - Hartford, CT June 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Implemented Redux for multi-source state resolution to manage user code input, attribute control input and data input.  • Created React components, using Redux for unidirectional data flow.  • Developed multiple web-based chat demos using React, Redux, ES6/Babel, Webpack, and Mocha.  • Built Single Page Apps using Angular 2 and Typescript for Responsive Design.  • Used JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery, Dojo, Ext JS, CSS preprocessors such as LESS or SASS.  • Launched and maintained Django web portal using nginx  • Worked on Continuous Integration with the use of GITLAB repository for version control.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub  • Developed custom web forms using PHP and JavaScript.  • Worked on Angular 2 and Typescript and Additional frameworks like Bootstrap for responsive design, Less for preprocessing is used.  • Expertise with Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, ES6 and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed the user portal using angular.JS along with HTML, CSS and TypeScript.  • Developed fully functional, cross browser compatible websites on UI/UX platform utilizing Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Good Knowledge of Balsmiq, Adobe Photoshop and UX design tools.  • Used Material-UI and Ant Design to provide better user experience of add-in application  • Developed Java dynamic project using RESTful web services and used postman to deploy the application and used MySQL for the database.  • Developed API Gateway using Node.js and Used MongoDB as a Database for storing information.  • Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS).  • Used Express framework on Node.js for quick development.  • Built SOA microservices architecture to support enterprise level application.  • Developed, documented, and automated reusable build and release processes for Visual Studio and TFS applications using Serena, Ant, Maven, and DOS batch scripts.  • Involved in designing UI patterns and developing applications with the help of Eclipse, Sublime text, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Dreamweaver.  • Worked on JavaScript libraries like Modernizr, RequireJS, UnderscoreJS, Browserify, Webpack for various development requirements.  • Used Webpack and Gulp to add dependencies, build the project immediately, once the changes are made during development.  • Developed Angular unit test cases using Mocha, Karma, Angular-Mocks, Chai.  • Used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Used Bower to manage and update the dependencies  • Implemented CORS for accessing resources from servers at different origins.  • Developed web page applications that meet the requirements as specified by ARIA (Accessible Rich Internet Applications), Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0.  • Implemented tokenizer and validation framework to prevent cross-site-scripting (XSS) and CSRF attacks across the application.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 and SASS layout and style markup presentation.  • Worked on CSS and Sass to design and style properties to enhance the look of the web page.  • Developed and designed web interfaces and layouts using PHP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Web application development for backend system on using Angular with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Involved in JavaScript/JSP development along with using bootstrap and JSTL libraries for a dynamic display.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by AngularJS.  • Proficient in building pre-compiled CSS files using SCSS, SASS and LESS Frameworks.  • Architected Web, API frameworks with Node.js, Vue.js, PostgreSQL and Redis.Worked with NPM commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node.js applications.  • Responsible for the migration of the entire project from Angular 5.0 to Angular 6.0.  • Implemented test cases and performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  Environment: React, Redux, Angular 2+, ES6, Typescript, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, Bootstrsap, AngularJS, SCSS, VueJS, UX, Balsmiq, Material-UI, CORS, WCAG, XSS, SASS, LESS, Java, MYSql, Mongodb, Webservices, Rest, NodeJS, ExpressJS, Microservices, Visual Studio, Sublime Text, Webpack, Karma, NPM, Bower, nginx, GitLab, Github, Jasmine, Protactor, Selenium, SonarCube, Enzyme, Mocha, Chai, Scrum, Agile, AWS, Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes. Sr. UI Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Atlanta, GA October 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities    • Using Redux provides a state container for JavaScript applications that will help applications behave consistently.  • Development of front-end application using Angular 2 JS, Dependency injection, Rx and Http modules with Node.js server for future evolutions.  • Design UI scripting using typescript in Angular 2.  • Developed user interface using JSF(Richfaces/Primefaces/MyFaces), JavaScript, JQuery , CSS and HTML  • Developing Webpages by using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript and working knowledge of Node JS, bootstrap.js, and Angular.js.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, and HTML as data and presentation layer technology.  • Visual C# and Silverlight was used to code the project and simulation is presented using Visual Studio.  • Experience with Grunt and Gulp task runner which helps automate repetitive tasks  • Used and configured NGINX and Node.js servers for the portal to run.  • Used GitHub for version control and source code management.  • Extensively worked on Front-end designing with AngularJS, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSTL, Java Script, JSP, HTML, CSS, XHTML, XML, Custom Tag Libraries.  • Worked on AngularJS components for theming purposes & performed client-side validations.  • Developed web page with ARIA (Accessible Rich Internet Applications) & WCAG (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines)  • Followed best standards and practices for development for sanitizing user input, for preventing webapplication from attacks such as SQL injection, cross-site scripting (XSS).  • Implemented CORS [cross-origin resource sharing], allowing the request through different hosts and JSON formatters for sending data in camelCase.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, SASS and JavaScript.  • Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries, JS, CSS, JQuery, Node.js, HTML, SASS and Ajax to speed the application.  • Effective use of CSS features, such as creating borders and background, etc. and used LESS/SASS Preprocessor.  • Implemented Core Java concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation.  • Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  • Developed API Gateway and Restful Webservices using Node.js.  • Wrote in ES6 for Angular application development and used Grunt for auto compilation of ES6.  • Developed Single Page applications using Angular.JS using components, directives using TypeScript.  • Developed new web applications using PHP, Java, JavaScript, MySQL, Laravel, AngularJS and Sublime Text Editor.  • Implemented unit test cases using Jasmine, Mocha Chai, Selenium, Avoriaz, Karma and E2E testing using protractor.  • Worked on JUnit with selenium and cucumber-JVM in a page object model and cleaned up the duplicate code and maintained a good standard of coding. Later we created the new test framework with TestNG.  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum  • Used GWT and Amazon AWS (EC2/S3/EBS) for prototyping and subsequent evaluation.  • Managed AWS infrastructure including EC2, EBS, S3, CloudSearch, SimpleDB with Chef, Ansible and custom clients.Involved in enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular.js, created role based HTML navigation menu wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js and EXT.js.  • Implemented application services using Android, Java, Kotlin, Swift, Xcode, ATOM, Git Bash, Jenkins, Postman, NPM, Gradle.  Environment: React, Redux, Angular 2+, ES6, Redux, Typescript, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, Bootstrsap, AngularJS, WCAG, XSS, CORS, SASS, LESS, Java, Oracle, MYSql, Webservices, Rest, NodeJS, Visual Studio, Sublime Text, Grunt, Gulp, nginx, Github, Chai, Selenium, Jasmine, Scrum, Agile. UI Developer Fidelity National Finance - Atlanta, GA December 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities    • Implemented Angular component router for navigation and have a good experience of writing the custom pipes.  • Involved in writing services to connect the web application to back-end APIs using Reactive programming.  • Have a very good experience of working with ES6, ES7 features and typescript.  • Knowledge of AOT and increasing the application boot time.  • Used OAuth for single-sign on authentication across the application.  • The site is made responsive using CSS3, preprocessors like SCSS, Bootstrap and media queries to support desktop and tablets.  • Implemented accessibility using JAWS/NVDA so that the site is accessible by people with disabilities  • Used Splunk for application log monitoring and Jira for creating user stories and for tracking development activities  • Used Gulp as Build tool for UI.  • Used Jenkins for CI/CD pipeline (Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery).  • GIT/ Bitbucket for source control.  • Used REST client / POSTMAN to check the response of various API's.  • Worked on Swagger to view various API's and their responses. Handled various exceptions based on the response.  • Integrated WalkMe in the application which provides first time user experience.  • Implemented embedded video integrated in the application using videos hosted in Wistia which provides a video tour to the customers.  • Follow up code approval with promoting the code in DIT environment and QA/SIT environment for integration testing.  • Responsible in fixing the code breaks which the testing team reports.  • Responsible in following up QA sign-off with promoting the code to Stage environment for Beta testing and finally tagging it for release.  • Ensure the code review is performed on peer level and moderator level and ensure in writing optimized code.  • Developed test suite framework and regression tests for rules and alerts engine, recovery engine, object manipulation functionality, import/export engine and user-defined function handling using JUNIT.  • Used the Node.js and Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Designed web pages using with HTML, CSS and JQuery based on the W3C standard.  Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, Bootstrap, SCSS, Typescript, AngularJS, Jquery, SASS, LESS, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, PL/SQL, Oracle, DB2, Webservices, Soap Rest, Eclipse. Java Developer Cisco - Chicago, IL April 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities    • Developed core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  • Expertise using Java IDE tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, MyEclipse, RAD.  • Worked extensively on design and development of applications using Java, J2EE, spring, Hibernate, JQuery  • Developed the presentation layer using Java Server Pages (JSP), Tiles, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Developed Rest APIs in Spring boot.  • Developed the business layer logic and implemented EJBs Session beans.  • Designed and coded JAXB API to interact with third party application for asynchronous loading and parsing of JMS XML messages.  • Worked on UNIX, Linux to move the project into production environment.  • Created multi AWS VPC instances.  • Developed the application using Mule ESB, and build & deployed the services.  • Implemented Web based pages and site design using HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, Themes, Master Pages, Site Map, XML, TSF, XSLT, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax.  • Utilize and program Restful Web services, EJB/JPA, and Hibernate entities.  • Developed the necessary front end user interfaces in JSP's, HTML, Java Script, CSS and Angular JS that will be integrated using Spring MVC Framework.  • Developed Form Beans/ JavaBeans, Spring Controller Classes and configured with the corresponding view pages in spring-config.xml file.  • Also involved with creating shards, replica sets, monitoring, and projections for Mongo Systems.  • Experience Tester in Agile Development Environment Using TDD and ATDD approach..  • Knowledge on service oriented architecture (SOA), workflows and Web services using XML, SOAP, and WSDL.  Environment: Java, Spring, Struts, JDBC, Struts, JSF, JSP Servlets, JavaScript, HTML5 / CSS, AJAX, bootstrap, Oracle, SOAP. Software Developer Sovereign Bancorp - Boston, MA February 2010 to March 2011 Responsibilities    • Implemented the locking object using multi-threading before committing to Database.  • Used Java Multithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs.  • Designed a modern SOA platform for architecting and modeling technical solution.  • Used HTML, XHTML, DHTML, Java Script, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQUERY, XML, XSLT, XPATH, JSP and Tag Libraries to develop view pages developed the application using SPRING Framework that leverages Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Implemented utility classes which handle the string and date manipulation.  • Involved on implementing the Exception Handling for the application.  • Implemented Angular form validation using JavaScript along with DOM manipulation, creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts..  • Developed Java applications to create, update and delete data stored in relational databases using JDBC programming interface.  • Developed UI and backend applications using Hibernate, Java, Spring, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, and AJAX. Developed JUnit classes for the application.  • Responsible for Web UI development in JavaScript using jQuery, AngularJS and AJAX for dynamic loading of Web pages.  • Responsible for Development of Hibernate objects for data fetching for batch and front-end processing.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Grunt, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JPA, jQuery Education Master of computer science in computer science university of Dallas Skills Javascript (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies  React, Redux, AngularJS, ES6, Redux, Typescript, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, Java, MYSql, Mongodb, Webservices, Rest, NodeJS, ExpressJS, Microservices.    Web Services SOAP WS, RESTful WS, JMS API, WSDL, JAXP, JAXB, JNDI and XML, SOA, Ajax, JMS, MQ Series, SOAP, Rest, WSDL, JAX-RS and JAX-WS.  Languages Java, PL/SQL, Bash, UML, XML, HTML.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server, MS Access, PostgreSQL.  Version control SVN, CVS, Clear Case.    Operating Systems: UNIX (Solaris, Ubuntu, Linux, and OSX); Windows 7/8, MAC  Testing Tools JUnit, SOAP UI.