AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - TKC Holdings Inc Work Experience AEM Developer TKC Holdings Inc - St. Louis, MO May 2018 to Present Description: TKC Holdings Inc, is one of the major selling company based out in Missouri. It specializes in and is known as the Nations leading provider of electronics, clothing, technology, telecommunications and software solutions. I work as an AEM developer in TKC Holdings Inc.    Responsibilities:  • Gathering business requirements and converting them to technical solutions  • Involved in preparing the Business and Functional documents  • Analyzing, designing and layout of the components  • Implemented AEM, CRX, JCR, Sling, OSGI, CRXDE, WCM, and DAM  • Around 42 common components were developed to use across all the sites and custom components were developed for each site  • CRX data store was used to store all the related info  • Workflow was developed to capture all the screen shots using PhantomJS. This workflow captures all the screens into a pdf's and uploads into DAM  • Implemented the internationalization I18N translating all aspects of the application  • iText framework was used in pdf merging in the above workflow  • Customized component properties to meet the business requirements like actionlisteners, editConfig, droptargets, inplace editing.  • Worked on Apache Web Server configurations and Linux Server environments.  • Involved in Solr hosting setup and operational support.  • Experience in Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) including image and Videos (Digital Asset Management- DAM).  • Setting up and maintaining workflows, publishing permissions, assigning roles for templates and components.  • Responsive design concept was implemented. Therefore, all diabetes web sites developed in this project are compatible for desktop, mobile, and tablet devices  • Expert in developing and deploying java code via OSGI bundle  • Worked on HTML, CSS, JQuery for designing and implementing custom AEMcomponents Perform CQ5 customization on foundation components, core CMS and workflows to extend functionalities, improve performance or fix issues on project level.  • Heavily worked on style sheets to change the colors for each site  • Expert in configuring author and publish agents  • Train the business users on how to author different pages using the common and custom developed components  • Prepared author guides which involves explanation of all the templates, components for each diabetes site  • JIRA/Bitbucket was used to handle the production/ET tickets and bug reporting Issue tracking tools.  I have extensively used Angular 2.0 version in this project.  Environment: Java, JSP, Active Directory, JavaBeans, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PhantomJS, Vaultclipse, SlimerJS, AngularJS, JUnit, Log4J, Eclipse, Maven, Apache Tomcat, Web services SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL, JIRA, Bitbucket, Adobe CQ5/AEM, JCR, Sling, Apache Jackrabbit, WCM, I18N, CRX, DAM, Package Manager, CRXDELite, OSGI, Workflow, Angular 2.0. AEM Developer Florida Blue - Jacksonville, FL January 2017 to April 2018 Description: "Florida Blue, is the largest health insurance provider in the United States of America. It provides a wide range of coverage plans in the U.S. It has got a wide range of network including Blue Cross and Blue Shield (BCBS) of Florida Blue.  RESPONSIBILTIES:  • Designed and developed, CQ5 building blocks including templates, reusable components, dialogs, widgets, workflows in AEM 6.3.  • Create and maintain customer-facing Adobe AEM content management systems.  • Perform AEM customization on foundation components and workflows to extend functionalities, improve performance or fix issues on project level.Offer solutions on top of the Adobe WCM, CRX/CRXDE, CQ WCM, DAM.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, CQ5 dispatcher to cache the landing page html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Utilize HTML5, CSS, and Angular JS for designing and implementing custom AEMcomponents.  • Involve with content management strategies, architecture and multichannel content delivery.  • Developed digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the AEM product suite used DAM for image management.  • Implemented Sling Servlets and created OSGI bundles for interacting with remote spring webapp and webservices and custom business logic in java and deploy as jar files from the Felix System Console.  • Integrated LDAP for user access to the CMS systems for authoring and publishing.  • Developed and deployed custom OSGi bundle in Apache Felix console.  • Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in AEM to control over blueprints and live copies and work on rollout configurations.  • Extensively used AEM tagging features in developing components and templates. Used JavaScript for writing listeners in the dialogs.  • Worked on Digital Asset Management, to manage and store all the media.  • Used Maven project structure for building the packages, subversion for source control, file vault for importing the code from JCR to file system and vice versa.  • Used Jenkins as build tool and used JIRA to track the bugs, issues and project management.  • Have a complete understanding of CRX repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Worked on Agile Methodology and Used TDD as a method of implementation for testing functional parts of a website by performing Unit Testing.  • Involved in analyzing business requirements and composing them into a technical use case.    Environment: AEM 6.3, Apache Felix, OSGI, JAVA, J2EE, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, JIRA, jQuery, Eclipse, Maven, XML, LINUX, JSP, Web Services (SOAP, REST), JUnit, Perforc AEM Developer Molina Health Care, Inc November 2015 to December 2016 Description: "Molina Healthcare, Inc. provides Medicaid-related solutions to meet the health care needs of low-income families and individuals; and to assist state agencies in their administration of the Medicaid program in the United States. It operates through three segments: Health Plans, Molina Medicaid Solutions, and Other."  Responsibilities:  • This was completely new development project from requirements gathering until production release and warranty.  • This was migration from non AEM CMS (Sitecore) to AEM.  • Travelled to onsite to run design workshops with client architects explaining concepts of AEM and leveraging out-of-the-box features to their requirements.  • Worked with business analyst and business team in designing the wireframes and low-level requirement specifications  • Develop and write high level design with an emphasis on robust functionality and performance.  • Created project structure using archtype 9 and created initial components  • Developed custom xtype required for specific business requirements.  • Developed hotspot component that will allow business user to define image map coordinates and users to view hotspot feature on images.  • Integrated YouTube into content finder wherein content author can drag YouTube videos into video player component and HTML5 player can play videos from YouTube.  • Assign detailed design and coding work and facilitate reviews.  • Coordinate code reviews and ensure coding standards are followed.  • Design and development of web pages using AEM 6.1, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and jQuery.  • Developed Adobe AEM 6.1 templates and reusable components.  • Served in leadership capacity in training, mentoring and evaluating staff - developers as well as coordinating with offshore and completing sprints on time.  • Coordinate code releases, data loads, deployments, etc.  • Manage any technical issues that arise during development.  • Coordinate security review and ensure security standards are followed.  • Designed test plans with QA staff for unit, system and integration testing.  I have extensively used and worked on Angular 2.0 version, in this project.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Toad, Tomcat, Ant, XML, backbone, CVS, Sterling, JQuery, Eclipse, Angular 2.0. Java Full Stack Developer HDFC Life Insurance - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to March 2015 Description: HDFC Life is one of India's leading life insurance companies, offering a range of individual and group insurance solutions that meet various life stage needs of customers. The products include Protection, Pension, Savings & Investments, Health, etc. Worked on development of customer service page in which we added a new feature like instant chat options and submit query options.  Responsibilities:  • Developed application based on HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX for building dynamic web pages.  • Used Ajax for sending and retrieving data from server by giving URL to get JSON data for models and to populate models from the server.  • Extensively worked with core java like collections, String Builder and interfaces  • Developed beans from the existing parent beans using Spring Inheritance and extensively used various Spring-Framework modules like MVC, JDBCTemplates.  • Used Maven to build the application.  • Used SOAP webservices to communicate with other applications.  • Performed logging using Log4j.  • Integrate with Oracle 10g database through JDBC.  • Implemented complex back-end component to get the count in no time against large size database using Java multi-threading.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose.  • Strong Understanding of the software development cycle, especially Agile/Scrum.  • Participate in Requirement, Design, Development and Deployment sessions.  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.    Environment: Java 1.5, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, Log4j, Oracle 10g, JUnit, Shell, SQL, Eclipse. Java Developer ICICI Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2011 to May 2013 Description: ICICI is an Indian multinational banking and financial services company which offers wide range of banking products and financial services for corporate and retail customers. The scope of the project is to improve credit card application process, improve approval mechanism and suggesting the user with eligible credit card offers.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the process of analysis, design, and development of the application.  • Full life cycle experience including requirements analysis, high-level design, detailed design, data model design, coding, testing and creation of functional and Technical design documentation.  • Developed user interface using JSP, Struts and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Worked on web technologies like JSP, Servlets to build front end web framework.  • Understanding functional requirements from the End Customers  • Used spring/JSP for presentation layer.  • Used Hibernate to support the backend systems.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking.  • Wrote SQLs to pull data and created procedures.  • Developed JUnit tests.  • Worked on Custom Workflows.  • Used JUnit for unit testing framework of code in Test Driven environment.  • Prepared Unit Test Plan, Integration Test Plan for the testing. I have also reviewed test plans of the peers in my team.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JavaScript, JUnit, Shell, SQL, Eclipse, Linux/UNIX, XML, AJAX. Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Enterprise Web Product AEM 6.3, 6.2, 6.1, 6.0, 5.6.  Operating Systems Windows 7, Windows 8, Linux, Android, Unix  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DHTML, XHTML, Angular JS, jQuery, J2EE, XML, JSON, AJAX, JSP, Slightly, Servlets, JSP, JSTL.  Build Tools Maven and Jenkins  Frameworks Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Apache Sling, Apache Felix.  Databases Oracle, SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, MS Access, MongoDB  IDE & Repositories NetBeans, CRDXE lite, Brackets, Eclipse, Bower, Grunt, Bit bucket, TFS, GitHub, Jenkins, JIRA.  Web/App Servers AWS, JBoss, WebSphere 8.0 (beta), WebLogic and Tomcat 5.0/6.0/7.0.