Sr. Drupal Developer Sr. Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Drupal Developer - Citi Bank Columbus, OH ? More than 10 Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  ? Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts and Model-View-Controller (MVC) based framework (ZEND FRAMEWORK, Cake PHP).  ? Developed fully functional, cross browser compatible websites on Drupal 8 platform utilizing agile and scrum methodologies and Google Analytics.  ? Managed the WordPress multisite environment, including custom theme and plugin developments for each subsite.  ? Wrote complex MYSQL queries to reorganize the Drupal database for export and reimport into the WordPress  ? Experience in PHP 5, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, AJAX and Content Management System, LAMP technology, web services, MVC Framework, cron management, Memcache and AWS cloud.  ? Experience allowing clients to customize and embed a live feed on their website via a simple script also the project involved migrating multiple custom PHP apps to a single plugin backed by WooCommerce.  ? Wrote complex MYSQL queries to reorganize the Drupal database for export and reimport into the WordPress  ? Strong command in leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, D3.Js, React.Js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  ? Design & creation of multiple sites using: WordPress, HTML, PHP, XML, CSS, Javascript.  ? Created User Interactive web pages in a professional manner using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and Drupal based on the W3C and ADA standards.  ? Experience in developing and maintaining websites and web applications using PHP, Lamp, web services, HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, JSON, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, CURL.  ? Developed a custom module on Drupal 8 which will replace the node files token in body text and replace URL in the image tag and path.Develop custom responsive WordPress Themes using HTML5, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, Sass and Grunt.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, DB2, JDBC, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  ? Proficiency in Prototype, Module Design, User Interface Design, and Integration of PHP components.  ? Experience with LARAVEL, ZEND, CakePHP MVC Framework and different templating engines like Blade, Twig and Smarty.  ? Manage, upgrade and maintain internal education and marketing communications WordPress website.  CORE TECH SKILLS  ? Drupal 8, WordPress, Drupal core, LAMP, Scrum, Ruby on Rails, Magento, Symfony, Zend Framework, PHP, Apache, CMS, Caching, GIT, Linux, .NET, Restful API, XHTML, Laravel, Vue.js, UNIX, JavaScript, Angular.js, HTML5, Node.js, React.JS Backbone.js, Hybrid, HTML, CSS, MongoDB, Bootstrap.js, EXT-JS, Ajax, npm, JQuery , Agile, Linux , Unix, SASS. Work Experience Sr. Drupal Developer Citi Bank - Bellevue, WA February 2016 to Present Accountabilities:  ? Developed and deployed solution using several new technologies, including Linux - Ubuntu, Drupal and Apache SOLR.  ? Developed/Design the application using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL5 and PHP) architecture using Wordpress, Magento/Zend Framework.  ? Developed a custom module on Drupal 8 which will replace the node files token in body text and replace URL in the image tag and path.  ? Develop and implement the project plan for the redesign of the existing internal marketing communications website built on the WordPress content management system.  ? Helped team to built a custom Drupal 8 responsive theme using bootstrap framework.  ? Perform site creation using Drupal Core and contributed module capability to match customer requirements for functionality and design.  ? Built a peer to peer and server based videoconferencing app using PHP and Javascript, OpenTok, Silex, Backbone.js, Composer, RabbitMQ, MySQL and deployed on Heroku.  ? Development in PHP, Mysql, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Jquery, AJAX, REST web services in AWS cloud environment.  ? Created RESTful services in a Drupal 8 environment to hold and provide.  ? Experience in developing native and hybrid applications for Android platform using Android SDK.  ? Developed within a cross-functional team building applications across a variety of platforms, including Magento, Drupal and Wordpress.  ? Lead SCRUM team in Agile development environment, managing sprint development and QA tasks during the course of the project coordinating UI/WordPress Developers.  ? Experience in open source E-commerce platforms like OpenCart, WooCommerce.  ? Implemented new modules and themes into Drupal core to allow for rapid development.  ? Develop and maintain a lead aggregation system for marketing leads on various verticals using the CakePHP framework on a LAMP stack  ? Definition and develop of database ER-model, architecture and services with MySql, Api services and data driven website implementing LAMP stack environment.  ? Design and develop web application functionalities with Object Oriented design, MVC Zend framework and LAMP, PHP library.  ? Upgraded Drupal 7 to 8 and Updated Drupal core, modules and themes to the latest releases for existing Drupal version.  ? Experienced in Drupal tool like View Tools, UberSearch, Drupal Theme Viewer to create powerful and flexible web applications.  ? Used PHP, HTML and JavaScript webpage coding integrated with MySQL using Apache HTTP.  ? Consulting on best practices for UI design, wordpress, plugins, SEO/Marketing, and building customer  base.  ? Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  ? Successfully implemented new modules and themes into Drupal core to allow for rapid development.  ? Used LAMP for hosting the word press application.  ? Used on Linux platform (LAMP), Magento CMS, MySQL, REST web services, Git repository for this project.  ? Worked on automotive content management system (CMS) which is built in PHP Sweet framework, used LAMP setup.  ? Wrote complex MYSQL queries to reorganize the Drupal database for export and reimport into the WordPress  ? Used Node Package Manager, Webpack to install the necessary packages from my app, used Gulp for Task Automation.  ? Compile statistics and analytics reports into dynamic Excel/Drive spreadsheets using data from Google Analytics, WordPress.  ? Created User Interactive web pages in a professional manner using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and Drupal based on the W3C and ADA standards.  ? Worked directly with a customer to analyze, design, specify and implement a Ruby on Rails grassroots campaigning tool.  ? Establish enterprise website architecture for WordPress content management system within current infrastructure.  ? Created several LAMP ,PHP library class wrappers for using system binaries (cross platform, OS X & Linux)  ? Migrated a portion of the site and publishing system from ColdFusion+SQL on four off-site servers to PHP on two on-site LAMP servers.  ? Code migration, db migration, and CentOS/Apache/PHP/MySQL installation and configuration.  ? Created knockout.js widget subsystem within a .NET dash dashboard using typescript and inheritance.  ? Built a custom module on Drupal 8 for file management and custom module will have the functionality of Drupal 7 Media Browser plus module.  ? Lead software developer. Responsible for developing and implementing software architecture for an enterprise level IoT lighting control system in the LAMP Stack with Laravel and Vue.js.  ? Utilize the Bootstrap framework as well as multiple industry standard WordPress plugins, like ACF.  ? Experience using Eclipse Java IDE and related tools in Agile/ Scrum based development settings.  ? Responsible for website maintenance client websites on a daily basis involving HTML, CSS Drupal.  ? Contract LAMP/WAMP stack application, offsite development and maintenance. PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, mixed with open source and third party imaging libraries. Eclipse/Mars, SVN, and MySQL databases.  ? Utilized MySQL, PHPMyAdmin and WHM to create and edit database tables and alter server specifications  ? Development of custom modules using LAMP, PHP, AJAX, Javascript, Jquery, JSON.  ? Built Websites and Optimzed Wordpress installations, Created numerous graphic design elements for numerous sectors.  ? Worked with npm commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of NodeJS applications.  ? LAMP, PHP-MySQL connectivity was used to fetch required data from the database.  ? Worked with MongoDB, MySQL, Apache Solr, Nginx, and Symfony/Silex (PHP) on AWS.  ? Developed cross-browser styles for both modern and legacy browsers with CSS3, SASS and Compass  ? Developed user interfaces using LAMP, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, HTML, and CSS.  ? Developed front end using Bootstrap.js, Angular.js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, where back end is JAX-RS (Jersey) REST webservice.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as Angular.Js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap.js and Bootstrap.js  ? Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  ? Experience with LARAVEL, ZEND, CakePHP MVC Framework and different templating engines like Blade, Twig and Smarty.  ? Worked on implementing React.js flux based page updates using React fetchers, state mutating actions and stores. Extensively used React Flux implementations Alt and Redux and their architectures.  ? Experienced in Drupal tool like View Tools, UberSearch, Drupal Theme Viewer to create powerful and flexible web applications.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSON, Angularjs, and REST Services  ? To limit page-loading delay and visible browser-server interaction used MVC framework with Ajax, JavaScript, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Node.js, D3.js.  ? Developed application as Enterprise JavaScript using - AngularJs, NodeJs, Websockets, Jasmine, Karma, NPM, Gulp, Protractor etc.  ? Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used Rest, WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  ? Designed and implemented the web application in Node.js, HTML5 from initial concept development to beta launch.  ? Developed backend applications with Node.js, MongoDB, CouchDB, Oracle, Apache, Java.  ? Worked on stored procedures, triggers, cursors, DB scheduler, PL/SQL, MySQL, JDBC, MS SQL Server.  ? Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, using MS SQL Server.    Background Skills: Drupal 8, WordPress, WAMP, LAMP, Zend Framework, CMS, PHP, Laravel, HTML, CSS, Caching, Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, AJAX, React.JS, GIT, JSON, Node.js, Angular.js, Hybrid, XHTML, Java, Agile, Vue.js, PL/SQL, MySql, HTML5, .NET, MongoDB, Maven, REST, Eclipse, Windows, Linux, UNIX, MVC, Ubunto. Sr. Drupal Developer JDA Software Group - Scottsdale, AZ September 2014 to January 2016 JDA Software Group designs and develops end-to-end integrated supply chain and retail management software solutions. The company offers adaptable manufacturing and distribution solutions that include assortment optimization, category knowledge base, channel clustering, floor planning, planogram generator, and space planning.    Accountabilities:  ? Performed system upgrades to Drupal websites, including Drupal core, contributed modules and custom theme upgrades  ? Responsible for website maintenance client websites on a daily basis involving HTML, CSS and Drupal 8.  ? Designed databases and structures for various Drupal 8 sites. Drupal 8 module development and customization  ? Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  ? Develop web applications within a LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  ? Migrated internal operational IT from a legacy mainframe to a custom web-based application platform using LAMP open-source tools.  ? Developed within a cross-functional team building applications across a variety of platforms, including Magento, Drupal 8 and Wordpress.  ? Development of custom layered navigation in categories pages using LAMP, PHP, AJAX and Jquery.  ? Worked on an open-source CMSDrupal to build website using Drupal.  ? Completed the data migration from old VisaLabs website to newly developed CMS by creating a custom Drupal 8 Module.  ? Worked directly with client to design, develop, and deploy a responsive websites that was built with PHP, Silex, Bootstrap, and JQuery.  ? Development of custom modules using LAMP, PHP and XML.  ? Development of an interactive section to allow customers see earrings and piercings with the help of a virtual ear using LAMP ,PHP / JS / AJAX / jQuery  ? LAMP, PHP scripting to update catalog data and inventory data through a csv file.  ? Develop custom responsive WordPress Themes using HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, Sass and Grunt.  ? PHP backend development of custom modules CRUD  ? Integration with client's ERP system to update prices through a LAMP, PHP / SOAP Web service call.  ? Develop web application using LAMP, Magento, and PHP.  ? LAMP, PHP Web Development for Back end scripting, Code refactoring, addition of new modules.  ? Work on HUB module for implementing Single Sign on Service (SSO) by implementing Drupal Web Services.  ? Worked as a team to setup new clients using various PHP frameworks such as Phalcon, Laravel, Zend, and Wordpress.  ? Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server.  ? Develop Custom Drupal 8 Modules for implementing O Auth and RESTAPI.  ? Designed interfaces in Photoshop, Flash, NotePad, Corel Paint Shop X2, Image Ready &Wordpress.  ? Developed bug management system for internal usage, using MySQL, Bootstrap, Backbone.js  ? Use Spring Data to extract data from Neo4j and MongoDB databases.  ? Created Drupal modules for Activity log and Service Reporting System.  ? Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA.  ? As Lead Developer, edited, coded, developed and edited Front End & Back End of a new exclusive Wordpress web site for a client.  ? Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application.  ? Written custom yaml synchronizations to migrate configurations from Drupal to Drupal 8.  ? Used PHP to insert the queries and functions needed to build a working WordPress theme.  ? Developed Contact Fill Application using Drupal and installation and integration of the Application online.  ? Customizing HTML, CSS, Java script and Jquery scripts for UI/UX development according to client's needs  ? Used all aspects of MYSQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), in LAMP environment.  ? Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or third part APIs under PHP, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery Technology.  ? Application maintenance and enhancement using PHP Framework, Object-Oriented Design Patterns (OOD) and MVC methodologies.  ? Created Front end UI for Service Reporting System using WordPress & Ecommerce plugin.  ? Customize product detail page so customers can buy the main product's extended warranty at the same time using PHP and AJAX.  ? Customize Magento's PHP core checkout to equals the view as the USA website.  ? Hand-code HTML pages from virtual design to live web pages (for Magento, WooCommerce, WordPress).  ? Worked on Drupal 8 web form and created custom form hooks to post and get data.  ? Used Typescript as compiler to compile typescript code into JavaScript and used Typing's to manage Typescript definition and using GIT for version control.  ? Used GTMetix and Cloudflare as development tool for creating applications.  ? Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  ? Provided more secure platform to host the websiste by using WP Engine.  ? Developed website using Ruby on Rails on Linux operating system, backed by MySQL and Capistrano to automate and ease the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server.  ? Coding of custom WordPress theme and template files using HTML, CSS, PHP, and Bootstrap framework.  ? Integrate Magento with SAP system to get live inventory data updates while customer is attempting to finish his order through a WS call using SOAP / PHP, LAMP.  ? Implemented User interface (UI) entire application using HTML, CSS, Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, XML and XSLT.  ? Experience with several CMS and web tools, such as WordPress, Drupal, Joomla, Moodle.  ? Expert in debugging an application using the debugging tools provided by Flash builder, Visual Studio.NET IDE.  ? Extensively used WEBPACK and Gulp for all bundling and build needs of the Application.  ? Developed user interface using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JSON and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Developed front-end management features for the Ruby on Rails-based website. This involved view, controller, and model development as well as CSS and Javascript front-end work too. SASS and Compass were used in later iterations.  ? Extensively used SQL for ad-hoc queries and exporting data out of phpmyadmin for importing into Excel.  ? Leading Frameworks Team like Ember, Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js & D3.js.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  ? Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP) Symfony Framework in LAMP environment.  ? Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  ? Experience in Web development from PSD to responsive Wordpress/Woocommerce sites.  ? Setup the development environment using Node.js, npm, Webpack, git.  ? Worked on variety of Frontend JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS, JQuery, JQuery UI and good knowledge in EmberJS.  ? Implemented second level cache and query level cache in Hibernate using EHcache plug-in.  ? Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML.  ? Created client website running on a Node.js, using the Express framework, Jade, AngularJS and Backbone.js for front end MVC/templating.  ? Created a library of visual components using Highcharts, D3, and jQuery for reporting results.  ? Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, Ember JS, Bootstrap, Drupal, JSON, and jQuery, Ajax  ? Developed the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, and D3.JS.  ? Develop application using Ember, AngularJS, Bootstrap, RequireJS.  ? Developed frontend application using React.js, Express.js and Knockout. Js.  ? Create web service component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML to interact with the middleware.  ? Developed Angular-JS unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  ? Used JPA Hibernate and Spring to perform CRUD operation with MYSQL and perform persistence for Hazelcast cache.  ? Have broken down the application into multiple angular modules for simplicity purposes and have done unit tests using Jasmine  ? Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  ? Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies  Background Skills: WordPress, Drupal 8, WAMP, LAMP, Zend Framework, Symfony, .NET, Laravel, Agile, Magento, Silex, Ruby on Rails, Drupal core, PHP, jQuery, AJAX, Apache, HTML, CSS, XML, SASS, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Bootstrap, CMS, Oracle, MySQL, XHTML, Git, Github, Ubunto, UNIX. Sr. PHP Developer HSBC USA - New York, NY September 2012 to August 2014 HSBC USA provides consumer and commercial banking products, and related financial services in the United States. Its Retail Banking and Wealth Management segment provides deposits, residential mortgages, home equity lines of credit, and credit cards; advisory, brokerage, and wealth management services; and lending and wealth products through direct channels, including the contact center, Internet banking, and mobile.    Accountabilities:  ? Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Maintained and developed e-commerce website using PHP-based framework Magento, jQuery, HTML and CSS.  ? Wrote various PHP scripts in the header, footer, multiple contact pages, etc  ? Responsible for both back-end programming in PHP and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, JQuerylibraries, and other technologies.  ? Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  ? Build and maintain custom platforms with WordPress CMS.  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Created DOM for datasets. Worked with datasets in JSON format. The datasets are collected from back end server PHP file using API and these datasets are then rendered on front end using JavaScript, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  ? Developed PHP based server side API using Zendframework and implemented MVC architecture.  ? Built client websites with WordPress while modifying existing code as needed.  ? Created front end interface using object oriented JavaScript and AJAX with API The front end interface is able to interact with server side PHP code which is called by using REST API through AJAX. The JSON data sets returned are then rendered in appropriate format such as pdf, xls, csv and charts.  ? Strong expertise in Web Application development using PHP with OOPs, CVS, SVN, MySQL, MS SQL Server JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, Flash ActionScriptand XML.  ? Created Web back-end user interfaces to new and existing databases utilizing PHP and MySQL/Oracledatabases.  ? Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  ? Migrated client site in Wordpress from Asp.Net. Imported All articles from Asp.Net to Wordpress with Category and Sub-Category wise.  ? Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  ? Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  ? Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  ? Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  ? Worked on Core Java and its libraries in creating the java/J2EE web application's business Logic.  ? Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  ? Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  ? Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services.  ? Used the various Complex data structures in collections Framework in Java/J2EE for building the Business Logic.  ? Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  ? Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  ? Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  ? Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server  Background Skills: LAMP, Zend Framework, PHP, Wordpress, Java, AJAX, Javascript, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. PHP/ JAVA Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA June 2010 to August 2012 Comcast Corporation operates as a media and technology company worldwide. It operates through Cable Communications, Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment, and Theme Parks segments. The Cable Communications segment offers video, high-speed Internet, and voice, as well as security and automation services to residential and business customers under the XFINITY brand.    Accountabilities:  ? Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  ? Developed PHP routes and Authentication to extend the functionality of the server.  ? Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  ? Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  ? Design, Development and testing of Java framework to transfer data from application to CIS and also from CIS to application.  ? Re-designing/ developing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionality and converting from PERL to PHP.  ? Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  ? Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  ? Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  ? Created quality working Java/J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  ? Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  ? Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Background Skills: J2EE, Java, PHP, JSP, Servlet, JDBC , JavaScript, Struts , Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, SQL, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis, tcpmon, Ant, CVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix Java Developer TIAA-CREF - New York, NY November 2008 to May 2009 TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Company provides life insurance products. It also provides utility tools for life insurance such as online planning tools and calculator. The company distributes its products through insurance representatives. TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Company was formerly known as TIAA Life Insurance Company and changed its name to TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Company in May 1998.    Accountabilities:  ? Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  ? Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  ? Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  ? Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  ? Generic Tree Navigation control).  ? Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  ? Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  ? Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  ? Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  ? Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  ? Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  ? Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  ? Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  ? Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  ? Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  ? Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  ? Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  ? Development of GUI using AWT  ? Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  ? Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.    Background Skills: J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix Education Bachelor's Skills MS SQL Server (5 years), MySQL (6 years), Oracle (8 years), SQL (9 years), UNIX (7 years)