Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - CenturyLink Denver, CO • 7 years of IT experience in various applications design, development, implementation and maintenance of Web based n-tier architecture systems using Java/J2EE for enterprise applications.  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Analysis, Design, Programming, Building, Testing, Debugging and Maintenance.  • Good working knowledge of Extreme Programming using Agile, Waterfall methodology with iterative and incremental software development.  • Extensive experience in designing both Front end & Backend applications using Java, J2EE Web frameworks, JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Angular 2 and Angular4, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Extensive experience in various Java/J2EE technologies including Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Struts, spring and Hibernate.  • Extensive Experience working with spring, Struts, JSF and O/R mapping Hibernate frameworks.  • Advance knowledge of NoSQL, SQL Queries using Hibernate framework with Spring ORM in interaction with the Relational Database Management System (RDBMS).  • Experienced in using Spring Framework (Spring Core, Spring Model View Control, Spring IOC, Spring ORM, Spring Web flow, Spring Data Access Object)  • Hands on experience in developing user interfaces using Java Script, HTML4, HTML5, Ajax, CSS2, CSS3, jQuery, JSON and AngularJS & ReactJS.  • Experience in creating a Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) request and making a WSDL call.  • Experience in working with RESTFULL Web Services.  • Hands on Experience in using Mule Connectors like FTP, FILE, SFTP, IMAP.  • Experience in developing applications using web/application servers like WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss & Tomcat. Data Transformations using Mule ESB.  • Hands-on experience in developing SQL queries and implementing them in various Relational Databases like SQL Server 2008, MySQL and Oracle 10g/11i.  • Experience on Integration- Data Mapping work from Guidewire Policy Center to various external systems like Enterprise Service Bus, Rating Engine, Product Model, OnBase.  • Support the definition of AEM development standards and frameworks, software architecture, design principles and ways of working  • Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Cassandra, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  • Experience in writing SQL queries and PL/SQL Programming (Stored Procedures, Cursors and Triggers)  • Experience in using JSON, XML and XSL for implementing Web Services.  • Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  • Experienced in deploying applications on Apache Tomcat, JBoss 6.x, WebSphere and WebLogic.  • Experience in using IDE's like Eclipse and NetBeans, integration with Maven  • Strong experience with Version Control like GitHub, SVN and CVS  • Proficient in Object Oriented Programming, software configuration and maintenance.  • Have solid testing experience in unit testing, integration testing and automation testing.  • QA experience in all phases of life cycle, including requirements gathering, risk analysis, project planning, scheduling, testing, defect tracking, management, and reporting.  • Excellent Technical, Communication and Interpersonal Skills with strong Customer Orientation and Client Interfacing Skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer CenturyLink - Denver, CO November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM) and Design Driven Development.  • Elaborated Use Cases based on business requirements and was responsible for creation of Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams.  • Evaluates the application by understanding the systems flow and data usage as per the requirement and performs product design and development accordingly.  • Worked with JSP, JSON, JavaScript, ReactJS for developing user interface.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, JDBC, Generics and other new features in Java 7.  • Extensive experience with Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Transaction, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Integration and Hibernate ORM.  • Also used Stored procedures connecting to the database using spring JDBC.  • Experience in working with Oracle, MySQL and PostgreSQL.  • Prepared and executed JUNIT test cases to test the application service layer operations before DAO integration  • Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC template, using Spring IoC (Dependency Injection).  • The Restful web services have been used to retrieve and update the data. Full Stack Java Developer UPS - Louisville, KY April 2018 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM) and Design Driven Development.  • Expertise in Maven for build, Jenkins continuous integration.  • Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through REST over HTTP using Metro.  • Used IntelliJ, Eclipse for designing, coding and developing applications  • Design and implementation of web applications in Java and HTML5/JavaScript using Eclipse, Swing, JPA frameworks and GIT maven source code environments.  • Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, JNDI, Spring IOC.  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes  • Used Angular 5 directives to extend HTML to create the foundation for rich and complex web application.  • Implemented Junit test cases in Curam framework.  • Implemented jQuery validation plug-in, modified jQuery validation plug-in to support custom validation, jQuery modal box, jQuery date picker, jQuery tooltip.  • Used jQuery event handling in UI pages to display list boxes and to handle validations.  • Implemented Spring Validators, persistence layer, and service layer components using Spring/Hibernate API and Spring/Hibernate annotations. Extensively used Hibernate QL.  • Designed RESTful web services with JSON representation for handling AJAX requests Used Advanced Rest Client plug-in to run the rest API's on localhost Tomcat Server for Unit testing  • Implemented PL/SQL queries and used oracle stored procedures.  • Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript.  • New library development with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot and pivotal cloud foundry.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Thyme leaf and Hibernate ORM. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules  • Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data from various time frame and division using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Developed various operational Drill-through and Drill-down reports using SSRS  • New library development with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot and pivotal cloud foundry.  • Migrating existing application into micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot.  • Coding of the business layers in Curam framework.  • Wrote Operations and corresponding handlers to communicate with Oracle 12c database sitting on Linux server  • Involved in upgrading production Linux and Solaris, development QA servers  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Involved in multiple high priority releases with aggressive deadlines.    Environment: J2EE, JMS, Spring MVC, IAM, Hibernate, Rest Web services, WebLogic 12.c server, Spring Boot, Angular 4, Agile, SCRUM Methodology, JMeter, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSP, Servlet, XML, UML, Unix Shell Scripting, Oracle10g, Log4j. Full Stack Java Developer Medefis - Omaha, NE March 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Full Life Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases.  • System built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, and Observer.  • Expertise in Maven for build, Jenkins and SonarQube continuous integration.  • Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through REST over HTTP using Metro.  • Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, JNDI, Spring IOC.  • Responsible for monitoring the AWS resources using Cloud Watch also application resources using Nagios.  • Involved in reviews, Manual Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing, Functional Testing, System Testing, and Black Box Testing, Used automated tools like above, Selenium IDE and Quality center 11.0.  • Used Git with Stash for code repositories  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes  • Used Angular 2 directives to extend HTML to create the foundation for rich and complex web application.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create Single Page Applications which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Helping Scrum master across the company to customize JIRA for their requirements.  • Installed Kerberos secured Kafka cluster with no encryption on Dev and Prod. Also set up Kafka ACL's into it  • Successfully did set up a no authentication Kafka listener in parallel with Kerberos (SASL) Listener. Also, I tested non-authenticated user (Anonymous user) in parallel with Kerberos user.  • Worked with npm commands and using package. Json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of NodeJS applications.  • The Restful web services have been used to retrieve and update the data using Ajax.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and ReactJS.  • I worked on a task to decrease database load for search and moved some part of search to Elastic Search engine.  • Used Java script and AJAX to query the Elastic search indices, format and display the JSON results in a web page using HTML and CSS  • Creation, configuration and monitoring Shards sets. Analysis of the data to be shared, choosing a shard Key to distribute data evenly. Architecture and Capacity planning for MongoDB clusters. Implemented scripts for mongo DB import, export, dump and restore.  • Worked with Guidewire Claim Center's rich functional depth to end-to-end claims lifecycle management improvements.  • Designed RESTful web services with JSON representation for handling AJAX requests Used Advanced Rest Client plug-in to run the rest API's on localhost Tomcat Server for Unit testing  • Implemented PL/SQL queries and used oracle stored procedures.  • Provided production support for the application and coordinated with cross functional teams.  • Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript.  • Deployed applications on WebSphere Application Server and performed required configuration changes.  • Worked in Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.    Environment: J2EE, JMS, Spring MVC, IAM, Hibernate, Rest Web services, Metro, WebSphere Application Server, AngularJS Agile, SCRUM Methodology, JMeter, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSP, Servlet, CVS, XML, UML, Unix Shell Scripting, Oracle10g, Log4j. Sr. Java J2EE Developer DOHMH - New York, NY May 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design discussions and understanding of business requirements and identify the relevant functional and technical requirements.  • Used Adobe Dreamweaver and WireFrame.CC from design and implementation.  • Used JAX-RS (REST) for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services using SOA with CXF framework  • Used JSP's HTML on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages.  • Configured bamboo automating the builds into Gradle archival repository.  • Implemented the business logic using various Design patterns.  • Developed the entire application web-based client implementing MVC Architecture using spring framework.  • Development of several Python APIs and harassers that works both in Linux and windows and maintaining them using the revision control SVN  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work in conjunction with spring functionality.  • Implemented Kafka Security Features using SSL and without Kerberos. Further with more grain-fines Security I set up Kerberos to have users and groups this will enable more advanced security features.  • Experience in development in Servlets, JSP, Spring, JSF, SOAP and REST web services, Hibernate, iBatis, MyBatis, Struts 2.2.  • Worked with npm commands and using package. Json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of NodeJS applications.  • Develops, participates and documents standard operating procedures, best practices and technical documentation in a shared repository  • Used SQL, HQL Queries in Java code to do select/update/delete depending upon the business requirement.  • Created ANT archetypes for generating fully functional RESTful web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation  • Also used Stored procedures connecting to the database using spring JDBC.  • Involved in the Pair Programming with the Other Person in the Agile Methodology and TDD.  • Created automated pipelines in AWS Code Pipeline to deploy Docker containers in AWS ECS using services like CloudFormation, Code Build, Code Deploy, S3 and puppet.  • Excellent in front-end UI design implementations by writing HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI to make better Single Page Application SPA working on Node.JS Server.  • Extensively worked on XML Altova Map Force for the transformations of xml to xslt.  • Used XPATH to navigate through Attributes and Elements in an XML Document.  • Used JAXB to marshal and unmarshal the xml- java object, java objects-xml  • Help develop an overall IoT and Mobile ecosystem engagement strategy  • Design of UI and workflows with master pages, CSS, JavaScript, SharePoint designer.  • Develop and maintain IAM artifacts (strategy, decisions, solution design, etc.)  • Used Advanced Rest Client plug-in to run the rest API's on localhost Tomcat Server for Unit testing  • Used Gradle as a build tool automating the building, testing, publishing and deployment loading all the dependencies from the nexus artifact repository.  • Configured TFS SharePoint Services and Reporting Services, created Project portals for all existing Team Projects.  • Worked with HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, ReactJS and ES6 for developing user interface.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and ReactJS.  • Used multithreaded environment to run the processes asynchronously using different future calls to access the data.  • Implemented Maven builds for creating JAR'S, WAR'S and EAR'S  • Good hands on UNIX commands, used to see the log files on the production server.  • Developed several shell Scripts to automate file transfers.  • Involved in developing Unit Test cases and testing the Application using REST.  • Used Mockito for mock creation, verification and stubbing.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Involved in the complete life cycle of the project from the requirements to the production support.  • Deployed the complete Web and enterprise applications in WebSphere Server.    Environment J2EE, REST, Spring, CXF, IAM, IOT, Hibernate, Angular 2, Ajax, jQuery, JSP, XSD, XML Bean, WebSphere, Eclipse, DB2, FileNet, jUnit, Log4J, Unix, Git, Gradle, Altova map Force 2014, REST, Log Expert, Spring Framework security using LDAP, Oracle ADF Business components, ADF faces, TSF Java Developer Sonata Software - IN May 2012 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Understanding Use requirements participating in design discussions, implementation feasibility analysis both at the front-end and backend level, documenting requirements.  • Using RUP and Rational Rose, developed Use Cases, created Class, Sequence and UML diagrams.  • Application Modeling, developing Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Architecture / Deployment diagrams using IBM Rational Software Modeler and publishing them to a web perspective with Java Doc.  • Participation did in Design Review sessions for development / implementation discussions.  • Designed & coded Presentation (GUI) JSP's with Struts tag libraries for Creating Product Service Components (Health Care Codes) using RAD.  • Extensively worked on front end, business, and persistence tiers using the struts frameworks.  • Designed and developed Service layer using Struts framework.  • Written and debugged the ANT Scripts for building the entire web application  • Developing Test Cases and unit testing using JUnit  • Involved in java multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction and developed a batch process framework Used WSDL and SOAP protocol for Web Services implementation.  • Coded Action classes, Java Beans, Service layers, Business delegates, to implement business logic with latest features of JDK1.5 such as Annotations and Generics.  • Extensive use of jQuery, AJAX and JavaScript for front-end validations, and JavaScript based component development using Swing Component Framework with cross browser support.  • Appropriate use of Session handling, data Scope levels within the application.  • Extensively used Web Socket to connect client and server.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate3.0 standards, to access data from IBM DB2 database through JPA ( Java Persistence API) layer creating Object-Relational Mappings and writing PL/SQL procedures and functions  • Integrating Spring injections for DAOs to achieve Inversion of Control, updating Spring Configurations for managing Java objects using callbacks  • Prepared and executed JUNIT test cases to test the application service layer operations before DAO integration  • Automated the build and deployment process using ANT build script  • Creating test environments with WAS for local testing using test profile. And interacting with Software Quality Assurance (SQA) end to report and fix defects using Rational Clear Quest.  • Creating views and updating code to IBM Rational Clear case for Source code control.  • Solving QA defects, scheduling fixes, providing support to production application.    Environment: Java: JDK, JSP, JSP Custom Tag libraries, JavaScript, EXT JS, AJAX, XSLT, XML, DOM4J, EJB, DHTML, Web Services, SOA, WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, IBM RAD, IBM WebSphere Application server, IBM DB2, UNIX, UML, IBM Rational Clear case, JMS, Struct Framework, Hibernate, PL/SQL, JUNIT, log4j, Ant. Education Bachelor's Skills Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Java, Hibernate, Javascript, JSP, Angularjs, JEE, MVC