Sr. Java Full Stack developer Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack developer - Wells Fargo Fremont, CA • Having 6+years of IT experience in development of Intranet/Internet applications using Java/J2EE/J2SE, spring bootweb servicesand Micro servicesTechnologies, Oracle, MySQL and MSSQL Server.  • Proficient in Server-side Java and J2EE technologies Spring, Hibernate, Struts, EJB's, RMI,JMS, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Custom Tag Libraries, Web Services, JSF, JSON.  • Extensively worked on core java concepts like Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Exception handling, Multi - Threading and Collections Framework • Experience in web development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Angular 2/4, Bootstrap, Node JS, React JS, AJAX, JSON technologies.  • Strong Experience working in Agile (Scrum) and Waterfall software development methodologies in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Expertise in MVC architecture/implementation, Web Services, SOA, Analysis, Design, Object modeling, Data modeling, Integration, Validation, Implementation and Deployment.  • Experience in working with Micro Services Architecture.  • Proficient in development and deployment of Micro services using Spring Cloud & Docker containers.  • Ensured proper working of Micro services by configuring micro services using Naming Servers.  • Developed REST micro services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and Docker and deployed them to AWS.  • Developed Micro services using Spring Cloud and developed production ready Spring Boot applications.  • Experienced in pair programming.  • Good experience in JSP/Servlets, MVC architecture, JDBC, oracle, PL/SQL, XML.  • Good knowledge in OOPS concepts,UML.  • Good experience in Eclipse IDE, Rational ClearCase.  • Have experience in BPM Lombardi Teamwork 6.0.  • Hands on dealing with logfiles to extract data and to copy into HDFS using flume.  • Expertise in Front end web technologies such as HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML,Angular 2/3/4, Angular JS and JSON.  • Good knowledge in Angular 6.  • Proficient in Server-side Java and J2EE technologies Spring, Hibernate, Struts, EJB's, RMI,JMS, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Custom Tag Libraries, Web Services, JSF, JSON.  • Well versed in developing web services applications and inter process communication applications using JTA, RMI, JMS, SOAP and XML schema.  • Hands on Experience in various components in spring such as IOC, AOP and MVC.  • Good hands on Experience in spring and the spring ecosystem (Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Security).  • Experience in MVC (Model View Controller) architecture and Struts, spring, Hibernate frameworks.  • Expertise in MySQL, Oracle, PL/SQL Databases.  • Good Knowledge in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  • Extensive experience deploying applications under Application serversWebSphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  • Strong experience with software development tools such asEclipse, RAD, and NetBeans.  • Worked on implementation of the version control software SVN and Clear case.  • Strong knowledge of various tools such as FileNet, SoapUI, Outlook, Lotus Notes, Toad, iReports, NetBeans.  • Expertise in collaboration with Architects, Designers, Developers, DBAs, Testers, SMEs, Scrum Masters, Project Managers, and Product Owners on Scrum teams to develop new applications.  • Good Working Knowledge on using tools like JIRA, Confluence, Rally.  • Involved in developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated), Test Procedures and white-box and black-box testing.  • Worked on setting up Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous builds with Maven, Gradle and ANT.  • Experience in working with applications deployed to AWS cloud and hands on experience using AWS management console and SDK to interact with AWS services.  • Excellent communication skills, strong architectural skills, hardworking and a very good team worker.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack developer Wells Fargo - Fremont, CA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Working directly with client and reviewing the user stories based on the requirements and tracking the status using Rally.  • Used SOAP Web services for consuming the request and sending response back to the client.  • Implemented FSM (Finite State Machine) to know the state of order according to those Guardsare implemented to complete the flow of request.  • Designed and develop a custom, single-page, responsive Web Application on front end using Angular 2.  • Involved in design and development of keyword-driven automation framework using Selenium Web driver.  • Used Hibernate as ORM and implemented DAO layer to store and fetch the data from DB.  • Good hands on Experience in spring and the spring ecosystem (Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Security).  • Expertise in MVC architecture/implementation, Web Services, SOA, Analysis, Design, Object modeling, Data modeling, Integration, Validation, Implementation and Deployment.  • Experience in working with Micro Services Architecture.  • Proficient in development and deployment of Micro services using Spring Cloud & Docker containers.  • Ensured proper working of Micro services by configuring micro services using Naming Servers.  • Developed REST micro services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and Docker and deployed them to AWS.  • Developed Micro services using Spring Cloud and developed production ready Spring Boot applications.  • Used JAXB Marshaller for consuming request and creating SOAP response in XML format.  • Worked on Angular 2 directives and controllers for designing the web application and used its two-way binding to achieve the feedback functionality from the user.  • Used Angular 2 filters for advanced searching, sorting, and pagination and used custom filters.  • Implemented the controller layer by using spring ecosystem (Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Security) framework.  • Build microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  • Integrated modules with designs and requirements by implementing Node JS.  • Used Bamboo as build tool for continuous integration and continuous deployment, and configure the project to build whenever a new code commits in SVN.  • Used Maven for preparing the WAR file, which used for deployment.  • Developed SQL quires and Procedures for performing DDL operations in the DB.  • Used SVN as version control for maintaining the developing code.  • Implemented JMS Queue for processing the requests and for Asynchronous response back to client.  • Used Quartz Scheduler to process the TN Porting related operations.  • Worked on AWS, High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS • Coordination with the middleware team, Database team to carry out smooth deployment into Production / QA / Staging / Training environments.  • Design of application components using Java Collections and providing concurrent database access using multithreading.  • Develop test framework using JUnit and Selenium Web driver.  • Developed several RESTful web services that support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development within the OMX Team.  • Utilized Jackson processor to handle JSON data binding for Request & Response objects.  • Involved in NodeJS npm components.  • Involved in defensive coding against SQL injection, XSS, Phishing by adding extensive validation code for all user inputs by writing JavaScript Regex Regular Expression for email validation and credit card number validation, jQuery code combined with Angular 2, AngularJS, pristine/dirty for input validations.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Giving production support and resolving the issues whenever user rises.  • Modified the code to incorporate the changes and enhancements in the business rules.  • Used putty for to deploy the application in QA and PROD environments.  • Used Shell scripting for to get the input file from ftp server to batch server • Used LOG4J and JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Created Test Cases for unit testing using JUnitframework's • Deployed application on WebLogic Application server.  • Worked closely with developers of other modules to understand impact and integration points.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Multi-threading, JSTL, JavaScript, CSS, WebLogic App Server 10.3.5, Maven, AWS, Selenium, Putty, WinSCP, SVN, ClearCase, Angular JS, Angular 2,ClearQuest, EMS, JDK 1.7, Log4j, Oracle 12c, Eclipse J2EE, Agile. Java Full Stack developer Spider Cloud Wireless - Milpitas, CA June 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities: • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints • Used SOAP Web services for consuming the request and sending response back to the client.  • Written REST endpoints using annotations and Jackson libraries and tested those endpoints in Postman and from UI end.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Build the application using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach.  • Worked on pair programming.  • Experience in working with Micro Services Architecture.  • Proficient in development and deployment of Micro services using Spring Cloud & Docker containers.  • Ensured proper working of Micro services by configuring micro services using Naming Servers.  • Developed REST micro services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and Docker and deployed them to AWS.  • Developed Micro services using Spring Cloud and developed production ready Spring Boot applications.  • Implemented presentation layer using HTML and did front-end validations using Angular Forms and Typescript.  • Involved in design and development of keyword-driven automation framework using Selenium Web driver.  • Framework development using Angular 4 for front end UI design and used middle ware technologies like configuring Spring boot for backend business logic and Hibernate to connect the database.  • Used Hibernate as ORM and implemented DAO layer to store and fetch the data from DB.  • Used JAXB Marshaller for consuming request and creating SOAP response in XML format.  • Implemented the controller layer by using Spring MVC framework..  • Used Install4j as build tool and configure the project to build whenever a new code commits in SVN.  • Used Hibernate as ORM and implemented DAO layer to store and fetch the data from DB.  • Developed SQL quires and Procedures for performing DDL operations in the DB.  • Developed Node JS Frameworks which will be interfacing with data stores as well as frameworks and services.  • Coordination with the middleware team, Database team to carry out smooth deployment into Production / QA / Staging / Training environments.  • Implemented Node JS as a server-side proxy for an event-driven model.  • Design of application components using Java Collections and providing concurrent database access using multithreading.  • Involved in the front end using JSP jQuery, Servlets, Angular 4, JavaScript, JSON and AJAX.  • Involved in defensive coding against SQL injection, XSS, Phishing by adding extensive validation code for all user inputs by writing JavaScript Regex Regular Expression for email validation and credit card number validation, jQuery code combined with AngularJS,pristine/dirty for input validations.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in Angular 3/4, AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Good hands on Experience in spring and the spring ecosystem (Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Security).  • Experience in MVC (Model View Controller) architecture and Struts, spring, Hibernate frameworks.  • Developed Microservices to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Hands on Experience in various components in spring such as IOC, AOP and MVC.  • Giving production support and resolving the issues whenever user rises.  • Modified the code to incorporate the changes and enhancements in the business rules.  • Used putty for to deploy the application in QA and PROD environments.  • Used Shell scripting for to get the input file from ftp server to batch server • Used LOG4J and JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Created Test Cases for unit testing using JUnit frameworks.  • north-bound protocols such as REST,SNMP, TR-069.  • Deployed application on WebLogic Application server.  • Worked closely with developers of other modules to understand impact and integration points.    Environment: Java/J2EE/J2SE, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Multi-threading, JSTL, JavaScript, CSS, Putty, WinSCP, SVN, ClearCase, Angular JS, Angular 4,Jetty, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, Oracle 12c, ClearQuest, EMS, JDK 1.8, Log4j, Agile. Java,J2EE developer Nuanza inc - McKinney, TX June 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities: - • Conducted and participated in daily scrum calls.  • Attended client meetings to review the requirements and shared innovative ideas to enhance the user experience.  • Used putty for to deploy the application in QA and PROD environments.  • Drafted the Technical Design Document(TDD) for application development and received sign-offs from key stakeholders.  • Developed Keyword Driven Framework Using Selenium Web Driver and Java.  • Designed and implemented all three layers (Model, View and Controller) using jQuery& Spring MVC.  • Developed Rich UI components using DOJO, JSON, and DOM.  • Implemented UI Components using HTML, Ajax, JSP, Java Script, Tiles and CSS.  • Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Used GIT for source control and developed a logging component using Log4J to log messages and errors.  • Develop test framework using Selenium Web driver.  • Configuring, deploying the web applications on AWS servers using SBT and Play.  • Identifying appropriate use of AWS operational best practices.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Leveraged angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Jackson processor for JSON data binding and JAXB for XML data binding are utilized.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database and useddependency injection (DI) using spring framework and annotations.  • Involved in creating Spring MVC maven ear project having modules.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data and created queries usingHibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Updated application code from JDK 1.6 to 1.7 using WSAD, RAD and redeployed in a clustered environment.  • Created Spring controllers @Request Mapping to accept request and @Response Body and some of • Responsible in coding to request database using JDBC Template using Query as well as stored • processors.  • Involved in Java multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction • Actively involved in designing and implementing the application using various design patterns • such as Singleton, DAO, Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Façade and Data • Access Object.and developed a batch process framework.  • Performed SVN operation related to creating branches, tags, and check in, Check out of code.  • Configured Hibernate session factory to integrate Hibernate with spring and used JPA/Hibernate tocommunicate with data layer and XML/JAXB to read XML data.  • Developed DAO objects and implemented data access layer using JPA-Hibernate to perform CRUD operations.  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in sprint planning, milestones and tasks creation.  • Created Restful web services using Jersey framework (JAX-RS), REST annotations& used JACSON based REST-JSON convertors.  • Handled team with 3 members by sharing tasks and getting status execution on day to day tasks.  • Built and deployed application using Maven and ANT.  • Tested, debugged and troubleshot different applications and components developed by the team • and ensured effective resolution.  • Created and consumed SQL queries and stored procedures for database structure.  • Developed applications on Rational Application Developer (RAD) and Rational Suite • Used LOG4J and JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Created Test Cases for unit testing using JUnit framework.  • Created JIL scripts in AutoSys for the batch jobs and automatic database updates.  • Tested, debugged and troubleshot different applications and components developed by the team and ensured effective resolution.  • Modified the code to incorporate the changes and enhancements in the business rules.    Environment: Java, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Multi-threading,Groovy/Grails, JSTL, JavaScript, CSS,Tomcat Server, WebLogic App Server 10.3.5, Maven, AWS,Selenium, Putty, WinSCP,Angular JS, SVN, ClearCase, ClearQuest, EMS, JDK 1.7, Log4j 1.2.15, Oracle 12c, Eclipse J2EE, Agile, Java,J2EE Developer Solution Technology Systems, Inc - Arlington, VA September 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities: • Worked with end users to collect requirements. Translated business requirements and user expectations into detailed functional specifications employing Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Created detailed Use Case Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Collaboration Diagrams and Activity Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Worked through all the phases of the SDLC throughout the project life cycle in the AGILE and iterative environment.  • Developed a Front-end web-based client using Servlets, JSP, CSS, Tag Libraries, JavaScript, HTML and XML using Struts/Spring Framework.  • Designed and implemented Middle tier framework using Java, J2EE and EJB technologies.  • Worked on all three layers (Model, View and Controller) to develop a piece of functionality assigned during sprint planning.  • Wrote shell scripts for servers as need to automate requested services and also for daily backup of data • Created and managed all of hosted or local repositories through Source Tree's simple interface of GITclient, collaborated with GIT command lines.  • Developed interactive Workflow Management GUI using STRUTS.  • Implemented EJB to maintain the Workflow sessions.  • Developed various Database interaction objects by implementing the DAO patterns and used JDBC asModel Component.  • Designed and Implemented Entity Beans for database objects and wrote Stateless Session Beans for accessing Entity Beans.  • Used the DAO Pattern and J2EE framework facilitated the integration and deployment of DAO, Servlets,JSP and XML.  • Estimating AWS usage costs and identifying operational cost control mechanisms.  • Develop complex arithmetic functions using Groovy.  • Replat formed, enhanced, and supported an intranet web-based aircraft recovery workflow and communication system using Groovy.  • Experience in writing shell scripts and implementing Backup /Recovery strategies.  • Creating Shell Scripts for Customizing Network Setup, Configure the Oracle User Environment, Creating and Mounting File system for the Oracle and setting up the Tuning parameter for the Oracle as well as Application.  • Created Data Access Layer using Hibernate API.  • Designed the Java Server Pages (JSPs) that use Style Sheets for customized reports.  • Developed JavaScript functions for front-end validations for data entry.  • Created SQL queries and stored procedures for Database interaction and reporting.  • Conducted unit testing using JUNIT framework.  • Deployed application on WebLogic Application server.  • Developed web applications using Rational Application Developer (RAD) and deployed it in web sphere application server.  • Developed applications on Rational Application Developer (RAD) and Rational Suite.  • Created ANT build files to deploy various versions of the project from testing point of view using Jenkins.  • Participated in various code reviews and business logic updates based upon feedback from business partners, testers, and senior architects.  • Worked closely with the users to understand the complex reporting requirements and developed data extracts accordingly.  • Participated in various status and reporting calls including daily status calls, weekly management calls, and project governance calls.  • Drafted Functional Requirements Document (FRD) and Technical Design Document(TDD)and received sign-offs from key stakeholders.  • Worked closely with developers of other modules to understand impact and integration points.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Servlets, MVC, JSP, JMS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Hibernate/EJB, Web Services, SOAP, Eclipse, Oracle, Windows 7, Rational Rose, AWS, Internet Explorer, JUnit, WebLogic, Boss, Jenkins,RAD. Java,J2EE Developer Hermes Networks June 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities: • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle • (SDLC).  • Used Agile methodology and participated in Scrum meetings.  • Build the application using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach.  • Involved in developing UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using • Rational Rose.  • Used Struts 1.3 Framework in the web tier of the application which is based on the MVC design • Pattern.  • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP code. Designed UI screens using JSP, CSS, XML and HTML. Used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Wrote shell scripts for automating tasks.  • Extensively used JSTL tags and Struts tag libraries. Used Struts tiles as well in the presentationtier.  • Actively involved in designing and implementing the application using various design patterns • such as Singleton, DAO, Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Façade and Data • Access Object.  • Integrated spring with Struts and Hibernate.  • Develop complex arithmetic functions using Groovy.  • Replatformed, enhanced, and supported an intranet web-based aircraft recovery workflow and communication system using Groovy • Provided production support to a loans servicing system using Groovy, Poi, c3p0, PL/SQL, TopLink, Java, and Eclipse.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of importantInformation such as loan status report.  • Designed and developed Utility Class that consumed the messages from the Java message.  • Developed applications on Rational Application Developer (RAD) and Rational Suite.  • Updated application code from JDK 1.6 to 1.7 using WSAD, RAD and redeployed in a clustered environment.  • Queue and generated emails to be sent to the customers. Used Java Mail API for sending emails.  • Developed Web services for sending and getting data from different Credit bureaus using SOAP • Messages, such as Loan Applications, to transfer data from Branch Server to Head Office Server, • then used SAX and DOM XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Used DB2 as the backend database using UNIX OS. Involved in design of the database schema • and development of Stored Procedures.  • Deployed the application on WebSphere Application Server 6.0.  • Developed Message Driven Bean (MDB)components in WebSphere MQ Series for e-mailing and • Data transfer between client and the providers • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includesruntime exceptions.  • Used CVS for version control for implementing the application.    Environment:J2EE Struts 1.3, Web Services,IBM WebSphere 6.0, MQ, JSP, Servlets, Groovy/Grails, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, SAX, DOM, JavaScript, Rational Rose, UML, HTML, JNDI, CVS, Log4J, JUnit, DB2, Windows, Unix. Education Bachelor's Skills Database (6 years), Eclipse (6 years), J2EE (6 years), Java (6 years), JavaScript (6 years), Angular, Node, PHP, Python, React Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    J2EE Technologies Struts 1.x/2.x, Spring 3.x, EJB 3.x, Hibernate 3.x/4.x, JDBC 2.1/3.0, Servlets, JSF, JSP, JNDI, JMS, Junit, Java Mail API, RMI, JAXB, JAXP, Apache Axis2, SOAP, Web Services.  Languages Java 1.6/1.7/1.8 J2EE, PL/SQL, SQL, UML, XML, XSL, XSLT, C, C++  Application Server/Web Server Application Server 7.x/8.x, Jboss 6.x/7.x, Apache Tomcat 7.x/8.x,WebLogic Application Server 11.x/12. x.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XML 1.0, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 2/3/4/6,AngularJS,NodeJS, ReactJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JSON, JAX-WS, JAX-RS.  IDEs IBM WebSphere Application Developer 5.1.2, WebLogic, Eclipse 3.2/3.4, RAD, Net Beans.  Database Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c, DB2, MySQL.  Operating Systems Linux, Windows 98/2000/XP/NT, UNIX.  Configuration Clear Case, CVS, Perforce, Subversion.  Others ANT, Maven, Rational Rose, MS Visio, log4j, RUP, Bugzilla, Clear Quest, Drools, RDBMS.