Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Epsilon Dallas, TX • IT professional with overall 8 years of experience in Java(J2EE) Development, Integration, Testing and Deployment  Proficient in User Interface, Unit Testing, Debugging and Deployment  • Having good knowledge of all phases of SDLC with expertise in Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Designing and Development & Testing  • A goal driven developer with significant experience of working with various software development approaches such as Agile, Scrum and have a good understanding of approaches such as Waterfall  • Expertise in object-oriented technologies, client-server systems, web-based applications, and business applications.  • Expertise in design and development of web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, XML, Bootstrap JS, JSP, JSON, JSF, React JS and AJAX  • Experienced with AngularJS directives ng-app, ng-init, ng-model for initialization of AngularJS application data, implemented AngularJS Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters and created AngularJS service layer  • Extensively worked on implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML Web Services, Handling HTTP Request and responses, creating Web service clients, handling communication calls to methods and External Interfaces  • Experience with object oriented client-side scripting using Typescript, ES6 and JavaScript frameworks, including jQuery, AngularJS.  • Experience in implementing Mongo DB CRUD (Create Read Update Delete) operations by using Mongoose library in Angular.  • Strong work experience in application integration using Web Services such as JAX RPC, JAXB, JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RS, RESTful  • Strong programming skills in Core Java such as Multithreading, Collection Interface, I/O Streams, and Exception Handling  • Experience of working with Databases like SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle and MongoDB  • Experience with MVC frameworks like Spring, Struts and ORM tools like Hibernate  • Extensive experience in implementing Java/J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, Apache-Tomcat, Java Beans, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, Ajax, JavaScript, Web Services  • Experience in configuring, deploying the web applications on Apache Tomcat, Oracle/BEA WebLogic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss servers  • Experience in Unix/Linux, Shell Scripting, Build and Deployment.  • Worked on JDBC for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to retrieve, insert and update the data from the database  • Expertise in creating User Controls, Web Forms and client-side validations using JavaScript, jQuery and Angular-JS.  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome.  • Experience in installing, deploying and testing with multiple Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss Application Server and Tomcat web container  • Used Log4J for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing also Worked on JUnit for unit testing.  • Involved in developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated), Test Procedures and white-box and black-box testing.  • Proficiency in working with IDE's like WSAD, Eclipse, NetBeans, Maven.  • Extensive experience using spring framework and ORM mapping tools like Hibernate, which implements Java Persistence API (JPA).  • Experienced in working with the Microsoft family of operating systems (WIN10, WIN8, WIN7), UNIX and LINUX  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  • A highly-motivated, productive and customer-focused team player  • Strong exception handling and troubleshooting skills, as well as computer network design, installation, and support abilities  • Strong communication, interpersonal, organizational, time management, analytical and problem-solving skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Epsilon - Dallas, TX May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed the application following Agile scrum and TDD and worked in 3-week sprint cycles.  • Created Custom AngularJS directives and developed data driven UI using AngularJS and Breeze data models.  • Found ways to improving performance through reduced caching, image size reduction, JS file loading with Require JS, CSS and JS Minification, other ways to improve performance both for desktop and mobile.  • Developed an AngularJS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.  • Implemented account creation module as a Single Page Application using AngularJS along with HTML5 validation.  • Created Spring REST controllers to create the rest services, exception mappers, validators etc.  • Developed backend services, data access objects, data repositories using Spring and Spring JPA.  • Responsible for defining configurations of Spring data JPA with hibernate vendor adapter in creating entity manager factory.  • Developed REST service layer using Spring MVC and Spring Boot.  • Developed logging aspect for logging statements across the spring service and data access layer using Spring AOP.  • Used Spring declarative transaction management for managing transactions in the application.  • Extensively worked on SOA and web services to get the data from third party systems and configured JMS queues on server  • Design and Implemented asynchronous process using Spring JMS Template and MQ.  • Involved in sending instruction to create MQ to Middleware Team, Create Queues, Queue Connection factory, Listener port to WES team.  • Developed Junit test cases for regression testing and integrated with Maven build.  • Involved in create schema to meet the business requirements. Using JAXB to marshal and un-marshal and convert transfer Objects.  • Implemented asynchronies process using JMS and MQ messaging. Using internal JMS framework to control MQ retry process and MQ failover.  • Actively involved in Regression testing and manual testing of the application developed.  • Responsible for including and ensuring that every individual module is maintainable, extensible, configurable and reusable.  • Used SVN version control tool to check in/out files, etc. also responsible for branching, merging the branch to main repository  • Created common validators, modules, UI (message service) and Navigators to reuse all common modules across the application.    Environment: Agile scrum, JavaScript, Agile-TDD, Sprig MVC, Angular JS 1.5, JQuery, JSP, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, Spring JPA, SOA, RESTful, Eclipse, JMS, MQ, SVN, Spring IOC, AOP, DAO, Junit. Full Stack Java Developer Educational Testing Service-San Antonio September 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements, deriving functional requirements and system requirements from the Business Requirements and followed Agile Scrum Methodology for software development process.  • Developed Rich UI applications using JavaScript, HTML, XML Bootstrap, CSS, TypeScript and Angular4.  • Implement the web application using Express, Angular 4 along with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and other web technologies.  • Developed various Angular directives to help build the functionality and UI behaviour using JavaScript, also developed filters and angular services.  • Worked on creating Angular 4 Reactive forms to implement complex forms and performed the validations using Form Builder.  • Used ng-Model to achieve two-way binding and using ng-if to display the validation messages and error messages.  • Worked with HTTP/HTTPS protocols by using angular4 components to build RestFul services  • Created shared services for communication between different components and cross component interaction  • Defined data transfer process through asynchronous web service using REST (HTTP)  • Implemented RESTFUL web services using Spring boot and consumed using spring REST services. Published Rest services for performing CRUD operations from database.  • Experience in Object Relational Mapping frameworks such as Hibernate  • Extensively Implemented Spring boot, dependency Injection (DI) and aspect oriented programming (AOP) features along with hibernate.  • Extensively used Core Java collections, Generics, Exception handling, Design patterns for functionality, also worked on java 1.8 functional programming concepts, lambda expressions.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate 4.0 and used Spring ORM to integrate with Hibernate  • Developed hibernate inheritance mapping using single table approach and configured multi-level caching in Hibernate  • Designed tables in Oracle 11g database and worked with Database Developers for implementing Stored Procedures in the application  • Involved in writing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, which operate over customer order data stored in Oracle 11g.  • Used Maven to download the Java Plug-in for developing the applications  • Configured Maven for Java automation projects and developed Maven project object model (POM) for Unit and Integration tests.  • Performed unit testing and integration testing on all the applications using various tools like Jasmine, Karma and JUnit  • Developed scripts for build, deployment, maintenance, and related tasks using Jenkins, Maven  • Involved in setting up AWS services with EC2 instances, S3 bucket, IAM, RDS took part in deploying application in AWS.  • Writing and retrieving files to and from AWS S3bucket for UI to render data faster that involves complex and time-consuming server-side logic.    Environment: Agile, Java 8, JDK, J2EE, XML, JDBC, Spring, Git, Hibernate 4.2, XML, JavaScript, jQuery XHTML, Design Patterns, JUnit, Jasmine, Spring boot, Oracle SQL, REST, Web Services, Eclipse, WebLogic, Oracle 11g, Apache Tomcat, Jenkins, JIRA. Full Stack Java Developer Zen3 Info Solutions - IN January 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile methodology environment and actively participated in Scrum meetings as a part of SDLC, to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Designed and developed web application for internal business users using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, EXT JS, AJAX, ES6, XML, JSON.  • Developed cross-browser/platform Using Ext JS, HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Created standard Ext JS widgets such as grids, trees, forms, layouts.  • Worked on Ext JS standard widgets/components. Worked on making REST API calls to the server side from the client to deal with dynamic data.  • Extensively Worked on Ext JS and created reusable components like Menu Navigation, Session monitor which was very useful in the application.  • Working with JavaScript, and Ext JS framework in particular.  • Worked on JavaScript, jQuery and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web contents  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI  • Used MVC design pattern for designing application, JSP and CSS3 as the view component  • Development and Debugging was done using Eclipse IDE  • Used Spring MVC for implementing the Web layer of the application. This includes developing Controllers, Views and Validators.  • Developed as whole application using Spring Modules following MVC design pattern  • Worked on MYSQL workbench, used to write queries to store, retrieve, delete/manipulate the records.  • Implemented spring as a web framework and Hibernate as database ORM framework  • Designed, coded and configured server side J2EE components like JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Java Mail API, XML  • Deployed applications on JBoss 7.5ApplicationServer  • Experience in writing queries in PL/SQL, Triggers, and stored procedures in database management systems like MYSQL.  • XML Transformations where done using XML, XSL, XSLT, and XPATH  • Used MAVEN to build the project into WAR and EAR files and SVN for version controlling  • Involved in Units integration using JUnit, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools like Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.    Environment: Java, J2EE, WebLogic Server, Agile, Spring-Core, Spring-JDBC, Spring, JMS, XML, XSL, XSLT, Apache Camel, JUnit, Maven, HTTP-UI, Eclipse, GIT, HTML, Ajax, CSS, ES6, JSON, Jenkins, Servlets. Java/J2EE Developer Unify Technologies - IN June 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in requirements gathering, analysis, design, and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Involved in overall system's support and maintenance services such as defect fixing, future enhancements, testing and documentation  • Implementation of J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Session Facade and Data Access Objects.  • Designed Java classes using Spring Framework to implement the Model View Control (MVC) architecture.  • Involved in developing the Helper classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers  • Developed presentation layer using Spring MVC and used annotation based mapping to map the JSP post backs to the controller methods  • Built RESTAPI end-points for various concepts  • Implemented separate controller for each screen using Spring MVC components and created helper class to navigate into different layers  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, JPA annotation. Configured and implemented Spring Application Context to instantiate all bean classes in Spring MVC framework  • Wrote Rest-Controller with respect to RESTful standards in Spring MVC to connect model with view  • Developed code for handling bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI), Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations  • Worked with different spring modules - Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Spring JPA, Spring Core, Spring Batch and Spring AOP.  • Data Access layer (DAO) development using Hibernate to communicate with Oracle  • Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Designed and developed various stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL to implement complex business rules. Worked with MySQL Work Bench.  • Wrote complex SQL queries and programmed stored procedures, packages and triggers using MySql.  • Involved in deploying and managing Session Bean EJB on JBoss server and handled WAR files on Tomcat server.  • Deployed on Apache Tomcat server in local and integration test environments.  • Implemented Unit Testing using JUnit and involved in Integration Testing with Database Layer.  • Unit tested various code modules using JUnit and maintained the code in SVN repository.    Environment: Java, Spring, JSP, JDBC, Spring MVC, Web Services, Eclipse 4.3, 11g, Oracle 10, Log4j, EJB, JBoss, MySQL, DB2, Apache Tomcat, TOAD, Junit, SVN. Java/J2EE Developer Protek Solutions - IN June 2010 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Participating in user requirement sessions to gather business requirements and technical walkthrough.  • Involved in requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules  • Responsible for coding in Java for client- side requirements based on Struts framework  • Implemented Struts MVC architecture and Tiles for an efficient implementation of the view level customizations and interfaced with application logic.  • Developed Struts Actions and action mappings for fetching information from and delegating request to the service layer.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and change management, and SVN for design document control  • Configured Struts, Message Resources, Action Messages, Action Errors, Validation.xml, and Validator-rules.xml.  • Used Eclipse as an IDE for developing the application  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver  • Exposing the Services using Web Services with WSDL, SOAP, and UDDI.  • Extensively used SOAP Web Services for providing services to other platforms  • Wrote complex SQL queries to fetch statistics for the business users from Data warehouse on regular basis in Oracle 10g database.  • Developed business logic using Session beans using IBM Web Sphere Application developer and deployed them using IBM Web Sphere Application server  • Actively used the tracking tool JIRA to create and track the stories and sub-tasks throughout the Sprint and crucible to do the code reviews  • Extensively worked on multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Data structures and Garbage Collection.  • Involved in Configuration and Usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes also Configured application flows, controlling logic and navigation.  • Developed Business components using core java concepts like Interfaces, Polymorphism and Collections,  • Responsible for application setup and configuration in the development, QA and Production environment and preparation of the timely builds using ANT, releases, and deployment on Tomcat Server for web applications and web portals respectively.  • Developed and executed Unit Test cases using JUnit framework by supporting TDD (Test Driven Development).    Environment: Java, SQL, Hibernate, Web Services, Eclipse 4.3, WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, WebLogic 11g, Struts, Web logic 10.3, Ant, JUnit, Toad, Oracle 9i, SOAP, JIRA, Servlets, Controllers, Log4J, Tomcat Server Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE (7 years), JAVA (7 years), JUNIT (7 years), WEB SERVICES (6 years), APACHE (6 years), Agile scrum, JavaScript, Agile-TDD, Sprig MVC, Angular JS 1.5, JQuery, JSP, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, Spring JPA, SOA, RESTful, Eclipse, JMS, MQ, SVN, Spring IOC, AOP, DAO, Junit (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java, J2EE, PL/SQL, Java Enterprise Edition  Web Technologies  Servlets, JSP, Session Beans, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Angular4, Java Mail, HTML, XML, Bootstrap, CSS, DTD, SCHEMA, XML, EXT JS.    Frameworks Struts, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JSF  Web Services SOAP, REST, WSDL, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-WS, Apache Axis  Databases MongoDB, Oracle, SQL Server, PL/SQL, DB2 and MySQL  Tools/Software(IDEs) Eclipse, My Eclipse, Net Beans, SQL, TOAD, SQL Developer, Clear case, Subversion, JUnit, UML, JBoss Drools  Application/Web Server Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere and WebLogic  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows  Methodologies Agile Methodology, Scrum, Waterfall model  Other Tools & Design Patterns ANT, MVC, Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Transfer Object, Singleton, Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern