Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - GE Healthcare Austin, TX • Over 7 years of experience in all the technical phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing in both Web based and Enterprise applications with emphasis on Object Oriented, Java/J2EE and Client Server technologies.  • Experience in developing the application with Agile Methodology, Waterfall Methodology and Test-Driven Development.  • C/C++ developer with experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Object Oriented Programming (OOP)  • Experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL.  • Good working knowledge with Java 1.8 features like stream, Lambda expressions and functional interfaces etc.  • Responsible for coding the various components using C, C++ and Shell Scripting on UNIX.  • Created various SQL and PL/SQL scripts for verification of the required functionalities.  • Expertise in various open source frameworks such as Struts 1.x/2.0, Spring, Hibernate.  • Performed database and application analysis. TOAD, PL/SQL, and Oracle 11g RDBMS used to create web service endpoints and to provide SQL performance tuning.  • Knowledge of JavaScript frameworks JQuery.  • Experience involving development, testing, implementation of applications using Perl 5.16.3, MYSQL, IBM DB2 and UNIX shell scripting.  • Experience in building application with React JS, Redux, Require JS in MVC architecture.  • Using Ruby on Rails for development with backbone.js  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Excellent knowledge of Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act (HIPAA) standards, Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), Implementation of HIPAA code sets, ICD-9, ICD 10 coding and HL7.  • HIPAA Transactions mapping experience and in-depth knowledge of HIPAA framework. Strong experience transacting with Healthcare EDI standards - ANSI X12 v 5010/4010 834, 835/837, 270/271, 276/277 210/214 888 940 944 BPML and HR-XML formats.  • Proficient in developing J2EE enterprise applications in Service Oriented Architecture and Micro Services Architecture.  • Expertise in developing data models using Hibernate Object relational mapping (ORM) frame work and used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  • Experience in using web technologies like Web Services, WSDL, UDDI, Perl, Weblogic Portal, XML, XSD, CSS, XSLT, XQuery, JavaScript, Angular 2, PHP, HTML, XHTML, and AJAX.  • Expertise in J2EE Technology- Servlets, Struts, Spring, JDBC, JTA, JPA, Hibernate and JMS.  • Experience with distinctive design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, DAO and MVC.  • Worked with design and development of robust and highly scalable Web Service platforms and API's based on REST and SOAP for enterprise applications using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC technologies and Jersey frameworks.  • Experienced in building Web Services for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Good Understanding in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, Mongo DB and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  • Experience with Junit, Selenium in developing test cases and determining application functionality. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer GE Healthcare - Milwaukee, WI August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle process using Agile Methodology.  • Worked on High level and low level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Implemented Exception mechanism and used Struts error message mechanism.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript.  • Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS.  • C/C++ developer with experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Object Oriented Programming (OOP)  • Design and develop template based User Interface using Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQuery.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Having good RDBMS concepts knowledge and worked with MySQL and Oracle.  • Implemented the business logic using JDBC and Servlets.  • Wrote SQL and PL/SQL to interact with Oracle DB.  • Excellent knowledge of Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act (HIPAA) standards, Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), Implementation of HIPAA code sets, ICD-9, ICD 10 coding and HL7.  • HIPAA Transactions mapping experience and in-depth knowledge of HIPAA framework. Strong experience transacting with Healthcare EDI standards - ANSI X12 v 5010/4010 834, 835/837, 270/271, 276/277 210/214 888 940 944 BPML and HR-XML formats.  • Used Stored Procedures and table level and system level triggers for handling database processing  • Fixed bugs in the existing system.  • Experienced in source control management systems (e.g. GIT, SVN), relational database,  • Distributed Computing (MPI), rpm product packaging, Hadoop (HDFS), Big Data, Linux and Shell programming.  • Used Oracle as a database and wrote SQL queries to update and insert data into the databases.  • Written stored procedures and inner joins using RDBMS Oracle on UNIX and Windows environment.  • Analyzed requirements for internal build tools developed using Perl.  • Worked on development and implementation of the MVC Architectural pattern using Spring Framework.  • Developed the application with various Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Security, and Spring Batch.  • Used Spring MVC framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced and maintenance will be very easy.  • Wrote a program in C, which parses computer logs and then displays the summary in automatically generated HTML files.  • Implemented Batch jobs to deal with large number of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  • Designed and integrated the full-scale Hibernate persistence solution with the application architecture.  • Responsible for coding the various components using C, C++ and Shell Scripting on UNIX.  • Using Ruby on Rails for development with backbone.js  • Involved in design and development of the Hibernate Domain Model for the service.  • Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs as JDO and Hibernate.  • Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Web Sphere is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.  • Used Jenkins to execute the test scripts periodically on Selenium Grid for different platforms like desktop, tablet, and mobile.  • Worked on a web based application which was initially developed using Struts1 MVC framework and migrated to Struts2 MVC framework.  • Experience in using JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Ajax. Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Struts 1 MVC, Spring IOC, Spring boot, spring security, HIPAA, EDI Claims, XML, GIT, JSP, JUnit, IBM Web Sphere, Apache Restful, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Micro Services, PHP, Ruby, Python, Perl, C, C++, Log4J, Oracle PL/SQL, Mongo DB, WSD, JIRA and Spring Tool Suite. Java/J2EE Developer World Fuel Services - Miami, FL July 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:    • Worked as a Java/J2EE Developer in complete software development lifecycle using Agile to Analyze, identify applications and business user impacts due to technology upgrades, infrastructure changes, new corporate initiatives.  • Used Struts Framework as the MVC for the development and implementation of the project.  • Involved in designing and developing the front end of the application using JSP, Java script, HTML, JQuery, Bootstrap, CSS and AngularJS.  • Wrote documentation for C programs written by myself and other programmers on the team.  • Worked with Single Page Application Framework AngularJS extensively using routing, services, components and directives.  • Strong experience using open source frameworks like Struts 1.1/2.0, Spring 3.0 and Hibernate 3.0 frameworks.  • Associated support in the Action Servlet that assists in creating interactive form-based applications which is the one of the primary area of functionality using Struts Framework.  • Extensively used Action Classes, Dispatch Section, Action Forms and Struts configuration from Struts.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and JQuery.  • Coded scripts to automate various manual processes (Screen Scraping) using VB Script and Ruby  • Having good RDBMS concepts knowledge and worked with MySQL and Oracle.  • Developed and Consumed SOAP and Restful web services for communicating with other applications.  • Implemented Batch jobs using Spring Batch that process large data sets.  • Experience in developing JSP's, Servlets & EJB's and have in- depth knowledge in content management.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using SQL, PL/SQL on Oracle 10g database.  • Used Hibernate to develop DAO in Model component of Struts MVC and to interface with the database.  • Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  • Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the ERP system using VB Script and Ruby scripts  • Used Java Messaging Services for the reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment and plan information.  • Developed all J2EE components using My Eclipse IDE and used ALM for defect tracking.  • Developed build scripts using ANT as the build tool for the creation of the artifacts like war/ear files.  • Involved in writing PL/SQL queries for different database operations.  • Actively involved in resolving issues in development and production levels.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, JSP, HTML5, AJAX, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON, Bootstrap, Ruby, Spring, Hibernate, Python, Web Services, SOAP, RESTful, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, XSD, JAXB, JavaScript, Web Sphere 8.x, No SQL, Linux, Oracle 10g, Maven, SVN, SQL Developer, UML, JUnit, JIRA, Jenkins, Log4j. Java/J2EE Developer Globex digital solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:    • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Bootstrap with AngularJS interaction.  • Worked with a team of developers to analyze project requirements and add functionality to existing C applications and SQL databases, such as reading in claims in different formats from different sources, checking for errors, and converting them into a standard format.  • Reading existing source code in C to determine current programming logic.  • Designed, developed a custom, single-page, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS.  • Used Code igniter PHP framework to build the application.  • Responsible for coding the various components using C, C++ and Shell Scripting on UNIX.  • Migration of the existing system written in PHP environment adding more features.  • Develop the interface for the application using JQuery, CSS and HTML and PHP.  • Developed web application using Struts, JSP, Servlets, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern.  • Developed forms for user event handling and validations using JavaScript's and AJAX.  • Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML and XSL Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity.  • Designed the application using various Spring technologies and used Spring Security to provide better authentication instances.  • Refactored existing monolithic application by identifying components that needs to be transformed to Micro- services architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and AWS API-Gateway.  • Used GIT as a version control tool.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Spring, JSTL, EJB, JMS, XML, XSLT, JDBC, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, Web Logic application server, Eclipse, Apache Axis, Log4J, Splunk, Maven, Rational Rose, Windows, CVS, Junit, JIRA. J2EE Developer GSS HealthCare IT Solutions September 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:    • Developed web application using JSP custom tag libraries, Struts Action classes and Action.  • Designed Java Servlets and Objects using J2EE standards.  • Developed the application using Java Beans, Servlets.  • Developed reference architecture for SOA environment.  • Used JSP for presentation layer, developed high performance object/relational persistence and query service for entire application utilizing Hibernate.  • Developed the XML Schema and Web services for the data maintenance and structures.  • Implemented MVC design pattern using Struts Framework.  • Responsible for JAVA, J2EE web development.  • Form classes of Struts Framework to write the routing logic and to call different services.  • Created tile definitions, Struts-config files, validation files and resource bundles for all modules using Struts framework.  • Involved in coding for Junit Test cases, ANT for building the application.  Environment: Java1.6/J2EE, JDK1.6, JSP, Struts, WebLogic, Spring IOC, HTML, AJAX, Web services (REST), JDBC, XML, Junit, log4j, Eclipse, Git, Oracle 10g, SQL. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (6 years), JAVA (6 years), JSP (6 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (6 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Java/J2EE Technologies Java 1.8/1.7/1.6, J2SE, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, MVC, SOAP and REST Webservices, JMS, Jenkins  Frameworks Spring Core, Spring MVC Version 3.2, SOA, Hibernate  Java Scripts Angular.JS, Node.JS, React.JS  Database Oracle (SQL & PLSQL), MySQL, MongoDB  Methodologies Agile model, Waterfall model  Version Control SVN, CVS, CLEAR CASE, GITHUB, Bit bucket.  Web Services REST, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI  Design Patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Singleton, Web Technologies  IDE's My Eclipse 4.x/6.x/7.x, RAD, IntelliJ, and Net Beans  Scripting Languages Perl, Ruby, Python, Hadoop, C, C++, C#