Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - High Mark Pittsburgh, PA ? Over 8+ years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Extensive work experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing and Implementation in Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model, Iterations.  ? Strong knowledge in core Java concepts like collections, multithreading, design patterns, serialization.  ? Experience in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies such as spring, Hibernate, EJB, Structs framework, JDBC, Servlets 3.x.  ? Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Dashboard, Spring Boot Actuator, Spring Batch, Spring Micro services, Spring REST, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix, Spring Zuul Proxy.  ? Experience in java8 features like lambda Expressions, Stream API, predicate functional interface etc.  ? Experienced in Web based UI frameworks such as JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular 4, ReactJS, Backbone JS, Tag Libraries, Custom Tags.  ? Good knowledge in Angular 2.0 directives to create reusable elements and attributes, along with easy to test and maintain client-side interactivity in web applications.  ? Extensive experience in developing scalable, reliable and efficient enterprise applications using Java, Spring, Struts, Web Services, RESTful, JSF, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, XML, JAXB, PL/SQL, Unix scripting.  ? Expertise in Microservices developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  ? Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  ? Strong understanding of Micro services patterns Circuit Breaker/Hystrix, DDD, Aggregator, Proxy Chaining.  ? Experience in implementing n-tier Enterprise application with J2EE design patterns like IOC, AOP, MVC, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Façade, DTO, DAO, Front Controller, Factory and Singleton.  ? Experienced in working with Spring JDBC Templates, JMS Templates, Spring EAI, Spring Rest Templates.  ? Experienced in writing complex SQL queries, procedures, Triggers and Stored Procedures in various databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  ? Proficient in implementation of ORM and Non-ORM frameworks like Hibernate, JPA, JDBC, iBatis.  ? Experience in database modelling, design and development of PL/SQL stored procedures, packages in relational databases Oracle 9i / 10g / 11g, SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2, PostgreSQL and MySQL.  ? Strong experience with MongoDB development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions) and migrations from SQL relational databases to NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra and CouchDB.  ? Good experience in using Amazon Web Services and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  ? Hands on experience in Amazon Web Services provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, ELB, RDS, VPC, Direct Connect, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, SNS.  ? Experienced in Apache Spark for implementing advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities written in Scala.  ? Expertise with employment of Spring Kafka and Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service.  ? Experience in working with web servers like Tomcat 8, WebSphere 9.x, Jetty, JBoss7.1.0 and WebLogic 10.0.  ? Experience providing training to development teams on how to track, plan and analyse using JIRA.  ? Experienced in Development, Testing and Deployment of enterprise applications on Windows, Linux and UNIX platforms using IDE's such as Eclipse, STS, RAD, Net Beans, IntelliJ14.x/15.x.  ? Experience in creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and integrating with Spring Boot.  ? Developed permission system using Drools business rules management system.  ? Expertise writing the Test Cases to be automated and performed functional testing of the front-end using Selenium (IDE and Web Driver) & created Data Driven framework using Junit, Mockito, Easy Mock.  ? Experience working on several Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, creating Docker images, Compose, Docker Registry and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations.  ? Knowledge on Build tool Jenkins with configuring check styles, Test coverage.  ? Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle and logging tools like Log4J.  ? Good experience in implementing Spark Streaming project, preferably using Scala, and Spark SQL.  ? Experience in software configuration management using GIT, CVS, SVN, and Bit bucket. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer High Mark - Pittsburgh, PA February 2018 to Present HM Health -Solutions Inc. is a business unit of the Highmark Health enterprise which provides a comprehensive and integrated suite of solutions to optimize payer and provider systems for health insurance plans; Capabilities include: Enterprise Application Solutions, Business Process Management Solutions, Data Hosting Solutions, Infrastructure Management Solutions, and Print Management Solutions. Through an aligned independent relationship model, HM Health Solutions delivers significant value for its partners, including the delivery of increased speed-to- market capabilities, cutting edge enhancements and lower operational costs to help offset the ever-increasing pressures and challenges of today's health insurance industry.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, design, and implementation and testing phases of SDLC through Agile Methodology.  ? Good working experience in web Designs which includes HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML.  ? Developed Applications using Angular 2, Java 8 and new features of java Lambda Expressions, Annotations.  ? Designed and develop a custom, single-page, responsive Web Application on front end using Angular 2.  ? Developed backend web services using Node JS and stored dependencies using NPM.  ? Developed UI components using Angular 2 dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  ? Strong Experience with core java technologies like Multi-Threading, Synchronization& Exception Handling.  ? Java8 Stream API for Bulk Data Operations on Collections using both streams and parallel streams.  ? Heavily used Spring Inheritance, Auto-wiring, Core Container, Security, AOP, ORM modules as part of migration from EJB to spring, Spring Quartz for scheduling tasks to generate reports and emails to clients.  ? Developed Spring Restful/Micro services and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  ? Developed Micro services with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each micro service in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  ? Developed the Spring Features like Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Integration, Spring IOC, Spring AOP.  ? Written highly referenced blog posts on Error Handling in Scala and Problems Scala Fixes.  ? Secured API's by implementing OAuth 2.0token based authentication/authorization using Spring Security.  ? Deployed Docker contained Spring Boot Micro services in to AWS EC2 container service using AWS admin console and used Lambda, EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, RDS, ElastiCache, SNS, (Amazon messaging services)SQS.  ? Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions.  ? Developed Mongo DB Data Access Layer implementing Mongo Repository interface from Spring Data.  ? Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.  ? Implemented the associated business modules integration using spring and Hibernate data mapping.  ? Implemented Object-relation mapping using Hibernate framework to fetch the data from Oracle 12c database.  ? Extensively worked on Entity beans in the persistence layer, interaction with Oracle DB.  ? Spring Boot Microservices were developed with microservice architecture using REST and Apache Kafka.  ? Implemented Microservices for distributing different responsibilities of the system into different services for enhancing cohesion and for reduce coupling. Load balancing among servers implemented by using Spring Ribbon.  ? Developed several REST web services which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  ? Developed the Application using design patterns-Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO prototype and Composite View.  ? Used spring and Hibernate for implementing IOC, AOP and ORM for back end tiers.  ? Built data pipeline using Pig and Java/Scala Map Reduce to store onto HDFS.  ? Created and maintained documentation for launching HADOOP Clusters and executing Hive queries, Pig Scripts.  ? Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  ? Created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  ? Used Apache Maven as the software build tool and Log4J for logging errors and messages.  ? Created automation test scripts using Selenium Web-Driver for multiple platforms and browsers testing.  ? Used Drools Engine for writing Business Validation rules.  ? Using GIT for Source Control and Version Management.    Environment: JAVA 8, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Angular2, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, Boo Hibernate, Mongo DB, Oracle 12c,Hadoop, Intellij, IDEA, JUNIT 4.4, RESTful web services, Scala, AWS, Drools, Docker, Spring Cloud, Spring Security, OAuth 2.0, Apache Kafka, Selenium Jenkins. Sr. Java/J2EE and Full Stack Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Newark, NJ February 2016 to January 2018 Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies offer a variety of insurance products to all segments of the population, including large employer groups, small business and individuals. The purpose of the BCBSND Official Sponsor of Recess Health Grant Program is to serve and show benefit to rural North Dakotans and their health needs and raise awareness for the need for all ages to engage in more daily, physical activity and overall wellness.    Responsibilities:  ? Successfully completed the Design and Development of project modules. Interacted with end users to gather, analyze, and implemented business logic using Agile Scrum Software Development methodology.  ? Analysis, design and development of Application based on J2EE using Spring and Hibernate.  ? Developed User Interface application modules using HTML, CSS and JavaScript, AngularJS, JSON, and AJAX.  ? Developed Web Application using Client Script design technologies like JQuery as well as HTML5, CSS3, XML and used Bootstrap for creating Responsive Web Pages.  ? Developed Application to asses JSON and XML from Restful web service from consumer side using Angular.JS  ? Extensively used/modified JQUERY to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  ? Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  ? Creating a responsive web application integrating Bootstrap with AngularJS and media queries.  ? Responsible for creating web-based applications using JavaScript, Node JS.  ? Implemented Angular JS and Node JS to create some dynamically changing websites.  ? Configuring the job in Jenkins to automate the process of running the node JS test cases.  ? Report generation in MongoDB using JavaScript, shell scripting, java.  ? Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.  ? RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  ? Worked with modules like mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with MongoDB.  ? Used Mongoose Connector to connect to MongoDB through Express framework.  ? Developed UI components using Angular JS dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  ? Used XStream API to transfer data back and forth between Spring MVC and Angular JS.  ? Involved in developing a Single-Page Application pages using AngularJS, REST Services.  ? Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Hibernate cache concepts.  ? Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database.  ? Used DevOps to refer to emphasize the collaboration and communication of both software developers and IT professionals while automating the process of software delivery and infrastructure changes.  ? Restful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  ? Worked on Initial Spring and Maven Configuration set for the Project Spring - Maven Framework.  ? Created Spring Boot applications testing suite using Spring Junit plug-in and Mockito framework.  ? To work on test and end-to-end environment servers, used LINUX commands to see the application Logs.  ? Extensively Used Jenkins as Continuous Integration tool to deploy Spring Boot Microservices to Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) using build pack. Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to quickly build, deploy & update the applications. Worked on Pivotal Cloud Foundry to host Cloud based Applications.  ? Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to role-based access controls, applying and enforcing roles and permissions to ensure that users can only view and affect the spaces for which they have been granted access.  ? Develop the micro-service in spring cloud framework to support Next generation cloud framework.  ? Developed modules with spring, XML and deployed them on JBoss Application Server.  ? JUnits, Python Units for extensive functional and unit testing code. Wrote AngularJS services to consume Restful web service to load data.  ? Worked with high volume and complex PL/SQL stored procedures and packages using TOAD.  ? Have been working on Query optimization, functions and Stored Procedures and other database objects and Worked on Oracle 11g.  ? Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database specific operations and avoided redundant database access statements and thus achieved decoupling and flexibility.  ? Developed test cases and performed unit testing using Karma, Jasmine and JUNIT Test cases.  ? Developed multiple unit and integrations tests using Mockito, Easy Mock.  ? Used version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA for issue tracking.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.6,HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, XML, AngularJS, Node JS, Spring 4.x, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Multi-Threading, Hibernate 4.x, JBOSS 4.0, My SQL, Shell Scripting, Restful Services, Jenkins, Spring Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Docker, SVN, JUnit, Karma, Jasmine, Mockito, Eclipse, JIRA 5.x, Oracle 11g, Mongo DB. Sr. J2EE/ Java Developer GMAC Insurance and Financial Services - Salem, NC July 2015 to January 2016 The Service Automation Program is to develop a technology platform which will facilitate effective automation of back office business processes in order to consistently achieve high level of process efficiency as well as make the back office process more extensible, adaptive to future changes. This project is implemented for GMAC servicing Organizations (GMAC Auto Insurance, GMAC Finance) in US and Canada. The key components of the technology platform would include Pega's CRM & BPM tool, Adobe LiveCycle ES for Letter/Document creation.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development.  ? Developed services that are reusable and interoperable, based on SOAP, WSDL, JAXWS, JAXRPC Web services.  ? Involved in creating dynamic web site design and programming using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Developed POJO objects and used Hibernate as the Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool to access the persistent data from SQL Server.  ? Responsible for developing the connection pooling for FileNet Server implementing spring framework concepts such as Transaction management and DAO support.  ? National level complex problem-solving competition, using JAVA, Data Structures and Algorithms.  ? Used Spring Validation framework to implement the server side validations and used Ext JS, AJAX to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON objects.  ? Built Web pages those are more user-interactive using jQuerypluginsfor Drag and Drop,jqValidator,AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON.  ? Developed Business components using Multithreading, Servlets, and JSP.  ? Involved in generating JAXB classes from schema files.  ? Involved in deploying systems on AWS Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, and Cloud Formation.  ? Developed cross browser compatibility code using CSS and jQuery.  ? Effective use of data structures and algorithms to solve complex problems, reducing time complexity and memory usage.  ? Provided installation, configuration & maintenance of pre-prod and production Cloud environments including services such as Tomcat, Apache, Jetty, MongoDB, MySQL, and JIRA.  ? Hands-on writing Stored Procedures, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL, PL/SQL programming and SQL Loader.  ? Worked on Hibernate object relational mapping according to database schema.  ? Did load testing of SOAP Web Services using SOAP UI and Apache JMeter tools.  ? Developed a GUI to help to read the logs generated by the scripts, the logs were saved in MongoDB, the GUI was created using flask, D3, jQuery table sorter.  ? Implement Google Analytics for various screen, feature and service and user base tracking.  ? Integrated Google Analytics for tracking various screen and functionality of the PSAL App.  ? Implemented Internationalization using Spring MVC Interceptors and spring core modules.  ? Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  ? Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  ? Used JMS ( Java Mailing Service) API to mail notifications upon the success or failure when the backend processes are completed and also to send mail notifications regarding any system related problems.  ? Defined collections to store data in MongoDB.  ? Developed PL-SQL store procedures to convert the data from Oracle to MongoDB.  ? Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries, JS, CSS, JQuery, Node.js, HTML, SASS and Ajax to speed the application.  ? Prepared and presented UNIX production and implementation schedules to the Project Manager and client.  ? Wrote PL/SQL Queries, stored procedures, triggers and prepared statements.  ? Develop batch processes for financial reporting applications and modules using Perl and Korn shell scripts on Oracle database, with partitions and sub-partitions.  ? Developed Test classes using JUnit and Easy Mock and test coverage using EMMA plug-in.  ? Worked with Splunk to logging and analyzing defects status.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.5, UNIX, JBoss 3.0, Spring core, MongoDB, JMeter, Hibernate, Jetty, Perl, Spring MVC, Hibernate, SOAP Web services, Filenet, Ajax, XML, jQuery, HTML5, CSS, TC Server, SASS, JAX-B, SVN, Maven, Jenkins, AWS, SFX, Splunk, MAX, SEED. Sr. J2EE Developer Commerce Bank September 2013 to June 2015 Account Information System provides new functionalities to modify existing banking application, which supported Customer/Account relationship, Loan Account profile, Transaction and Account Management and Funds Transfer functions. I was involved in developing an enterprise web application that helps the organization in accepting and processing the payments in the form of electronic checks and provide the option for automatic enrolling in payment plan.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all phases of development, analysis, design, program analysis, programming, debugging, testing, documentation, delivery and implementation.  ? Developed Spring Application using Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring DAO.  ? Created branding in the web UI front end using CSS classes.  ? Extensively worked on Java server side programming using Spring MVC, Servlets and JSP.  ? Designed and developed middleware application using spring core framework.  ? Used JQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  ? Used JavaScript, JQuery for user interactions in pages.  ? Used Jenkins for the automatic build process.  ? Developed UI using HTML, CSS and JQuery to display the data on the client side.  ? Built html templates for high traffic and complex data driven websites.  ? Extensively used spring core, Filters, servlets and server side programming.  ? Built html templates for high traffic and complex data driven website.  ? Developed RAML based REST web services for API's using MuleESB.  ? Developed SOAP webservices using Apache CXF webservices and Spring framework.  ? Used Mongoose Connector to connect to MongoDB through Express framework.  ? We used Multithreading in this application to improve the performance.  ? Used automated scripts to perform routine management tasks on Web Sphere environments like Monitoring Disk Space, CPU and Memory Utilization.  ? Development of MQ application programs for Java JMS environments using queues and messages.  ? Debugged all look and feel issues in the target browsers, in conjunction with quality assurance.  ? Used Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files.  ? Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with JUnit.    Environment: Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Batch processing, Multithreading, JSP, Servlet, JQuery, HTML, CSS, AJAX, MAVEN, Jenkins, Swings, Postman, IBM Web Sphere 6.0, JUnit, JMS, J2EE, Mule ESB, MongoDB. Software Developer IDBC Bank September 2012 to August 2013 IDBC Bank Limited is an Indian banking and financial services company. The application EBank is an Internet Banking product, designed and developed using Java Servlets and JSP to meet the demands of the Bank customer for transactions through Internet. EBank is a powerful tool that consumers and business owners can use to manage their finance. It is developed for two environments.    Responsibilities:  ? Mavenized the existing applications using Maven tool.  ? Added the required jar files to the application as dependencies to the pom.XML file.  ? Used JSF & Struts frameworks to interact with the front end.  ? Utilized Swing/JFC framework to develop client side components.  ? Developed J2EE components on Eclipse IDE.  ? Used frameworks like Karma and Jasmine for implementing TDD and BDD in our projects.  ? Developed a new CR screen from the existing screen for the LTL loads (Low Truck Load) using JSF.  ? Used spring framework configuration files to manage objects and to achieve dependency injection.  ? Implemented cross cutting concerns like logging and monitoring mechanism using Spring AOP.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  ? Made screen changes to the existing screen for the LTL (Low Truck Load) Accessories using Struts.  ? Developed desktop interface using Java Swing for maintaining and tracking products.  ? Used JAX-WS to access the external web services, get the xml response and convert it back to java objects.  ? Developed the application using Eclipse IDE and worked under Agile Environment.  ? Working with Web admin and the admin team to configure the application on development, training, test and stress environments (Web logic server).  ? Build PL\SQL functions, stored procedures, views and configured Oracle Database 10g with JNDI data source with connection pooling enabled.  ? Used Hibernate based persistence classes at data access tier.  ? Adopted J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Session Facade and Singleton.  ? Worked on Spring Core layer, Spring ORM, Spring AOP in developing the application components  ? Modified web pages using JSP and Used Struts Validation Framework for form input validation.  ? Created the WSDL and used Apache Axis 2.0 for publishing the WSDL.  ? Creating PDF files for storing the data required for module.  ? Used custom components using JSTL tags and Tag libraries implementing struts.  ? Used Web Logic server for deploying the war files.  ? Used Toad for the DB2 database changes.    Environment: Java , J2EE, JSF, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, Swing/JFC, JSP, HTML, XML, Web Logic, iText, DB2, Eclipse IDE, SOAP, Maven, JSTL, TOAD, Oracle 10g, DB2, Web Logic Server, WSDL, JAX-WS, Apache Axis. Jr. Java Developer Medicon Health Care July 2010 to August 2012 Medicon HealthCare engaged in manufacturing & exporting of pharmaceutical products for acute care market etc. Medicon is a leading group of Pharmacy companies that is headed by an experienced management involved in the diverse field of pharmacy industry. Tycho System is a medical system which provides user's functions such as searching diseases modify and display records. The system contains search engine, user control center and huge databases of the record of diseases of different medical centers.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in gathering and analyzing system requirements.  ? Played key role in the high-level design for the implementation of this application.  ? Developed the Training and Appraisal modules using Java, JSP, Servlets and JavaScript.  ? Developed UI using java swings.  ? Created tables, Views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modification to exciting database structure as required for addition of new features.  ? Involved in Designing the Database Schema and writing the complex SQL queries.  ? Involved in Code reviews for other modules developed by peers.  ? Designing and establishing the process and mapping the functional requirement to the workflow process.  ? Accessed stored procedures and functions using JDBC Callable statements.  ? Deployed the applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server 6.0.  ? Executed and coordinated the installation for the project.  ? Worked on web-based reporting system with HTML, JavaScript and JSP.    Environment: Java, JDk 1.3, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, EJB), JDBC, Apache Tomcat, oracle, HTML, DHTML, IBM Web Sphere 6.0, SQL and JUnit. Education Bachelors in Computers Science in Computers Science Osmania University Skills Apache (8 years), API (3 years), CSS (4 years), HTML (7 years), J2EE (7 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (7 years), jQuery (5 years), JSP. (5 years), Maven (6 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (5 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (5 years), Mongo DB (4 years), MVC (5 years), Oracle (6 years), REST (5 years), Servlets (5 years), SQL (6 years), web services (6 years), XML. (4 years)