Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Sirius XM, NJ Chicago, IL, IL • Over 7 years of experience in IT industry comprising of Software Development and Object Oriented Programming that includes requirement Analysis, Design, Development and implementation of Web Based, Client/Server applications and Database applications.  • Extensive experience in developing distributed applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JPA, JSTL, Struts, EJB, RMI, Spring, REST, SOAP, Java Beans, JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Oracle.  • Extensive experience in using Spring Framework for building web applications using various modules like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring ORM, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and Spring Security.  • Good Knowledge of Web Services using Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) and Representational State Transfer (REST)  • Experience in working with MySQL, MS Access, Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server 2005, 2008.  • Worked on Applications/ Web Servers WebSphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, and Spring TC.  • Hands on experience using Messaging Services like JMS, Rabbit MQ.  • Experience in Service Oriented Architecture, Struts Framework, Hibernate, Design Patterns and implemented MVC, DAO, Service Locator, Session Façade, Singleton, Factory Pattern and Business Delegate Design Patterns.  • Have good understanding of programming concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception handling, and Collections Framework.  • Have good knowledge on administering with GitHub and implemented branching, tagging and stashing strategies.  • Experience with build tools Ant, Maven, for writing build.xml and pom.xml respectively.  • Developed and implemented Software Configuration Management strategies for various applications by agile process.  • Expertise in transforming the business requirement into executable collaboration flow modules.  • Experienced in a Java multi-threading environment.  • Has strong communication and interpersonal skills and is a committed team player.  • Quick learner and performer both in team and independent job environments.  • Having the ability of technical troubleshooting/problem-solving. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Sirius XM, NJ September 2016 to Present Description: Sirius XM is one of the largest radio companies which creates and offers commercial-free music. It provides the listeners to personalize their own Sirius XM commercial-free music.    Responsibilities:  • Developed user interfaces using JSPs, JSF, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP Custom  Tags.  • Developed web layer using Struts framework to manage the project in MVC pattern.  • Used Struts Tiles Framework for designing the layout of the application.  • Client pages are built using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript/JQuery  • Developed business layer using EJB stateless session beans and deployed on the Application  server (Web logic)  • Used Spring Framework at Business Tier and also Spring's Bean Factory for initializing services.  • Developed POC using Node JS framework and REST API.  • Used Struts Tag Libraries to allow easy integration of Struts Framework into projects logic.  • Used Struts Framework to design actions, action forms, and related configuration for every use- case.  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT test cases and automated functional testing tools like  • Selenium, debug tools like log4j used Mockito for stubbing.  • Developed code using various patterns like Singleton, Front Controller and Value Objects,  • Service Locator, Data Access Object.  • Developed AngularJS Single Page Applications using the Node JS REST API backend.  • Created web services using SOAP, to allow application and services to connect to them over the Internet.  • Expertise in developing Object Oriented applications using SpringBoot and Struts.  • Implemented the Web Services and associated business modules integration.  • Tested JSPs in Firefox and Internet Explorer browsers. Identified and fixed browser related  issues.  • Used both SoapUI and Swagger 2 in this Project.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration Testing, and System Testing, used JUnit framework.  • Developed JavaScript validation for client side validations. Performed Code reviews and code  fixes.  • Knowledge on product and design module.  • Responsible for implementation of the presentation layer for the application using HTML5,  CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, Angular JS, Angular 2.0.  • Developed WSDL in eclipse. Used SOAP to retrieve provider's data and SOAP UI to test Web.  • Done with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of Mule ESB endpoint through oAuth.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Used both SoapUI and Swagger in this Project.  • Configured the WebLogic handler for the Apache Web Server to serve static files (jsp, html, images and css)  • Analyzed telecom needs for the organization and advised executive leadership on making the most effective technology choices. Developed and executed the website form concept, navigation, layout and programming.  • Serving as reference for telecom inventory for both telecom and I.T departments.  • Developed SQL Statements as well as PL/SQL Stored Procedures for searching contacts depending on Selection Criteria.  • Developed Servlets for Document Upload, Image Streaming and Caching the data.  • Development and Integration of the Application using Eclipse IDE.  • Involved in the full system life cycle and responsible for Developing, Testing, Implementing.    Environment: Java 1.7, HTML5, XML, Hibernate 3.0, Struts 1.3.10, Spring 4, JDBC Template, JSON, IntelliJ, SOA, Agile, JBoss, Oracle 10g, Ant, GIT, JQuery, Ajax, Jenkins,: Gradle, Spring security, Spring Boot, Mule ESB, JBOSS Fuse, BPEL, OSB, Python, JMX, EJB, CSS,  JavaScript, Angular JS, Angular 2.0Node, Express, Passport, Maven, Subversion, TFS, SOAP, REST, Linux,  Log4J, Junit, Amazon Web Services (AWS) UI Developer Sears - Chicago, IL May 2015 to August 2016 Description: Sears is an American chain of department stores. It is currently the fifth-largest American department store company by sales as of Oct 2013, and the twelfth-largest retailer in the country overall. It is leading retailer of general merchandise, tools, home appliances, clothing, and automotive parts and services.    Responsibilities:  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML4, XHTML, CSS2, AngularJS, JSON, and JavaScript.  • Created XHTML Pages with CSS Box Model.  • Experience in writing AngularJS controllers, views, and services.  • Involved in writing JQuery based Ajax Requests.  • Edited web pages for achieving design goals with CSS2, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used JQuery Plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Created Ajax calls to exchange (request / responses) information with database.  • Experience in using Bootstrap which can easily manipulate modal windows alerts, tooltips, scroll spy, pop over, button, type head, etc.  • Wrote application level code to add functionality to the perform client side validation using AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Used Responsive Web Design so that the website is compatible with different devices like desktops, laptops, tablets and smart phones.  • Responsible for transforming designed mock-ups to web pages, followed MVC Structure to develop  • Application.  • Implemented Restful Web Services for other applications to communicate.  • Used Gulp for managing and automating the development workflow.  • Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers.  • Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database using JDBC.  • Created and modified Complex SQL Commands.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM Functions.  • Successfully executed the entire test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: HTML4, XHTML, CSS2, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, JSON, Ajax, SQL, Adobe Dreamweaver, Oracle, Eclipse, Firebug. Java Developer Cetera Financial - MN February 2014 to April 2015 Description: The project was to design, develop and implementation of Research Portals for clients- Wachovia/First Union. Stock trading/Stock planning administration is dependent on this Research Portal Application. Some of the functionalities of this portal are 'Relative Stock Performance', 'Historical Price Lookup', 'Investment Calculator', 'Stock Charts'.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring, JSP & Java beans.  • Involved in development of services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring Framework.  • Designing and coding of Action classes and Business Layer and DAO Classes and wired them using Spring Framework.  • Integrated spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Worked on Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.  • Created and maintained the configuration of the Spring Application Frameworks IOC Container.  • Extensively Used JavaScript and Ajax to provide the users with interactive, Speedy, functional and more usable User interfaces.  • Wrote JavaScript validations to validate the fields of the user registration screen and login screen.  • Designed Stateless Session Beans fitting the requirement of the business and implemented its interfaces and tested after deploying using ANT tool.  • Implemented Data Access Objects (DAO pattern) using JDBC & PL/SQL.  • Created war files & deployed on WebLogic using ANT deployment tool.  • Created Packages, Stored Procedures & Functions in Oracle 10g using PL/SQL & TOAD. This clearly separates the Business Logic from the Backend access to the Database and the Front-End Presentation layer.  • Involved in the Code Review Team that suggests the best way so that the product is stable and is implemented with the best performance and efficiency.  • Used JBuilder for code development and tested with CVS as version Control.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JBDC, HTML, JavaScript, XML, Spring, Hibernate, BEA WebLogic 8.1, EJB  2.0, Oracle 10g, UNIX. Java Developer Stein Mart, INC October 2012 to January 2014 Description: Stein Mart, Inc. operates as a retailer that provides fashion merchandise products and related services in the United States. The company's stores also provide merchandise locator services; a  preferred customer program; co-branded and private label credit card programs; and electronic gift cards.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose.  • Handling client change requests and enhancements on an Agile based development platform.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries Rich Faces 3.0 and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Worked on Spring IoC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Messaging Framework and Spring AOP to develop application service components.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring Core, AOP, ORM, Web Context.  • Creation of Hibernate mapping files to develop Database Tables from Classes and generation of database schema.  • Used Web Services (JAX-WS using Axis 2.0) for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP  messages for getting data from different module and used SAX XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases.  • Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in EAP Server.  • Developed User Interface using JQuery.  • Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures for data manipulation with the Oracle database. Application used TOAD.  • Used Ajax API for intensive user operations and client-side validations.  • Used CVS for version control and Clear Quest 2003 for bug tracking.  • Maintained proper coding standards and best practices by using Check Style, CPD, PMD and find bugs.  • Worked in Agile environment.    Environment: J2EE, JSF, SSL, Node.js, Spring, XML, MS SQL Server, Web sphere, SOA, SOAP-UI, WSDL  1.1, Udeploy, SAX, JavaScript, IBM WebSphere, HTML, Oracle11g/10g, JNDI, CVS, Log4J, JUnit. Java Developer Clayrock Technologies PVLTD June 2011 to August 2012 Description: The Mobile Telecom Billing System is an object-oriented Customer Care and Billing system for telecommunication programmed in Java. The system provides interactive editing and query of customer data, of billing and system data and it provides pricing of the services booked and generation of the respective bills.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using MVC-1 Architecture using JSP, Servlet and EJB.  • Participated in client requirement gathering.  • Involved in developing Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using UML.  • Preparation of the Low-Level Design document which include program specification and unit test plan.  • Developed HTML and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Developed JSPs to implement the business logic, and use java beans to retrieve the data.  • Involved in Coding of Enterprise Java Beans, which implements business rules, and business logic.  • Involved in developing the Java classes and JavaBeans.  • Involved in Creation of tables in database.  • Extensively used Net beans for writing code.  • Involved in Unit and Integration Testing.  • Used CVS for source code version control.  • Supported Maintenances and bug fixes.  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development  • Using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.    Environment: WebLogic Application Server v9.0, Apache Tomcat Web Server v6.0, JDeveloper, Core Java, HTML, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Java Beans, MySQL v5.2 CE, JUnit, CVS. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (6 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (6 years), MVC (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages: C/C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, UML, HTML, DHTML, XHTML  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX, JSP, Dojo, JavaScript, Ext JS, Angular JS, Node JS, React JS, JSON, XML.  Java Technologies: Core Java, Java Server Pages, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, Java Server Faces, Java Persistence API, Web Services, SOAP, REST, WSDL, JAX-RS, JSX-WS, Apache Axis, Apache CXF, Dojo, EJB, JMS, JNDI, RMI.  Frameworks: Spring (Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring ORM, Spring Security, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud), Struts and Hibernate.  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Unix, MS-DOS.  IDE: Eclipse, STS (Spring Tool Suite) and Intellij IDEA  Application Servers: Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, Spring TC, Web Sphere, JBoss.  Databases: MySQL, MS Access, Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server 2005, 2008  Testing Methodologies: Junit, SOAP UI  Design Methodologies: Unified Modelling Language (UML)  Protocols: HTTP, TCP/IP, LDAP Web Services SOAP, REST  Design Patterns: MVC, Singleton, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, DTO, DAO, Factory Pattern.  Build Tools: Maven and Ant.