ServiceNow/MIDServer SME ServiceNow/MIDServer SME Sr. Service Now Developer/Admin Texas, VT ? IT professional with 6+ years of experience in industry with 5+ year's hands on experience in SERVICE NOW providing ITIL and IT Service Management Solutions in IT Infrastructure with expertise in the ITSM suite.  ? A Service Now Technology Analyst with Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management with extensive knowledge on implementing end-to-end Service Catalog  ? Development of code for UI Pages using Jelly, UI Actions, Script includes, MID Server script include, client script, UI Policies, Business Rules, Glide Dialog Window, Glide Dialog Form and Processor.  ? Possess excellent communication skills with strong work ethics and have consistently demonstrated strong teamwork and ability to make a long-term commitment to projects.  ? Creation of various workflows, scoped applications for the items as per business requirements.  ? MID Server Integration and installation with service now.  ? Creation of portal page using CMS (Content Management System) and Service Portal.  ? Worked on CMDB. Build relationship among CIs by using relationship formatter and BSM map.  ? Proactive in analyzing, coding using Java script and understanding the business processes, and ability to adhere to stringent Quality Procedures.  ? Actively involved in Scrum meetings to get clarification on the requirements.  ? An excellent team player with highly favorable interpersonal and Communication skills  ? Involved in managing system configurations, gathering and documenting user and process requirements, developing workflow customizations, and performing quality assurance testing, user acceptance testing and third party integration for Service Now.  ? Configuration and customization of Help Desk, Change/Incident/Problem/Asset Management Modules including: Business Rules, Client Scripts, Dictionary Overrides, UI Policies and UI Actions based on user requirements.  ? Experience in building Service Catalog module for the business.  ? Creation of multiple categories and catalog items for the Catalog module.  ? Create portal, pages, widgets to use in service portal so as to give access to end users to create requests  ? Practical understanding of the Data modeling (Dimensional & Relational) concepts like Star-Schema Modeling, Snowflake Schema Modeling, Fact and Dimension tables.  ? Extensively created mapplets, common functions, reusable transformations, look-ups for better usability.  ? Good experience in Software Development Life Cycle using Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  ? Involved in performance tuning, including creating indexes, providing Hints, modifying tables using explain plan utility. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow/MIDServer SME Alcon February 2019 to Present ?    According to Corporate security standards, setup and maintain service accounts and/or highly privileged accounts in the safe of the approved vault software.  ?    According to Corporate standards and procedures on a global scale; design, order, implement and qualify the infrastructure for the MID servers for the ServiceNow system.  ?    With the Tech Writer, create content for the SOPs, Standards and Operations Handbook for Corporate MID servers for the ServiceNow including the execution of corporate quality related documentation.  ?    Collaborate with the SCCM team to create an SCCM package to deploy the prerequisite software to each MID Server.  ?    Define, implement and document the MID servers settings and policies for the Corporate requirements and assist the team with ServiceNow instance settings.  ?    Evaluate and document major upgrades, patches and/or hot fixes in to the CBD, CBI and/or Dev Environments for the Corporate MID servers according to qualification processes, and assist Ops with implementation when needed.  ?    Define MID server upgrade, on-boarding and decommissioning activities for Corporate.  ?    Collaborate with other teams to design and implement a security plan for access to MID server including differences for roles and environments and the applicable tools.  ?    Define MID server System lifecycle management (processes and procedures) with different levels to accommodate those systems or network security zones that can and cannot be changed.  ?    Follow the agreed change management process when making changes to the MID Server Environments.  ?    Provide appropriate and timely feedback to enable Supplier to solve Escalated Incidents and provide the KB to prevent future escalations  ?    For continuous improvement of build and decommissioning processes, interface with other infrastructure, SCCM, monitoring and ITOM groups to provide expertise for ServiceNow Discovery.  ?    Coordinate MID server patching with SCCM team and Ops teams  ?    Coordinate scan schedules with Ops team for each target site and environment.  ?    Using demand management, change control and release strategies, write patterns or probes and sensors to discovery or enhance the discovery of configuration items in the Al-con inventory.  ?    Using demand management, change control and release strategies, collaborate with other teams to utilize the scan and reconcile APIs in ServiceNow to automate scans for the on-boarding/decommissioning processes.  ?    Provide 3rd level support for all MID Server related tickets for the corporate environment.  ?    Development and design of Self Service Portal. Developed several client side scripting, Catalog scripts, UI scripts, server side scripting based on business rules.  ?    Configuring Email, inbound and outbound email activities and creating mail scripts on need premise. Sr. Service Now Developer/Admin Panasonic - Irvine, CA March 2016 to October 2017 Project Description: Panasonic is a leading technology partner to businesses and governments, at the forefront of everything from electric batteries to smart cities to high-tech stadium experiences. We provide a wide range of integrated solutions across many different industries, including automotive, avionics, energy and utilities, food services and hospitality, retail, government and public safety, logistics, manufacturing, and sports and entertainment.  Responsibilities:  ? Created multiple applications for different Business Owners.  ? Created Service Portal pages for the applications as per business requirements.  ? Integration with Slack (Team collaboration tool) with service portal knowledge base.  ? Writing Business Rules, Client scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions to customize the instance as per Business needs for applications.  ? Create, modify and publish Workflows for multiple applications based on requirement.  ? Gave access to end users to submit requests from Service Portal page.  ? Created categories, sub-categories, items for the application and used them in Portal page.  ? Created and utilized Update Sets to move all the work from one instance to another.  ? Validated all the work by myself and also had UAT (User Acceptance Testing) by the Business to get their approval.  ? Created multiple email scripts and used them in the email notifications as per business requirement.  ? Worked on various defects which occurred before and after migration of work and fixed them.  ? Prepared Design Documentation and Training Guide for Service Catalog Module and linked to Apache Confluence.  ? Worked on building end-to-end applications for different business owners.  ? Create multiple SLA's and use them in the applications.  ? Created multiple ACL's for the applications.  ? Service Catalog (Request Item, Order guide and record producer) has been created based on client requirements and work flow has been created to support the Approval work flow and task assignment.  ? Worked on fixing various incidents and used update sets to push the fixes from one instance to another.  ? Support Business departments by coordinating Moves, Additions and Changes with IT Services and Facilities.  Environment: Service Now Helsinki, Jakarta, JavaScript 1.8.5, Dev. Center, Cassandra SOLR, OneOps, Kafka, Medusa, Graf Ana, HTML, Web services. Service Now Consultant Shire health - MA July 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Designed the User Interface and Configured the Asset Management application to support ITIL and business processes.  ? Worked with process owners to develop and implement workflow with approvals.  ? Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident Management, Change Management, Problem Management, Knowledge, Service Catalog, CMDB in Service Now  ? Coordinating the instance upgrade activities.  ? Involved in cloning activities like raising the request for cloning and excluding some tables to not come under cloning.  ? MID Server Installation and Configuration for bi-directional communication between JIRA and Service-now and Discovery.  ? Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, Soap, Web Services, CSS, and HTML5.  ? Worked on UI Macros to create pages as templates on requirement from the stake holders.  ? Configured multiple forms for Asset module using Configuration Management Database.  ? Created new service catalog requests and items with variables.  ? Responsible for gathering requirements and customizing Business Service Catalogs.  ? Responsible for providing analysis of problems and resolutions or fixes for the production issues related to Service Now platform within the Service Level Agreement.  ? Involved in providing production support for Service Catalog, Incident, Problem, Change, Release, Deployment, Task, and Knowledge management modules in Service Now platform.  ? Responsible for Berlin Up gradation in ServiceNow and also involved in the analysis of the impact on the existing customization after Berlin up gradation.  ? Utilized Java Scripting to deliver solutions that automate and audit business processes using UI Policy, Client Script, UI Action and Business Rules.  ? Created many scheduled and KPI reports as per the client requirements.  ? Optimized and Monitored system performance and provided system statistics and reports to the Business.  ? Responsible for closing the open Incidents, Problems and Enhancement requests and communicating with the customer the status of the request, to ensure a timely customer satisfying result. Java Developer Geek Solutions April 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Actively participated in requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing phases, and responsible for the full stack development.  ? Developed user interface using HTML, CSS, Java Script, Ajax and JQuery  ? Developed the application using Spring MVC, Spring Web flow and added asynchronous features using AJAX.  ? Focused primarily on the MVC components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  ? Implemented the Web Service client for the login authentication, credit reports and applicant information using JAX-WS and Apache Axis.  ? Used Hibernate for data persistence and designed hibernate queries and Hibernate specific configuration and mapping files for Oracle Database.  ? Defined the Data Source, associations, components, Inheritance and configured the hibernate environment using HQL.  ? Developed messaging module using Spring JMS and ActiveMQ.  ? Used JIRA to fix and track the workflow.  ? Configuration and deployment of the web application using Web Sphere 7.  ? Used Maven to build and deploy the application in the server.  ? Involved in the creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases for each java class that is being developed for this application using a mocking framework Mockito using Test Driven Development technique.  ? Following Agile practices to develop and deliver the requirements.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, REST, Restful API, JAX-WS, Apache Axis, JDBC, LDAP, Hibernate, JAXB, JMS, ActiveMQ, JSF, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, JavaScript, JIRA, JBOSS, ANTs, JUnit. Education Bachelors in design KL University - Fort Worth, TX February 2019 to Present Skills JAVA (3 years), APACHE (2 years), DATABASE (2 years), ORACLE (1 year), STRUTS (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  ITIL ITSM, ITIL, Service Now, CMS, SCR, SAM, and LDAP.  Programming Languages C, C++, Java, ASP.Net (C#), JEE, SQL, PL/SQL, ADO.Net  Java JDK 1.6, Collections, Multithreading, Networking, Generics, Exception Handling, Files and Streams, JDBC  J2EE Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts, Spring AOP, JNDI, JMS, JTI, Ajax, EJB, Spring IOC, Hibernate, Java Beans  Software Methodologies SDLC, Waterfall, Agile, XP, Scrum  Databases Oracle 10g, MySQL  Database Tools SQL Client, TOAD, SQL Developer  Web/Application Servers IBM Web Sphere 6.x, Web Logic 10, Apache Tomcat  IDE Eclipse, Net Beans, TOAD  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN  Tools and Packages Rational Rose, Ant, Maven, Log4j, TOAD, MS Office, Dreamweaver