Guidewire Configuration Developer Guidewire Configuration <span class="hl">Developer</span> Guidewire Configuration Developer - ANPAC, Missouri,MO Liberty, MO • 7+ years of experience in analysis design, development and implementation of various web based applications using Java, J2ee, Guidewire and Java based Frame work technologies.  • Extensive experience in the Guidewire ClaimCenter Configuration with Gosu script integratioin.  • Experience implementing customized business functionality using GScript in appropriate rule sets, Gosu Class, enhancements, library classes and code tabs on PCF files.  • Worked with Event Fire Rules, Batch Processes, and Custom Guidewire plugins.  • Worked with data model configuration adding new fields to the existing entities, creating new entities, modifying typelists and adding new typelists.  • Experienced as a Configuration Work stream developer during the design & development of complex configuration modules for Guidewire PolicyCenter, ClaimCenter 7.x system.  • Extensive experience on Guidewire validation framework.  • Created and customize Page Configuration Files and wizards using GW studio 7.0.  • Experience using Agile Methodology including creating product / sprint catalogs, active participation in Scrum, Sprint planning and Sprint exit meetings.  • Worked extensively on Java/J2EE technologies, XML, XSL, XSLT and Oracle.  • Experienced in designing application frame works using Model 2/ MVC Design architectures.  • Proficient with Web Page Development using HTML, XHTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, JSPs.  • Expertise in application development using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Java Beans and dynamic Servlets.  • Experience developing applications using JBoss and ATG Dynamo (DAS, DPS, DCS, DSS) product suite.  • Strong knowledge on server side programs and Dynamic Web pages using Dynamo Application Server and JBoss.  • Motivated team player with ability to work under minimal supervision and possessing excellent communication.  • Good exposure in various Software Development methodologies like Agile, RAD, Waterfall models.  • Able to learn new applications quickly. Quick and enthusiastic learner with creative initiative Responsible, reliable, highly motivated, and friendly.  • High proficiency in written and oral communication skills along with excellent inter personal skills and exceptional team playing attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Guidewire Configuration Developer ANPAC, Missouri,MO April 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Worked on the Configuration modules in Guidewire Policy Center Application, which covers various business rules, Data Model Changes, User Interface and Integration Layers using Gosu.  • Building different PCF screens, details views, list views and input sets for implementing Desktop views and Team views for entities Inspections and Repairs.  • Building pages, detail views, list views, card views, list detail views for implementing Inspection Create and Inspection Update functionality.  • Designed and developed configuration functionalities for the maintenance of contact's history and providing the search functionality for the providers/contacts.  • Worked with the data model team in adding new fields to the existing entities, creating new entities, adding and modifying type lists as per the project requirements.  • Implemented Enhancements for various entities by adding new functionality as per requirement in the project.  • Performed peer code reviews and code cleanup activities within the AD Rewrite team.  • Creating Desktop view and Team View for the appointments / assignments for the Adjusters.  • Involved in Agile meeting everyday with client and discussed about Task status on specific sprint and related impediments.  • Worked on Data Model Customization,  • Worked on CheckPrinting, implementing batch jobs for financial new changes.  • Worked on Implementing Logger Category for financial Logs.  • Worked on Testing by Gunit test cases.  • Developed and customized the rules, entity enhancements, util classes for the implementation of Business Logic.  • Involved in Build the latest code using Hudson tool and deploy the code in DEV and QA Environment.  • Working on production support Issues and new implementations based on requirement.    Environment: Guidewire ClaimCenter 7.x, Guidewire PolicyCenter / Contact Manager 7.x, Guidewire Studio 7.x, Java, SQL Server, SVN, RTC, HP-QC. Guidewire Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH March 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities  • Detailed analysis of requirements, worked hand-in-hand with business analysts to design and create prototypes of intended functionality.  • Worked on new extensions, enhancements, Gosu classes, PCFs, rule sets in ClaimCenter and involved in bug fixes.  • Worked on Batch Monitoring, Workflows for delinquency process and on publishing and consumption of Web Services.  • Worked on Event Messaging, implementation of transport plugins, request plugins.  • Designed and developed configuration functionalities using appropriate Wizards, Pages, Popups, Screens, Detail Views, List Views and Input Sets for Letter Sending part in the project.  • Customized standard guidelines for writing Gosu code in PCF files and rule sets in ClaimCenter.  • Implemented rules as per the business requirements by create activities and messaging events.  • Performed unit testing and performance tuning for the code developed.  • Interacting with the client's business team on requirement change or enhancements.  • Fixing the Critical Defects found in QA Testing and post-production defects (QC) and maintaining the Application Performance.  • Designing the JSP Pages using the Tiles for the Front END and Following the Client UI Patterns as per the Wireframe Designing, which is signed off by the Clients.  • Active member in daily AGILE meetings, weekly status meetings, monthly Sprint exit and planning meetings.    Environment: Guidewire PolicyCenter, Oracle, Soap UI, XML, HTML, Microsoft SQL Server, SVN, Web spheres, Tomcat HP-QC. Java/J2EE Developer JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH October 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum.  • Worked on Enhancements and Post Production Fixes for Employer Resource Information Center (ERIC) Application.  • Developed the Web application using Spring MVC, Angular-JS, jQuery, JavaScript, Html 5, Bootstrap, CSS and JSP.  • Extensively involved in the integration of the Front End web interface with the controller using Spring MVC Rest Framework.  • The enhancements required us to develop new correspondences and fix the old correspondences.  • Implemented Hibernates' Lazy default fetch plan for generating proxies and collection wrappers and also created fetching strategies for minimizing the number of SQL statements.  • Designed and Developed the UI Framework built using JSF Apache My Faces, Richfaces 4 and Ajax4JSF.  • Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validations.  • Developed restful web services using Spring and Jersey framework.  • Developed middleware components using Spring and have integrated Spring and JSF using Spring resolver and performed DI of spring beans using JSF managed properties.  • Extensively used Java best practices and implemented several Core design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Object (DAO), Business Delegate etc.,  • Used Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) for better and faster interactive Front-End.  • Configured Navigation rules in the JSF configuration files to add new functionality to the application by writing new XHMTL.  • Responsible for configuring and deploying the builds on Jboss App Server  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO, DTO and Proxy.  • Wrote data Components for ERIC application, wrote and called StoredProcedures using Java, HQL, Hibernate.  • Worked on Java Beans and other business components for the application and implemented new functionalities for the ERIC application.  • Created mapping files using Hibernate.Involved in handling Hibernate as part of DB connectivity and persistence as ORM tool and writing HQL queries.  • Used Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB) for marshaling and un-marshaling java objects and XML.  • Using Team Track tool to keep track of the application bugs as well as to coordinate with the Testing team.  • Performed the design review, code review and test case review.    Environment: Java 1.6, JAXB, XML, XSD, Spring, Jboss 6,XHTML,Mysql, Eclipse Kepler, JSF 2.2, Aqua Data Studio, JavaScript, log4j, Junit, JMS Java/J2EE Developer AT&T - Richardson, TX December 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating use Use Cases, Class Diagrams, sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services  • Coordination with the Design team, Business analysts and end users of the system.  • Designed and developed front-end using Struts framework. Used JSP, Swing, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles and Validations provided by struts framework, business components using Spring.  • Implementing Struts based framework to present the data to the Client layer.  • Deployed the application on the JBoss Server using ANT tool using Struts architecture with the JSP Client.  • Configured Struts Dyna Action Forms, Message Resources, Action Messages, Action Errors, Validation.xml, and Validator-rules.xml.  • Designed and developed Logging service using Log4j.  • Coded different action classes in struts responsible for maintaining deployment descriptors like struts-config, ejb-jar and web.xml using XML.  • Developed authentication and authorization classes and manage it in the front controller for all the users according to their roles.  • Implemented caching techniques using Singleton Pattern, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Hibernate.  • Developed stored procedures and complex packages extensively using PL/SQL and shell programs.  • Used Struts-Validator frame-work for all front-end Validations.  • Developed SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier.  • Design and development of JAXB components for transfer objects.  • Involved in Configuration and Usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes.  • Wrote Action Classes to service the requests from the UI, populate business objects & invoke Spring middleware components.  • Used JAXP (DOM, XSLT), XSD for XML data generation and presentation  • Wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.    Environment: Java , JSP, Servlets , Struts 1.2, JAXB, XSLT, DOM, XML, Spring, Web Services, JNDI, J2EE, Eclipse, JBoss, Rational Rose, CVS, Oracle10g, Junit, Rational Rose, JavaScript, DHTML Java/J2EE Developer Apps Associates Pvt. LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application: Requirement gathering, Design Analysis and Code development.  • Designed the UML class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Used JSP, HTML, Java Script, Angular JS, Bootstrap and CSS for content layout and presentation.  • Used JMS for Point-to-Point asynchronous messaging for high transactional Banking operation.  • Worked on JQuery, AJAX, JASON and JSF for designing highly user interactive web pages.  • Implemented AJAX for better user experience by dynamically providing Asynchronous request and response communication between the client and the server.  • Created data access layer using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Integrated part of web layer of the application based on Struts into Spring.  • Implemented the design patterns DAO, Service Locator and Business Delegate.  • Wrote Spring configuration files for the beans defined and properties to be injected into them using spring's Dependency Injection  • Incorporated new Spring DAO implementation of Hibernate components for enrollment module.  • Used Spring'sAOP to implement logging feature seamlessly into the application.  • Successfully implemented the MVC pattern by writing the JSP's as a view and Java beans i.e., POJO's as a model and ActionServlet is the controller.  • Developed Persistence classes and O/R mapping (.hbm) files for Hibernate.  • Used Jenkins to build the results by RSS or email to get real time notifications on failure.  • Used Hibernate in the DAO layer to persist the data to the Database.  • Used HQL queries and Criteria API for efficient object retrieval  • Developed stored procedures and Triggers using PL/SQL to access the database.  • Used on DOM parser to read XML files  • Incorporated new methods into existing service business components  • Performed logging using log4j  • Performed unit testing by writing test cases using JUnit.  • Developed ANT scripts that checkout code from SVN repository, build EAR files, and deploy the EAR files on WebLogic Application server.  Environment Used: JSP 1.2, Servlets, Struts1.2.x, JMS, EJB 2.1, Java, OOPS, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, Ajax, Html, CSS, JDBC, JMS, Eclipse, WebSphere, DB2, JPA, ANT. Education Bachelor's in Electronics and Communication Visvesvaraya Technological Institute - Bengaluru, Karnataka Skills ECLIPSE (4 years), JAVA (5 years), SQL (7 years), HTML (5 years), XML (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages/Design Tools C, C++, JAVA, J2EE, J2SE, XML, Gosu  Products  Guidewire Policy Center 7.x, Guidewire Policy Center 8.x, Guidewire Claim Center 7.x, Guidewire Claim Center 8.x, Guidewire Contact Center / Contact Manager and Guidewire Studio    Web Technologies Servlets, Applets, HTML and Object Oriented JavaScript.  Web/Application Servers Tomcat, WebLogic and Jetty  IDE Eclipse 3.2, my Eclipse, JBuilder, Guidewire Studio and Edit plus.  Frameworks Struts1.2, MVC, Hibernate and Spring Frameworks.  Database Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g and SQL Server 2000/2005 / 2008/2012 and MySQL 5.x  Version or Source Control CVS, GIT, Bitbucket, Clear case, Tortoise Subversion and Perforce.