Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Highmark Health Solutions Pittsburgh, PA • 4+ years of experience in implementing Java/J2EE projects, working through Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation in Client/Server and web-based architecture systems.  • Proficient with Software development methodologies like Agile (Scrum) Methodologies and Waterfall.  • Expertise in RESTAPI's development with Spring Boot configuration and maintenance of Micro Services with Eureka discovery platform, Launching and configuration of AWS instances with load balancing.  • Experience in working with the NoSQL Database like MongoDB and Cassandra to manage extremely large data sets.  • Proficient in developing Web Services, related technologies &frame works: REST, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AXIS and Jersey, SOAP UI and generating client's client using Eclipse for Web Services consumption.  • Implemented the module using Multithreading to make the transactions asynchronous.  • Extensive experience in SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with different RDBMS such as MySQL, Oracle, MS SQL Server, DB2.  • Worked on deployment, installation, configuration and issues with Application servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, BEA WebLogic and JBoss.  • Experience in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Data Access Object and Business Delegate.  • Proficient in core Java concepts like Collection Framework, Multi-threading, Generics, Annotations, Serialization, Thread pools, JavaBeans, Externalization.  • Expertise in developing test cases with Mockito and Junit, determining application functionality.  • Experience on different IDEs such as Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, and IntelliJ. Work Experience Java Developer Highmark Health Solutions - Pittsburgh, PA May 2019 to Present • Involved in requirement analysis and participated in the design of the application using UML and OO Analysis Design and Development.  • Implemented MVC web frameworks for the web applications using JSP/Servlet/Tag libraries that were designed using JSP.  • Used SQL, PL/SQL and Stored Procedures for Oracle back-end database.  • Involved in configuring the database to Oracle9i  • Involved in developing a branded portal using the administration tool on web Sphere Application server.  • Used JDBC to configure files to access the database.  • Developed and tested Java Server Pages (JSP).  • Developed reusable AJAX components for web-tier.  • Developed customized JSP tags for project  • Developed reusable DHTML components for enhanced user interaction.  • Monitored/Improved the performance and behavior of web applications.  • Implemented business validations for product pricing and product availability for Order Entry.  • Developed JUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Configured iBATIS2.0 for data access layer with Spring1.1 framework  • Involved in peer-to-peer code reviews  • Involved in usability and accessibility design issues of the system.  • Designed and developed Web pages using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, and JSF  Environment: Java, JSP, Struts 1.1, JMS, WebSphere Application Server, JDBC, XML, XSL/XSLT, Windows NT, Oracle 9i, JUnit, JSF and CVS. Java Developer FedEx Services, TN, Collierville January 2019 to April 2019 •Designed UI component with AJAX and JavaScript libraries (J Query), AngularJS  • Used Agile methodology and attended daily and weekly SCRUM meeting to update working status etc.  • Developed and tested modules using Agile(Scrum) methodologies  • Developed server-side application using Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Batch.  • Designed and developed various Micro services using spring boot, with microservice architecture using REST framework. Also, used Hibernate for integration with spring framework.  • Developed the User Interfaces with HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSP, JavaScript and JQUERY for presentation.  • Implemented Restful web service using Jersey for exchanging information of unstructured data of No SQL database Mongo DB which is connected through Java Mongo DB Driver.  • Deployed, test, and debug applications on WebSphere and Tomcat application servers and on Windows platforms.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and Log4j for logging.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring 4.1.1, Spring Data JPA 1.5.2, Spring Boot 1.2.3, Spring Data Commons 1.7.2, Oracle12c, Micro Services, Angular.JS, Ajax, Apache Camel, Tomcat 8, UML, Web Services (REST), UNIX/LINUX, Dockers, Jenkins, Slf4j, GIT, XML, XSLT, DOM, GIT. Java Developer Commonwealth of Massachusetts State Health / DXC Technologies, TX July 2017 to January 2019 • Actively involved in the development, testing and maintenance phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Developed Database access components using Spring DAO integrated with Hibernate for accessing the data.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS to make the pages dynamic.  • Developed Custom Tags and JSTL to support custom user interfaces.  • Used CSS3 style sheets for presenting data from XML documents and data from databases to render on HTML5 web pages.  • Used JavaScript for server side validations.  • Used Tiles Framework to create standard, reusable presentation components.  • Implemented Design Patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, Factory etc.  • Used Spring Framework for integrating Hibernate for dependency injection.  • Used Hibernate ORM tool in data access layer to map the object view of data into database and to provide access and update information in the database.  • Used SOAP Web Services for getting credit card information from third party and used SAX and DOM XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Extensively used Eclipse for writing code.  • Used Maven as a build tool and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed test cases on JUnit.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, Foundation, Java8, J2EE, Spring (IOC, AOP, MVC, JPA), Spring Boot, Spring Security, Microservices, Hibernate, WebSphere, Agile TDD, RESTful, JSP, JMS, JTA, MongoDB, Oracle, PL/SQL, Selenium, Maven, Log4j, Junit. Java Developer Amazon Development Center (INDIA) Private Limited July 2013 to July 2015 • Part of Agile team developing the application using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in requirement analysis, design, coding and implementation.  • Involved in designing and developing Buy-Online and Chargeback Automation modules.  • Used Struts MVC pattern to maintain the Admin Portal.  • Used Spring framework features like IOC, MVC, AOP and Hibernate Template.  • Involved in developing business components and managed transactions using Spring declarative method.  • Experienced developing and delivering mission-critical data platforms for real-time analysis for production use.  • Designed and Developed Web services using SOAP and REST API.  • Implemented DAO layer using Spring JDBC Template and Hibernate Template API.  • Involved in unit testing and system testing and also assisted QA people for preparing test scripts for the system testing.  • Used SQL, PL/SQL in constructing views, indexes, stored procedures relational database models.  • Responsible for the successful execution of Project Planning and Deployment cycles.  • Provided end to end support for the system and involved in coding and testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, J Query, SOA, Struts, JAX-RS, Eclipse, SOAP, services, Hibernate, XML, Maven, JIRA, Log4j, Sonar, Oracle, SVN, Encryption, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere Server. Education Master's in Engineering Management in Engineering Management Marshall University May 2017 Electrical Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 2013 Skills Java, Hibernate, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Spring