Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - MSTS Kansas City, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer MSTS March 2017 to Present • Developed part of the customer portal allows customers to view their transactions and make payments online. I wrote restful API endpoints in ruby on rails. Wrote UI components to consume the endpoints in vue.js and quasar. These include transaction history, resetting password, adding a bank account and more. I helped fix errors with traefik and docker.  • Maintained large enterprise transaction processing systems for Bestbuy, Paccar, and GM Fleet. I fixed live bugs that were in production using oracle sql, log files, grep and other tools. This includes over 1 million dollars getting stuck in daily processing. Did around 50 production pushes using, git, jenkins, linux and many other tools.  • Implemented a transaction processing component that allows for gated transaction. My role was to write PLSQL packages used in the process. Software Engineer Cerner July 2016 to October 2016 • Created a survey tracking system using .NET C#, MVC5, Entity Framework 6.0 for the backend and .NET Razor, and Javascript for the front end and using the SurveyMonkey API Senior Java Developer Consultant Emerge Consulting - Denver, CO March 2014 to May 2016 • Created an end to end workflow for publishers like National Geographic. The workflow went from the magazine platform to the website. We took the publishers design documents and created xml and html.  • Created new plugins for various content management systems such as Adobe Experience Manager and WordPress using the WordPress API and Java Content Repository API. Java Developer Intern USDA - Fort Collins, CO August 2012 to March 2014 • Created crop simulation program. This was a Java program to graph and display data created from a FORTRAN program. .NET Intern Colorado State Web Development Team January 2012 to August 2012 • Developed Sharepoint Widgets using #C  • Created a file transfer system from old Sharepoint to new Sharepoint Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Colorado State University 2013 Bachelor of Psychology in Psychology Colorado State University 2009 Skills HTML 5, Javascript, Git, python, vue, ruby, plsql, java, MYSQL, agile, Kanban Additional Information Personal Projects:  • Built scrapper in python to extract government employment data and created api with flask and sql alchemy.  • Used Machine learning with python and tensor flow to write a song.  • Created meditation iOS app with objective c and choose your own adventure app with quasar, created online gambling application using vue and rails and Vue js.  • Created personal websites and put them on aws. 