Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Ashburn, VA • 5+ years of experience with Core Java and J2EE and have been involved with developing RESTFUL API's and implementing J2EE Design Patterns on applications.  • Strong with Core Java such as Multithreading,Collections,OOPS,Methods,Abstract Classes,Interfaces,Threads,Exceptions,and Exception Handling techniques.  • Strong with Java Memory Management,Garbage Collection,Stack and Heap Memory Space  • Strong with Collection framework features like ArrayList,List,Map,Set,LinkedLists to implement in coding.  • Strong with Spring MVC,Spring JDBC,Spring ORM/OXM,Spring Context, ,AOP and Spring MVC.  • Experienced with Bean Lifecycle,Scopes,Definations,IOC Containers,Event Handling,Annotation Based/XML Based configuration.  • Strong work experience with Singleton,Builder,Factory,Prototype,Template,Adaptor Design Patterns.  • Experienced with Dependency Injection frameworks like Setters Injection and Constructor Injection.  • Solid Understanding of algorithms like Iteration,Recursion,Linear Search, Depth First Search,Breadth First Search.  • Knowledge of time/space complexities and computing efficiency of algorithms.  • Experienced with hibernate frameworks like ORM,JPA and worked with Hibernate persistent objects like SessionFactory,Session,Transaction,and Query and used JTA and JDO APIs for fetching objects.  • Recently worked for about 1 year on Spring Boot,Microservices and Java 8.  • Strong working experience with AWS Lambda integration with REST API's.  • Worked on Message Handling mechanisms using Kafka , Listeners, Producers, Consumers etc. recently.  • Good with ThreadExecutors , Concurrency, and fixing the issues related to ThreadExecutor Exceptions and tasks rejections.  • Good Hands on in MongoDB and Kafka. Learned to work on IntelliJ including Git, Terminal , VCS.  • Experienced using AWS cloud technologies for about one year such as EC2,IAM,CloudWatch,DynamoDB,S3. Work Experience Java Developer Verizon Communications Inc - Irving, TX January 2018 to September 2019 Project: Activate Switch (VerizonWireless)  Responsibilities:  • Developed Vision,Fusion and Point of Sales applications on Spring Boot by creating REST API's and consuming it.  • Used Spring REST Templates and designed them to call CRUD Operations on REST Web Services to consume REST API's in JSON AND XML Format.  • Defined Beans , scopes, annotations,and used autowiring wherever required.  • Worked on Kafka Listeners, Producers, Consumers, Kafka Message Handlers while consume message from Topic and then performing message aggregation, ingestion , and decomposition of several messages(request) and sending them as one message response back to user.  • Generated Rules on Admin Avertack Flow landing page to create cases for consolidators  • Worked on setting up configurations and cadi properties for OCEDirect and programmed for OCEProcessor to take messages from Message Router and send them to Avertack generating rules.  • Used Mitigation, location, R1, R2, FraudAlert filters to generate responses while identifying fraudApproved and fraudRejection cases.  • Created Application Field Types from Json Payloads in the documents for OCEProcessor  • Created Neustar Application RestFul Web Service to call 3rd party library and be able to call several instances of Avertack servers within Avertack -<> Neustar<>Third Party gateway. Created MitigationFilters while generating responses back to Avertack from Neustar.  • Performed Release Demos and particpated in scrum calls everyday.  • Proficient with Git , pushing/commiting/rebasing/merging/pulling and resolved several merge conflicts,JettyDocBase issues, other issues on console.Performed Jenkins deployment on Dev, QA ,Stage and Prod Enviroments in day-to-day activities.  • Used PollingChannel,ServiceActivators,MessageConsumerR1Channels , KafkaTopics as parameters and methods to channelize Kafka Message Handling mechanisms , listening to topics and sending the same to applications.  • Solid Understanding and hands on experience with J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton,Builder,Factory,MVC,Prototype,Adaptor,Template.  • Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2 instances.  • Extensively worked with Core Java concepts and Spring modules in the project.  • Strong hands-on coding on Lists,ArrayLists,LinkedLists,Arrays,Threads,Methods of Collections.  • Used NOSQL database Amazon dynamo DB to store data of reporting Application.  • Invoked garbage collection to reduce the memory space in heap used by Vision object which had no Object Reference.  • Created Spring profiles for different spring environments to load configurations.  • Maintained the user credentials using AWS IAM and created custom IAM policies to various groups defined within the organization.  • Used Config Server to externalize the configurations for app to run on different environments.  • Created different properties files for testing purposes and loaded them from Spring Boot YAML.  • Implemented Oauth 2.0 and TLS Certificates in POSTMAN for calling CRUD operations for response.  • Build,developed and consumed restful web services using spring framework 3.9.6.  • Used Hibernate framework like Spring Data JPA and exposed Spring Data JPA dependency for it.  • Solid hands on experience with using Hibernate frameworks like JPA,JDO,JTA,ORM.  • Used Hibernate Configuration ,SessionFactory,Session and Transaction persistent objects on the database.  • Implemented conversions,string,collections,exceptions handling features,threads.  • Worked on Log4J framework and implemented logger methods in the project.  • Wrote Model Diagnostic Context to solve logging problems.  • Strongly implemented Java concurrency features like setting/killing daemon threads,created thread instances, runnable, callable interfaces,executor/executor service and used some of the implementations of executor service such as ScheduledThreadPoolExecutor.  • Strongly experienced with ThreadsLife Cycle.  • Used Git to trackmaven the source code changes.  • Implemented Spring 5.x Reactive programming in the project.  • Worked on filter,MapReduce,Stream,Collectors.toList functions in Java 8.  • Wrote Lambda functions for e.g. casting response class of same package in ActivateSwitchServiceIntegration. Java.  • Described Setter Injections and Constructor Injections on XML files for service classes to fetch property values,names,ID's etc.  • Used Apache Kakfa for consuming message streams and Datastores as MongoDB and PostGreSQl.  • Build the architecture as a whole using Docker container and deployed the services in Kubernetes cluster.  • Designed, Maintained and deployed application on Kubernetes.  • Some hands on experience creating buckets in S3.  • Good understanding of setting alarms, logs, and enabling and monitoring EC2 instances in AWS cloudwatch.  • Good understanding of creating log streams in AWS cloudwatch and creating IAM in AWS Management Console.  • Good understanding of integrating REST API's with AWS lambda  • Connected to Data Sources and performed operations using Spring Data framework features like Spring Data JPA.  • Used Git version technology and JIRA to track problems.  • Injected Spring Cloud Config to centralize all the externalized configurations for the small microservices and spring bean managed components.  • Wrote Junit test cases with the team,  • Implemented tokens,annotations,Oauth, design patterns,configurations and certificates for authorization and authentication in applications for setting up Microservice.  • Imported Netflix libraries such as Eureka, Hystrix , Thymeleaf with Zuul Server to solve distributed complex processing system problems like implementations of patterns for service discovery, load balancing, fault tolerance.  • Set up jobs in Jenkins in a step by step approach followed by managing plugins and build types such as Maven.  • Triggered build jobs for modules like External Int_G, Validator,Filter,GeoData,managed plugins and checked the health status of jobs created.  • Wrote interfaces, methods, controllers and end points for Device-Change, Buy Sim,Activate Upgrade,Activate Landing Page(subservice names as Land-on,Lower Funnel Checkout and Log In).  • Reviewed the XML logical data model and developed XML schema XSD to validate the model and used Jax-B for Xml- Java Mapping and Xml-Xslt conversion.  • Configured the POM files as per the changes in the environments.  • Worked with offshore team and communicated technical concepts and frameworks to ensure right objectives. Machine Learning Engineer(Entry Level) Verizon Communications Inc - Irving, TX September 2018 to July 2019 Responsibilities:  • Use machine learning and statistical modeling techniques to develop and evaluate algorithms to improve performance, quality, data management and accuracy  • Extracting the data from the dataset into R Console and exploring the dataset.  • Used imputation for finding the missing values.  • Implemented two algorithms to the dataset, trained the models using two different algorithms such as Linear Regression and other using Deep Neural Network which is a part of Artificial Neural Network Algorithm.  • Comparing their results to evaluate their performances using different performance measures such as Correlation matrix , plotting the graphs using scatterplot matrices and confusion matrices.  • While training the models, I have also partitioned the data sets using Random Sampling method which is the convenient way to split the dataset into training and test sets.  • Utilized Cross-Validation performance measures where creating the folds and then trained the models using 10-folds methods.  • Implementation of caret packages, plyr packages, and H2o classification algorithms which is also a customization method to encasing two different algorithms and using them to display the performance results and predicting the same on the new datasets where our test sets have been mainly used as a new data.  h) Some metrics were used like number of samples to be tested, RMSE, MAE, F-statistics, Kappa Statistics , R-squared and Residuals to display the performance comparisions and also improve them through diverse algorithms applied to the dataset.  • Analyzed and embedded ensemble methods like Gradient Boosting Machine which is a part of Boosting method and random forests, two of them which train the models, appropriately fitted them and predicted the data.  • Composed a new data through the stacked ensemble method (GBM+RF) which improves accuracy and clearly summarize the results. Jr. Java Developer Microland Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2013 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Utilized concepts like Inheritance, method overloading, overriding, exceptions, wrapper classes, getters-setters in beans classes, XML descriptors and spring framework libraries.  • Involved in the architecture team for design and implementation of system.  • Involved in designing the project with spring and Hibernate Framework.  • Used RESTful web services for implementing the Business Logic.  • Experience in managing and reviewing Hadoop log files.  • Installed and configured Hadoop Map-reduce HDFS Developed multiple MapReduce jobs in java for data cleaning and preprocessing.  • Experienced in performance tuning of Spark Applications for setting right Batch Interval time, correct level of Parallelism and memory tuning.  • Involved in managing and reviewing Hadoop log files and assisted them in developing Scripts and Batch Job to schedule various Hadoop Program.  • Connected the application to the MySQL database to retrieve data from various tables and provide the relevant data.  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC.  • Used SOAP AND WSDL Services to implement HTML, JSON and XML Data.  • Involved in creating the Rest API services.  • Involved with the team to integrate Spring-Hibernate architecture using Spring Boot and JPA.  • Build RESTFUL web services using Spring Boot.  • Utilized Spring annotations, wrote spring beans classes, imported spring libraries and maven dependencies for developing applications using Spring.  • Used JDBC to connect to the information model tier.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Business logic is implemented using Spring Core and Hibernate.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications  • Involved in Development by applying expertise in J2EE, Core JAVA concepts, OOPS Concepts, Collections, Multithreading.  • Working in a team of 10 members and involved in architecture, requirements gathering, analysis, detailed design, preparing class diagram, flow diagram etc. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Illinois - Springfield, IL December 2017 Skills API, CODING, DESIGN PATTERNS, OBJECT ORIENTED, OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Object Oriented Programming  • RESTFUL API's and API Development  • Spring JDBC,ORM,OXM,AOP,MVC,Context,Core  • Spring Boot,Microservices  • ApplicationContext and BeanFactory Interfaces  • Dependency Injection frameworks  • Singleton,Builder,Factory,Prototype,Adaptor Template Design Patterns  • Hibernate frameworks(ORM/JPA)  • Hibernate API's(JDO/JTA,JDBC,IBatis)  • SQL  • Java Collections,Multithreading,Concurrency  • Annotations,Beans,Scopes,IOC Container  • Strong Core Java Skills  • Strong Coding Skills  • Kafka and MongoDB  • AWS EC2,CloudWatch,Lambda  • Java 8(Stream,Collectors,Lambda)  • JVM and Memory Management  • Log4j framework  • Pivotal Cloud Foundry