Associate Java/J2EE developer Associate <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">developer</span> Associate Java/J2EE developer - JP Morgan & Chase Grapevine, TX • 5 years of IT experience various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirement analysis, design, development, testing and implementation, masters in computer science and Oracle Certified Java Programmer.  • Had an extensive experience in web based multi-tier enterprise applications & Client/Server Applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Had good exposure in Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based applications using Spring Framework, Struts Framework and Hibernate Framework with expertise in presentation, business and database layers.  • Had good experience working with REST and SOAP web services using XML, JAXB and JSON.  • Had experience working with Amazon Web Services, modules S3, SQS, SNS, EC2 and RDBMS.  • Had good experience in Database Design, writing stored procedure, functions, triggers, DDL, DML, SQL queries.  • Had an experience working with Java multi-threading, synchronization, exceptional handling and oops concepts.  • Had an experience working in Jmeter, Junit, Mockito and Power Mockito testing.  • Had experience in creating front end-systems using MVC frameworks such as Angular JS and External JavaScript(Ext Js)  • Had experience working with Real Time Application using Scala, Spark, Cassandra.  • Had knowledge on continuous integration and deployment using Jenkins, docker and had experience working with control M tool for scheduling jobs.  • Had an experience working with Agile/Scrum environment and have knowledge on the Waterfall methodology. Work Experience Associate Java/J2EE developer JP Morgan & Chase February 2017 to Present • Worked on Real Time Application using the Cassandra, Spark, Scala, Java 8 and Spring boot.  • Worked on Pivotal Cloud Foundry blue green deployments with minimal downtime.  • Working as Full Stack developer using External JavaScript Framework(Ext Js) 4.2 and 6.2, HTML5, CSS3, Spring MVC, Spring boot, Hibernate, Oracle, Java, JMS and WebLogic10 server, Tomcat and Rest Web services  • Designed the front-end UI screens using Ext Js 4.2 and 6.2, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (Single Page Application)  • Worked on the Migration project from Struts to Ext Js using MVC and MVVM pattern.  • Extensively worked on controllers, services and filters, paging store of Ext framework to making use of services to perform REST API calls.  • Developed the POC from scratch for a new module using Sencha spread sheet model which handles large amount of data on UI.  • Developed REST API calls to serve the UI with required data.  • Worked on Oracle database using Toad for Oracle to test the data.  • Worked on Hibernate ORM framework to implement the DAO to access the data from the database.  • Involved in writing the test cases using the Junit, Mockito and Power Mockito and Functional Testing for testing the Database CRUD operations.  • Worked on control M/Orchestrator tool for scheduling jobs.  • Used the Splunk for log management. Java Developer Cisco Systems March 2016 to January 2017 • Worked on Java Backend development using Spring MVC, Hibernate, Postgres and Java 1.8  • Used Spring as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for hibernate.  • Unit Testing the various modules using the TESTNG, Mockito and Power Mockito and Functional Testing for testing the Database CRUD operations.  • Working knowledge on continuous integration and continuous deployment(CICD) Jenkins and Docker  • Responsible for writing the Integration(Automation) tests to test the complete end to end flow using Rest Clients.  • Implemented Spring MVC flow to interact with different modules and extensively used Spring AOP and Dependency injection.  • Had exposure to create jobs for continuous integration and deployment using Jenkins. Software Engineer LexisNexis August 2015 to March 2016 • Responsible for java development using the Spring, AWS and Postgres.  • Developed the Swagger API documentation for the REST APIs.  • Wrote JavaScript validations to validate the fields of the user registration screen and login screen.  • Dealt with Hibernate open source ORM frame work for persistence management.  • Implemented multithreading to process the AWS SQS queues.  • Maven for build framework with various plugins and GIT version control.  • Played a key role in unit testing using the JUNIT and Mockito and functional testing.  • Created the User Interface using web technologies like JavaScript, HTML 5. Software Engineer Capgemini January 2013 to July 2014 • Followed Agile scrum methodology and actively involved in Analysis, Detail Design, Development, Bug fixing and Enhancement.  • Responsible for developing the Java Backend code using java 1.6.  • Designed the Frontend screens using JavaScript, HTML and JQuery.  • Worked on the Thunder Head tool for the Insurance forms development and responsible for designing the style sheet development.  • The Team Excellence Award is awarded to our team for our outstanding performance and excellence. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO August 2015 Bachelor of Education in Computer Science and Engineering in CBIT Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAX, JAX-WS, JBOSS, JMS, STRUTS, Git, Hive, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, XML, CASSANDRA, IMPALA, MVC, RESTFUL SERVICES, SOAP, JDBC, AWS, J2Ee, JSP, Rest, Spring, Java J2Ee, JEE, Angularjs