Sr.Fullstack Developer Sr.Fullstack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Fullstack Developer - Kaiser Permanente Nevada, MO • 7+ years of extensive experience in the Software field, Excellent hands-on experience on Core Java, J2EE,C# Struts, JSP, Spring framework, Servlets, SQL, Javascript, AngularJS, XML, HTML 5, CSS 3, JDBC, Oracle 11g.  • Strong development experience in J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, XML, and Struts, XSL, XSLT, JUnit, Log4J, JavaScript, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts such as Generics, Multi-Threading, Collections, Exception Handling, Garbage Collection, and File Input/Output.  • Proficiency in developing Web applications using Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB2.0/3.0, web services using JAX-WS2.0 and JAX-RS APIS.  • Experience in developing and consuming Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, HTTP, and UDDI.  • Implemented Hibernate for the ORM layer in transacting with Oracle database and developed HQL queries for CRUD.  • Good experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Analysis, Design, Implementation, Integration, Testing and Maintenance of applications.  • Good experience in designing, developing several multi-tier Web based, Client-Server and Multithreaded applications.  • Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to  Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  • Good experience in using Object Oriented Analysis and Design concepts and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) mostly in cross platform environments.  • Proficient experience of using the databases such as MySQL, DB2, Oracle 11g PL/SQL.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, and Agile methodologies. Worked Closely with SME's  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and, also experience in making web page cross browser compatible.  • Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML.  • Excellent skills in building Single Page Application (SPA) using JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Node JS.  • Hands on experience in Front-End technologies like Angular Js 1.4.7, Bootstrap 3.1, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, JQuery, Google Web Toolkit (GWT), Tag Libraries, Custom Tags, Ajax and Node JS and ExtJS  • Sound understanding and good knowledge on Require JS, React JS, Backbone JS.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviour.  • Experience in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Hands-on Experience in JSP, Frameworks like Struts on the Java platform.  • Implemented the JavaScript library, D3.js for visualizing data with HTML, SVG & CSS.  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome and had experience in implementing project from the scratch.  • Created responsive Webpages and designing crossing browser compatibility for mainstream browsers and portable devices (mobile, tablet, laptop) by Bootstrap.  • Experience with employment of Apache Kafka and Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service.  • Proficiency with the application servers like Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBOSS and Tomcat.  • Involvement in using various IDE's like Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Sublime, NetBeans, Eclipse, Adobe Photoshop.  • Good experience to setup, configure continuous build processes using Jenkins, Maven and ANT.  • Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Extensive experience working with RDBMS -PL/SQL programming on Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server, writing Stored Procedures and SQL Queries.  • Ability to identify and gather requirements to define a solution to be built and operated on AWS.  • Good working knowledge on CVS, SVN, and GIT for code management and version control.  • Knowledge on web debugging tools (Firebug debugging tool) and used integration Testing frameworks and libraries like Jasmine and Karma for Angular JS and Node.js.  • Experience in front end builds up and deployment tools like Grunt, Gulp, SOAP UI, and Bower.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment.  • Oversee and develop Notifications Service Micro service to use across the enterprise.  • Utilize camel to integrate Micro services with other Micro services and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges  • Proficient in developing SOAP and RESTful Web Services.  • Good written and oral communication skills and Interpersonal skills with a strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Fullstack Developer Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA May 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Currently working on developing new module GPCR for the ConneXion application.  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Designed and developed API's using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with ReactJS in creating the Application.  • Developed the responsive UI web pages using XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS 2, JavaScript, ReactJS and has worked with Angular JS filters in expressions and directives to filter data in the UI.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Created a JIRA workflow and apply the condition, validators and post-function in the transition to represent the business requirement process. Atlassian Systems Administration and Configuration handling JIRA, Confluence, JIRA Agile.  Supporting complex Atlassian environments and have experience with integrating Atlassian tools with other internal & external systems.Provided ongoing support and configuration for JIRA projects, workflows, screens, fields, permissions, and other administrative tasks.  • Import excels data provided by users into SharePoint by using Import Spreadsheet template.  • Strong Core Java background with experience in Collections, Multi-Threading, Java 8, Interfaces, RMI, Serialization, Synchronization, Exception Handling, Java Swing, OOPs techniques, Logging and Performance Tuning.  • Used Spring framework including Spring core/IoC, Spring Web, Spring Security and implement the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control (IoC) for injecting the beans and reduced the coupling between the classes and implemented the Model View Controller using Spring MVC.  • Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementing SOA.  • Application and developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Experience working with IVEr which is developed in VXML which will run on VXML platform.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.8,Java8,Spring framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, AWS, AJAX, SOA, TDD, Web Services, SQL Server, Microservices, XML, Ext JS, NodeJS, AngularJS, Angular2.0,Angular4 Typescript, JQuery, JavaScript, IBM RAD 9.1, WebSphere 8.5, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, PCF, Clear Case, Apache Maven, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB, JUnit, Html, Unit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML, JENKINS, Spark, Kafka,VXML,IVR Sr. Full stack Developer Citi Group - Dallas, TX January 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Used NodeJS for doing non-blocking design operation for server-side code and Angular.js framework in developing various UI components.  • Developed the responsive UI web pages using XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS 2, JavaScript, node JS and has worked with Angular JS filters in expressions and directives to filter data in the UI.  • Angular4 is a JavaScript framework for building web applications and apps in JavaScript, html, and TypeScript, which is a superset of JavaScript. Angular provides built-in features for animation, http service, and materials which in turn has features such as auto-complete, navigation, toolbar, menus, etc  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.  • Involved in responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Using IVR conducted complete analysis of system and business requirements Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  • Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Used Spring framework including Spring core/IoC, Spring Web, Spring Security and implement the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control (IoC) for injecting the beans and reduced the coupling between the classes and implemented the Model View Controller using Spring MVC.  • Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Developed single page applications, components using Angular JS directives, controllers, view and routing, service modules.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementing SOA.  • Provide expert technical leadership to customers and partners regarding all aspects of Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Deployed EARs, WARs and configured application specific JVM settings, Web container parameters using the Admin Console and WebSphere admin scripts.  • Accomplished Work Load Management by creating Clusters.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3,  • Project migration into cloud environment using AWS, Docker container.  • Application and developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Implemented code according to create AngularJS Controller, which isolate scopes perform operations.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 2.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.8, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, AWS, AJAX, SOA, TDD, Web Services,SQL Server, Microservices, XML, Ext JS, NodeJS, AngularJS, Angular2.0,Angular4 Typescript, JQuery, JavaScript, IBM RAD 9.1, WebSphere 8.5, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, PCF, Clear Case, Apache Maven, Apache Cassandra,MongoDB, JUnit, Html, Unit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML, JENKINS, Spark, Kafka. Java Full stack Developer Cerner Corp - Kansas City, MO July 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering and understanding the system requirements by interacting with clients.  • Generated the Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams extensively for all the process flows using RAD, MS VISIO.  • Designed and developed GUI screens for user interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, XSLT, AJAX, XML, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and DHTML.  • Developed a HTTPS server and implemented features to serve different file types(TLS)  • Extensively involved in coding with Core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Multithreading, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  • Used Core, Context, and Security, Bean modules of Spring Framework.  • Implemented MVC, Singleton, Factory, DAO, Value Object, session, Facade, Data Access Object, Business Object paradigm.  • Handling orchestration service and rule engine which is implemented in NodeJS.  • Used JQuery framework for creating front end applications and for Client Side validations.  • Used iBatis for designing, developing and maintain the data layer.  • Created Stored Procedures, SQL Statements and triggers for the effective retrieval and storage of data into database.  • Application developed on Agile methodologies scrum and iterative method process.  • Used Apache Log4J logging API to log errors and messages.  • Created JUnit test suite to automate the testing of the business logic.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Used ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Developed the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Dragabble.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating Google maps location search on the webpage.  • Involved in 24x7 support, Maintenance and enhancement of the application.  • Automate the web application using Selenium-Automation tools.  • JPA and Spring Rest to provide a Restful Interface based on Spring Boot application    Environment: JDK 1.7, Spring framework, XML, HTML, JSP, AngularJS,Hibernate, iBatis, ANT, JavaScript, VSS, XSLT, CSS, AJAX, JMS, Spring Boot, Hibernate, SOAP, Web Services, AWS, Web Sphere Application Server, Tomcat, Oracle DB, MQ Series, JUnit, UNIX. Full stack developer Ford, Michigan - May, Michigan, US May 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of UI components with backend using J2EE technologies such as Servlets, Java Beans and JSP.  • Using Technologies like SOAP, WSDL and UDDI based Web Services.  • Developed Hibernate 3.0 in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  • Designed the workflow, system architecture, drawing sequence diagrams, activity diagrams, class diagrams, HTML pages, database schema and tables.  • Writing JSP's for user interfaces, JSP's uses Java Beans objects to produce responses.  • Involved in Tomcat server configuration for deployment.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  • Used log4j 1.2 to log different types of messages to write on to the proprietary log model.  • Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams and also in complete development, testing and maintenance process of the application  • Store persistent JMS messages or temporarily store messages sent using the store-and-forward feature.  • Involved in testing the XML files and checked whether data is parsed and loaded to staging tables.  • Store persistent JMS messages or temporarily store messages sent using the store-and-forward feature.  • Used Hibernate to persist and retrieve data from database.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Servlet, XML Schema, SOAP, JavaScript, PL/SQL, DHTML, XHTML, Ant 1.6, Log4j, JUnit, Weblogic10.0, Oracle 11g, Wsdl, IBM Rational rose, Maven, Eclipse, XSD. Web Developer Screatives - IN May 2011 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Preparing the documentation for High Level design, Low Level design of the application and Process Flow of control for the entire application.  • Played key role in the design for the implementation of this application.  • Implemented the Consolidated applications front-end pages using JSP, JSTL, and Struts Tag Libraries.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations. Used JUnit for unit testing of the system and Log4J for logging  • Implemented validation rules using Struts framework.  • Designed the Web application implementing the Struts framework for Model-View -Controller (MVC) pattern to make it extensible and flexible.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping.  • Used Hibernate for Database Persistence to perform CRUD operation like insert, update, retrieve.  • Used extensive JavaScript for creating the Global templates that can be used across the JSP Pages.  • Configured Logger, appender and layout using log4j.  • Used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) in entire project development.  • Used Ant for building JAR and WAR for the application.    Environment: Servlets, JSP, EJB, Struts, Hibernate, JNDI, HTML, CSS, XML, JUnit, DOM, SAX, ANT, Web logic Server, Oracle9i. Education Bachelor's Skills Application server, Git, Gradle, Hadoop, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Perl, Svn, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Java8/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Perl, UML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JQuery  J2EE Standards: JDBC, JNDI, Java Mail, JTA  Web Technologies: JSP, Servlet, JAX-WS, AXIS, REST (JAX-RS),JIRA SOA, SOAP, JMS, Bootstrap, EJB, Angular-JS, RMI, IBM MQ Series  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, Sybase, SQL-Server-2008, Mongo-DB, Hadoop  IDE's: Eclipse, Intellij, Sublime, RAD, WSAD  Web/App Servers: Web Sphere Application Server, Web Logic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat  Frameworks: Struts, Node-JS, Spring, JSF, Hibernate, Apache Camel  Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Solaris, Red Hat, AIX  Version Control Tools: CVS, SVN, Git, ClearCase  Tools/Utilities: Log4j, Ant, JUnit, Caliber, Maven, Gradle 2.1, Jenkins, SOAP UI  Methodologies: Agile (Scrum, TDD), Waterfall  Integration: Apache Camel, JBoss Fuse 6.2, Active MQ, Apache ATOM, WESB