Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Bank Of The West, AZ • Experienced professional in using object oriented technologies, client/server applications, internet/intranet web applications, J2EE Architecture and object oriented design patterns such as Singleton, Factory, Façade, DAO, MVC.  • Agile, SCRUM, Water Fall, and TDD software development life cycles (SDLC) - ranging from gathering business requirements, system enhancements, development, performance testing, user training, and support activities.  • Knowledge of Core Java concepts, such as I/O Streams, Exception Handling, Multithreading, Java Beans, JDBC, and Collections.  • Designed and developed multiple J2EE MVC Model based Web Applications using J2EE technologies, utilizing popular open-source frameworks, such as Struts, Hibernate and Spring.  • Extensive programming experience with view and controller layers of MVC design pattern  • Front end development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS.  • Strong foundation in OOAD, J2EE architecture, SOA (XML, SOAP, WSDL) with excellent communication skills  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot.  • Strong experience in Spring framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring Security.  • Good working experience in the UI technologies HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, and MVC frameworks.  • Knowledge of XML, AJAX and unit testing with JUnit  • Experience with different development IDE tools like Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans IDE, and IBM RAD.  • Strong experience in implementing web services SOAP and RESTful.  • Skills in SQL working with Oracle and MySQL databases.  • Experienced with Multi-Tier/Three-Tier Client-Server Applications using popular J2EE Web / Application Servers (Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic and JBoss).  • Used multiple tools such as Ant and Maven for build and Log4j for logging  • Experience in using various version control systems such as SVN and Git.  • Fast learner and able to quickly familiarize and implement new languages and technologies  • Possess strong analytical and problem solving skills with the ability to adapt to a new environment and meet stringent deadlines.  • Strong verbal and written communication skills and technical support. Work Experience Software Engineer Bank Of The West, AZ September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed the Object Model and Architecture for the application using Visio, writing Technical Specification.  • Converting Functional requirements into Use case diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagram using UML.  • Used Oracle SQL developer for the writing queries or procedures in SQL.  • Implement the middle tier with Spring framework and integrated that with the Hibernate ORM framework. Made used of Spring IoC, AOP and HibernateDao support features.  • Use Spring Boot to develop the RESTful Controller and Service layer to handle the customer requests.  • Use Advanced Core Java concepts of Collections, Multithreading, Synchronization for Design Patterns.  • Used Maven as a build tool, wrote the dependencies for the JARS that needs to be migrated.  • Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  • Used SVN for version control and used Eclipse as the IDE for developing the application.  • Used spring framework for the business layer using Spring Core, DAO, Spring ORM, and Spring Web MVC.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used SOAPUI for testing and developed JUnit test cases to test service availability.  • Implemented Hibernate to map all the tables from different data sources to make database updating.  • Developed presentation tier using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  • Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Used Ant, Maven scripts to build and deploy the application.  Environment: Java 7.0, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SOAPUI, Junit, Spring Core, DAO, Spring ORM, Spring Web MVC, Collections, Generics, Multithreading, Velocity Scripts, Splunk, Synchronization, Spring Boot, SVN, Ant, Maven, SQL, IntelliJ, SOAP, REST. J2EE developer March 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in client meetings, gathered business requirements and translated them into technical specifications and created technical documents such as TDD and FSD  • Developed support for custom user interfaces using JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL)  • Developed and implemented the MVC architectural pattern using Struts Framework  • Implemented business processes such as user authentication, account transfer using Session EJBs  • Developed the User Interface module using Spring MVC, JSP, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS, HTML.  • Used Spring IOC, AOP, Spring Boot to implement middle tier.  • Used Spring Boot for building application with Spring initializers and bootstrapping the build configuration and develop custom solutions that act upon Jenkins information in authentic time.  • Recommend and develop strategy for integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Security and Spring Boot.  • User Authentication and authorization has been done through Oracle Weblogic server's FIM (Federated Identity Management) with the help of Spring Security.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report  • Used JDBC for database connectivity to Oracle database  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns such as Singleton, Session Façade, etc.  • Used spring web flow for the page navigation within the web application.  • Developed Batch Jobs using Spring Batch Framework.  • Implementing File copy services to Unix box as part of batch processing  • Involved in JUnit Testing, debugging, and bug fixing, and used GitHub as version control system  • Alert product support and client using log4j for runtime exceptions    Environment: JEE, JSP, JSTL, Struts, Spring Boot, EJB, JMS, JNDI, JDBC, Oracle, HTML, Linux, WebSphere, WebLogic, GitHub, log4j. Java web Developer T.J. Maxx - Andover, MA February 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Attended daily sprint meetings for task allocation and status updates as part of working in Agile environment.  • Performed code peer reviews for fellow team members  • Extensively used Rally for track changes  • Utilized the Action Support to integrate Struts and Spring components  • Actively involved in gathering requirements from the users followed by analysis and design of the system to meet the requirements.  • Wrote Action and Form class as per struts environment and maintained struts-config  • Tracked virtual machine arguments to ensure the smooth loading of the application  • Performed design for scope understanding and taking approval from requirements and testing to make sure that everyone is on the same track  • Used Hibernate transactions management extensively.  • Wrote HTML, JavaScript, JAVA and JSP code.  • Front end development using Struts  • Designed user interface components using Struts Components JSP and client validations using java script code repository  • Oracle database interaction using stored procedures  • Worked on the DAO files to interact with the production and test DB  • Tested code changes using JUnit  • Used Eclipse IDE for application development and MyEclipse for enterprise web application development  • Worked on custom tag libraries and Java beans.  • Client-side validation using JavaScript and Struts  • Used struts tag libraries, such as html, bean, and logic, in JSP pages. Used html form tag for auto-populating of related Action Form as specified in the action mapping  • Modified Hibernate config.xml to successfully connect to the database.  • Designed and developed struts framework applications  • Used rally for task allocation and status tracking as per Agile environment.  • Wrote unit test cases for active tasks in Rally  • Developed Web pages using Struts, JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Implemented AngularJS pattern in the application development.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application    Environment: Struts, JSP, JBOSS, CSS, spring, Servlets, HTML, Hibernate, MyEclipse, CVS, UML, JavaScript, Microsoft SQL, JUnit, Custom Tag Libraries, Unit tests, CSS, AngularJS, Bootstrap. Jr Java Developer L&T Infotech - Chennai, Tamil Nadu November 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Presentation implemented via HTML, JSP, JavaScript and Ajax  • Used JavaScript for client side validations  • Built user interface module using JSF  • Developed SOAP based Web Services using WSDL, JAX-WS, and UDDI  • Implemented XML in hibernate framework to map objects to database  • Added JSP tags using JSTL for XML data processing  • Developed business functionalities using JAVA/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, RESTful Web Services, Oracle database and Weblogic application server.  • Used Hibernate ORM for application database mapping  • Developed database stored procedures, functions, packages and fix scripts using SQL, PL/SQL and TOAD.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and performed Unit Testing of application modules.  • Involved in fixing bugs in the product and write unit test-cases using JUnit  • Used jQuery library to build Ajax based web application module  • Implemented Session EJBs for business logic  • Developed Ant scripts to build, and deploy the application onto WebLogic Application Server    Environment: JEE, JSP, Servlet, XML, Java Script, jQuery, CSS, EJB, Hibernate, Eclipse, XHTML, JSF, Web Services, WebLogic, JBoss, JSTL, HTML, SOAP, JUnit, Ant, Unix. Education MS in Information Technology in Information Technology Southern New Hampshire University - Hooksett, NH 2017 Bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering JNTU 2014 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Git, Html, Javascript, Svn, Visio, Xml, Db2 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Platforms: Windows.  Java/J2EE Technologies: Core Java, J2EE, Exception handling, Multithreading, I/O, JDBC, Collections, Generics. J2EE, Servlets, JSP, primeFaces, JSF, EJB, Struts, Spring, JMS, Hibernate, Web Services.  Databases: Oracle, IBM DB2, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL.  S Servers: Apache Tomcat, Oracle Web Logic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere.  IDEs: Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, IBM RAD, STS, SQL Developer, TOAD, Workbench.  Other Tools: Microsoft Office, MS Visio, Maven, ANT, JUnit, SVN, Git, JIRA.  Languages/Web Technologies: Java, SQL, XML, UML, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS.