Sr. Software Engineer - Java Developer Sr. Software Engineer - <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Engineer - Java Developer - KPIT Technologies Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer - Java Developer KPIT Technologies April 2018 to Present Familiarity with product development cycles and working within a product development team.  • Provide input to the work project plan, performs technical review of application and peers work and develop proposals for improvement. Conducting feasibility study of new technology to be introduced.  • Analyze, design and implement complex software solutions. Bombardier Recreational Products November 2018 to July 2019 BRP Inc. (Bombardier Recreational Products) is a Canadian company making various vehicles. The project was to develop and enhance java application which diagnose vehicles.    Worked in medical domain under Engineering and Research & Development services vertical. Software Engineer - Java Developer HCL Technologies May 2014 to April 2018 Analyzing and implementing new features as per the client requirement.  • Conducting feasibility study of new technology to be introduced.  • Implementing Proof of Concept for new ideas.  • Compiling Software Requirement Specifications (SRS) document.  • Compiling High Level Design (HLD) document.  • Conducting critical to quality tests before product release.  • Revamped the application to include new UI elements.    PROJECT DETAILS    Working in Automotive domain under Product and Platform vertical. Merck-Serono International SA July 2014 to November 2017 Merck Serono is a pharmaceutical company and a brand and division of Merck focused on bio-pharmaceuticals. The project was to develop and enhance website features which hold and perform operation on patient data. Education B.E in computer Engineering Mumbai University June 2013 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL SET    • Programming Languages/Frameworks/Web Technology.  Java EE, Spring, Hibernate, REST Web Service, RCP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML.  • Tools.  Spring tool suite, Eclipse, IntelliJ IDE, Oracle, JIRA, Bitbucket, Confluence, SourceTree, JAMA, Orion health rhapsody.  • Platforms.  Windows.