Graphic Design / Administrative Assistant Graphic Design / Administrative Assistant Spring Branch, TX Graduate of the University of Maryland University College with double Bachelors of Science degree in Digital Media & Web Technology and Software Development & Security. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Graphic Design / Administrative Assistant Frontline Community Church - Ramstein, Germany June 2018 to May 2019 • Prepared graphic advertisements needed for church events.  • Created, edited, and published video content using HD video cameras for social media and website.  • Archived and organized film, photos, and documents to digital files.  • Build and execute graphics, branding and social media strategy through research, platform  determination, benchmarking, messaging and audience identification.  • Performed routine updates, upgrades and overall maintenance of website.  • Assessed executives' needs and requirements, formulated action plans to achieve them.  • Made appropriate preparations for various events, such as printing documents,  producing visual presentations, promotion, and ordering materials for events. PHP Developer GroggWorks Inc. - Vista, CA August 2017 to September 2017 • Performed PHP OOP Development  • Developed web applications with the MVC Framework, Laravel  • Incorporated API Development  • Maintained large MYSQL Database Systems  • Maintained web applications with AWS Counter Manager Estee Lauder Companies Inc - Fort Campbell, KY August 2016 to December 2016 • Grew sales by developing long-term relationships with customers based on integrity.  • Responsible for recruiting, developing, and training consultants  • Answered questions regarding the store and its merchandise.  • Maintained records related to sales and consistently hit and exceeded sales goals by 20%. Java Café Barista and Cashier MWR Entertainment Center/Mission Command Center U.S Army - Wiesbaden, Germany May 2013 to July 2014 • Ensure all cash handling procedures are upheld. Accounted for store funds while running a shift.  • Performed clerical duties and was responsible for ordering supplies and keeping inventory control.  • Clear communication skills aimed at understanding customers' needs and provided corresponding services  • Maintained up to date paper and computer-based files and administrative systems. Education B.S. in Digital Media & Web Technology and Software Development & Security University of Maryland University College August 2017 A.A. in General Studies University of Maryland University College May 2015 Trade School in Photography Heidelberg Johannes Gutenberg Schule - Heidelberg, Germany September 2012 to January 2013 Skills Adobe Photoshop (8 years), Adobe Illustrator (6 years), Adobe InDesign (6 years), HTML (4 years), HTML 5 (4 years), CSS (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Javascript (3 years), Graphic Design (8 years), Software Development (3 years), JQuery (3 years), PHP (3 years), XML (2 years), Lightroom (3 years), Web Design (5 years), Web Development (4 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Java (2 years), Python (1 year), Typography Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/leahmedina https://www.leahmedina.com/ Certifications/Licenses B1 Certificate in German October 2017 to March 2018 Volkshochschule in Mainz, Germany