Sr. Ruby on Rails Developer Sr. Ruby on Rails <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Ruby on Rails Developer - United Parcel Service Raleigh, NC • 9+ years of experience in developing web based applications and Client-Server technologies using Ruby, Rails, RESTful Rails, Hibernate, Spring, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, HTML/DHTML, XML, Java, J2EE, JRuby.  • Web development experience using Ruby on rails, Ajax, Adobe Flex.  • Experienced in UI development using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery, AngularJS.  • Good exposure in interacting with RESTful web services, SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS.  • Front end expertise using HTML and CSS, and also managing RoR layouts and views.  • Hands on development experience in building web applications using HTML5, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, MySQL, PL/SQL technology.  • Hands on experience on installation and configuration of multiple versions of Ruby using RVM (RubyVersion Manager) bundler Install.  • Experience with RoR creating connections, designing and enabling communications between both frameworks.  • Experience on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture based Web Applications in Ruby on Rails, Backbone.js and CodeIgniter.  • Developed RoR customer facing applications, which meet the requirements outlined in our application development specification.  • Design and implemented intranet applications using Ruby on Rails and PostgreSql on Heroku Cloud Packages and Triggers on databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle.  • Implementing RoR upgrades and patches and publishing Ruby Gems. Using Ruby Gems.  • Involved in design and implementation intranet applications using Ruby on Rails and PostgreSql  • Backend application is developed using Ruby on Rails with Postgres as database.  • Wrote various interfaces to the management system in Ruby on Rails.  • Monitored RoR programs and program data to ensure applications are running as expected.  • Developed a gem called AjaxCRUD first version, which permitted to create unobtrusive Ajax scaffolding and solved problems with ROR.  • Experience in designing web applications using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Extensive experience in Database Programming, Designing, Modeling and Development using MS SQL , MS Access and good experience in SQL (T-SQL), Triggers, Views, Cursors, Stored Procedures and User Defined Functions.  • Experience in using software development methodologies like Waterfall model and agile development.  • Expertise in distributed Version Control Systems like GIT and SVN. Work Experience Sr. Ruby on Rails Developer United Parcel Service - GE December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Followed agile methodology throughout the project, involved in Scrum meetings with the team members on day to day basis for the update on project status using Rally software.  • Extensively used Ruby, Ruby on Rails and PostgreSQL in the backend.  • Developed User Interface for website with ERB, JQuery, RJS, Ruby, Ajax for View, Controller, Model in Ruby on Rails Framework on Mac OS X Operating System.  • Responsible to Setup and configure automated deployment and scaling infrastructure on Amazon using EC2, S3, Route53, Elastic Load Balancer, and Virtual Private cloud with Ubuntu and RHEL.  • Administered legacy PHP and Ruby on Rails applications.  • Focus on Ruby development, both inside of a traditional Rails application, and as part of a report generating application.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  • Frequent AJAX usage, through both custom jQuery, and default Rails UJS.  • Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application-using Ruby on Rails.  • Used RSpec to create test driven development. Experience with all of the GEMS and libraries for this version of the ruby/rails.  • Provided SQL scripts for querying Postgres SQL database.  • Using Postgres (PG Admin) tool for querying the Database.  • Used Ant/Maven scripts to build the application and deploy it on Application Server based on various environments.  • Using SVN version control tools to manage source repository.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Experience in using Resque and Redis for the Background jobs  • Experience in using Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the Client.    Environment: Ruby on Rails, MongoDB, Cucumber, Rspec, Unicorn, HTML5, CSS3, SOAP, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, RESTful, Git. Sr. Ruby on Rails Developer Mercedes Benz - Atlanta, GA December 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked in the design and development phases of the application using ROR framework  • Used Rails, AJAX, CSS and AngularJS to design the front end of the application. Back end of the Application is developed mainly using Active Records  • Created and deployed new features and amend existing features  • Developed and tested many features in AGILE environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Rspec.  • Fixing the bugs and tickets filed by quality assurance and product management team  • Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails  • Designed applications using Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts  • Used JQuery, HTML5 and advanced JS frameworks for better look and feel  • Used Agile and Scrum methodologies in the project development  • Used Active Records for Database Migration and also involved in using Active Resources, Fixtures, Action View and Action Controller in the Rails Framework  • Used scaffolding to design and develop the controller and the view part of the system  • Action Mailer is used for applying the user mailing module  • Composed Cucumber and RSpec tests in the application and coded in JavaScript for page usefulness and popup screens.  • Part of developing style sheets by using sass-rails gem  • Provided validations and scope for many models present in the database and created many associations within those models  • Experience with all of the GEMS and libraries for this version of the ruby on rails  • This involves designing database model for the entire application like creating tables, views and stored procedure using MongoDB  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.    Environment: Ruby, Rails, CSS, HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Rspec, Cucumber, JSON, SVN, Agile, PostgreSQL , MySQL , MongoDB, AMQP (RabbitMQ), Capybara, Bamboo, Jenkins, Jasmine, Tomcat, MySQL, Puppet, VMWare. Ruby on Rails Developer IBM - New York, NY June 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed hundreds of features in an agile environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Planned and carried out daily scrums, weekly estimations, story wheel discussions and retrospectives and pair programming.  • Managed code with unit tests and GitHub.  • Worked with PostgreSQL and search based data storage.  • Designed applications using object oriented concepts.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • User Interface for website with ERB, JQuery, Angular.JS, Ruby, Ajax for View, Controller, Model in Ruby on Rails Framework  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, Test Driven Development (TDD) and pair based programming.  • Developed website using Ruby on Rails, backed by PostgreSQL and Capistrano to automate and ease the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server.  • Used RHTML, ERB Templating, YAML, AngularJS and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to design the web pages.  • Practiced Test-Driven Development with RSpec and RSpec 2 as well as Behavior Driven Development with Cucumber and Capybara.  • Designed the front end of the application using Rails, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using ActiveRecords  • Designed the RESTful API endpoints, and creating a regression test framework.  • Added functionality that ingested data from a SOAP web service.  • Provide validations and scope for many models in the database and created many associations within those models  • Worked in PostgreSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used agile methodology and SCRUM.  • Managed, collaborated and coordinated the work of an offshore development team.    Environment: Ruby on Rails, JRuby, Apache Phusion Passenger, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, MySQL Server, RESTful, Github, Heroku, Cucumber, Windows. Java Developer Cisco, San Jose - Chicago, IL June 2012 to May 2014 Project: Early Warning Reports    Responsibilities:  • Agile methodology was adopted in the development, and used Scrum method of project management.  • Implemented UI layer using Flex and business layer using Spring MVC and developed persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Designing Flex UI components as well as development of Flex custom components.  • Developed eye catching MXML view components using Flex Builder.  • Used Cairngorm MVC Architecture to handle the events and to retrieve the data from the server.  • Responsible for design and development of user interface using Flex Layout and Navigation, Data grid menus, and skinning components.  • Used Cisco Cues charts for creating Bar charts, Line charts and Pie Charts to show the project specific performance metrics  • Integrated Flex with BlazeDS to communicate Server side Objects which was build using Spring Framework and Hibernate.  • Extensively used RemoteObjects to retrieve data from the remote server and perform required business functionalities from the front end.  • Used spring framework modules like Core container module, Application context module, Spring AOP module, Spring ORM and Spring MVC module.  • Configured Spring Application-Context.xml used by spring container to inject dependencies to java classes to optimize memory resources.  • Implemented Spring IoC (Dependency Injection) and Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) for the Business as well as Lookup Service Layer development.  • Developed / modified the model components to incorporate new business level validations.  • Responsible for the oracle schema design, generating various POJO objects and generating their corresponding Hibernate mappings (.hbm) files.  • Consumed WebServices for getting the credit card information from third party application.  • Used Singleton and DAO design pattern.  • Test Driven development is done by maintaining the Junit and FlexUnit test cases throughout the application.  • Log4j package is used for the debugging.  • Used ClearCase for version control.  • Ensuring adherence to delivery schedules and quality process on projects.    Environment: Java , J2ee, Spring , Hibernate , Flex , Action Script, MXM, XML, XSD, Java script, Blaze DS , Cairngorm MVC Framework, IBM RAD, ClearCase, Oracle, Log4j, Weblogic, Sql, DbVisualizer, Webservices, Agile, ClearQuest, Maven, UML (Rational Rose), HTML , CSS and Windows 2000 Prof Java/Flex Developer Fidelity National Finance - Atlanta, GA December 2010 to May 2012 Project: Recording Fee Calculator    Responsibilities:  • Followed the Agile methodology iterative process for each of the module in the project.  • Developed the Login Module and Reimbursement Module.  • All modules developed with the framework design patterns and DAOs, Hibernate for persistence layer, Spring Framework for Application layer.  • Prototyped Flex based RFC using Flex, consuming web services using BlazeDS.  • Used Spring framework in enabling Controller Class access to Hibernate.  • Designed and developed several Flex UI Screens and Custom Components using MXML and Action script.  • Designed and developed user interface using Flex Components: ViewStack, Checkboxes, Repeater, Title Window, Text Area and others.  • Created components that have multiple views using States and also used Effects and Transitions when a State is entered or exited.  • Extensively used to data models to store the form data.  • Worked on a proof of concept on Internationalization in flex.  • Developed Action Script functions for event handling response handling and error handling  • Implemented Singleton Service Locator design patterns in Cairngorm MVC architecture to interact with backend.  • Implemented JSON with Flex to feed Data grids into the web application.  • Worked on development of Error Handling mechanism on the Flex side by catching the error  code and message streamed from server and wrapping it in a custom Exception Object.  • Used Blaze DS to connect flex application with backend J2EE and Web Services layer to pull out the data to Flex UI components  • Was responsible for deploying and testing webservices components.  • Responsible to create Web Services to various web applications using Apache Axis 2 responsible to create WSDL, WSDL2Java and Java2WSDL Stubs  • Extensively used SOAP in webservices to communicate with other applications.  • Used SAX and DOM for parsing XML.  • The Log4j package is used for the debugging.  • Created JUnit and FlexUnit test case design logic and implemented throughout application.  • Used ANT tool for building and deploying the application.  • Used Toad tool to create Views and Stored procedures.  • Created Data model (Schema) of the Database.  • The project was implemented in Websphere Application Server for the development and deployment.  • Participated in regular code reviews and design meetings.    Environment: Java, JSP, J2EE, Hibernate, Log4j, Struts, JSON , Apache Axis 2, Spring, WebServices , Adobe flex builder, Flex API ,Blaze DS, Flex, MXML, Action script, Tomcat Web Server, Websphere, IBM RAD V6, ClearCase, JQuery, Agile ,VSS, Sql Server, Pl/Sql ,TOAD, XML, CruiseControl ,Unix, HTML,XSLT and CSS. Skills C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, Ruby, Mongrel, Rails, Ruby on Rails, XML, MYSQL, ORACLE, POSTGRESQL, AJAX, CSS, Haml, TOMCAT, JAVA, HIBERNATE, jQuery, STRUTS Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Ruby, Java, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, CSS, PHP, C, C++  Operating Systems: Linux (Ubuntu/Fedora/RHEL/centOS), Mac OS X, Windows  Databases: MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Framework: Ruby on Rails, Hibernate, Struts  Web/ Application Servers: Mongrel, Apache, Tomcat  Mark-up Languages: HTML, ERB, HAML, XHTML, XML  Development Methodologies: OOAD, SDLC, Unit Testing, AGILE, SCRUM