Java/UI Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/UI Developer - Charter Communications Boston, MA • 8+ years of professional experience as a Java/J2EE Developer in Object Oriented Development, Implementation and Integration of Client-Server and standalone applications using Java/J2EE technologies. (Object Oriented Design and Methodologies) with Realms E-commerce, Telecom, Anti-Virus, Research.  • Proficient in development of Client/Server and web applications using JAVA andJ2EE technologies and web technologies for enterprise applications.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Redux concept.  • Qualified experience in working with Core java concepts which includes Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-threading, Stream and File I/O and Polymorphism.  • Experience in using MVC, SOA architecture and Microservices for implementing the client server business applications.  • Involved in developing applications using JEE, Java Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, JDBC, JPA, Java Swing, Angular JS, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Possess good knowledge in using JPA with spring framework which involves Spring Boot and Spring MVC.  Experience in analysis, Design, Development, Integration, deployment and Maintenance of web applications using Java, JEE, MVC framework, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Spring Boot, EJB, XML, Oracle  • Excellent understanding of software methodologies such as Agile, Waterfall model.  • Very good understanding of Object Oriented Design (OOD), and extensively worked on MVC framework. Experience in Core Java with knowledge of Multithreading, Concurrency and Memory management.  • Involved in dealing with CI/CD tools like Jenkins, Git Stash, Ansible, Chef, Dockers.  Experience in Test documentation and testing using Java, JUNIT. Tools include GitHub, Visual Studio, IntelliJ and Android Studio.Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Angular JS and HTML.  • Extensive experience working with JavaScript Frameworks like Angular.JS, Node.JS, React.JS, Ext.JS.  Strong knowledge in and Responsive Web design.  • Skilled in creating Web Applications, User Interfaces and Layouts with HTML, CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, SAML, XAML and JavaScript using W3C standards  • Contributed to all levels of the user experience and in all phases of the product development lifecycle, from defining a product's overall architecture and structure, to iterating, specifying, and polishing the interaction details for specific features.  • Adept in Product prototyping, mockups, demos and Web browser compatibility issues.  • Experience in developing various UI widgets using jQuery, worked with jQuery library.  • Involved in designing UI patterns and developing applications with the help of Eclipse, Sublime text, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Dreamweaver.  • Expertise in designing, developing and deploying applications using J2EE tech including Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Struts, JSF, AJAX, JNDI, Java Beans and Web Services. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/UI Developer Charter Communications - San Francisco, CA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed various communication channels in Node.JS for playground users such email and chat services and designed front end technologies using CSS, HTML, JSF, JSP, AJAX and handled all the client-side validations using java script and jQuery.  • Designed and implemented restriction service that allowed restriction of certain products across web, m-site and business websites using Spring Boot, Amazon Cloud, Amazon S3 and Elastic Search.  • Responsible for design and development of Interactive User Interface applications using HTML5, CSS3, Angular2, NodeJS, jQuery, AJAX and JSON and was involved in creation of web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in Hibernate, implemented web services in JAXP based on SOAP protocols using XML and XSLT.  • Consumed student information from Briya System by extending Spring Rest spring based on RestControler  • Experienced in AWS cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, EBS, Cloud Watch, Elastic search, Virtual Private Cloud, and API Integration.  • Worked Extensively with the ReactJS by Implemented React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable) and developed UI pages with JSP, Spring MVC, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Node.JS and used Bootstrap for creating Responsive Web pages.  • Worked on Redux Uni-directional data-flow achieving the predictable application behavior and used Sonar, Jenkins to build the projects. Used XML and JSON for transferring/ retrieving data between different Applications. Generated Report Forms by using XSL, XSLT, and transformations.  • Developed reporting dashboards, which processes large amount data that are stored in Elastic Search and My SQL platforms and generates reports and displays in dashboards.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages and responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Use OOD designed and implemented Java enterprise application similar to Twitter which is Multi-tiered web application on open source platforms utilizing Java/J2ee, SQL, JSF, JavaScript, MySQL, Bootstrap and AJAX. Developed UI automation framework for Angular.JS web application using Maven that will run test suites on multiple environments based on user specified external file.  • Used JavaScript for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Created custom angular directives for reusable components.  • Designed UI for the application's structure, navigation, appearance, interaction conventions, and business features. Created diagrams, wireframes, and HTML/CSS prototypes. Wrote use cases, UI specifications and a UI Style Guide.  • Used Angular.js grid to create the grid views for this application.  • Custom node.js proxy used to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete, and to proxy requests to finished client APIs, handling authentication, custom headers, virtual application root, etc.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Integrated Bootstrap.JS into several applications for speeding up Javascript development.  • Edited CSS and HTML/XML source code to customize product appearance to match customer web sites.  • Used Javascript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  • Integrated React.JS components into the Angular.JS application to make webpages more responsive and efficient.  • Implemented Backbone.js and React.JS to create a dynamically changing website.  • Created web application prototype using Angular.JS.  • Designed and developed carrier selection and product selection web pages using HTML, Struts, Servlets and Javascript.  • Implemented a Node.JS server to manage authentication.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content. Management System using Backbone.JS.  • Designed and implementing a Node.JS based web text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend. Java/UI Developer Freedom Mortgage Corp - Columbia, MD February 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library and also identified and created indexes, mappings and data in Elastic search and used Elastic Search REST API's both single and multi-document API's. API's like Index, Multi Get, Bulk etc  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in JENKINS to move from one environment to other environments and captured logs, shows up performance metrics and restart using the Node.JS PM2 process management tool.  • Designed and developed the enterprise class products using Spring MVC, JSF and Oracle ADF as MVC frameworks.  • Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from IBM MQ Series using JMS and used multithreading for writing the collector parser and distributor process, which was getting Realtime data from zacks API in format of JSON, using multithreading improved the performance by a lot. More over using concurrency package of collections made it thread safe.  • Used JMS (Apache Camel) for implementing Service Oriented Architecture for sending and receiving messages while using web services and extensively worked on continuous integration tool like Jenkins and Bamboo for end-to-end automation of various build and deployments.  • Created JS components using JSX and used React JSON schema for implementing the capable of building HTML forms out of a JSON schema and using Bootstrap semantics by default and got involved in developing web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript/ ES5/ ES6, jQuery, JSON, Leaflet.js, NodeJS, ExpressJS and developed different modules using Angular JS.  • Development and Bug fixing IRD application using RESTful, spring, Hibernate, JSP, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3 also developed Maven Build Scripts based on the requirements. Managed Maven project dependencies by creating parent-child relationships between projects.  • Involved in creating slider component navigation bar using ReactJS for menus and highlighting user clicks.  • Worked on one of the UI based application and client focus more on look and feel of the UI. We use lots of customs components to design the UI. Chase standards and HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, EXTJS and AngularJS is being used intensively.  • Used Hibernate JPA Entity Manager for CRUD Operations.  • Architected production enterprise migration from VMWare SQL Server to AWS based MongoDB.  • SOAP and Plugin integration of PC and BC application.  • Diverse experience in implementing N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring MVC, AWS, Cassandra, My SQL, SQLServer, Restful Web Services.  • Build and deployment of eclipse plugins.  • Configured WebSphere Application Server and WebSphere Portal Server with Tivoli Access Manager. Setup the application in WSAD/Eclipse.  • Create, maintain, and administer GitHub and Subversion repositories as source code managements.  • Developed JUnit test classes using Mockito for web service classes  • Served as a key liaison between the management, design and development team. Conducted Scrum Training workshops and user story writing workshops to familiarize stakeholders with Scrum process skeleton and concept.  • Create use case, UML diagrams, data flow diagrams, and business process and data process models for various documents.  • Experience in working with build & deployment tools like Maven, Ant, and Jenkins.  • Use JSF to design web application. Including DB connection, pom.xml file for Dependency Injection, java and XHTML File, MVC model  • Experience on total software development life cycle (SDLC) with programming advancement models like JIRA, Agile Scrum Model, Prototype demonstration and RUP, Waterfall display.    Environment: JavaScript, CSS, Html5 , Node.js, Angular.js, bootstrap.js, ReactJs, backbone.js, JQuery, Spring, Hibernate, DB2, CRUD, PL/ SQL , MongoDB, soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, WebSphere Studio Application Devloper (WSAD), Subversion (SVN), Junit, Jasimine, Scrum, UML, MAVEN, Xml, JIRA Java/UI Developer Unitedhealth Group - Columbus, OH February 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed web service using JavaScript framework ReactJS to facilitate consumer-driven contract integration testing between micro services and created business modules with JSP, Servlet, Struts framework, java, XML/XSL and EJB technologies.  • Designed and implemented the web application in Node.js, HTML5 and jQuery from initial concept development to beta launch and contributed in developing a back-end application to pick up live data using JMS from Queues, reformat it and load it to a new SQL data base.  • Implemented Restful Webservice using Jersey API to extract the required data from the legacy database and was responsible in developing front end screens using JSP, JSTL, jQuery, XSLT, DHTML, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript. Also, involved in adding the Internationalization to the existing application.  • Designed and developed a web-based test client using Spring, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, HTML and JMS to test different parts of the application.  • Design and develop custom Adobe LiveCycle work processes and solutions utilizing both Workbench and the Adobe APIs.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller, which isolate scopes perform operations and developed single page applications, components using Angular JS directives, controllers, view and routing, service modules.  • Currently supporting springs and Struts integrated with Hibernate and SOAP web services applications along with development activities and implemented Spring JDBC, Hibernate and SQL Queries to perform DML operations on the MS SQL Database.  • Contributed in writing multiple hibernate queries, mapping files, entities and models on SQL Server database and worked with ReactJS components, Redux Forms, Events, Router and Flux concept.  • Installed and configured JENKINS for automating Deployments and providing automation solution and was involved in developing applications with Stateless Session EJB's and Message Driven EJB's.  • Integrated GIT into JENKINS to automate the code check-out process using Active MQ as a JMS client to exchange messages with web services.  • Working with SOAP web services & EJB to communicate with the applications and developed XML and XSLT pages to store and present data to the user using parsers for extensive usage of Struts, HTML, CSS, JSP, jQuery, AJAX and JavaScript for interactive pages and implemented the user interface using JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, CSS, HTML and jQuery.  • Worked on Jasper reports using iReport tool and integrated that JRXML into spring frame work and created RESTFULL APIs using Spring MVC and used both annotation based configuration and XML based.  • Used maven to manage the dependencies, SVN for version control and Junit for Unit testing and created and configured cloud VM on Amazon Web Services (AWS) also integrated Hibernate with Spring ORM for database mapping.  • Developed a SQL Server Database, coupled with an Access Data Project front end, which would utilize GPS data available from fleet tracking companies in conjunction with federal tax regulations established for transportaion workers, to maximize travel deductions for long haul truckers. Additionaly, various "proof of concept" SSIS packages were written, as well as a skeleton for a larger package which was to be used for ETL to a SQL Server back end for further processing.  • Integrate Oracle Scheduler with CC&B cluster mode batch using Coherence.  Environment: CC&B, Oracle Coherence.  • Modelled MESI snooping cache coherence protocol backend controller in C  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, apache rewrite rules for routing the calls to CQ5.  • Designed WSDL and exposed SOAP based web services for chase subsystems.  • Expertise in configuring a domain, deploying applications, configuring data sources, logging and web subsystems in JBOSS and EAP.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Administer ClearCase license server and FLEXlm, provide licensing audition reports and analysis, monitor company wide licensing usage, and needs.  • Utilized Selenium IDE to Record and Play minor web based application fixes.  • Executed project using waterfall model and practiced Agile Project Management & performed the Scrum Master role for specific projects/requirements as appropriate. Used Rally for Agile project management  • Documented Architecture and Functional designs using Star UML to prepare Use case, Sequence, Class, Collaboration and Component Diagrams  • Identified and documented business needs and created detailed use cases using UML, and collaborated with production team to identify and map detailed existing processes, identify system gaps and developed functional requirements documentation (FRD) that supported overall strategy, goals and objectives.    Environment: JQuery, AJAX, DOJO, Sencha ExtJS, Spring, IBatis, Struts & JSF, EJB, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans, Jboss, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water fall model, UML, JSP & SERVLET, ANT, Xml, ITEXT, EMC Documentum, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), JIRA, SWING, Cognos, Jasper report. Java/UI Developer Comcast Corporation - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Proven track record in Graphic and User Experience, Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images.  • Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, JQuery, React.JS and Dojo toolkit.  • Experience with Responsive Web Design patterns and Bootstrap.  • Expertise in designing and developing User Experiences for Web Applications using Web Authoring tools such as Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Illustrator, and Adobe Flash.  • Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, JQuery, Angular.js, React.JS, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • High-level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Skilled in architecting and automating the build process for production, using task runners or scripts  • Proficient documenting the code inline using JSDoc or other convention.  • Experience in developing both front end and back end applications using Java, J2EE, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3,JavaScript, Angular.js, React JS, Spring MVC, Spring, Hibernate, Cloud Applications, Node JS, SAAS, RWD, DOM, Gulp, Python, jQuery, and Ajax.  • Good experience on various JavaScript Frameworks depending on the use case (e.g. JQuery, React JS, Angular JS).  • Expert in working with cutting edge front-end technologies/ framework and libraries like JQuery, Prototype,(X)HTML, DHTML, OO JavaScript, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML/XSLT, AJAX.  • Proficient with creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash and Adobe Illustrator.  • Expert in resolving User Interface issues using various front end technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular.js and AJAX.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Good experience in developing web Applications using Spring MVC, Struts framework implementing Action Controllers, Action Forms, Spring Validation Framework and Spring Tag Libraries.  • Experience in using Web Services like SOAP protocol in JAXWS and RESTFUL Web Services  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Ability to handle multiple tasks and to work independently as well as in a team, experienced in interacting with Business/Technology groups.    Environment: Angular2, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, Angularjs, JavaScript, React JS, JQuery, Spring MVC, Chrome Developer Tools, Restful Web services, JSON, Advanced Rest Client, SVN, Maven, Eclipse, Tomcat. Frontend Developer [UI] SA Technologies Inc - Santa Clara, CA October 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Proficient in making AJAX calls using JQuery and usage of JSON for faster and impulsive responses.  • Extensive knowledge in developing single page applications (SPAs) using JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS and ReactJS.  • Strong design aesthetics for Typography, Usability concepts, Layout, Branding, Representing content and data in wire frames, and web user interface.  • Excellent experience and Knowledge in CSS with preprocessors like LESS and SASS.  • Good knowledge of Responsive Web Design (RWD) using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  Ability to apply W3C web standards to ensure best cross-browser user experience, long-term user retention, and engagement.  • Experience in working on Routes in AngularJS creating the base route and extensions by using Router Config as an injectable URL path and customized component for each of the web page in Angular.  • Adapted Model-View-Controller (MVC) frameworks for developing web applications.  • Command in React JS for creating interactive UI using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts. Worked extensively on Angular 2, Typescript SPA domains.  • Sound understanding of RESTful services and APIs.  • Extensive knowledge in developing dynamic Interactive graphs using D3.js with JSON data and use of D3.js for charting and rich interactive widgets.  • Excellent knowledge of JavaScript, CSS and their behavior on different browsers.  • Worked on multiple JavaScript frameworks (Node.js) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  • Designed a custom Ext.JS message bus used to loosely couple Ext.JS components and application logic - essentially a front-end controller.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Responsible to store and retrieve user entered data to HTML session storage hence give user feature of running several session at one time.  • Planed, developed, implement, debug and support user friendly front end applications for products and client sites.  • Wrote JavaScript code using AJAX, JSON features and also used the annotation capabilities of the same for Restful services.  • Designed and coded JAXB API to interact with third party application for asynchronous loading and parsing of JMS XML messages.  • Used JSTL and custom tag library with frameworks such as Ajax and jQuery, to build interactive and attractive user interfaces.  • Designed and implemented core Java functionality, including the basic database access layer, generic form handling routines and JSP.  • Designed and guided the team for implementing Client module and XSL conversions using XSLT (XALAN).  • Build scripts using ANT and MAVEN build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Developed applications using Spring Framework for Dependency Injection (Inversion of Control) and implemented the business logic using EJB (session and entity beans).  • Make JavaScript/HTML modifications and add features to Mapping Locators on clients' pages as per Client.    Environment: HTML, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Backbone JS, AJAX Controls, Adobe Flash CS3, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Web Services and SQL Server 2008, Macromedia Flash MX, JQuery, JavaScript, MXML, Ajax, Home Site, Java, JSP, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT and MY-SQL Frontend Developer [UI] CITI Bank - New York, NY October 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Utilized modular structure within the Angular JS and Node.js application in which different functionalities within the application were divided into different modules.  • Used angular jqDialogs to create the custom dialogs.  • Developed JavaScript based components using Ext.JS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Coded web applications utilizing programming languages including JavaScript, jQuery, SQL and AJAX.  • Developing Hybrid applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.JS that are cross platform compatible.  • Used Angular context-menu for custom tool-tip.  • Created and modified new and existing pages, applied new styles on the pages with the help of Dojo and JavaScript.  • Developed, tested, and deployed Storify Business feature set in Node.js with and database backend.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Ext. JS for validating client-side validations.  • Used MVC architecture of Ext. JS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  • Defined Ext.JS (UI Layer) Architecture and Design screen mock-up using Ext.JS and Sencha.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application. Hands-on experience in developing integration with Elastic search in any of the programming languages like JAVA and JavaScript. Having knowledge of advance reporting using Elastic search and Node JS.  • Developed a new NodeJS middleware by integrating AngularJS into the new API micro services through the EAN stack. These NodeJS apps will be within Docker containers.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Worked with ELK (Elastic Search, Log stash, Kibana) for log Analytics, security purposes, collects the real-time data from different sources, analyze the data available, to create attractive dashboards.  • Experience working on Redux Uni-directional data-flow achieving the predictable application behavior and got involved in ReactJS for Data patterns which improves readability and made it easier to maintain larger apps and Responsible for adding new product features, bug fixes, and transitioning Account pages to the new platform using ReactJS and used for fast fetching the data from different API's.  • Improved entire release process by automating all manual/time consuming steps with DeVops tools like Chef, Jenkins also used Spring MVC as framework and JavaScript for client-side view, used frameworks for client-side data validation, creating dynamic web pages-Ajax, jQuery. Developed model classes based on the forms to be displayed on the UI.  • Extensively used Eclipse Developer and BE WebLogic Application Server for developing and deploying EJBs and used AJAX for developing asynchronous web applications on client side. Developed a single page web application using AngularJS library and various JS libraries like chart, grid UI for angular, bar, jQuery etc.  • Used a concept called Virtual DOM in ReactJS to create in-memory data structure cache, enumerate the resulting differences, and then update the browser's displayed DOM efficiently and also worked on One Stop Parking client's communication needs of their web site.    Environment: Java, CSS, HTML, XHTML, Java, IIS, Adobe Dreamweaver MX, Macromedia Flash MX, Adobe Fireworks MX, IIS and Oracle. HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat, Web logic, Web Sphere, IIS, Node server Wire Frame Tools: Adobe Illustrator CS3, Microsoft Vision Education Master of Science Science and Engineering Florida State University Skills AJAX (9 years), CSS (9 years), HTML (9 years), Java (9 years), java script (9 years)