Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Deseret News Edison, NJ • Over 9 years of IT experience with Salesforce.com CRM as Developer.  • Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, requirement engineering, architecture design, development, enhancements, testing, deployment and maintenance.  • Experience in administration, configuration, Implementation, and Support of Salesforce CRM and Salesforce SFA applications based on Apex Language and leveraging Force.com Platform.  • Experience in creating many Work Flows, Validation rules, Approval Processes,Triggers, Sharing Rules and also the most complex Apex classes to meet the client's requirement and functionality.  • Experience in designing custom objects, custom fields, role based page layouts, custom Tabs, custom reports, report folders, report extractions to various formats, design of Visual Force Pages, Snapshots, Dashboards, Apex Classes, Controllers & Triggers, and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Experience working with Force.com IDE and salesforce.com Sandbox environments.  • Proficient in Creating Custom Page layouts based on record types design and implementation.  • Experience in developing Intranet/Internet multi-tiered application using IDEs such as Websphere Studio Application Developer, Eclipse, MyEclipse.  • Experience enterprise applications using Struts and spring Framework.  • Experience in Markup Languages like XML, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  • Experience in GUI designing and validations using HTML, Java Script, CSS, JSP and Applet.  • Development experience in various platforms like MS Office, Visio documenting tool and Windows (XP, NT, 2000, 98, 95).  • Thorough understanding of SDLC Methodologies like waterfall, Iterative, Agile (SCRUM).  • Experienced in Smoke Testing, Functional Testing, Regression Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing, Backend Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  • Capability to adapt and learn quickly to new tools, techniques, and approaches.  • Ability to handle multiple tasks and work independently as well as in a team.  • Excellent communication and inter-personal skills, accustomed to working in both large and small team environments.  • A team player with a strong work ethic, a positive attitude and the ability to make the best use of individual resources. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer Deseret News - Salt Lake City, UT July 2018 to Present Deseret news is a digital publication company with operations in current events, Science, fiction, genre. They sell digital content to government institutions, education institutions and hospitality institutions. The sales process is distributor based andsales operations were automated using Salesforce platform.  Responsibilities: • Performing the role of Salesforce.com Developer in the organization.  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects including Accounts, Contacts, Loads, Opportunities, Reports, Dashboards, Events and Tasks.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, validation rules, Components.  • Using Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes and Visual force pages to develop custom business logic.  • Used Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.  • Worked with SOQL & SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to manipulate the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  • Encrypted sensitive data with Encryption Fields feature.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response for automating business logic.  • Developed Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for creating effects in Visual force pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Developed several Custom Reports & Dashboards to better assist managers and also report folder to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel.  • Worked on Unit testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Script, Webservices API, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, CSS, Encryption Fields, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Page Layouts, HTML, Java Script, Reports, Dashboards, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP. Salesforce Developer Mission SF Community Financial - San Francisco, CA October 2015 to September 2018 Mission SF Community Financial Center (Mission SF) works with Community Trust Credit Union, a division of Self-Help Credit Union, to provide high-quality financial counseling and credit building services for adults as well as innovative financial education programs for children and young adults.  Responsibilities:   • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application using the Eclipse IDE.  • Created custom objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships among the objects. Also created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects in data model.  • Good knowledge in developing the documents for data model design in Salesforce CRM.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Develop Visual force pages, Visual Force Custom Controller Components, Advanced Search functionality, Custom Objects, Tabs, Tags and Components.  • Proficient in using Eclipse based Salesforce.com IDE to develop and deploy into production.  • Having good experience with custom settings to develop the auto search functionality in salesforce.com.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Visual Work flows, Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in Salesforce Developer Origin Digital - Hoboken, NJ September 2012 to October 2015 Origin Digital is a global IP broadcasting company and applies extensive broadcast video experience to the latest media and content management technologies, providing a suite of services that capture, convert and control digital media. The Sales force CRM application is used by the sales teams to keep track of customers, opportunities in pipeline and activities.    Responsibilities: • Created web-to-Lead for partner on boarding and deal registration forms • Developed Queues for the specific leads based on the lead assignment rules • Created approval process for the partner and deal registration users • Implemented the logic to find the existing matches for the account, contact and opportunity • Created Visualforce pages and Apex classes • Developed Apex triggers, Apex classes and test methods • Integrated Salesforce.com with Siebel,.Net systems using SalesforceWeb Services • Wrote various queries in generating reports using combination of custom objects and standard objects • Used Data Loader for Data Management in force.com platform • Perform administration tasks as needed, managing custom fields, integration and data cleanup • Involved in security levels and privileges by customizing Salesforce.com Profiles and Roles • Migrated Accounts, Leads, Contacts, Opportunities and sales data from external systems into Quest Salesforce.com instance • Involved in setting up field level access for each custom object created based on the user's role within the organization.  • Worked with field & page layout customization for the standard objects like Account, contact, Leads.  • Involved in customizing custom objects, tabs, fields, page layout as per the business need.  • Have worked on moving data from external legacy system into Sales force application using Apex Data loader&CSV files • Worked on workflow rules & approval processes    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows Java/J2EE Developer Wayne Dalton - Millersburg, OH November 2010 to 2012 Partner Connect Application Provides Customers of Wayne-Dalton to Customize and Order Garage Doors, window doors and home settings on Internet. It provides the selection doors from Warehouses Located at different locations of Wayne Dalton. It Provides Customer to Select the Doors for Commercial or House hold purpose, and provides the customer with cart based application to select different utilities or parts for the doors and create a Quote for the selected items and Generate Proposal in different Formats and place Orders.    Responsibility: • Involved in Analyzing Software Requirements, Specification, Design and implementation of application.  • Created detailed design documents using UML (like Use case, Class, Sequence, and Component diagrams) using Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed front end using JSP, JSTL and Expression Language.  • Designed and implemented new module (Search Item) with JSF and Hibernate technologies for prototype.  • Expertise in Web Page development using, XML, XSLT, DTD, Parsers, JSP and CSS.  • Prepare and review the technical design for the system that adheres to the MVC architecture using Front Controller, Business Delegate and Data Access Object patterns.  • Designed and implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j API.  • Involved to implements the Session beans and implemented JNDI to access those EJB's.  • Implemented Client Side and Server Side validations using Struts Validation Framework.  • Created web services using SOA like SOAP and producing WSDL to the Client side people.  • Used JAXB to generate Java classes from an XML Schema to access external data.  • Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using ORM tool Hibernate.  • Transaction Management using the Hibernate configurations • Implemented build scripts using ANT to create WAR and deploy in application server.  • Responsible for development of configuration, mapping and Java beans for Persistent layer (Object and Relational Mapping) using Hibernate.  • Involved in Writing and reviewing unit test cases using JUnit.  • Write and modify database stored procedures, triggers, functions, and PL/SQLScripts in TOAD to improve db performance.    Environment: JDK 1.5, JSP, HTML, JSF, EJB, Struts Framework 1.1, Struts Validation Framework, Struts Tiles, Hibernate, Eclipse 3.2, JSF, Hibernate, JavaScript, Web services (SOAP, WSDL), Apache Axis1.2, LDAP, XML, JAXB, SQL, PL/SQL, IBM MQSeries 5.0, WSAD 5.1, IBM Websphere Application server 5.1, IBM Rational Toolset, iTtracker , ANT, JUnit, Win CVS, Log4J, Oracle 10g and Windows XP. Education Master's in Mathematics in Mathematics Stanford University Skills Apex (6 years), database. (4 years), HTML (7 years), Loader (6 years), workflow (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Salesforce Technologies  • Sales force SFA, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages/Components, Apex Web Services, AJAX, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects, Territory Management, CLI, Apex Data Loader    Languages Apex, C++, Java, Java Script, HTML and SQL  Database PL/SQL, Oracle 8i, MS Access    Operating Systems Windows NT / 2000 / XP Pro / Vista, Windows Server 2000 / 2003 / 2008  Test Tools QualityCenter9.x,WinRunner8.2 , Bugzilla, Clearquest