Java Full-Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full-Stack Developer Nashville, TN One of my greatest strengths is adapting to new situations. My mission is to work within a vicinity where I can keep consistent with my work ethic and do more than what is enough. Work Experience Java Full-Stack Developer Revature - Reston, VA May 2019 to July 2019 *First Assignment:  ? Develop a functional personal website using HTML code and external CSS styling in Visual Studio Code  *Project0:  ? Develop a Java console-based bank account manager that prompts the user for a role (manager or customer), then display the appropriate options and populates tables in Oracle through SQL queries  depending on the transactions made  *Project1:  ? Develop a sample company reimbursement system using JDBC, Java Servlets, HTML, and Javascript. Audio Engineer Western IL University September 2018 to May 2019 Record orchestral and solo performances using ProTools HD  ? Stream the performances for documentation and advertisement purposes (Wirecast)  ? Report A/V issues to my team including my supervisors Web Application Programmer Western IL University July 2018 to May 2019 Convert a system from the Google App Engine to a Tomcat Servlet (with data in memory)  ? Client Server (removed code smells) IT Support Technician Western IL University February 2017 to August 2018 Provide telephone support and transfer calls to the appropriate department  ? Remove viruses with Malwarebytes and Ccleaner  ? Assist with the installation of software needed for specific courses (MathLab, Office 16, etc)  ? Provide on-screen support via remote desktop connection  ? Enter tickets in the SysAid system that detail each issue with which I worked on for documentation and future troubleshooting purposes  ? Collaborate with coworkers on new policies and ways to handle issues over meetings and on the job  ? Reset students' and faculty passwords  ? Connect university affiliates the campus wifi Camp Counselor Camp Shalom - Maquoketa, IA May 2017 to August 2017 Lead worship sessions once a week  ? Create and carry out an activities list each week starting on Sunday  ? Direct devotion before bed every night to reflect on the day, and get to know my campers more IT Office Assistant Ashford University - Clinton, IA September 2014 to December 2015 Replace printer ink toners  ? Remove viruses with Malwarebytes  ? Reset campus employees' and students' passwords  ? Report classroom issues to my supervisor Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Western IL University 1 University Circle - Macomb, IL January 2016 to May 2019 Skills ORACLE, VM, CISCO, UNIX, TECHNICAL SUPPORT Links http://github.com/smithk53 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Software Applications: CCleaner, Malwarebytes, MS Suite (Word, Excel, Powerpoint), Adobe (Photoshop 7.0, Reader DC), Windows Defender, Cisco AnyConnect, Putty, Oracle VM VirtualBox, Remote Desktop Connection  Operating Systems:  Windows ('95, Vista, XP, 7, 8, 9.1, 10)  Unix  Ubuntu  MacOS (OSX 10.4,10.6,10.10,10.11,10.13)    INTER-PERSONAL SKILLS  Problem Solver  Listening  Teamwork  Leadership  Risk Taker  Adaptability  Customer Service  Sales  Technical Support  Data Entry