Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Tradeweb Markets LLC New York, NY • Around 11+ years of experience as a Java/J2EE Developer in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, implementation, integration, testing and maintenance of applications using Java/J2EE and Object-Oriented Client-Server technologies.  • Involved in complete testing lifecycle of DEV, SIT, UAT and Pre-PROD.  • Proficiency in programming with different Java IDE's like Eclipse, Net Beans.  • Sound knowledge in developing applications using three tier architectural frameworks such as MVC (Model View Controller) like Struts, Spring framework.  • Having good knowledge on server side JavaScript programming like node.js.  • Proficient in developing Object Oriented Software projects on Operating systems like UNIX, and Windows [XP/7].  • Building and Deployment of EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage and production servers.  • Specialized in developing Web 2.0 Apps using JQuery Along with AJAX/ JavaScript.  • Experienced in deploying applications on Application servers such ason the Tomcat 3.x/4.x Web server.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, Jquery, Java/J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, XML.  • Extensively used Spring technology features: Dependency Injection, Security, AOP, Transaction Management and Spring JDBC.  • Expertise in implementing applications with Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern using Spring MVC, Struts2x/1x MVC and implementing various Java/J2EE design patterns including Singleton, Factory and MVC.  • Extensive hands on experience in developing integration applications and message transfers using TIBCO software tools.  • Proficient in implementing Model-View-Controller (MVC) Architecture for enterprise applications using Spring, Struts, Hibernate, JPA and JMS frameworks.  • Extensively used several interfaces and features provided by Spring MVC framework for new web applications like Handler Mappings, Controllers, View Resolvers, Multipart file resolver, Handler Interceptor, Handler Exception Resolver, Locale Resolver, Theme Resolver, Annotations, Validators.  • Used many Handler Mappings such as Simple Url Handler Mapping, Controller Class Handler Mapping, default Bean Name Url Handler Mapping to map incoming request to appropriate handlers defined by controllers.  • Expertise in core java that includes concurrency, Exception Handling, Multithreaded programming, String Handling, memory management, Generics and Java swing development.  • Good work experience in RDMBS such as Oracle 10g, DB2 and MySQL.  • Experience on working with J2EE Application Server -JBossand Tomcat Server.  • Experience in implementation of the version control software SVN andGit.  • Expertise in object oriented analysis and design (OOAD) of distributed web based applications.  • Expertise in implementing the design and development modules using Agile Methodology and waterfall model.  • Expert in using IDE tools like NetBeansand Eclipse and the plugins for database, web services and REST API.  • Experienced in developing Web, Client/Server, multi-tiered applications from designing of the architecture, requirements gathering through selenium testing and installation with quick learning curve on new technologies and excellent analytical, logical and inter personal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer Tradeweb Markets LLC - Jersey City, NJ September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Involved in creating pages from mockups using JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS3, and HTML5  • Worked with Bootstrap Twitter Framework and Angular JS to Design single page application.  • Implemented modularization for entire application by using MVC.  • Created Directives, Controllers and Services by using AngularJS.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, jQuery UI and Angular JS.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML 2.0, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Developed generalized service class by using AngularJS  • Deep understanding of JavaScript and the jQuery Framework.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  • Thorough understanding of the differences and bugs in different browsers and versions.  • Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies.  • Worked on implementation of modules with integration with service desk & clarity for ticket management &portfolio integration of services.  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams  • Excellent problem solving skills and the ability to work independently.  • Extensive experience in implementing model-view-controller (MVC) architecture using Angular Framework.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Extensively used CSS3 (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  Environment: JDK 1.3, J2EE, JSP, HTML/CSS, Java Beans, MDB, JDBC, MS SQL Server, JBoss, CVS, JavaScript, SAX parser, Eclipse, ANT, JUnit 3.x. Senior Java Developer Moody's Corporation - New York, NY May 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Used Agile methodology in developing the application, which includes iterative application development, 2 week-sprints, daily stand up meetings, Sprint Retrospective, Sprint Planning, Story Estimates and customer reporting backlogs(bugs).  • Collaborated with the business and technical teams and took the responsibility to document the functional and technical specifications in the business requirements analysis phase.  • Developed a Java /J2EE based Web Application with complete Spring suite, implementing Spring MVC and other Spring modules.  • Developed front end pages using JSP, JSTL, CSS and XHTML. Used JavaScript for toggling, disabling the elements of dojo and creating JSON trees.  • Developed single page applications using AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Extensively worked on AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Extensively used core Java concepts like Multi-threading, Collections, File I/O and concurrency.  • Developed session beans as part of Springto handle business logic and deployed them on Tomcat application server.  • Worked on CORE JAVA (Collections of type Generics, ArrayLists) and used the core packages.  • Developed Business components and integrated those using Spring features such as Dependency Injection, auto wiringvarious components such as DAO layers and Service Proxy layers.  • Implemented Hibernate as ORM and integrated to Spring using Spring ORM.  • Responsible for implementing an API that allowed fetching enrolled person and device information from an iOS device.  • Developed servlets and utilized to create a fast and efficient chat server.  • Created a service for moving data from one database to the other database based on some specifications which uses Spring 3.0.  • Implemented all the components following test-driven development (TDD) methodology using JUnit.  • Used JDBC API and HQL (Hibernate Query Language) to query the Database System and used JDBC Thin Driver to connect to the database.  • Developed queues using AWS SQS with JMS for services to subscribe and listen events.  • Extensively worked with the retrieval and manipulation of data from database by writing queries using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Created stored procedures, packages, sequences and PL/SQL statements to different operations on the database.  • Developed the RESTful web services using JAX-RS.  • Designed Test cases, Test scenarios & Test scripts for Unit testing and Black box perform testing.  • Developed Log4j logs to record the application events to provide the debugging, monitoring and auditing capabilities to the application.  • Created UNIX shell scripting for periodic generation of reports. Wrote rules for Skip Logic using drools which we call in JavaScript functions.  • Used Git as a version control. Used Git bash, Source tree and Tortoise Git tools for version control. Creating branches on the source code, adding, staging and committing code as a part of development.  • Used Jira which is integrated with Issues, Code, Builds and Documents related to the project as a part of agile methodology (Atlassian JIRA and JIRA Plugins).  • Used JBoss as the application servers.  • Conducted and participated code reviews and design reviews meetings.  • Troubleshoot and fix the issues as part of Performance, Pre-Prod and Prod deployments whenever the release is committed.    Environment: Java EE 5, Rational Application Developer 7.0, WebSphere Application Server 6.1, Oracle 10g, JSP 2.1, HTML/DHTML, EJB 3.0, Spring 2.0, Hibernate 3.0 JavaScript, IBM MQ Series, AJAX, JNDI, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, JAXP, JAXB, XML, ANT, JUnit, Log4j, CVS, Windows XP. Java Developer World Fuel Services Corporation - Miami, FL July 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented the Design and developing modules using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in creating a spring Integration for existing project.  • Designed and developed spring configuration files and implemented architecture and developed day to day code for the business logic.  • Implemented OOPS and Multi-threading to good effect in various parts of the application.  • Used Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate objects in the business logic layer.  • Developed java classes that used JMS to communicate with the Queue managers.  • Used Annotation based controller configuration for Spring MVC controllers.  • Developed business processes by configuring shared resources, creating process definitions, creating activities, configuring message transports using Tibco business works.  • Used Web services for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Good understanding of the various states of objects in Hibernate and well versed with the transportation of data objects across the tiers by detaching, reattaching to the session.  • Used Oracle 11g SQL prompt to interact with the database.  • Worked with different utility classes that are used all over the application for validations and formatting at the back end.  • Worked on Tibco messaging development and design using the tibco rendezvous java api.  • Developed Log4j logs to record the application events to provide the debugging, monitoring and auditing capabilities to the application.  • Used Git as a version control. Used Git bash, Source tree and Tortoise Git tools for version control. Creating branches on the source code, adding, staging and committing code as a part of development.  • Used Jira which is integrated with Issues, Code, Builds and Documents related to the project as a part of agile methodology (Atlassian JIRA and JIRA Plugins).  • Used Maven to build and manage the project.  • Developed JUnit test cases for required module.  • Used Tomcat server for the application development and deployment.  • Used Git as a version control.  Environment: JDK1.7, Spring Integration, Hibernate, Oracle Sql, Git, JUnit, Restful Web Services, Tomcat 7.x. Linux/Windows, STS, Spring, Tibco 8.4, MAVEN 3.0, XML Java Developer Talbots - Hingham, MA January 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involve in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data Specifications for application development.  • Developed in Agile/Scrum methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Develop/program new functionality and features in line with functional specifications and business requirements.  • Provide recommendations to management concerning issues of programmer productivity and software development management.  • Develop core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  • Re-factor existing code structure to separate core business logic and Data Access Objects (DAOs).  • Implement Hibernate for data persistence and management.  • Analyze and fix issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Interfaces using MuleSoft's Mule Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) platform to deliver fast, reliable, and scalable integration API code.  • Write database queries and programs for data insertion, updates and views.  • Design and develop the presentation layer using JSPs and JavaScript.  • Used Spring JMS related MDB to receive the messages from another team.  • Involve in design, configuration, development and bug-fixes.  • Conduct system analysis and development, with limited support from professional staff, to keep our systems current with changing technologies.  • Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC  • Build Maven script for the application and used Log 4J for debugging.  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider. This feature was implemented using REST API.  • Developed the presentation layer written using JSP, HTML, CSS and client-side validations were done using JAVASCRIPT.  • Analyze, design, development of software systems to form a basis for the solution of information processing problems.  • Responsible for analysis of current programs including performance, diagnosis and troubleshooting of programs presenting challenges and design solutions to overcome such.  • Responsible for developments with clients and third parties in ensuring and meeting structural requirements.  • Configured various interceptors for transaction management, security, Audit logging(database) and logging using Spring AOP  • Used ANT scripts for automated deployment  • Exported web services using JAX-WS Spring support. Extensive experience in production support.  • Implemented external customer page using Spring MVC pattern and IOC.  • Integrated Hibernate with Spring by coding a Spring Configuration file.  • Conduct functional and performance testing.  • Respond promptly and professionally to bug reports.  Environment: Java 1.6, Spring Framework 4.0, Hibernate, Node.js, Jenkins, Maven, Oracle 10g, JPA, Web Services, REST API, WSDL, XML, JAXB, WebSphere Server 7.0, DB Visualize, Logging, Ant. Java Developer Chenoa Information Services - Princeton, NJ October 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, and Development and Support phases of SDLC.  • Worked on Agile Methodology with daily Scrum calls and Test Driven Development(TDD).  • Developed the application implementing MVC architecture, using Spring frameworks.  • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON, DOJO and JQuery.  • Designed and developed Restful Web services using Java, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, AJAX, and Multi-Threading in Annotations based xml configuration and auto wired the application components.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection feature for Bean wiring.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Designed the application by executing Spring Framework based on MVC and Microservicesarchitecture.  • Developed JAX-RS RESTful web services that consumes and produces both XML and JSON content using jersey and Spring MVC and for securing the REST API used Spring Boot and Spring Security.  • Involved in creating DAO's and used Hibernate for ORM mapping in Integration with Spring Bootapplication.  • Designed validation services on Hibernate framework for integration with MySQL Database.  • Developed our application in Multi-Threading environment and extensive usage of various Collection Objects depending on the requirement.  • Involved in developing SQL and Stored procedures with MySQL RDBMS.  • Used XML SAX to parse the simulated xml file that has simulated test data.  • Wrote JAXB XML parsers for XML Schema Validation and used Rest for sending and getting date from different application.  • Developed and performed unit testing scripts with JUnit API in TDD environments.  • Presentation tier of the application was built using JSPs, and Servlets.  • Deployed the application under Apache Tomcat Application Server and resolved the production issues during migration onto the production server.  • Troubleshooting Issues related to Applications, Webserver, Middleware, Databases etc. for each application flow.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and to automate and build the application to generate WARand JAR files.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application.  • Involved in the development of Maven scripts for build-management and used TFS as the Configuration control tool.  • Used JIRA extensively to log all issues and track development status.  • Worked closely with the Testing Team for identifying and fixing bugs.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Tomcat Application Server, Hibernate, MVC, XML, JSON, JSP, JSF, Java Script, JQuery, HTML, DOJO, Spring MVC 4, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Jenkins, AJAX, Linux, TDD, Rest, IBM MQ, Multi-threading, Servlets, IntelliJ, MySQL, Maven, SAX, JAXB, JAX-RS, JIRA, JUNIT, Eclipse, TFS. Java Developer Ikon Systems LLC - Westlake, TX June 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering, design and analysis of the system  • Worked with customers to gather requirements and develop use cases, project and test plans.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, Java script, AJAX, JSP and tag librariesetc.  • Used Core concepts like Collection, Exception Handling, and Multi-threading.  • Developed Business logic of the application using Java, Spring Core and implemented it in MVCarchitecture using Spring MVC.  • Used Struts MVC objects like Controllers, Validators, Web Application Context, Action Servlet, Handler Mapping, and Form Controller.  • Implemented Web Services based in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP.  • Also, developed Web Services using Soap, WSDL, and test with SOAP UI.  • Developed Servlets to get the information to be displayed on different pages.  • Used SQL Programming extensively to talk to Oracle database.  • Developed Restful Web services using JQuery, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Restful API.  • Developed Rest web services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from DB  • Used SOAP UI tool is used for testing Restful web services.  • Created Stored Procedures using PL/SQL.  • Used Hibernate for database connectivity.  • Developed DAOs (Data Access Object) using Hibernate as ORM to interact with RDBMS  • Developed Database SQL queries for the application.  • Responded for Parsing XML data using XML parse.  • Deployed the application on the Weblogic Server.  • Unit tested the application using Junit.  • Used Eclipse as IDE to develop the application.  • Used GitHub as version control tool and ANT as build tool.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, SOA, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, Restful, Struts, SAOP, JSP, MVC, Multi-threading, Collections, AJAX, JDBC, XML, Weblogic, Unix, GitHub, SQL, JMS, PL/SQL, TDD, Eclipse, ANT, Junit. Java Developer ITmPowered - Greenwood Village, CO January 2008 to May 2009 Responsibilities:    • Worked extensively on the front-end using JSP, CSS, JavaScript, Slick Grid, and jQuery & Spring Ajax.  • Used Spring Framework to integrate with OR mapping tool Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate to store the persistence data into the Oracle11g database and used Criteria API to access the data from the database.  • Extensively used Hibernate concepts such as inheritance, lazy loading, dirty bit checking, optimistic locking, and transactions.  • Used the spring open source framework for building JSP based web application based on the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design paradigm.  • Implemented asynchronous multi-thread processing of files ( Java Message Service, Message Driven Beans, PL/SQL, and Triggers).  • Used Ant & maven scripts for build and deployment of the application and CVS & SVN as the secure Versioning software.  • Responsibilities include understanding server configuration and diagnosing problems in a time sensitive manner.  • Used Object Relational Mapping tool Hibernate along with XML mappings and Java Objects.  • Extensively used Web Services (SOAP, RESTful).  • Involved in coding and tweaking of stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL, developed Action classes.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Performed Unit testing and Performance/ load testing using JUnit, jMock.    Environment: J2EE 1.6, Hibernate, Tiles, Tag Libraries, JSP, CSS, AJAX, HTML, View Controller Architecture, web services (JAX-WS & JAX-RS), Oracle 11g, Tomcat 7, MS Visio, Eclipse, JUnit, jMock, Log4J, SVN Ant, Windows XP Professional. Education Bachelor's