Android Application Developer Android Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Application Developer - Abbott Diabetes Care Fremont, CA • 6+ years of experience in IT with 4+ years on Android application development.  • Hands on experience in developing Android Applications for mobile and tablets using Android Studio and Eclipse.  • Good understanding in applying Object-oriented analysis and design (OOAD) and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for applications.  • Proficient in understanding of Android User Interface (UI) guidelines, frameworkAPI's, application development and memory management.  • Expertise in developing Android Enterprise applications for tablets and mobile devices.  • Have hands on experience in using the ContentResolver and ContentProvider classes to ensure secure data access to other applications.  • Working experience in RESTful web services to fetch data for the end user and parsing the XML and JSON response using different parsers.  • Extensively worked on push notifications, memory leaks, multiple screen support, content providers, data offline usage, accounts and sync on Android.  • Skilled in developing and debugging Android applications with high usage of threads and multi-threading environments.  • Efficient in using android libraries like Google GSON, OkHttp, Picasso, Proguard, Glide and Volley.  • Experience in publishing apps to Google Play Store.  • Proficient in using Fragments, Activity workflow, Action Bar Navigation, Menu designs, Custom.  • Experience in design patterns including Composite, Singleton, Session Facade, Decorator and MVC. Skilled in software debugging and trouble-shooting.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like XML, HTML, Java Script, CSS and AngularJs.  • Excelled in database skills in Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MySQL and DB2. Expertise in programming with SQL, PL/SQL.  • Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications, Asynchronous Programming in Android(such as Thread pool, Tasks and services).  • Experience in use of popular public APIs such as Google, Face book, YouTube, PayPal, Kindle, and twitter.  • Experience in using services like Messaging, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.  • Good experience in developing and deploying web applications and web services in cloud, and experienced in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Google App Engine.  • Experience in developing test cases besides involving in Integration testing, Unit testing and User Acceptance testing extensively.  • Self-motivated, dedicated and very good team player with excellent communications skills including mentoring and presentation skills. Work Experience Android Application Developer Abbott Diabetes Care - Alameda, CA July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Documented the requirements and there by analyzed and involved in design, code.  • Work on different phases of project life cycle using android components like Activities, Fragments, Async task, Services, Intents, Handlers, Threads, Containers, Shared preferences, Content providers, Broadcast receivers and third-party libraries like Butter knife, Rx java, Retrofit, Dagger.  • Implement NFC (Near Field Communication) functionality of the medical device utilizing Android's NFC framework.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc. from the app and designed GUIs for these applications.  • Designing the UI using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes, and various forms of widgets.  • Added new features, bug fixing and performance improvements, along with increasing the number of devices supported by the app.  • Implement BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) communication with the peripheral medical device using Android BluetoothGatt API. Gatt API's were used to discover and connect to the device and query for services, and receive health information from the medical device.  • Use the Restful Service Calls using Retrofit Library at the various stages in the app development cycle and parsing the responses back from the web servers according to the application requirement.  • Implement data model using ORMLite library with SQLite to save medical device information on the Android platform and troubleshooting various components of the Bluetooth data transmission.  • Identify Critical/Crash/Hidden defects in mobile apps and Ability to give suggestions for a quick fix by analyzing logs.  • Implemented the Action Bar search icon for quick search access.  • Using debugging tools like Logcat, DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server), and TraceView, and detecting memory leaks.  • Test the app across different versions of Android and different android phones to assure quality and performance.  • Used services, Async tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  • Fix the issues recorded in Bugzilla and updating the status. Using cloud forge as version control.  • Implement the Unit Test cases and interacted with QA for testing.    Environment: Android Studio IDE, Java, Kotlin, JDK, Dagger, REST, JUnit, Logcat, DDMS, Retrofit, XML, APN, JSON, SQLite GIT, RxJava, Mockito, Espresso, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Gradle, SQLite, Multi-threading, JIRA. Sr. Android Application Developer Visa INC - Austin, TX January 2018 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Documented the requirements and there by analyzed and involved in design, code.  • Worked with Layouts, Menus and Action Bars and also several other User Interface (UI) components.  • Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts and Unified Modeling Language (UML) were immensely.  • Worked with the Android SDK, and implemented Android Bluetooth and Location Connectivity components.  • Used SQLite to save user details, their plans and eligible devices for upgrade.  • Analysis of mobile application code for re-engineering.  • Responsible for design of user interface using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes and different form of widgets.  • Inserted suitable code to capture the various button and text field events and implemented the desired action for each of the widgets.  • Used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  • Used sync adapters to load changed data from server and to send modified data to server from app.  • Involved in working with Location Manager and Restful Web service with JSON.  • Used Node.js to install phone Gap and used HTML5, CSS, Java script to develop hybrid apps.  • Used PhoneGap APIs like Notification, Camera, Media, Vibration to develop hybrid Apps.  • Used PhoneGap Device Object to access information about a device and application running a phone gap application.  • Analysis of mobile application code for re-engineering.  • Implemented unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  • Also worked with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Developing EJB classes and also corresponding session bean classes.  • Configured JMS and Data sources on web logic 10.1 Server and provided appropriate JNDI names for them.  • Developed complex queries, PL/SQL and stored procedures for data retrieval & updating.  • Used IBM Rational Clear case for Version Controlling.    Environment: Android 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 versions, Java, Android SDK, ADT 21.1.0, Shared Preferences, , DDMS, Fragments, JSON, REST API (XML), Google API's, Web view, GPS service, Angular JS, JSON, NDK (C/C++), Gradle, Mockito, SQLite, Espresso, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Gradle, SQLite, XML, Multi-threading, JIRA. AndroidApplication Developer Kaiser Permanente, CA - Permanente, CA September 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and implementation of the UI, classes, architecture and activities of the mobile application.  • For displaying background images of the app used Frame Layout.  • Involved in implementing Asynchronous tasks for the background operations.  • Developed the app to adapt to different orientations and various resolutions based on the device.  • Implemented MotionEvent, TouchEvent methods to swirl the snow around with a shake and finger.  • For keep tracking on what devices, places the application was used developed analytics for the application.  • Used Red5Pro SDK to allow scalable live streaming and also for second screen apps.  • Implemented android NDK for speeding up the application as we used the bit/byte operations are used for the compression of the images.  • Tested the android application by importing the Espresso API.  • Developer and designed the request and response data to and from gallery.  • Manually tested each and every phase of app life cycle and implemented the changes parallel.  • Administered in all the phases of SDLC from design, development through testing, porting and support of application    Environment: Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, Frame Layouts, Espresso, DDMS console and User Interface Design Android Developer Info Max - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in full life cycle of the application including wire frame design and client development.  • Worked on developing various features such as value product of the day, browse products from storeinventory and navigate to the nearest store.  • Used Android NDK for accessing C/C++ code.  • Application test on multiple android targets and debugging the problems.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP/HTTP for sending and receiving data from different applications.  • Developed the code in object oriented manner for optimal code re-usability.  • Implementation of Google API such as Web Services for directions and places in client applications.  • Debugged and fixed the issues that were found during the different phases of the project.  • Created client codes using JAVA in eclipse SDK 3.6.1.  • Worked extensively with Java frameworks and third party API including Java mail API.  • Designed the architecture and User Interface (UI/UX) using client requirements and use-cases. Analyzing layouts with Hierarchy Viewer.  • Responsible for developing the Profile across several Products and several Android versions.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Test and error logging on different versions and devices of Android.  • Displayed the generated station fact sheet, using web Services and analytics on database.  • Designed and developing the XML layout with Android Map View to display the locations on the map.    Environment: Android SDK , XML, REST, JSON, Java, Eclipse, SOAP, XML Camera API, SQLite, Logcat, Maven, DDMS. Java Developer Magna Quest Technologies Pvt. Ltd - IN March 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, design and coding on Java and J2EE Environment.  • Implemented struts MVC framework.  • Maintained the business standards and the requirements in EJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  • Designed, developed and implemented the business logic required for Security presentation controller.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  • Developed UI screens using Swing components like JLabel, JTable, JScrollPane, JButtons, JTextFields, etc.  • Used JDBC to connect to Oracle database and get the results that are required.  • Designed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS).  • Consumed webservices through SOAP protocol.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Integrated a crystal report to the application which will show all the details of the vouchers on the paper and used for future reference for the workers.  • Developed a webservice which will retrieve the details from the Database.  • Prepared complete documentation of the WebService developed.  • Prepared a complete documentation of the project and test case documentation with sample inputs Version control is done by using CVS.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JPA/Hibernate, Code Generation, Spring, AOP, ERP customization, Web Services (SOAP), JBoss, jBPM, Multi-threading, Lucene, Servlets, AJAX, Mock-up framework, XHTML, CSS. Education Master of Science in Computer in Computer University of Cumberland's Skills Android studio, Git, Html, Javascript, Xml, Android, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Pl/sql, Sql, Css, Tomcat, Web logic, Version control, Mongodb, Linux, Microsoft windows, Mac Additional Information Professional Skills:    Languages: Java, Kotlin, J2EE ,JavaScript, PL/SQL  Platforms: MAC, Microsoft Windows, Linux  Web Technologies: HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript  Databases: Oracle11g, MongoDB, My SQL  Servers: Tomcat, Web Logic, JWS  IDE: Android Studio, Eclipse  Version Control: Bitbucket, CloudForge, Git Stash