Lead Developer/Founder Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Founder Lead Developer/Founder - United By Christ McDonough, GA ? 4 years of programming experience. Used Eclipse to make distributed applications. Concentrated on Implementing, testing and designing Enterprise Java/J2EE applications using object oriented programming and design patterns.  ? 4 years of experience in Agile environments working as a developer. Experienced in using scrum systems to track stories and also designing UML diagrams, Use Cases, and Class Diagrams.  ? Extensive experience with the follow design patterns: Front Controller, Singleton, Factory, Service Locator, DAO, MVC, and Façade.  ? Skillful experience utilizing AngularJS, JQuery, Javascript, CSS, and AJAX for enhanced front end development.  ? Well-seasoned experience in J2EE technologies with Java, JSP, Servlet, and MVC Frameworks such as Spring MVC, Struts 1.3, JSF, EJB 3.0, JDBC, GWT 2.7, and XML to develop Web Apps.  ? Experience using SOAP and REST WebServices for interoperable business components.  ? Highly experienced using Hibernate data modules for DAO layer using JPA. Also experienced using IBATIS for the DAO layer.  ? Experience using RDBMS, Stored Procedures, PL/SQL and similar Database Management oriented concepts using Oracle 10g and SQL Server 2012.  ? Knowledgeable in Maven, Gradle, and Nexus for packaging dependencies.  ? Clear understanding connecting to remote repositories using GIT and SVN.  ? Experience deploying to WebLogic 12c, Jboss Wildfly, & Tomcat using ANT, Maven, and Gradle.  ? Skillful experience using JUnit 4.0, EasyMock, Mockito, Jasmine, and logging with Log4j. Work Experience Lead Developer/Founder United By Christ - Atlanta, GA December 2017 to Present United By Christ is an non-profit organization whose mission is to bring unity to Christianity. My role in the organization is running all business operations, leading the development of the website, building partner relations, and running all marketing. We developed the website using Java on the backend and AngularJS on the front end.  Responsibilities:  ? Used core Java to develop the website  ? Used Log4J to debug and log code  ? Used Spring MVC as a framework to develop.  ? Used AngularJS CSS and HTML to code the front end  ? Used Tomcat to deploy applications remote to a develop or QA environment  ? Used MAVEN to deploy application  ? Used Hiberate to connect to database  ? Used the GIT repository to save code  Environment:  Java 8, XML, Maven, Spring 3.1, JDBC, Hibernate 4.0, Eclipse, Tomcat, GIT, HTML, CSS, Log4J, AngularJS Java Software Engineer Home Depot - Atlanta, GA November 2016 to December 2017 ESVS  Developed and maintained an order management system that is used in the Home Depot stores worldwide. Vendors and clients that work with Home Depot are able to go to the store and use this system to track their orders through Home Depot's system. Whether it be getting lumber, nails, or pipes, what ever the vendor decides to receive from us we can track it, purchase it, and ship it through this system. My role on the project was on the order fulfillment side. I developed code in order to ensure the order gets fulfilled and the vendor receives the payment they are requesting for.  Responsibilities:  ? Used AngularJS to develop the UI  ? Used core Java to build new functionality based on requirements  ? Used JDBC to connect to the database  ? Used Jenkins to build the various projects  ? Used GIT for our code repository    Environment:  Java 8, JDBC, Karma, Jenkins, Maven, AngularJS, GIT, SQL Developer, GIT BASH, Spring Tool Suite, Spring MVC, Serenity Tests, Jasmine Tests, Spring Boot Used MongoDB, SQL Developer Department of Homeland Security - Washington, DC April 2016 to October 2016 Washington, D.C April 2016 - October 2016  Electronic Immigration System  ELIS is an automation of immigration documents used to take the written form such as the I-90 done by an immigrant and with the help of 3 other software companies it goes through a parsing that transforms the form to XML. That XML gets passed to ELIS to be consumed. We used that data and formulated an entire online system to store and manipulate that data using AngularJS and Java.  Responsibilities:  ? Used AngularJS to develop the UI  ? Used core Java to build new functionality based on requirements  ? Used MongoDB, SQL Developer, Hibernate, and JDBC to connect to the database  ? Used Log4J to debug and log code  ? Used Jenkins and Gradle to build the various projects  ? Used Tomcat to deploy web applications locally to debug code  ? Used GIT and GIT BASH combined with GIT LAB & GIT HUB for our code repository  ? Used Karma and Jasmine testing to unit test AngularJS  ? Used Spring MVC to control the flow of Java code  Environment:  Java 8, Tomcat, MongoDB, JDBC, Log4J, Jenkins, Gradle, AngularJS, GIT, Karma, SQL Developer, GIT BASH, Spring Tool Suite, Spring MVC, Serenity Tests, Jasmine Tests, Sonar, Gulp, Groovy, Drools Java Software Engineer Multivision - Fairfax, VA June 2014 to October 2016 Received training on all the major frameworks and technologies used in a J2EE environment in a rigorous course that included weekly verbal screenings and written tests. During the training, we worked on enterprise level applications such as the Talent Acquisitions Provider and the Online Order Originator. In between client side projects I received more training on the latest technologies.  Talent Acquisitions Provider  The Talent Acquisitions Provider is an integrated a system into an existing web application used to log and store potential candidate information from various job portals such as Dice, Monster, Career Builder, etc.  Online Order Originator  The Online Order Originator is an online order entry system for customer service representatives. The application provides complete support for online orders. Using CRUD methods, the system handled all orders and integrated into a larger system that handled the shipping, receiving, and billing of those orders.    Projects while working for Multivision Raytheon - Tucson, AZ July 2015 to January 2016 EPMA - RMS  While being employed at Raytheon I worked with a variety of projects. My main role was a software engineer focusing on the Java side of the code. I can't go into too much detail on specifics of the projects we worked on for security reasons, but the project handled a lot of earned value information.  Responsibilities:  ? Used GWT to make client side and server side code  ? Used IBATIS and JDBC to connect to our database  ? Used core Java to build new functionality based on requirements  ? Used Jenkins to build the projects  ? Used JBoss to deploy applications locally to debug code using GWT  ? Used Log4J to debug and log code  ? Used the SVN repository to save code. Used Tortoise SVN  Environment:  Java 7, GWT, SQL Server, XML, Jboss, IBATIS, JDBC, Log4J, Jenkins, SVN ChoiceEdge - Ann Arbor, MI October 2014 to April 2015 ChoiceEdge is a sub project under Choice Hotels based in Phoenix, Arizona. Our project was a web service that holds details for specific travel agents that want to utilize our service. The web service was a service that integrates with Salesforce and synchronizes to a legacy RSS/Informix database system to extract any necessary details so the travel agency can have the necessary information. IATA is one of the companies that use the service.  Responsibilities:  ? Used SOAP based services to get necessary objects from Salesforce  ? Used object-relational mapping using built in API's from Choice Hotels to convert the WebService object data type to Salesforce object data type.  ? Used Microservices to loosely couple services.  ? Used SoQL to fetch objects from Salesforce  ? Used Log4J to debug and log code  ? Consumed SOAP based WebService to communicate between other components in the application  ? Used SOAPUI to test the services  ? Used WebLogic to deploy applications remote to a develop or QA environment  ? Used MAVEN to deploy application  ? Used the GIT repository to save code  Environment:  Java 7, SOAPUI, XML, Maven, Spring 3.1, JDBC, SoQL, WebService SOAP, Hibernate 4.0, Eclipse Kepler, Weblogic Application Server, MySQLServer 4.5, GIT, SonarQube, Squirrel, Informix, Microservice Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science Georgia Southern University December 2013 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Struts, Visual studio, Api, C#, C++, Git, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Angularjs, UI Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages Java, C++, C#, C  Scripting Languages JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery 1.11.x, AJAX  Markup Languages HTML 5, XML 1.0, CSS  RDBMS Languages PL/SQL, Criteria API, HQL, SQL  Databases Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2012, SQL Developer, Squirrel SQL client  J2EE Technologies Hibernate 4.0, Struts 1.3, Spring, Spring Boot, JSF, GWT 2.7, IBATIS, JSP  IDE Eclipse Juno, Luna, Visual Studio, Visual Basic  Testing Tools J-Unit 4, SOAP UI, Jenkins, Karma, Jasmine  Application Servers Weblogic 12c, JBoss Wildfly 8.2, Tomcat  Build Tools MAVEN, ANT, Gradle, Gulp  Business Layer Technologies WebServices (SOAP, REST), EJB 3.0, Microservices  Code Quality SonarQube, SonarRunner, Karma  Repositories GIT, SVN  Operating Systems Windows, Ubuntu Linux, VMWARE