Sr Java Backend Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> Backend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Backend Developer - PennDOT Harrisburg, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java Backend Developer PennDOT - Harrisburg, PA November 2017 to Present Project: Mobile Construction  PennDOT oversees programs and policies affecting highways, urban and rural public transportation, airports, railroads, ports, and waterways. PennDOT also administers the state's more than 12 million vehicle registrations and 8.8 million driver's licenses, and oversees safety and emission inspection programs. Mobile Construction team is responsible for developing IOS app for mobile devices used by different users like inspectors and third parties and construction sites for various purposes.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for design & develop Rest API to be consumed by IOS devices like ipadetc  • Deploying java rest services on various platforms like WAS 9 and Azure Cloud  • Migration of all old apps running under WAS 8 to WAS 9  • Debugging and troubleshooting code in various environments including prod  • Actively involved in architecting design and models for java objects and database tables  • Interfacing with different mainframe and backend systems  • Designing and modeling NOSQL database Cosmosdb using Mongodb API on Azure  • Securing java services on azure using Azure Active Directory and API Management  Environment:Java6/7/8, JSP, Spring, MyBatis, WAS 8/9, Azure Cloud Service, Rest Services, JUnit, IBM DB2 11, IBM DB2 Studio, Sql Developer, Source Tree, Git, Bit bucket, Maven, gradle, Jenkins and Eclipse, IBM RAD, Version One Sr. Java Developer ADP, Florahm - Park, NJ, US January 2017 to October 2017 Project: ADPIA  Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency a branch of ADP that offers comprehensive business insurance that includes a range of coverage options, guidance from licensed agents, and integration with comprehensive payroll services. With a wide menu of choices and integration with ADP payroll services ADPIA covers Health and Benefit insurance as well as Property and Casualty insurance for small businesses.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in software and architectural development activities  • Worked in two different projects following two different methodologies Scrum and Kanban  • Participation in creating database schemas that represents and supports business process  • Actively involved in the development of intelligent queue wizard for ISAPP  • Developed rest endpoints using spring and apache wink and deployed on websphere  • Creating model objects following dao pattern using Hibernate framework  • Prepare test cases using Junit for all new classes and existing programs  • Responsible for providing technical support for production issues  • Involved in identifying production and non-production application issues  • Resolved technical debts for the legacy AOS application to identify bottlenecks, bugs and devise solution to these problems  Environment:Java6/7/, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, EJB/MDB, JSF, Java Script, HTML, CSS, XML, XSD, SOAP, Rest Services, JUnit, Oracle 11g Server, Sql Developer, Source Tree, Git, Bit bucket, Maven, Websphere 8.5, Jenkins and Eclipse Java/J2ee Developer Educational Testing Service - Princeton, NJ December 2015 to December 2016 Project: eSKM  eSKM is ETS's scoring and score management system in ETS's Assessment Delivery Technology Platform. This Platform provide a standardized and fully integrated suite of shared systems in Assessment Development, Delivery, Scoring, Analysis and Reporting, that align with the company's long-term strategy and to meet the needs of various stakeholders. eSKM is an enhanced scoring engine that supports scoring of test results using configurable framework that can be adapted to new and migrated programs using configuration parameters rather than via customization.  Responsibilities:  • Participate in project planning sessions with business analysts and team members to analyze business requirements and translate business requirements into working software.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, and Implementation and Maintenance of Business Enterprise solution application.  • Implemented Rest Services using Spring MVC/Rest and Spring Security  • Implemented REST Controllers for sophisticated, scalable, effective and low cost application integration. It also leads to build UI agnostic frameworks with all the services returning JSON data types  • Developed Entity objects and Dao and Dao Implementation in Hibernate using Builder Pattern  • Improved Sql query performance by following the best practices  • Implementation and maintenance of a Java GUI application using JSF components.  • Extensive use of JSF Framework for Controller components and View components.  • Involved in deploying and testing the application using JBoss Application Server  • Extensive debugging using Eclipse Debugger, Mbean and JConsole  • Used Junit unit test cases and Mockito for mocking objects and services  • Involved in troubleshoot technical issues, conduct code reviews, and enforce best practices and department development policies.    Environment:Java7/8, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, EJB/MDB, JSF, Java Script, HTML, CSS, XML, XSD, SOAP, Rest Services, JUnit, Mockito, Oracle 11g Server, Sql Developer, TortoiseSvn, Maven, JBoss Server, Tomcat and Eclipse Java Developer Bank Of America - New York, NY January 2014 to November 2015 Project: Relationship Pricing  Relationship Pricing is a bundle product of BOA for rewarding customers for their loyalty and continuous use of services. Relationship pricing or providing rewards involves making decisions based on customer factors like tenure/loyalty, number and type of relationships, volume or type of transactions.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in architecture plan and design discussions  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components and integrated with Hibernate  • Developing the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using JSP and client-side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Configured managed beans using annotations and defined message resources in faces-config.xml configuration file.  • Developed, implemented and maintained an asynchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience.  • Used Spring Batch for reading, validating and writing the daily batch files into the database.  • Improve user experience of the Application by introducing CSS, dynamic buttons.  • Implementation and maintenance of a Java GUI application using JSF components.  • Extensive use of JSF Framework for Controller components and View components.  • Participated in the application architecture, JSF architecture and development tools for web solutions that fulfill the business requirements of the project.  • Involved in deploying and testing the application using Weblogic server and Tomcat 7.    Environment: Eclipse, Java 7/JavaEE 6, AJAX, JAXB, Apache Myfaces, JSF, SOAP-web service, Hibernate, GIT, Oracle 11g, Weblogic, Tomcat, HTML 5, XML, JAXB, Junit, Mockito, Jquery and Windows 7 Java Developer CitiBank - New York, NY September 2012 to December 2013 Project: CLINK  CitiBank, the leading global bank, via CLINK (Collateral Management) provide asset managers with automated collateral position reconciliation. CLINK offers complete margin processing and collateral administration to help clients improve collateral efficiency, manage counterparty risk and streamline their operations.  Responsibilities:  • Developed screens based on JQuery to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side. Extensively used JSP tag libraries.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and authorization extensively  • Designed and developed Application based on Struts MVC Framework using MVC design pattern.  • Configured Websphere for successful deployment to test and production environments.  • Used XML to transfer the application data between client and server.  • Used JUnit to write repeatable tests mainly for unit testing.  • Participated in designing WebService framework in support of the product.  • Developed web services in Java and Experienced with SOAP, WSDL.  • Used Log4j extensively for logging Errors.  • Used Maven as build tool.  • Used the JDBC for data retrieval from the database for various inquiries.  • Used GIT as source control.  • Generated Entity classes and schema using them  • Wrote complex SQL and HQL queries to retrieve data from the Oracle database.    Environment: Java7, JSP, Struts2, Hibernate, EJB, Java Script, HTML, CSS, XML, XSD, SOAP, JUnit, PL/SQL, GIT, Maven, Websphere and Eclipse Java Developer Pfizer - New York, NY September 2010 to August 2012 Pfizer is a multinational pharmaceutical corporation headquartered in New York which produces high quality, safe and valuable health care products. Pfizer develops and produces medicines and vaccines for a wide range of medical disciplines. The online web application provides access to various resources like products, and other information related to the products to the distributors, health professionals, Investors, Customers, Government etc  Responsibilities:  • To implement application based on Agile Methodology.  • Develop Java Beans and the JSP's, JSTL Tag libraries and CustomTags.  • Developed the application using Spring Tool Suite  • Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC)  • Develop persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with Oracle database.  • Configure and customize of Log4j framework.  • Develop the application UI using HTML, CSS, JSP, Java Script and Ajax.  • Design and Develop UI using jQuery framework.  • Perform application development using Eclipse IDE.  • Connect to the database using JDBC Driver.  • Exposed to Query the Database System using JDBC API and Spring Data  • Conduct code reviews and design reviews.  • Provide support in writing Junit Test Cases using Test First Methodology.  • Provide support in Testing, bug fixing and documentation of the system.    Environment: Java 6, JDBC, JavaScript, Html, CSS, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, Glassfish, JBoss, MySql, Spring, NetBeans IDE, SVN, Maven, Log4J, Junit. Java Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Boston, MA June 2008 to August 2010 Liberty Mutual continually seeks to better serve its customers by leveraging ongoing product innovation, knowledge and experience, a strong brand, a broad and powerful distribution system. The project deals with building up of a new web-site for Liberty Mutual Agents to assist Liberty Mutual customers. This web-site is used by Underwriters as well. Agents were given access to view their corresponding policy related documents.  Responsibilities:  • Architect, Designed and implemented key services within the project.  • Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application  • Used Hibernate as the ORM tool to communicate with the database  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed Front-end using JSP, Servlets, HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed the web user interfaces for all the above use cases using JSP, HTML, jQuery, XML and Ajax.  • Developed SQL stored procedures for data migration and database upgrade from MySql using TOAD for MySql.  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to MySql.  • Creation of SOAP Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF  • Developed Web service components using WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, JAX-RPC with java.  • Deployed the application under Tomcat application server and involved in resolving deployment issues.  Environment: Java 6, Java 5, Spring, Hibernate, Javascript, CSS, Html, JDBC, Soap, Webservices, Eclipse, Tomcat, Junit, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, XML, SVN. Skills ECLIPSE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), JUNIT (10+ years), CSS (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages Java 5, 6, 7, 8, C, C++, C#.Net, Asp.Net, VB.Net  Java EE Technologies Servlets, Jsp, EJB, JNDI, CDI, JPA, JMS  IDE Eclipse, Netbeans, IBM RAD  Front End Html 4.1-5, CSS, Javascript, AWT, SWING, XML  Javascript Libraries JQuery, AngularJS, Kendo UI  Databases Oracle, MySql, MS-Sql  Application Servers JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, Glassfish, Weblogic  Java Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF  Web Services SOAP, REST  Cloud Microsoft Azure app service, apimgmt, app gateway, cosmosdb  Version Controls SVN, GIT  Build Tools Maven, Ant  Testing Junit, Mockito  Logging Log4J, java.util.logging