Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Delta Airlines Atlanta, GA • 13 years of experience in design, development & maintenance of Java/JEE software applications.  • Strong communication, collaboration & team building skills with proficiency at grasping new technical concepts and utilize the same in productive manner.  • Worked for Fortune 500 clients like Delta Air Lines, Rockwell Automation, Bank of America, and McDonald's.  • Currently working as Senior API Developer at Delta. Responsible for enterprise application development using microservice-based design.  • Worked on traditional databases like Oracle, AWS Aurora, DB2 as well as NoSQL databases like Cassandra.  • Capable of working independently as well as a part of dynamic team. Ability to quickly grasp business domain.  • Experience in Java, Restful and SOAP web services, Spring Boot, JSP, Hibernate.  • Experience with modernizing legacy applications, pushing them to AWS and Azure hosted environments.  • Experience in supporting Cloud environments AWS  • Experience using Amazon (AWS) S3, Route 53 and setting up instances behind the Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) in AWS for high availability.  • Extensively worked in a constantly changing dynamic environment using Agile Scrum methodologies  • Good Working Knowledge of build tools like Maven and Ant  • Experience in using various Configuration Management tools like SVN and GitHub  • Experience in implementing Java/J2EE solutions using Weblogic and Tomcat  • Expertise in unit testing with Junit, Mockito.  • Proficient in Test driven development (TDD).  • Experience in SONAR for code quality improvement.  • Experience in Banking, Airlines and Finance domains. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Java Developer Delta Airlines April 2019 to Present Project: Retail API Development  Team Size: 25  Details: Our team is responsible to develop a microservice based agnostic and persistent booking platform for Delta retail consumers. This will become the backbone for all transactions coming through delta.com or any other platform like expedia. This system will support high transaction volume (1500 TPS).  Responsibilities involved:  • Develop REST based microservices using Spring Boot.  • Analyze Swagger for different interacting REST services to determine difference and map the data accordingly.  • Design tables and queries in Cassandra.  • Write Test cases using Junit following Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Use Sonar Plugin to improve code quality.  • Attend scrum meetings, sprint planning and sizing meetings.  Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, Maven, Cassandra, Git, OpenShift, Eclipse. Senior Java Developer Comerica Bank August 2017 to February 2019 Project: Legacy Windows Modernization  Team Size: 30  Details: Comerica Bank partnered with Fujitsu America to modernize their infrastructure. The main objective was to replace on-prem servers with Cloud (both Azure and AWS) based Virtual machines.  Responsibilities involved:  • Migrating the applications hosted on-prem machines to AWS hosted EC2 instances. This involved upgrading the applications from old versions of java, application servers, database (DB2 to AWS Aurora), LDAP and IBM MQ.  • Developing REST APIs for Cloud applications to fetch data from On-prem DB.  • Rewriting modules of applications to make these cloud-ready.  • High Level and Deep Dive sessions to understand the existing topology - tools, technologies, user count, data volume, back up policies, services, service IDs etc.  • Coordinating the Scans, Penetration testing, Smoke testing, Performance testing, UAT and Production cut over.  • Updating documents - SID, MOSS, Deployment and Backup documents.  • Coordinating and delegating work with offshore team members. Java Developer Rockwell Automation August 2013 to July 2017 Project: Application Migration and Maintenance  Team Size: 10  Details: The assignment with Rockwell involved maintaining approximately 15 different applications related to Distributor Lookup, Catalog lookup, Quality Data Warehouse (repair data from different repair system), Determining process and product yields and Inventory Service Optimization. All of these applications were live in production environment and could directly impact the client's manufacturing and inventory planning and thus were critical. These were developed using Java, UNIX, Oracle, CGI and DataStage.  • The team was responsible for Level 2 Support. This involved incident reporting and tracking, bug fixing, testing, change management and deployment with strict SLAs in place for each.  • Being an onsite coordinator Involved in regular client interaction to understand the issues and resolve these either through data update or code fixes.  • Onsite-offshore coordination on a daily basis.  • Assignment of tasks to off-shore resources.  • Ramp-up and knowledge transfer to new members on team.  • Onboarding and decommissioning of applications.  Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Tomcat 6, UNIX, Oracle, CGI and DataStage Team Lead Mc Donald's April 2012 to August 2013 Project: McDonald's Shared Information System (MSIS)    Team Size: 5  Details: The project aims at automating the General Ledger (GL) request approval process and thus streamlining the financial and accounting transactions. This will lead to stronger approval assurance and better segregation of duties as compared to paper approval. The electronic audit trail of request and approval also provides for better support for cross-border transactional processing. This results in better SOX compliance and reduction in operational cost.  • Proactively developed a Selenium based application to cut the time spent by the support team on daily monitoring activities like checking if - the user group assignments are working fine, there are processes stuck in an unexpected state, the application is up and running and there is sufficient space available on servers for the application to work smoothly. In case of an exception scenario it triggered a mail to the support group. The automation of the above listed tasks saved at least 1.5 man-hours effort per day  • Participated in requirement gathering and client meetings, Suggested technical solutions to the client's business requirements, Served as a WebSphere Process Server (WPS) consultant, Implemented workflows in WPS, Coding to make the interface customer specific, Bug fixing and Production Support, Prepared technical documents  Environment: IBM WPS 7.0, JSF, Java 1.6, JavaScript, HTML5, jQuery, spring, Selenium, Quartz, WID, DB2, Oracle, WinCVS Java Developer/ Team Lead Bank of America January 2010 to April 2012 Project: GDCE Integrated Application (Bank of America)  Team Size: 15  Details: The main objective of the project is to automate the process of migration of a project from an onshore to an offshore or nearshore location. The project helped in Streamline the process of migration of a task, Enforce ownership and responsibility, Easy tracking and monitoring of tasks and Facilitate systematic interaction with business partners (Supply Chain Management, Finance etc.)  The implementation of the Business Process Management (BPM) tool replaced the approval process which was scattered over different mediums - emails, excel and word documents, scanned copy of physical documents. The application gains in importance as it acts as a single repository for all critical documents related to the migration of a project including Project Charter, Risk Assessment, Business Continuity Plan, Statement of Work. The data for all these documents are captured electronically and are approved within the system. Role based access of different users ensured sanctity of the data  • Participated in requirement gathering and client meetings, conveyed the requirements to the team, estimated and Assigned tasks to the team members, prepared technical documents, provided and coded (implemented) technical solutions, Workflow designing in Interstage Business Process Manager, Production Support  Environment: Interstage BPM, JDK 1.4, JSP, Struts 1.1, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (RESTful), JBoss Server, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, WinCVS Java Developer Fujitsu Computer Systems (FCS) June 2008 to December 2009 Project: GIA (Bank of America)  Team Size: 20  Details: The project is aimed at automating the process of outsourcing analysis and monitoring. Main scope of GIA is: streamlining the process flow of the migration activities, ensuring consistency in the manner in which the migration activities are done across all the teams of GDCE and facilitating a systematic interaction with their business partners (SCM, Finance, and SP)  • Involved in development work; interaction with client to gather requirements and conveying it to the team. Provided production support at Bank of America center at Hyderabad for more than 9 months  Environment: Interstage BPM, JDK 1.4, JSP, Struts 1.1, Hibernate, JasperReports, Process Performance Manager, WebLogic Server, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, WinCVS Java Developer Hitachi Data Systems (HDS) May 2008 to June 2008 Project: Netcollabor8  Team Size: 5  Details: NetCollabor8 was a secured online request tracking system offering the ideal solution for companies of all sizes. A major component of NetCollabor8 was a database which records every request raised. Designed to be used by multiple customers with the data isolation  • Involved in development work and bug fixing  Environment: JSP, Struts 2, Hibernate, Tomcat Server, JDK1.4, JasperReports, jFreeChart, iReport, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, WinCVS Java Developer TradeBeam Inc October 2007 to April 2008 Project: TradeBeam  Team Size: 10  Details: The project was aimed at migrating from MicroStrategy Report Services as the underlying report design, data extract and delivery mechanism to Jasper Soft. Redesigned the database to create a separate OLAP database in a normalized format from the existing OLTP database  • Involved in working on JasperServer to migrate the reports implemented in MicroStrategy. It involved visiting the off-shore development center of TradeBeam to understand their existing application and for knowledge transfer  Environment: JasperServer, Jasper ETL, Oracle 10g Java Developer Workstream Inc April 2007 to October 2007 Project: Workstream TalentCenter    Team Size: 60  Details: The Workstream TalentCenter has the following features: single, secure sign-on with a role-based access control system, on-demand delivery-solutions were securely delivered through SAS 70 Type II environment, highly configurable with XML based configuration files  • Worked on reporting of the TalentCenter Application. Performance and compensation modules had extensive reporting. Generated reports using jFreeChart and Fusion Charts  Environment: Struts 1.1, Hibernate, JDK1.4, JSP, JasperReports, jFreeChart, Fusion Charts, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, WinCVS Java Developer FIS India February 2007 to April 2007 Project: Human Resource Information System (HRIS)    Team Size: 25  Details: Software or online solution for automating all the processes of the Human Resources department. It comprises of the following modules: Appraisal Management System, Resource Management System, Profile Management System, Recruitment Management System, Leave Management System, Agile Unified Process (AUP) was used for development  • Involved in development work and integration of different modules  Environment: JDK1.5, JSP, Spring-Hibernate, JasperReports, Alfresco, Eclipse, My Eclipse, MySQL, SVN Java Developer Marketlive August 2006 to February 2007 Project: Frederick's of Hollywood    Team Size: 40  Details: Product consists of 2-components: Core Site (functionality of the site from the perspective of a site user) and Admin (helps administer product and sku, images, discounts, attributes layouts etc.)  • Involved in customizing the base Marketlive site as per client requirements including understanding the base site functionality, modifying it according to the requirement and fixing bugs  Environment: Spring, Struts; Resin Pro 3.0.14, MS SQL Server 2000 Education BTech in (Computer Science and Engineering), (Secured Faculty of Engineering & Technology - Haridwar, Uttarakhand 2006 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jsp, Servlet, Struts, Db2, Mysql, Oracle, Cassandra, Ant, Maven, Tomcat, Web server, Web services, Weblogic, Websphere, Junit, Svn Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nfjskr17yiejg7ii Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills Set  • Technologies/Framework: Spring Boot, Web Services, Java, Servlet, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate  • Cloud Computing: AWS, Azure  • Databases: Oracle, DB2, MySQL, AWS Aurora and Cassandra  • Build Tools: Apache Ant, Maven.  • Operating System: Windows, Linux and UNIX.  • Application/Web Server: Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, Liberty.  • Version Management: SVN, GitHub  • Testing Framework: JUNIT, Mockito, PowerMock  • Business Process Automation Tools: Fujitsu Interstage BPM, IBM Websphere Process Server  • Enterprise Reporting: Jasper Reports, JFreechart, Fusion Charts, IReport  • IDE: Eclipse Platform  • Other Tools used: HPSM and Version One.