Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - First Tech Federal Credit Union Mountain View, CA • Over 8 years of professional IT experience as a Programmer Analyst and Software Engineer with complete project lifecycle in Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in analysis, design, development, testing, integration and deployment of application Software in web-based environments and Client/Server architectures.  • Extensive experience in implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) using Struts frameworks and Spring framework.  • Good experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) environment.  • Experience and hands-on Object-Oriented Analysis, Design and Programming.  • Excellent programming skills in JAVA/J2EE technology.  • Extensive experience in Java and J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC.  • Used latest Object/Relational persistence and query service Hibernate in combination with Struts, Spring framework.  • Deployed Servlets and JSP and fine-tuned them for better performance.  • Proficient in programming by using the IDE's such as Eclipse, Netbeans.  • Good work experience with Application Servers such as Web Logic, Web Sphere and Web Servers as Tomcat.  • Used Amazon Cloud Watch to monitor AWS services and Amazon Cloud Watch logs to monitor application.  • Experienced in full-text search engine techniques like Lucene, Solr.  • Experienced developing against SOLR Search Platform APIs.  • Expertise in developing web-based GUIs using Servlets, JSP, AJAX etc.  • Strong experience with JUnit in performing unit testing and in determining the application functionality.  • Experience in Web development using HTML/DHTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and JQueryUI.  • Experience in developing ANT scripts to build and deploy Java web applications.  • Extensive experience in using various design patterns such as MVC in the development.  • Experience with SOAP and REST based Web Services.  • Development exposure in both Windows and UNIX centric applications.  • Have experience with database design schemas and data modeling.  • Experience in writing Software Requirements Specifications, Technical and User Documentation for complex application development projects by interacting with clients and other teams in the project  • Hardworking and result oriented with customer Focus and ability to persist and explore new ways of finding solutions to problems.  • Excellent communication skills, team player, quick learner, resilient and self-motivated.  • Positive work attitude and self-motivated to work independently and as well as in team. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer First Tech Federal Credit Union - Mountain View, CA January 2016 to Present Description: First tech federal Credit Union is a federally chartered credit union, besides standard banking services, First Tech also offers investment, insurance, and tax services to its members, including free bill payment service, an account aggregation service, and online access to check images. in this application we implemented all the banking techniques such as, Deposit Checks, Pay bills, View account balances, transfer funds etc.  Responsibilities:  • Developed various J2EE components like JSP, JSTL, AJAX, SAX, XSLT, JAXP, JNDI, JMS.  • Used Spring MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different DPs.  • Worked with Apache Solr to create search engines and data management.  • Used a micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy Identity micro services.  • Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide automated builds based on polling the GIT source control system.  • Created AWS EC2 Linux instances and bash scripts to run post processing. Used Jenkins with Ansible playbooks to run the deployment process. Used S3 buckets to manage document management and RDS to host database.  • Used AWS cloud formation templates and AMI to recreate instances.  • Designed and developed JSP pages using Spring MVC 3.0 framework and also created Spring MVC components like configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Developed server-side services using Java, Spring, Web Services (SOAP, Restful).  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module.  • Integrated Spring with Hibernate using configurations and implemented DAO layer to save entities into data base.  • Set up Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) communication in Websphere application server.  Tools & Technologies: Java 1.7, J2EE, JSP, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Microservices, Spring REST, Hibernate 3.0, Ajax, AngularJS, Apache Camel, AWS, WebSphere, Tomcat, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, MAVEN, Log4J, JIRA, JUnit. Senior Java Developer TIAA-CREF - Charlotte, NC August 2014 to December 2015 Description:  TIAA recognizes the need to provide coordinated and targeted marketing messages to customers across touch points. To address this need TIAA, plans to deploy Oracle's Real-Time Decisions (RTD) product to manage the decisioning process for marketing messages. To establish the required cross-channel infrastructure, TIAA plans to initially deploy RTD in the web channel to determine which messages best drive customer revenue growth and loyalty. As a customer navigates to TIAA site real-estate designated for marketing campaigns, RTD will analyze the customer's historic and real-time profile information to determine the marketing message for the product, offer and creative combination that meets a customer's anticipated needs while providing economic value to TIAA-CREF optimizes TIAA's performance objectives.  Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Understanding the business requirements, prepared the functional specifications and the system requirements.  • Developed REST based web-services using Jersey RI to expose module API's.  • Involved in implementing Oracle RTD features control group implementation, imposing the performance goals and defining models  • Assisted in development and maintenance of new APIs for integration  • Involved in a POC where RTD models work well for the scenario where Business was hesitant to let RTD decide which banner should be displayed when there are multiple eligible banners for some customers. This is because there is limited real estate on the webpage, often just one spot, and with multiple banners competing it might be desirable for each banner to have a chance of being selected with RTD choosing banners some of the banners which have a lower likelihood of being clicked might never be selected for display.  • Involved in database modelling and writing stored procedures in pl/sql.  • Create Entity Relationship (ER) Diagrams to the proposed database  • Create database objects such as tables, views, stored procedures, Triggers.  • Maintain referential integrity, domain integrity and column integrity by using the available options such as constraints etc.  • Identify columns for Primary Keys in all the tables at the design time and create them.  • Create functions to provide custom functionality as per the requirements.  • Supporting the application in production while maintaining the code release, deployment documents, release notes, shared resources like libraries, configuration files, logging files, etc.  Tools & Technologies: Java1.5, Oracle RTD, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, JDBC, Servlets, MySql, Oracle, WAS 6.1, REST Web Services. Senior Java Developer Capella University - Minneapolis, MN January 2013 to July 2014 Description:  Capella University is a for-profit institution of higher learning in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Capella needed to redesign all microsites for an enhanced look and feel, while upgrading to AEM 6.1 for the latest CMS features by interconnecting all sites, enabling customized results, improving UI functionality, enabling more targeted marketing to students and internal applications that would enhance the student experience.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the enhancing the website where the student can upload his academic and official documents and opt for several courses.  • Developed, Enhancement different modules using Servlets and spring.  • Developed REST based web-services using Jersey RI to expose module API's.  • Responsible for Technical reviews, feedback and New requirements.  • Involved in the software development life cycle coding, testing, and implementation.  • Prepared sample code and applications for displaying various outcomes of API applications.  • Extensively involved in the Design.  • Used AOP for various types of business logic, DI outside of a DI container (like entity objects) managing constraints used across at application level.  • Responsible to create Hibernate configuration and mapping files while using Spring framework IOC and DI concepts.  • Analysis and Understanding the business requirements, prepared the functional specifications and the system requirements.  • Implemented WCAG2.0 principles to make the web content more accessible.  • Involved in POCs integrating Adobe document Cloud with AEM, Adobe DPS and echo Sign Services.  • Involved in enhancing the AEM workflows for the future clients.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Database development using DDL, DML, and PL/SQL using Oracle Designer and SQL Developer  • Database scripts/package deployment  • Responsible for deployments, maintaining a log of deployment artifacts, mentoring junior resources, tracking releases, coordinating change in integration, user acceptance and then finally promoting to production environment.  • Actively involved in troubleshooting, tracking production defects/bugs using client defined standard.  Tools & Technologies: Java1.5, Adobe AEM, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, JDBC, Servlets, MySql, Oracle, WAS 6.1, REST Web Services, WCAG2.0 Java Developer Verizon - Dallas, TX September 2011 to November 2012 Description:  Member portal application provides health plan members, the ability to register online, View coverage information, view eligibility information, update eligibility information, view medical and pharmacy benefits, order ID cards, print temporary ID card, view coverage documents, view claims, find provider, change primary care physician and view health information.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and estimated the change requirements.  • Worked in the enhancement, testing and bug fixing of Member portal.  • Worked in the Core Java development of this application.  • Worked in the enhancement of registration servlet application using Java, servlet, JSP, JSTL, Spring, HTML, Angular JS and used design pattern like MVC.  • Developed client-side validations using HTML and Angular JS.  • Made use of Angular JS to simplify both the development and testing of this application.  • Responsible for Developing and integration of ORM framework like Hibernate.  • Integrated the Spring framework with the Hibernate framework.  • Developed web services using SOAP.  • Made use of SOAP protocol in the implementation of web services in this application.  • Used XML spy for validating XML data.  • Made use of SOA architectural pattern to provide services to the components in the application.  • Worked on setting up and integrating the registration servlet application in Websphere application server with the back ends.  • Used SQL and PL/SQL Programming extensively to talk to Oracle database.  • Created tables and stored procedures in Oracle. Used Hibernate for mapping between databases and objects in Java.  • Used Eclipse IDE for entire application development.  • Performed web services testing on SOAP UI.  • Configured beans.xml for reg. Servlet application.  • Worked on developing user interfaces for member portal using JSP and JSTL, and converted the request parameters from user interfaces into XML format.  • Developed a small module using AJAX in making asynchronous requests to server.  • Developed Junit test cases for member portal and reg. servlet application and testing.  • Worked on ANT script to build the reg. servlet application.  • Worked on the root cause analysis for the major outages in the portal.  • Interacted with customers in solving their issues in portal.  • Worked on creating test data for testing in the lower regions.  Tools & Technologies: Spring 4.0(MVC, AOP, Hibernate 4.1, XML, HTML , CSS, Angular JS, Eclipse 3.1, Agile, Websphere 7.1, Toad, Oracle 11g, ANT 1.8, SOAP, XML, SoapUI, AJAX , Junit, JSTL Java Developer Bank of America - Miami, FL April 2010 to August 2011 Description:  The ACE lending system is designed primarily to meet the origination requirements for loans that are classified as commercial loans as per the Banks policy.  The Application is a J2EE based system for automating the entire loan and credit processing workflow. It covers the lifecycle of a loan application, from the point of application creation through credit evaluation, approval, and commitment letter generation. Upon approval, the legal documentation aspects, post closing activities and interface with legacy systems for account creation and collateral creation.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the development of Core Java in this application.  • Implemented the application using Struts 2.1 framework which is based on Model View Controller architecture.  • Created technical design Documents for Hibernate.  • Development of user interfaces using Struts, HTML and client-side validations using JavaScript and AJAX.  • Implemented server-side validation implementing business-defined rules with Struts action classes.  • Made use of REST architecture style for building the web services.  • Developed web services using JAX-WS and REST.  • Developed hibernate mapping files, implemented value objects to retrieve the data using Hibernate.  • Developed HQL Queries, SQL and Criteria Queries for database Query Operations including Stored Procedure call.  • Used Eclipse IDE for entire application development and version controlling.  • Made use of tomcat web server for the deployment of the application.  • Implemented a message producer sending XML messages to a JMS queue.  • Used Maven as a build tool for the development of the application.  • Preparation of Junit test cases and testing.  Tools & Technologies: JDK 1.7, Core Java, Struts 2.1, Hibernate 3.1, Toad, mysql 5.5, JAX-WS webservices, REST, SOAPUI, Eclipse 3.0, tomcat 7.1, UNIX, Junit, JQuery 1.8, JQueryUI, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JMS, AJAX, Maven. Java Developer Ideabytes Software - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2008 to February 2010 Description:  Worked on Employee portal for managing the information about the employees in organization.  Responsibilities:  • Interactions with the business team to gather the requirements review the specifications and monitor the work.  • Developed the front-end web presentation layer on Struts MVC framework.  • Used J2EE design patterns like MVC, and DAO Factory to provide a consistent, easily manageable and maintainable application.  • Developed JSP pages to handle client requests and carry out server-side processing. Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Developed Servlets, Java beans and Java helper classes responsible for delivering web component.  • Implemented logging using Log4j. Responsible for the co-ordination with the team members and attending meetings.  • Responsible for quality assurance of all web design projects, including web usability, accessibility, testing and debugging.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations and involved in developing JSPs for developing the view of the application.  • Consumed Web services for retrieving the revenue analysis data. Involved in the Data Access Object layer for storing, updating and loading the data using Hibernate.  • Generated User interface screens using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and HTML. Responsible for unit testing and integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests.  • Used Ant script for build and deploy process. Deployed the application on Tomcat server.  • Interacting with team members to understand the business domain and helping them for solving the technical problems.  Tools & Technologies: J2EE/J2SE, Java1.5, JSP, Struts, CSS, Apache CXF, XML, HTML, Log 4j, Oracle, JavaScript, Sub Version, Web logic server 9, Hibernate. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Struts, Wsad, Jdbc, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Css, Dreamweaver Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming: Java.  Scripting: JSP, JQuery, JQuery UI, AngularJS, Javascript, CSS, Bootstrap.  IDEs: Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans, WSAD  Frameworks: Struts, Spring MVC, Hibernate, LOG4j.  Databases: Oracle 10g,11g, MySQL, SQL Server  Build Tools: ANT, Maven.  Servers: Tomcat, Weblogic, Websphere.  Webservice Specifications: JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, SOAP, REST, JDBC  Methodologies: Agile (Scrum), Waterfall  HTML Editors: Adobe Dreamweaver, APIs JDBC, JMS  XML Technologies: XML, XSD, XSLT, SOAP, DOM Parser and SAX Parser  Operating Systems: MS-DOS, Windows-98/2000/ XP, UNIX