Sr. Java developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Java developer - Apple Inc Bayonne, NJ • Around 12+ years of experience in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation and Product Testing in both the Web based and Enterprise applications with emphasis on Object Oriented, Java/J2EE and Client Server technologies  • Strong experience with Software methodologies like Agile, Waterfall and Test-Driven Development.  • Experienced in UI frame works such as HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ajax, Google Web Toolkit (GWT), JavaScript, AngularJS, Tag Libraries, Custom Tags.  • Experience working with Java 1.8 Lambdas, Functional Interfaces and integrated Stream API into the Collections API, to perform bulk operations on collections.  • Managed Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, Dynamo DB, Elastic search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  • Hands on experience with Amazon web services (AWS) and Amazon cloud technologies such as Amazon EC2 (virtual servers) and Amazon Cloud Watch (monitoring)  • Extensive experience working in Spring framework, Struts framework, Object Relational Mapping Hibernate framework and web services.  • Experience using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring DAO, Spring Data, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.  • Strong work experience in application integration and communicating using SOA, Web Services such as JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, XML and RESTFUL web services.  • Extensive work experience in web technologies like JSP, Servlets, JavaScript.  • Extensively worked on developing UI components using HTML5, CSS3 and JSON to interact with Restful web services  • Experienced in numerous Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, MVC, Data Access Object, UML and Enterprise Application Integration.  • Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  • Strong Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexers and proficiency in writing complex queries, using Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Experience in working with the NoSQL Database like Cassandra DB and Mongo DB to manage extremely large data sets.  • Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache Active MQ and Apache Camel.  • Experience in version control system tools like GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Experience in unit testing the applications using JUnit, TDD Framework.  • Worked on implementing full life cycle of software development process (SDLC) in using version control tools like Rational Clear Case, Tortoise SVN, CVS (Concurrent Version System)  • Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, SVN, CVS, Jenkins and Apache Ant.  • Significant experience in web development tools like Spring Tool Suite (STS), Eclipse and IntelliJ.  • Hands on experience with Windows, UNIX and Linux Environments.  • Having Experience on Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server.  • Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on Web sphere, Web logic and Apache Tomcat application Servers.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, lead/work within a team environment. Work Experience Sr. Java developer Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA March 2016 to Present Description:  Global Service Exchange (GSX) is the single service, repair management tool available to Apple Service Provides and Self-Servicing Customers to conduct service business with Apple worldwide. GSX provides fast repair turnaround, and direct access to service information for Apple products.    • Designed and developed multi-tier, custom build workflow based web application.  • XSLT and Trax API used to convert different formats of XML to our Standard XML format and StAX API used for parsing XML messages  • Core Java with Concurrent API is used extensively for parallel processing and chunk processing  • of trade execution data and market data and converts in to JSON and store it Mongo DB  • Used Java 8 Lambda expressions and Stream API to support functional-style operations on streams of elements.  • Worked on Java functional programming concepts like Streams, Functional Interfaces, new date time API and lambda expressions.  • JProfiler is used to profile he application (Memory view and CPU view and Thread view are used)  • Used Angular router and implemented module wide routing and created different forms using Angular data driven and template driven forms.  • Developed Angular Components, Services, and Filters and took part in developing unit test and integration test cases using Jasmine, Karma.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Developed Micro services & APIs using Spring Cloud, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Integration.  • Design and implementation of different micro services and its Docker files.  • Created and maintained Docker images and Docker containers.  • Configuring the Docker containers and creating Docker files for different environments.  • Docker swam used for container orchestration  • Amazon IAM was used to maintain the user credentials and involved in creating custom IAM policies to various groups defined within the organization  • To send emails to users developed Java API to interact with the Amazon SQS and Amazon SNS.  • created Docker machine in Amazon EC2 instance and created Docker containers in Docker Machine running in Amazon EC2  • Spring JDBC used retrieve and update, inserting data in oracle database with use of stored procs.  • Core Java with Concurrent API is used extensively for parallel processing and chunk processing.  • Gulp is used to build and Bower is used for managing dependencies  • JSON request/response from UI is processed using Spring Boot, Restful features with micro services Architecture and Hibernate/JPA framework is used to save/retrieve the data in the backend  • Used Apache Maven as a build tool for building the Restful web-service  Environment: Java 8, concurrent package, lambda expressions, streams, J2ee, webservices, JMS, XML  (Dom, Sax, Xpath, Stax, XSLT), IBM MQ, Ka  fka 2.0, Spring Boot, Apache Camel 2.2, Spring Batch, Spring Data JPA, , EHCache, Jprofiler, Angular6, Bower, Gulp, Eclipse, WebStorm, GIT/Stash (Bitbucket), Jenkins, Confluence,  Jira, SourceTree, Swagger, Maven, Windows, Linux, DB2, Sql Server, Coherence. Sr java developer AppleCare Connect (ACC) April 2014 to March 2016 Description:  It is primarily concerned with selling AppleCare contracts to Apple resellers via partner facing web portal and APIs at the front end, and integrating with back end systems to provide invoicing, registration and contract creation/POC.    Responsibilities:  • Application was developed in Spring MVC, Rest API and Java 8.  • Developed the Rest services, which can be accessed by the partners.  • Develop service layer using spring MVC.  • Developed the Data Layer using Spring JDBC Template.  • Developed the interfaces through which the data is sent from up streams to ACC.  • Managing builds and deployment of the application using DevOps.  • Consumed the Restful web services using RestTemplate.  • Designed the stored procedures for interacting with the Database.  • Log4J is used as logging framework.  • Developing and enhancing the Splunk Dashboards.  • Worked on Radar/Service Now for defect/issues logging & tracking and documented all my work using Confluence.  • Created Junit test cases to test the codes and validate the release.  • Experience with CI/CD tool Jenkins.  • Worked in agile/scrum methodology, which had daily scrum and sprint of fourteen days.  • Participated twice in peer reviews and code reviews for every sprint.    Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, Rest API, Oracle, JDBC, Junit, Maven, Confluence, Jenkins, Devops, jBoss. Java developer Torry Harris Business Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2011 to April 2014 MIS is a web based enterprise application, which basically serves as the backbone of all the significant business processes carried out within Torry Harris Business Solutions.  The system comprises of a huge bulk of information that would facilitate the management in decision making operations.  MIS application is used by all the THBS employees across the organization both onsite and offshore.    Modules Worked:  ? Travel Desk Management:  • This module helps employees to update their Passport/Visa details, raise travel request and check the status of their request. Managers can approve/Reject the travel request.  ? Nominee information system:  • This module is used by HR to gather all the required information during on boarding of new employees.  ? Time sheet Management System:  • This module is used by the employees to submit the time sheet based on the project to which they are allocated to.  ? Expense Module:  • This module is used by the employees to submit the claims and track the status of their claims.  ? Leave Management System:  • This module is used by the employees to submit leaves, verify leave balance, request for advance leaves.  ? Notification System:  • This module is used to notify the users when there is any communication from HR, completion of their service requests, Passport/Visa expiry etc.  Responsibilities:    • Responsible for requirement gathering from the Business Analyst's and for preparing the  Requirement Specification documents.  • Designed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams and Object Diagrams in the detailed design phase of the project using Rational Rose 4.0.  • Developed presentation layer of the project using HTML, JSP 2.0, JSTL and JavaScript technologies.  • Developed complete Business tier using Stateless and Stateful Session beans with EJB 2.0 standards using Web Sphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD 5.0)  • Used various J2EE design patterns, like DTO, DAO, and Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Singleton and Factory patterns.  • Consumed Web Service for transferring data between different applications.  • Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate 3.0 framework as the persistence layer for interacting with Oracle 9i.  • Extensively used IBM Web Sphere 5.0 while writing code and for creating Data Sources.  • Written complex SQL queries, stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL.  • Configured and used Log4J for logging all the debugging and error information.  • Involved writing code for Request Processor class to extend the functionality of struts Controller.  • Worked with QA team to design test plan and test cases for User Acceptance Testing (UAT)  • Actively participated in the Agile Development Process.  • Worked with Hibernate, JDBC to handle data needs  • Worked in deadline driven environment with immediate feature release cycles.  • Provided extensive pre-delivery support using Bug Fixing and Code Reviews.  • Mentored and trained new joiners.    Environment: J2EE, Java/JDK, JDBC, JSP, Struts 2.0, Web Services, SOAP, REST, JavaScript, CSS, JNDI, JavaBeans, XML, XSLT, Oracle 10g, TOAD Eclipse, HTML/ DHTML, Windows, JAXB, MySQL, IBM WebSphere, HTML, CSS, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.5.6, Maven, JUnit, Log4j, SVN, Servlets, jQuery, JSP, Java developer Leap Frog March 2007 to April 2011 LeapFrog encourage the child's curiosity and love of learning throughout their early developmental journey. LeapFrog has helped children expand their knowledge and imagination through award-winning products that combine educational expertise led by the LeapFrog Learning Team, innovative technology, and engaging play - turning playtime into quality time.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering from the Business Analyst's  • Developed the new screens using JSP.  • Experience in Oracle data work flows between trading partners. Dealt with the data issues occurred for the data transfer in Oracle.  • Creating and updating the databases basing on new customer on-boarding with the help of the SQL developer.  • Work with the product vendor to identify the areas of improvement and implement as a part of Infrastructure support.  • Data Import and Export from different flat files and databases and do the data cleansing.  • Involved in production support, trouble-shooting the day to day issues of the application.  • Developed application with Java and JDBC  • Used Eclipse as IDE.  • Worked with QA team to design test plan and test cases for User Acceptance Testing (UAT)  • Actively participated in the Agile Development Process.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, CVS, HTML, CSS, Oracle Education Bachelors of Technology in Electronics and Communication JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2007 Skills JAVA (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), ECLIPSE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), CSS (7 years) Additional Information Technical Summary:    Programming Language Java, SQL  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, Rest API  Frameworks Spring, Struts  ORM Hibernate    Operating Systems Linux, Mac, Windows  Database Oracle, My SQL, Mongo DB  App/Web Server Tomcat, Jetty, JBOSS  Programming IDE Eclipse, STS  Versioning Software Git, CVS  Log Monitoring tool Log4J, Splunk  Build tool Devops, Maven, Jenkins  Script Language Shell Script  Testing tools JUnit, Mockito