Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer Austin, TX • 9+ years of experience in Design & Development of Java/J2EE Applications.  • Involved inall phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) onthe projects worked.  • Experience in J2SE, J2EE and related technologies like JDBC, JSP, Servlets and JSTL.  • Have relevant hands on experience in frameworks like Struts, Spring.  • Have good experience in front end technologies HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery.  • Experienced on working with different IDEs such as Eclipse, IBM WebSphere Application Developer, IBM Rapid Application Developer.  • Have good experience in deploying Java web applicationsusing Application Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic.  • Have experience working on SOAP based Web Services.  • Good knowledge in developing applications with spring framework usingSpring DAO.  • Have relevant hands on experience in writing stored procedures, triggers and cursors using Oracle PL/SQL.  • Experienced in working with Build Automation tools Maven and Ant.  • Experience with JUnit, Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  • Have experience in working with Version Control Tools.  • Experienced in working with Oracle database.  • Good knowledge in Object-Oriented analysis and design.  • Have good experience on working with performance analysis tool JProfilerto optimize the applications performance. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer BlueCross BlueShield (BCBS) January 2018 to Present Technology: Struts2, Spring, Webservices,Oracle 10g, Ajax, JQuery  Description: This is a healthcare project mainly deals with the health insurance plans for the customers. Currently, the applications supporting the user needs is being automated to handle multiple requests and to enhance the business further. A user friendly automated tool has been created for serving the purpose of handling multiple requests by the users.  Main features are as follows:  • Receiving requests by users and handling them using multithreading.  • Webservices are used to process the requests by interacting with the database.  • Performance tuning has been done for the automated tool.  Responsibilities:  • Provided the best suited solutions for the environment  • Responsible for effort estimation and prepared detailed design document  • Involved in all phases of software development life cycle.  • Providing regular status reports and driving the daily scrum meeting  • Providing support for change and release management Lead Java Developer Infosys February 2014 to August 2016 Technology: Java, Python,Oracle 10g  Description: This project was to develop, upgrade and maintain the online portal to track the status and health of crops/plants/seeds for registered farmers/customers. The online portal was extensively used by the farmers/customers for reporting any incidents related to crops/seeds, delivery, service and the portal also hosted the crop research and development information.  Main features are as follows:  • Customer Complaints module is created where customers can raise concerns related to delivery, service, seed health, crops etc.,  • Document Management module is created to store R&D documents and archive them for future purpose.  • Incidents module is created to raise any incident happened to the Syngenta user.  • Enterprise Configuration Center is main module where all admin functions are handled.  Responsibilities:  • Lead the team by providing best suited solutions for the environment  • Responsible for effort estimation for new modules, detailed design document  • Involved in all phases of software development life cycle.  • Driving the discussions with various client stakeholders for requirement gatherings  • Providing regular status reports and driving the daily scrum meeting Infosys - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to August 2016 Project: ETQ Reliance Client: Syngenta Lead Java Developer Infosys April 2013 to January 2014 Technology: Java, JSP, JDBC,Oracle 10g, Oracle R12  Description: This project mainly deals with physical delivery of orders and electronic delivery. This project was to migrate current version of database used by the system to latest database version. Thereby all the applications with the functionalities impacted are migrated accordingly without impacting the data and ensured customer satisfaction.  Main features are as follows:  • Receiving orders from currently used database and migrating to newer database version.  • Ensured orders raised in both the database are received, processed, generate licenses and delivered to the user.    Responsibilities:  • Lead the team by providing best suited solutions for the environment  • Involved in effort estimation, requirements gathering, detailed design document, development, and testing.  • Created PL/SQL procedures, cursors with new functionalities for new version of database.  • Providing regular status reports and driving the daily scrum meeting Sr. Java Developer Infosys July 2012 to April 2013 Technology: Spring 2.5, Webservices, Struts2, Oracle 10g, Ajax, JQuery, JUnit, Log4j  Description: The Supply chain initiative allows cisco to remove VPN leased line at Contract Manufacturing (CM) sites with the objective to decrease cisco's footprint at CM sites. With this change cisco planned to offer an automated solution for CMs to continue to use the software fulfillment tools Elibrary and Jigsaw.  The solutions approach focuses on the following:  • Automating the physical software fulfillment process with a cisco cloud connection kit.  • CM manifest servers for hosting the webservices required for cloud connection kit.  • Unified cloud publishing to publish software images to akamai net storage.  • Providing feature parity with Elibrary and jigsaw functionalities for CMs on a cisco.com CMInbox application.  Responsibilities:  • Worked as module lead for Elibrary and CMInbox web applications.  • Created webservices and PL/SQL procedures for Elibrary module.  • Developed JUnit testcases for the modules.  • Generated code metric reports to ensure assurance in coding to meet quality needs. Capgemini - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2008 to June 2012 Java Developer Capgemini October 2011 to May 2012 Technology: Java, J2EE, Struts, JavaScript, XMLs, Eclipse,Webservice.  Description:Dealer Online Statements is an Ebusiness Call-Centre Application which maintains the details of the customers having insurance, policies, mutual funds. Advisors and CSR's have access to this application to view customer information. This project provides the functionality to view online mutual fund statements. Also, provides the functionality in capturing the preferences of the customer to receive an online version of mutual fund statements.  This application is been added with additional features like:  • Mutual Fund Statement Preferences  • Online Statements for Mutual Fund Accounts  Responsibilities:  • Have analyzed business requirement documents.  • Coding is done as per the business requirements for the application.  • Was part of SIT and UAT phases.  • Code metrics are followed to ensure quality deliverables. Java Developer Capgemini July 2011 to September 2011 Technology: Java, J2EE, Struts, JavaScript, XMLs, Eclipse, Webservice.  Description:Marketing Permissions is an Ebusiness Call-Centre Application. This project provides functionality to the CSRs to collect the user details through the newly developed user interface. Also provides functionality for updating the user permissions.  This application is been added with additional features like:  • New UI to collect member permissions, phone number, and email address.  • Updating communication permission details in Nexus Admin application.    Responsibilities:  • Have analyzed business requirement documents.  • Coding is done for the application as per the requirements.  • Was part of SIT and UAT phases.  • Have ensured quality deliverables. Java Developer Capgemini September 2010 to June 2011 Technology: Java, J2EE, WSAD 5.x, RAD 7.5, ES Architecture, JavaScript, XMLs.  Description:The application is called eChamps (electronic Cardholder application management and processing system) and is used as a front end for HSBC Credit Card Customer service representatives.  Project Beagle is implemented on top of eChamps and provides extra functionalities and aims at providing a comprehensive Front End solution for the HSBC CSRs. This application also supports internationalization which is being used by HSBC CSR's in their local language.  Responsibilities:  • Have analyzed business requirement documents and prepared the functional Specifications, Use Cases, and Technical Specifications.  • Coding is done as per the coding standards.  • Involved in SIT and UAT phases. Java Developer Capgemini June 2009 to June 2011 Technology: Java, J2EE, WSAD 5.x, RAD 7.5, ES Architecture, JavaScript, XMLs, IBM OnDemand, DB2, WHIRL, Xenos.  Description:Financial domain provides financial services for which they need to process and deliver many electronic documents. Electronic Document Management Service (EDMS) can be used in processing of these documents. EDMS serves as document retrieval requests from various front-end systems (eChamps). EDMS retrieves these documents from various repositories, such as FileNet, OnDemand. The repositories can be used to store a variety of image-based documents, such as banking/credit card statements, paper-based applications for loans, or complaint letters submitted by clients.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in business requirement document analysis.  • Prepared functional specifications, Technical specifications and Use Cases.  • Defect fixing is done for the defects raised by end users.  • Involved in SIT and UAT phases. Java Developer Capgemini August 2008 to June 2011 Technology: Java, J2EE, WSAD 5.x, RAD 7.5, ES Architecture, JavaScript, XMLs.  Description: E-café is the front end for the Collections subsystem in the Mainframes. Collections subsystem handles all the delinquent/mortgage/loan accounts. E-café application is used by the collectors, that is, the customer care representatives who are responsible for contacting the customers in case of delayed or no payment of credit cards or loan accounts. This application has all the functionalities that base code has which includes Card and Account Processing, Statement generation, Chargebacks and Fraud Activities, Lost/Stolen Card, Demographic and Miscellaneous information of the Customer.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in business requirement document analysis.  • Prepared functional specifications, Technical specifications and Use Cases.  • Defect fixing is done for the defects raised by end users.  • Involved in SIT and UAT phases. Java Developer Capgemini June 2008 to June 2011 Technology: Java, J2EE, WSAD 5.x, RAD 7.5, ES Architecture, JavaScript, XMLs.  Description: eChamps (electronic Cardholder application management and processing system) is a front-end application used by HSBC Credit Card Customer Service Representatives. It provides inquiry and update functionality for customer account information hosted by the Whirl 8 mainframe systems. eChamps is designed to be rolled out to several countries worldwide. This application provides development & support to more than 15 Business Units. It is expected that each deployment will be customized for functionality, language, and culture-specific requirements.  Responsibilities:  • Have analyzed business requirement documents and prepared the functional Specifications, Use Cases, and Technical Specifications.  • Application Maintenance is done.  • Defect fixing is done for the defects raised by the end users.  • Mentored new joiners in the project. Education Bachelor of technology in computer science in technology JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, jquery Additional Information Technical skills:    Programming Languages Java, J2EE.  J2EE Technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP.  Scripting Technologies HTML, AJAX, Java Script, jQuery.  Frameworks Struts 2, Spring 2.5  Web/Application Servers Web Sphere 5.x, Web Logic, Tomcat  IDE's Eclipse, IBM WebSphere Application Developer 5.x, IBM Rapid Application Developer 7.x  Web Services Apache Axis2, SOAP  Databases Oracle 10g,PL/SQL  Other Dev. Tools Ant, Log4J, Maven, JUnit  Ticketing Tools Service Now, JIRA  Performance Analysis Tools JProfiler  Operating Systems Windows 2003/2008/2012/2016