Sr .Full Stack Java Developer Sr .Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - Highmark Pittsburgh, PA • 10+ years of Design, Analysis, Deployment, Development Experience in web based multi-tier enterprise applications and SOA, Object oriented, distributed object applications. Worked on the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Client/Server Applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Significant expertise in all phases of complex Web UI using HTML/HTML5, JavaScript, CSS/CSS3, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, React JS.  • Designed and developed Java/J2EE applications on SDLC, Agile, and TDD models.  • Experience in building Web based applications using Spring Model-View-Controller (MVC) and Spring Web Flow frameworks.  • Experienced in following SOA based architectures by implementing SOAP based web services using WSDL, XSD, SOAP, RESTful web services using JAX-RS, Microservices and integration technologies like JMS.  • Proven software development experience using different methodologies - Agile, Waterfall and TDD.  • Good knowledge of Configuration Management tools like SVN, CVS, and GIT for version control.  • Written JDBC, SQL and HQL statements for interacting with persistence layer to perform CRUD operations  • Working knowledge with databases Oracle, MySQL, DB2, MS-SQL Server and Postgre databases.  • Knowledge of using various tools and IDEs for development and design such as Net Beans, RAD, IntelliJ & Eclipse.  • Had good experience in Database Schema Design, writing stored procedure, functions, triggers, DDL, DML, SQL queries.  • Extensive knowledge in using IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat application servers.  • Good experience in Hibernate and iBatis as the Object Relational Mapping solution and Hibernate Query Language (HQL) which implements Java Persistence API (JPA).  • Good Knowledge in designing AWS cloud models for Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS).  • Worked on (JMS) MQ's like IBM MQ and Active MQ.  • Experienced in build/deploy projects using Ant scripts, Maven and integrated with CI tools using Jenkins, Hudson, Chef.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, VPC, IAM, Cloud Watch, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, ELB, Auto Scaling, Route53, Lambda)  • Experience in using the Log4j framework for Logging Java Application.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components and Restful service endpoints using Spring Boot.  • Experience in using TDD for development and writes units tests leveraging frameworks such as Junit, Mockito, JMock etc. for extensive unit-testing.  • Experienced in working with different testing environments like unit test, integration testing using Junit, Easy mock and power mock.  • Involved in Client interaction in analysis of requirements, design of the systems, development, customizations, configurations, system and integration testing.  • Hands on experience using Drools Framework. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr .Full Stack Java Developer Highmark - Pittsburgh, PA, US November 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, analysis, and development and testing phases of the software development lifecycle.  • Undertaken research and implementation of Smooks framework to enable transformation of data from upstream applications into downstream specific formats.  • Developed and maintained the application using JBOSS Fuse.  • Used Apache Camel for routing of internal and external Web services in a Micro service-oriented architecture.  • Created REST web services to send data in JSON format to different systems using Apache CXF.  • Used Soap UI to setup mock services to invoke soap endpoints of client locally and to test the soap input and response requests of the applications.  • Worked with JBoss Business Rules Management System (BRMS) using Drools to write the rules for the validation of transactions.  • Designed and implemented the MongoDB schema. Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices.  • The presentation layer used Spring MVC to implement the MVC architecture design and facilitates user interface designed by use of JSP's 2.3 and tag libraries.  • Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security and transaction management.  • Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Spring Boot.  • Developed REST web services to serve multiple applications across the organization. The data is provided in JSON and used Jackson library.  • Used AngularJS Http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI. Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using AngularJS directives.  • Proof of concept on creating Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Build backend API with Node.js also created modules to store and mutate data from the MongoDB.  • Worked with ELK (Elastic Search, Log stash and Kibana 5.1.2) stack to develop an end to end transaction processing system.  • Worked with Open Shift Enterprise to build, deploy and host an application.  • Used the Log4j framework to implement the logging mechanism of the applications.  • Worked with SOAP UI to test the existing services. Responsible for consuming Web Service from WSDL.  • Involved in the developing unit test cases using Junit. Worked on developing automation test scripts using TestNG framework.  • Implemented test driven development, executed unit test plans using Junit and TestNG.  • Package creation with Maven, Jenkins and used Jenkins for Continuous integration and continuous testing.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring, Apache Camel, Mongo DB 3.0.2, Rest Web Services, Soap UI 5.2.0, Open Shift Environment(OSE) 3.2.x, Elastic Search 5.1.2, Kibana 5.1.2, TestNG, BRMS(Drools), JSON, JBoss Developer Studio 10.1.0, GIT. sr. Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Basking Ridge, NJ, US August 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Co-ordination with BA & PO for a better understanding of functional requirements, analyzed, designed, documented and implemented the business requirements.  • Responsible for the design of web applications for Web user as well as Retail users.  • Design and development of Test Simulation tools in Java (J2EE), to automate SOAP transactions.  • Developed a Message Driven Bean that uses JMS to manage backend transactions and approval for user loan applications.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, and Implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, XML and XSLT and Web Services (SOAP, WSDL).  • Developed the application using J2EE, JSP, Tag Libraries, XML, XSD and Oracle.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design.  • Developed UI interface using AngularJS for rich user interaction.  • Used AGILE development techniques in all the development process and exposed to tools like Jive for tracking bugs and Rally to track the agile development.  • Extensive knowledge of mocking & integration REST API.  • Worked closely with the UI Designers team using flash to create web designs.  • Actively involved in designing and implementing the application using various design patterns such as Singleton, DAO, Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Façade and Data Access Object.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as loan status report.  • Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using AngularJS directives.  • Responsible for developing various static and dynamic modules which are displayed in different web pages according to the Web user & Retail user specifications  • Created Angular service calls to exchange (request / responses) information with database.  • Responsible for Unit testing and supporting the QA & UAT environments.  • Important role in assisting UAT team members to help them understand to test the system thoroughly and fixed the bugs reported.  • Daily SCRUM stand-up meeting and provided Demo to the business.  • Interacted with User Experience teams to understand customer needs to design online user experiences, ensuring ease of navigation and simplicity of design.  • Experience in JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, NodeJS and libraries like JQuery, aJS.  • Tested pages for cross-browser compatibility for Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE by cross browser hacks and requirements.  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Gathering, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Ability to handle multiple tasks and to work independently as well as in a team, experienced in interacting with Business/Technology groups.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects.  • Extensive knowledge of Content Management System.    Environment: Java, JSP, JDBC, Multi-Threading, UML, HTML5, AngularJS, React Js, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS2/3, Stash, Jenkins, JSON, JQuery, Adobe Photoshop, XML, Apache. Java/J2EE Developer Mercy Health Systems - Janesville, WI, US March 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in meeting with business to gather requirements.  • Involved in analyzing business requirements and compose them into a technical use cases.  • Involved in creating class and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Responsible for IVR (Interactive Voice Response) and reporting software development.  • Designed and developed the application based on MVC framework.  • Created HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSTL and JSP pages for Presentation Layer.  • Involved in implementing Spring DAO layer to access the database.  • Deployed the Enterprise Java Beans in Web Sphere App Server.  • Involved in transforming XML to HTML using XSLT.  • Used XPATH to navigate through Attributes and Elements in an XML Document.  • Developed DAO's to invoke DAP's (Data Access Programs) to access data from .CSV files and to query Oracle database.  • Wrote various Struts framework Action classes for interfacing with the business logic, form beans for presenting the data to JSPs.  • Involved in Java and PL/SQL code reviews.  • Developed Database Objects like PL/SQL packages, Stored Procedures and Materialized Views.  • Wrote batch jobs for loading data from .CSV files into database.  • Designed and implemented RESTful APIs based on Spring MVC and Jersey.  • Developed online adhoc reports using Jasper framework.  • Wrote Shell Scripts for executing the batch jobs.  • Interacted with the Users and Documented the Application.  • Involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall Unit, Integration and Security testing of system.  • Used RAD as IDE for development and unit testing.  • Used PVCS as repository to control versioning of projects.  • Prepared documentation and participated in preparing user's manual for the application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, GWT, (GWT-EXT), JavaScript, , Skills Used IVR: Interactive Intelligence PL/SQL, Struts, Spring, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, XML, XSLT, CSS, Log4j, UML, Jasper (Reports), Rational Rose, Web Sphere Application Server, RAD, PVCS, Clear Quest, Windows XP. Java/J2EE Developer UPS Service - Baltimore, MD, US June 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed user interfaces, object model, application server logic and schema by analyzing requirements.  • Used J2EE patterns for designing applications.  • Designed UI pages using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSP and Struts tag libraries.  • Monitored the performance of application using JProbe, also coded Struts Action Classes and Model Classes.  • Using Model View Controller (MVC) architecture of Struts developed client User Interface.  • Used Struts Validation framework for client/server validations.  • Extensively used design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory etc.  • JMS is used for exchanging the information like Author publication status report between the author and company.  • Used EJB Session beans and entity beans to develop business services and the persistence.  • Implemented business logic using Java Beans for front end and storage/retrieval from the backend Oracle DB using SQL queries and PL SQL-Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors etc.  • Followed coding guidelines while implementing the code.  • Extensively involved in Unit testing and coordinated with the testing team and fixing Bugs at various stages of the application development.  • Develop Message Driven Beans (MDB) & involved in building and accessing a Web Services using SOAP over JMS.  • Developing a mechanism for sending and receiving SOAP messages over JMS by MQ Series Engine  • Developed Web Services using ApacheAXIS2 tool Framework.  • Generated WSDL files using AXIS2 tool.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service oriented Architecture (SOA) Concept.  • Ran check styles, find bugs and configured EMMA tool for test coverage.    Environment: JAVA/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JSTL, Java Script, EJB-session bean, entity beans, JMS, HTML, DHTML, Struts, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat 6.0, CVS, AXIS 2, JAVA/J2EE Design Patterns, Edit Plus, TOAD, Struts Tag Libraries, Validation framework, JUNIT, Oracle-SQL, PL SQL, QC etc. Java Developer Virtusa Consulting Services - IN October 2008 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and analyzing system requirements.  • Played key role in the high-level design for the implementation of this application.  • Developed the Training and Appraisal modules using Java, JSP, Servlets and JavaScript.  • Developed UI using java swings.  • Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features  • Involved in Designing the Database Schema and writing the complex SQL queries.  • Involved in Code reviews for other modules developed by peers.  • Designing and establishing the process and mapping the functional requirement to the workflow process.  • Accessed stored procedures and functions using JDBC Callable statements.  • Executed and coordinated the installation for the project.  • Involved in designing and developed presentation layer using JSF, Ajax, and JQuery and third-party libraries.  • Worked on web-based reporting system with HTML, JavaScript and JSP.    Environment: Java, JDK, 1.3, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, EJB), JDBC, Apache Tomcat, oracle, HTML, DHTML, SQL, Junit. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Perl, UML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JQuery  Java Frameworks Servlets (3.x), JDBC (4.x), JSTL Java Server Pages (JSP 2.x), JSF, JMS, JPA.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, AngularJS, AJAX, Backbone.js, JQuery, SOAP and Restful), Node.js.  Frameworks Struts (2.x.x), Spring (3.x/4.x), Hibernate (3.x/ 4.x), Apache Camel (2.x), Swing, Apache CXF, Apache Karaf.  Servers Tomcat (8.x/ 9.x), Web Logic (9.x), Web Sphere (6.x), Red Hat JBoss Fuse, Glassfish Server (4.x).  Databases Oracle 10g/11g/12c, MSSQL, MySQL (5/6), IBM DB2, MongoDB (3.x), Cassandra (3.x).  Tools Ant (1.x, Gradle (3.x), Maven (3.x), Log4j, Git (1.x/2.x), SVN (1.x), CVS (1.x.x)), Junit (4.x), Selenium (3.x/ 4.x) Mockito), Jenkins, Hudson and Bamboo.  IDE Eclipse Luna(M6), Mars(M7), Neon(RC3), IntelliJ IDEA(15.x), Net Beans(8.x), RAD(7.x)  Platforms Windows (7/ 8/10), Windows Server 2008/12, Ubuntu (15.04), Red Hat Enterprise Linux.