Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Applied Materials Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Applied Materials - Austin, TX January 2016 to Present Description:-  Teamcenter is a virtual gateway to the company's product information that enables you to digitally manage your product and manufacturing data in the context of the product lifecycle. Using Teamcenter, you can manage product configuration, control design changes and approvals, and feed information to downstream applications, such as ERP systems. Data stored in Teamcenter is accessible to everyone in your global organization, in real time, reflecting the latest changes.    Responsibilities:-  • Designed the application by implementing Spring Framework based on MVC Architecture.  • Followed Agile methodology, interacted with the client, provide/take feedback on the features, suggest/implement optimal solutions and tailored application to customer needs.  • Designed the project using MVC, Session Façade, and Service Locator and Business Delegate patterns.  • Integrated the application with Spring Framework for implementing Dependency Injection and provide abstraction between presentation layer and persistence layer.  • Developed Web pages using Struts view component JSP, JavaScript, HTML, jQuery, AJAX, to create the user interface views  • Created various actions under Struts-config.xml, tiles-def.xml files.  • Implemented validation on the JSP fields using Struts Validation framework which included writingvalidation.xml and validation-rules.xml files  • Implementation of clean separation of layers through the usage of different design patterns likeFactory pattern, Singleton and DAO pattern.  • Made the integration of data in several applications in favor JSON documents with dynamic schemas using Mongo-DB (NoSQL) database.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine, configured O/R mapping and wrote hibernate queries.  • Created many REST (GET/POST/PUT/DELETE) service endpoints, both for POST and GET operations using groovy language and grails platform.  • Developed strategies for integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Security andSpring Boot.  • Created microservices to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Configured and deployed the application on Weblogic Application Server.  • Implemented Complex Business Delegate layer using DAO's created and business logic.  • Exposed various capabilities such as Web Services using SOAP and WSDL.  • Configured and created application log files using Log4J required to trace application messages.  • Involved in Migrating existing business applications to Amazon cloud services (AWS) based environment and deployed applications using Amazon web services.  • Utilized most of the AWS services like S3 as a data store for storing the files that falls into the bucket, IAM roles, Elastic Bean Stalk, generated Lambda Functions to trigger an event that occurs in S3, Code Commit as a Version control service, AWS Cloud Watch.  • Compiled and built the application using ANT scripts and deployed the application.  • Used SVN as version control system.  • Actively involved in code reviews and bug fixing    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, JSP, Spring 4.0, Struts 2.2, Spring Boot 1.5 , AngularJS 4, Hibernate 4.0, Eclipse 3.5, WebLogic 10g, Oracle 11g, MongoDB, HTML, XML, Web Services, JUnit 4.1, SVN, Windows, UNIX, AWS. Sr. Java Developer ComPsych - Chicago, IL August 2015 to December 2016 Description:- This system provides Patient Administration, Billing Management functions for the hospital. The major functions of Administration module are Allocating Registration, Recording Personal Details, assigning Insurance Details, Retrieving Patient history records from other hospitals. The Billing module allows Billing and receivables, looks into multiple modes of Payment and Rates Definition for Services.    Responsibilities:-  • Implemented SOA architecture using Enterprise Service Bus (ESB).  • Configured business applications in XML bean definition files using SPRING.  • Worked on Hibernate ORM. Created Hibernate XML files and Java class files to map the object relation mappings. Used Hibernate query language.  • Provided data persistence by object/relational mapping solution via Hibernate for application save, update, delete operations.  • Worked on JPA for persisting the objects into the system.  • Used Angular JS to style the pages.  • Created services for various modules like Account (CD/Checking/Savings) Creation and Maintenance using SPRING.  • Experienced in finding the Memory Leaks and adjusting the JVM Heap Sizes and GC Parameters using JProfile 5.1.  • Worked on Axis implementation and used SOAPUI to test the SOAP.  • Worked on XML, XSD and XSLT to parse the request and create the new one based on the specification.  • Developed generic Java packages to produce and consume JMS messages through topics and queues in asynchronous message processing with guaranteed delivery.  • Used IBM MQSeries as the JMS provider.  • Utilized Core J2EE design patterns such as Singleton and Data Access Object (DAO) in the implementation of the services.  • Responsible for writing SQL Queries and Procedures using DB2.  • Responsible for writing JUnit test cases and Peer level testing.  • Improved database performance by recognizing and rewriting slow queries.  • Build & Deployment in Websphere Application Server.  • Solid deployment experience on the UNIX platform.  • Created UML diagrams such as Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using IBM Rational Rose.  Environment:- Java 5, SOA, JMS, JMX, IBM MQ Series 5.3, Web Services, Axis, SOAPUI, Hibernate, JNDI, XML, XSD, JAXB, JAXP, Spring, Junit, JProfile 5.1, Ant, JPA, JTA, JDBC 2.0, Maven, PL/SQL Developer, DB2, Unix, Log4J, UML and Agile, Web Logic 9.0, Angular JS. Java/J2EE Developer Black Berry - Bellevue, WA July 2013 to August 2015 Description:- The current goal of the BES-NG project is to deliver an on premise MDM product that will replace BDS and UDS deployments, and will also support Fusion-Studio like integration with Doral (BES 5.0.4) BES deployments, so that a customer's devices can all be managed from a single BES-NG based Mobile Fusion deployment. This goal will be met by packaging a single technology base that can support the future deployment of a cloud and hosted MDM solution in a form that can be deployed on premise by Enterprise customers.    Responsibilities:-  • Followed AGILE (SCRUM) methodologies with sprint planning every two weeks and daily stand up meetings to monitor the status.  • Gathered requirements from the client for designing the Web Pages.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding and Development of custom Interfaces.  • Developed the presentation layer using Model View Architecture implemented by Spring MVC.  • Developed Rest Web services for authentication and authorization.  • Implemented Front controller using Spring MVC framework.  • Participated in designing the user interface for the application using HTML, DHTML, Servlet, Java Script and CSS.  • Worked on developing MAVEN for the code generated.  • Developed the war/ear file using Ant script and deployed into Tomcat Server.  • Used STS for code development along with GIT, Gerrit and perforce for managing the code.  • Wrote SQL Queries to get the information from Database, Saving the data, modifying the data in the Database, and removing the data from the Database.  • Used Oracle as the backend  • Used log4j logger system to maintain application logs.  • Performed unit testing and system testing.  • Review code written by other members of the team and provide feedback and incorporate feedback received from others.  • Document the various components of the code to help future maintenance easy.  • Actively participated in Sprint planning meetings for tasks identification and estimations.  • Validations were done using AngularJS.  • Used Ajax calls through Angular JS to populate the data tables on the front-end.  • Automated processes using Salesforce "Process Builder" and "Workflow".    Environment:- Java EE 6,7, Spring, Hibernate, RESTFUL Web service, AJAX, JQuery, HTML, CSS, XML, Oracle, JUnit, JNDI, CVS, log4j, Tomcat , Maven, Eclipse3.0, Windows, TestNg, Unix, Jenkins, GIT, Web logic 9.0, Angular JS. Java /J2EE Developer Elemica Inc - Wayne, PA May 2011 to June 2013 Description:-  Elemica is a Supply Chain Operating Network provider, designed to give you total control over your global supply chains. Capturing your transaction data, across all your trading partners, and translating it into actionable information is key to driving value out of your supply chain. That keen insight is achieved by combining powerful Smart Link business process applications with a robust Quick Link Network.  Responsibilities:-  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Used Strutsframeworktoadd a module that would capture progress notes entered into the system.  • Designed and developed the web-tier using Html, JSP's, Servlets, Strutsaction classes  • Implemented Exception mechanism and used Struts error message mechanism.  • Server side validation was performed using StrutsValidationFramework  • Developed and implemented intranet website using JSPs, Servlets, HTML and JavaScript to provide information about the application.  • Used parsers like SAX and DOM for parsing xml documents and used XML transformations using XSLT.  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Used JSTL and developed required tiles and tile definitions for Templating and defined configuration in the struts configuration.xml.  • Implemented MVCArchitecture to separate the presentation, business and database logic in the application.  • Front-end development using HTML, CSS, JSP and clientsidevalidations performed by using JavaScript.  • Developed JSP pages using Custom tags and Tiles frame work and Struts frame work.  Environment: - J2EE, JDK, Weblogic, Apache Tomcat, JDBC, JNDI, JSP, Struts, EJB, SOAP, AJAX, JUnit, Swing, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Apache Ant, Oracle Java/J2EE Developer First Citizen Bank - Raleigh, NC January 2009 to April 2011 Description:-  Citizen Bank offers several personal and business solutions, Bank provides Credit Cards, Auto Loans and Home Mortgages etc. for personal and it provides lot of other features for small scale to large-scale business. The purpose of CAPS application is to bring down Delinquency rate among Fifth Third Bank Credit cards. CAPS offers three different types of programs for Delinquent accounts known as CCCS, ASSIST, EFFORT and CAPS GUI provides an interface for CSR's to offer those programs to customers and as well as track the records and history of cardholders.  Responsibilities:-  • Requirement Analysis and Documentation as per SDLC methodologies.  • Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements.  • Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through AgileTDD methodology using Rally Agile Development Software.  • Worked closely with the Business/Users team in translating technical requirements into application code  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture using Spring, JSP&Java beans to migrate from Struts Framework.  • Involved in development of services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM with JPA Annotations and Spring MVC Framework.  • Integrated Spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Worked on migrating Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.  • Developed web layer using Springs framework and to manage the project in MVC pattern.  • Designed and developed a RESTful APIs using Spring REST API.  • Client pages are built using HTML, CSS, JSP, AngularJS, JavaScript/JQuery.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services.  • Developed helper classes, delegate classes, value objects to access business tier and transfer the information from business layer to the presentation layer.  • Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat and WebSphere Application Server.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections.  • Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle11g database.  • Defined XML documents for input and output sources of Web Services. Created schema documents for XML validation and developed XML schemas.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries, also used JUnit for unit testing and Mockito for mock based testing.  • Used Git for Version Control.  • Used log4j with Splunk Logging for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing using ClearQuest as bug tracking tool.    Environment:- Java 1.7, JSP 2.X, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, Maven, Struts 2.X , Spring, Spring MVC and Hibernate 4.0, IntelliJ, Oracle11g, WebSphere Application Server, JPA, Tomcat, Spring REST API JUnit, Mockito, XML, GIT, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Jenkins, ClearQuest and Rally. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (9 years), J2EE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), JUNIT (9 years), XML (9 years) Additional Information Professional Skills:  • 8+ years of experience in Designing, Developing, Implementing, Integrating and Testing of Web based Applications using Java/J2EE technology  • Knowledge of Object Oriented Programming and Design, UML and SDLC.  • Expert level skills developing applications using Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, EJB, Hibernate, Web Services, JDBC, XML, HTML,CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, Ajax and JQuery.  • Extensively implemented various J2EE applications using MVC, Jakarta Struts, Struts 2.0, Spring MVC and Design Patterns.  • Experience in Enterprise JAVA, Distributed Application development, and Object Oriented Programming (OOPS)  • An experienced software engineer in Java web and client server development with knowledge in all the phases of the life cycle of the software including requirements, design, coding, testing, deployment, change and configuration management, process definitions and project management  • Extensive experience in developing web-based applications on J2EE platform.  • Worked on various web servers like WebSphere, Tomcat, Web Logic  • Worked experience in Hibernate and JPA ORM tools  • Experience in working on XML related technologies like XML, XSLT, XPATH, XSL, DTD, DOM and XML Spy tool  • Expertise in developing Internet/Intranet Applications with Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, ANT, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, XML, Log4j,HTML, and JavaScript.  • Worked extensively in MVC frameworks Struts and JSF  • In depth understanding of the Retail, Banking Domain.  • Hands-on experience on development tools like Eclipse, RAD, WSAD, My Eclipse, and Jdeveloper  • Knowledge of IBM Rational Application Developer.  • Having good exposure on service-oriented architecture (SOA)  • Log4J for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing.  • Experience in using build tools like ANT and Maven.  • Solid Understanding of OOPS and RDBMS concepts  • Understanding in creating Ant Scripts, SQL Queries in Oracle  • Worked with JUnit for unit testing  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD)  • Knowledge ofRoot cause analysis.  • Followed Waterfall and Agile/Scrum methodology of software development which satisfies the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software  • Experience in working with customers to determine their needs, gather, analyse and document requirements, communicate with customers throughout the development cycle, manage customer expectations, resolve issues and provide project status  • Hands on experience with version control tools like CVS, Rational Clear Case and Clear Quest.    Technical Skills:    Languages C, C++, Java, UML, SQL, PL/SQL  Core Java Data Structures, Collections, Generics, Serialization Reflections, Concurrency/Multithreading, RMI, Swing, Applet  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL,EJB 2.0/3.0,JMS,JTA,JCA, JB, JDBC  J2EE MVC Frameworks Struts 1.2/2.0, Spring (Core, IOC,AOP,DI MVC, DAO, Security) JSF  Web Technologies HTML3/5, DHTML, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT, XSD, XHTML, SOAP/, WSDL, JSON-parsing, JSON-DTD, Schema Modeling, GWT  Scripting Languages JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX  ORM Frameworks Hibernate, JPA, DAO  IDE's Eclipse, JBuilder, IBM RAD and Net Beans  Database Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, DB2, MySQL, MongoDB, Microsoft SQL Server 2008.  Design Tools MS Visio, Rational Rose Enterprise.  Version Control Systems Rational Clear Case 7.0, 7.1, SVN (Apache Sub Version), CVS (Concurrent Versions System), GIT, Github  Design Patterns  MVC, Singleton, Factory, Pattern, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, DAO, Front Controller, Iterator, Interface, Proxy    Application Servers Oracle Web logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat.  Logging Tools Log4j  Build Tools Maven 3.0/3.1, ANT and Gradle  Testing Junit, JTest, Selenium, Jasmine, Karma  Web Services SOAP, Spring REST, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, SAAJ, Metro  Design Methodologies Rational Unified Process, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development, Rapid Application Development.  Planning Effort Estimation, Project planning.    Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8 , UNIX, Oracle Solaris, Linux