Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Verizon Irving, TX • Having 10 years on requirement analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and support using Object Oriented Methodologies and Java/J2EE technologies.  • Actively participated in every phase of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) and proficient with software development methods like Agile (scrum) and Water Fall.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, JSP, Node.JS, React JS, PHP, Bootstrap.  • Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  • Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  • Experience in Creating and configuring the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server  • Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elastic Search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  • Hands on experience with Amazon web services (AWS) and Amazon cloud technologies such as Amazon EC2 (virtual servers) and Amazon Cloud Watch (monitoring).  • Deploy application updates to AWS and monitored the load balancing of different instances.  • Experience using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring DAO, Spring Data, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions and Spring Security (SSL, OAUTH2).  • Extensive experience working in spring framework, Struts framework, O/R Mapping Hibernate framework and web services.  • Strong work experience in application integration and communicating using SOA, Web Services such as JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML over HTTP, Apache CXF, JAX-B, XSD, Axis 2 and RESTFUL web services.  • Strong Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexers and proficiency in writing complex queries, using Oracle, IDM DB2, SQL Server and MySQL, MongoDB.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, Xpath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache Active MQ and Apache Camel as JASMS provider.  • Experience in developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j and SLF4j.  • Experience in version control system tools like GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Experience in unit testing the applications using Junit, TDD Framework.  • Worked on implementing full life cycle of software development process (SDLC) in using version control tools like Rational Clear Case, Tortoise SVN, CVS (Concurrent Version System).  • Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, SVN, CVS, Jenkins and Apache Ant.  • Significant experience in web development tools like Spring Tool Suite, RAD, IntelliJ, Eclipse  • Hands on experience with Windows, UNIX and Linux Environments.  • Having Experience on Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server.  • Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss application Servers.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, lead/work within a team environment. Work Experience Java Developer Verizon - Irving, TX, US June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using AGILE methodology.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS.  • Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate & handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  • Developed restful web service APIs using Spring Framework such as Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring  • AOP and Java Persistence API.  • Implemented Microservices using Pivotal Cloud foundry (PCF) platform build upon Spring Boot Services.  • Involved in developing Web Services to send XML request and reading the response SOAP UI from Java platform.  • Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP.  • Created Restful Web services using Jersey API (JAX-RS) while data exchange was carried out between application and services using JSON.  • Spring MVC, Ajax and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  • Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  • Developed Message Driven Bean for asynchronous sending Messages using JMS.  • Used Rest methodology for the service layer interface and used JSON for the data transformation.  • Developed various AJAX and JSON calls for the communication between the server and the UI.  • Developed web services for produce and consumed the services by making Web Service Calls to remote services in different applications.  • Established Database Connectivity using Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for MySQL Server.  • Developed the Mapping Resource Files for the database entities.  • Packaged and deployed the application in IBM Web sphere.  • Used IntelliJ as IDE to develop the application and followed the standard features for debugging and running.  • Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements.  • Used Rational Clear Case for the version control.  • Used Maven as the build tool and JUnit for Testing and Ant Scripts.  • Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in AGILE Methodology.    Environment: Agile, Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, XML, Spring, Micro services, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Maven, Rational Clear Case, IBM Web Sphere, SOAP UI, JNDI, Log4J, MySQL Server, Google cloud platform, JIRA, RMI, IntelliJ IDE, LINUX. sr. Java/JEE Developer Citizens Bank - Cranston, RI, US February 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and testing of applications.  • Designed Activity Diagrams, Use Case Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams to design the application.  • Participated in Agile (Scrum) methodology and involved in designing and testing the enterprise applications.  • Developed HTML, JSPs, JavaScript, CSS as a front end GUI with middle tier framework as Hibernate using HQL and Struts using MVC framework.  • Used LESS CSS pre-processor to write the styles by creating Variables, Functions or Mix INS and used Grunt to automatically convert those styles into normal CSS styles.  • Developed REST services using Node-JS, Express-JS, Body-Parse, Underscore-JS and other node modules to serve the web application with JSON data.  • Designed SOA implementations by Using Web Services-WSDL, UDDI and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party vendors.  • Involved in build process, modifying the Maven files, compiling the code building, packaging the WAR file and deploying onto various Tomcat servers in UNIX environments.  • Implemented Transaction and Logging using Spring AOP, developed Hibernate HQL queries and Hibernate DAO implementation for database connectivity.  • Implemented spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC pattern and also configured Hibernate 2.0 for the application.  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database and used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to query the database for complex data.  • Worked with java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage service, Simple queue service and Dynamo.  • (Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon web Services AWS).  • Used Git as version control system to save the code and keep track of the changes occurred and maven as build tool for getting dependencies.  • Used Servlets as Controllers for MVC architecture and Hibernate in business layer to access MySQL Database.  • Developed dynamic webpages using JavaScript and Implemented JQuery for creating behaviors of JavaScript.  • Used Spring Framework with Hibernate to map to Oracle 10gdatabase and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Implemented Spring Beans using IOC and Transaction Management features to handle the transactions and business logic.  • Migration of Web Sphere application server to Tomcat application and used Eclipse IDE and deployed the application on TOMCAT server.  • Used Oracle 10g database to design various tables required for the project and used Stored Procedures in the application.  • Designed and developed web services like SOAP, XML schemas, JAXB and XSL and Involved in activities like code review and performance improvement.  • Implemented connectivity to databases using JDBC API from servlets and JSP through Enterprise Java Beans (EJB).  • Used SQL, PL/SQL in indexes, views, stored procedures, functions and relational database models.  • Tested the application using TestNG testing framework and Maven as a build and management tool to get the required dependencies for the respective project.  Environment: Java 1.7, JSF 3.0, SOA, SOAP, AJAX, HQL, PL/SQL, XML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Web Logic Server 10.3, Oracle 10g, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.1, CVS,, Swing. Full Stack Java Developer Maks Technologies - IN December 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed multiple user tools with core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  • Implemented multiple design patterns like factory, façade, etc.  • Extensive code reviews on adherence to design and performance.  • Extensive real time production support.  • Wrote HQL queries as part of development.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  • Created database pool, multi-pool, data source and mapped them to roles.  • Used spring for creating the object using dependency injection (IOC).  • Developed the web-services and analysis of SOAP envelope using SOAP UI.  • Created Rest web services using JAX-RS, Hibernate framework.  • Configured action mapping (in XML) for each logical request that may be submitted.  • Seed Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data.  • Have used DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML5 and JavaScript, Angular JS.  • Wrote batch jobs and was involved in performance tuning of complex queries.  • Monitored the error logs and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used Sub Version (SVN) for version control.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Developed additional UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Developed web pages using HTML5/CSS and JavaScript, Angular JS  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, JQuery UI for client side validation.  Environment: Core Java, SQL (DB2), Design Patterns, Spring, OOPS/OOAD (UML), XML, Hibernate, DOJO 1.5, Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN source control, Bugzilla, Autosys, Aqua Studio, JIRA, Cygwin. Java Developer Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC, US March 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developing the Business components using EJB for processing information associated with module.  • Involved in designed and developed of Application using MVC (Model view Controller) Pattern.  • Worked on Used Struts-Validator framework for all front-end validations for all the form entities.  • Developing SQL Queries for different database operations in Oracle 10g.  • Deploying and testing the application in Web Sphere App server.  • Used RAD for developing the application components.  • Involved in developing front end screens using JSP, XLTS, DHTML, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked with stateless session beans on the middle tier.  • Developed and implemented search feature using Ajax.  • Hibernate framework is deployed for persisting data. It maps between Object Oriented Java classes and Oracle 10g Relational Database tables.  • Participating in Code review process for peers.  • Involved Analyzing, Fixing Production, UAT and QAT Issues.  • Responsible to validate end-to-end test case scenarios and coordinating with QA Team.  • Involved in gathering and analyzing system requirements.  • Developed application is based on the MVC-II Architecture using Apache Struts framework.  • Involved in all phases of SDLC including requirements Collection, Design and analysis of the Customer specifications from business analyst.  • Used Rule Engines in applications to replace and manage some of the business logic.  • Wrote business rules using Drools and business logic processing customs declarations.  • Monitored Logs files and troubleshooting environment variable in Linux boxes.  • Involved in maintenance of the application.  Environment: Core Java, Struts, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JDBC, Hibernate, Servlets, XML, SQL statements, SVN, EJB, Oracle 10g, RAD, Web Sphere, Log4j and JavaScript. Java Developer Value Labs - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN November 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the development life cycle (SDLC) involving in requirement Collection. Design and analysis of the customer specifications of the application using TDD Methodology,  • Implemented struts framework using MVC design pattern and front controller pattern for front controller in this application.  • Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file  • Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML for each user interface. JavaScript, Servlets standard validations are used as the controllers for business logic and using JDBC, XML parsing techniques using MVC  • Designed mailing application to send notifications to the Oracle users for intimating to start the next workflow.  • Designed and implemented AJAX server calls to dynamically retrieve shipping information.  • Worked on Oracle in writing complex queries in the business logic layer. Used joins, debugging the SCM related packages and customization.  • Involved in testing the application using Junit.  • Designed, coded and tested business logic for software applications.    Environment: Struts, Core- JAVA, JSP, Servlets, oracle, Multi- Threading, Collections, PL/SQL, OO Design, OO Analysis, XML, XSLT, IBM Web Sphere, Log4J, Junit, ANT, Eclipse. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Perl, UML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JQuery  Java Frameworks Servlets (3.x), JDBC (4.x), JSTL Java Server Pages (JSP 2.x), JSF, JMS, JPA.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, AngularJS, AJAX, Backbone.js, JQuery, SOAP and Restful), Node.js.  Frameworks Struts (2.x.x), Spring (3.x/4.x), Hibernate (3.x/ 4.x), Apache Camel (2.x), Swing, Apache CXF, Apache Karaf.  Servers Tomcat (8.x/ 9.x), Web Logic (9.x), Web Sphere (6.x), Red Hat JBoss Fuse, Glassfish Server (4.x).  Databases Oracle 10g/11g/12c, MSSQL, MySQL (5/6), IBM DB2, MongoDB (3.x), Cassandra (3.x).  Tools Ant (1.x, Gradle (3.x), Maven (3.x), Log4j, Git (1.x/2.x), SVN (1.x), CVS (1.x.x)), Junit (4.x), Selenium (3.x/ 4.x) Mockito), Jenkins, Hudson and Bamboo.  IDE Eclipse Luna(M6), Mars(M7), Neon(RC3), IntelliJ IDEA(15.x), Net Beans(8.x), RAD(7.x)  Platforms Windows (7/ 8/10), Windows Server 2008/12, Ubuntu (15.04), Red Hat Enterprise Linux.