scala scala Developer - Marriott International Bethesda, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience scala Marriott International - Bethesda, MD February 2014 to Present Developing internet applications and websites using latest technologies in Scala. Worked on 4 different projects. 2 main core projects are as under:-    Description: The system is a fully automatic billing solution. It integrates many features: administrative hosting control, client signup module, automatically invoicing feature, refund system, discount system, report generating system, reseller feature, client email notification module, clients account control system and more    Project: E-Commerce Site  Developed high-performance distributed queueing system. Scala, Spark, Hadoop, Redis, Akka, closure, MQ messaging, Json  Developed new functionality for interactive healthcare system. Pre-launch confidentiality precludes further detail. Java, Scala, Play 2 Web Framework, Ebean.  Developed, with another consultant, prototype of mobile video app for mass consumer use. Pre-launch confidentiality precludes further detail. Scala, Android. Java Developer Neometrics - Hauppauge, NY December 2008 to December 2014 Our team developed an internet applications and websites in Java. I worked on 4 different projects. Main core projects are as under.    Description: The system is a fully automatic billing solution. It integrates many features: administrative hosting control, client signup module, automatically invoicing feature, refund system, discount system, report generating system, reseller feature, client email notification module, clients account control system and more.    Used technologies: Java 2, J2EE, JBoss 3.0.6, Blazze 1.0, JFC/Swing, Struts, spring, Hibernate, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, Perl    I was Responsible for the designing and development.  I developed administrative client GUI (Blazze, JFC, and Swing).  I developed customer's client GUI (Webwork, JSP)  I created server side logic as EJB beans. Java Developer Wells Fargo - Des Moines, IA February 2006 to October 2008 Project 2: System for Financial Analysis    Description: Development and implementation of the system for financial analysis of the stock market. The system gathers financial information from stock exchanges, news sites and mass media source, and manages them as electronic documents and information streams in intranet network.    Used Technologies: Java 2, J2EE, JSP, Jakarta Tomcat, Eclipse, Web Logic, and MySQL, Java, C/C++, Applets, HTML, IIS, Ms SQL Server    Responsibilities: Development and implementation of the project  Analyzed users needs and planed information streams (UML, Rational Roses);  Developed and implemented a database structure and software modules (SQL, Ms SQL Server, MS Access);  Designed the server applications for a financial analysis and representation of the stock quotation in real time  Developed client environment for financial analysis ( Java 1.1, Applets, HTML, JavaScript, IIS 3.0 -4.0);  Responsible design and implementation of the server side software, business logic and database structure of the project (UML)  Implemented business logic on server-side as Entity Beans and Session Beans (EJB, JDBC, WebLogic)  I developed web-based software modules (JSP, HTML)  I implemented software utilities for the site administration.  Developed front end software modules in JSP, HTML; Education Bachelor's Skills scala (6 years), akka (3 years), kafka (2 years)