Java Developer Learning Associate <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Learning Associate Dallas, TX Currently enrolled in an intensive accelerated web development program - Merit America. My professional background includes IT experience at Nerds-To-Go (hardware, software and networking) and military experience as a Marine. Targeting a full time Java Developer role starting September 2019. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Learning Associate Merit America - Dallas, TX May 2019 to Present • Admitted to Merit America, a highly-selective learning program with <10% acceptance rate, following rigorous assessment of technical acumen, interpersonal skills, and professional aptitude    • Completed hands-on coursework focused on Java and Web development, including methodologies such as Agile, 12 Factor, Git, Design Patterns, and AWS Deployment    • Developed leadership & professional skills for future career advancement in the software development field    Select skills and certificates:    • Coding Dojo - Web Fundamentals: including HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and SQL    • Coding Dojo - Java Development: including Java on the Web, Spring, Spring Security, and Data Structures    • Coursera / University of Alberta - Design Patterns certificate: including structural patterns, creational patterns, behavioral patterns, and model-view-controller    • Coursera / University of Virginia - Testing with Agile certificate: including designing experiments, testing features, test driven design, usability tests, and continuous delivery    • Coursera / IBM - Microservices certificate: including Microservice communication, architecture, and deployment Senior Computer Technician Nerds To Go - Southlake, TX September 2018 to Present Providing technical support, troubleshooting and diagnosing hardware and software problems, including desktop, laptop, LAN, and remote systems.    • Assisted in the installation and updating of software, as well as the setup and troubleshooting of all equipment.  • Investigated and resolved hardware and software issues both remotely and onsite.  • Performed diagnostic testing on PC equipment and ensured printers were up and running at all times.  • Resolved Windows and Internet Explorer issues on desktop and laptop.  • Identified and removed computer viruses and malware and provided major repairs in accordance with outside vendors.  • Performed wiring and daily maintenance of internal computer systems.  • Resolved Windows related issues, Internet Explorer issues and other PC software related issues.  • Troubleshot LAN Tech Team Department Manager Frys electronics - Arlington, TX October 2016 to September 2018 I started off as a basic technician but since I've started I've been promoted twice now I over look the computer technicians to make sure everything runs smooth within the service department as well as build custom machines and troubleshoot Mac and Windows PC. I also maintain the stores servers and switches to make sure eveything runs as smooth as possible Computer Tech Assistant Nate's computers - Terrell, TX January 2016 to May 2016 Troubleshooting laptops, PC's, printers. Installing and replacing hardware and software. Building custom PC's. PFC Camp Pendleton October 2011 to July 2012 in the marines and got an Honorable Discharge because of an injury that occurred at the school of infantry. Education Comptia A+ Certification in Information Technology CCI Training Center-Arlington - Arlington, TX August 2016 to August 2017 High school or equivalent in Diploma SHERMAN HIGH SCHOOL - Sherman, TX August 2006 to May 2010 Skills Troubleshooting laptops and PCs.Microsoft office, windows xp, 7, 8, 8.1, and 10. (2 years), Network Administration (1 year), Retail Management, Java, Javascript, Front End, HTML5, HTML, Customer Service (8 years) Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Private First Class October 2011 to June 2012 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ October 2016 to October 2019 Driver's License May 2016 to May 2022 Additional Information I Am familiar with Microsoft office, and windows xp through windows 10. I've been working with computers for a while now as a way to make cash on the side until I recently got involved with Nate's computers.