Sr.Lead , Java Developer Sr.Lead ,<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Lead , Java Developer - Verizon New York, NY Work Experience Sr.Lead , Java Developer Verizon - New York, NY February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the end to end Development of Projects covering all phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Designing, Build/Construction, Unit/Assembly Testing and Deployment.  • Created user interface and performed multiple formatting using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Performed validation utilities using JavaScript and AJAX.  • Developed business logic using Core java and Spring MVC for processing the front-end request and to fetch the data from the Service Layer.  • Application integration with Spring and Web Services to fetch data from Service Layer developed using SOA architecture, configuring WSDL based on SOAP specifications.  • Designed and coded JAX-WS based Web Services used to send or retrieve data from different applications.  • Developed internal applications using WebLogic Portals.  • Working on Oracle11gdatabase to store data and for querying purposes.  • Deployed and configured the data source for database in WebLogic application server  • Developed the application using Eclipse  • Used Maven for the build process.    Environment: JDK 1.6, J2EE, Agile Development Process, Core Java, Spring MVC, Web Services, Hibernate, , JSP, Servlets, WebLogic, Oracle, Windows XP, HTML, XML, Maven, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, JUnit, SVN. Java Developer Onpointwares inc - Sanjose, CA, US September 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering analysis and documentation.  • Responsible for coding the business logic using Spring MVC.  • Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security and transaction management.  • Designed the data layer using a combination of SOAP, Restful web services and occasionally Hibernate ORM.  • Worked on User interface system using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JSON.  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Involved in implementing validations, exception handling.  • Worked with XML, XSLT for building up & transforming the xml files.  • Used IBM MQ and IBM Broker is used for transferring the data across multiple applications.  • Used log4j for logging the debug and info logs.  • Used Maven tool for building and packaging the application.  • Used DB2 as backend database and developed business logic using Core java and Spring MVC for processing the front-end request and to fetch the data from database  • Debugged, tested and documented code fixes for production issues working with both on shore and offshore resources.  • Implemented SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  • Involved in assisting the operations support team in deploying code to the production servers.  • Used PUTTY for UNIX login and to check the server logs.    Environment: J2EE 6, IBM RAD, JSP 2.1, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, Servlets, Server, JavaScript, jQuery, Maven, Log4j, J Unit 3.7, REST, SOAP, WebSphere, HTML, CSS. Java Developer BCBS - Chicago, IL August 2016 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  • Involved in the analysis and design of the initiatives using Rapid Application Development.  • Design UI screens using JSP, CSS, Struts Framework, AJAX, Java Script and HTML.  • Implemented MVC architecture by using Struts to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer.  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Involved in Core Java coding by using Java APIs such as Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling, and Java I/O to fulfil the implementation of business logic.  • JUnit was used for unit testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Implemented Web Services to send or retrieve data from different applications using SOAP and Restful.  • Implementation of Spring Restful web services which produces JSON.  • Used Commons Logging framework (log4j) utility to log error, info and debug messages.  • Coded Maven build scripts to build and deploy the application on WebSphere.  • Performed Unit Testing and interacted with QA for testing.  • Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC), and integrated Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the MySQL database.  • Used Agile methodology for the software development process.  • Used CVS as source control    Environment: Java, Struts, Spring, WebSphere, RAD, HTML, JavaScript, JDBC, Hibernate, JDBC Template, SOAP, Restful, XML, XSD, XSLT, Servlets, JSP, MySQL, Log 4j, JUnit, Agile, Windows, CVS, Maven. Java,J2EE Developer CIGNEX - Atlanta, GA July 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Study and analyses the business process flow and existing system.  • Created user interface and performed multiple formatting using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Performed validation utilities using JavaScript and AJAX.  • Developed Servlets, Session and Entity Beans handling business logic and data.  • Integrated the application with Spring and provided abstraction between presentation layer and persistence layer.  • Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management including triggers and stored procedures.  • Created Java Beans for transactions between JSP pages and EJBs.  • Written SQL Queries to interact with MySQL database.  • Used SVN for version control across common source code used by developers.  • Deployed and configured the data source for database in WebLogic application server  • Used Maven for the build process.  • Used Log4j for logging and JUnit for unit testing.    Environment: Core Java, JSP, Servlets, EJB, WebLogic Application Server, MySQL, SVN, MyEclipse IDE, HTML, JSP. Java Developer CISCO, San Fransisco CA May 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Identified the Business Requirements of the project.  • Involved in preparing the Detailed Design document for the project.  • Developed UI using JSP, Tiles, Java Script and CSS.  • Created tile definitions, struts-config files, and validation files for the application using Struts framework.  • Created XML formatted output files.  • Did requirement analysis, design, coding, implementation and Maintenance of this application follow the complete SDLC lifecycle along with Team lead.  • Did core Java coding useJDK 1.3, Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Did coding of following modules  • Implemented Action Classes and Action Forms using Struts framework.  • Used JDBC to connect to the database.  • Involved in Unit testing, System Testing and writing test cases.  • Design Database tables.  • Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures  • MySQL Server administration.  • Used IBM ClearCase as version control and workspace management.  • Used ANT as the build tool  • Apache Tomcat server administration    Environment: Core Java, JSP, Struts 1.1, Eclipse, JDBC, J2EE, , HTML, JavaScript, MySQLClear Case, Ant. Java Developer Walmart - Sunnyvale, CA July 2010 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Created user-friendly GUI interfaces and Web pages using HTML and DHTML embedded in JSP.  • JavaScript was used for the client side validations.  • Written JSP's, Servlets and deployed them on Websphere Application Server.  • Developed using JQuery for CSS Manipulation, Events, Effects, Animation. and Ajax interaction for Rapid Web Development.  • Used the JNDI for Naming and directory services.  • Involved in debugging the application.  • Designed and developed front end screens for new reports using Swing components.  • Designed and developed Model Components - Action Form Bean, Controller Components - Action Classes, Action Mapping.  • Used Hibernate framework for backend development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Managed Object Persistence, Data retrieval using Hibernate, Spring Framework with Oracle 10g as backend.  • Implemented Webservices using SOAP protocol over HTTP.  • Used Websphere application server to deliver a new class of enterprise applications that enhance business interactions and transactions between a company and its key constituencies.  • Used Websphere application server to deliver high performance and scalability.  • JPA is used to manage relational data in application.  • Written database objects like Triggers, Stored Procedures in SQL.  • Interacted with the users and documented the System.  • Consumed and created Webservices using CXF (JAX-WS)  • Tested Webservices using SOA PUI.  • Created interactive web applications for the client side using SOA.    Environment: JDK 1.4, J2EE, JSP 2.0, JDBC 4.0, HTML, EJB 3.1, Servlets, WebSphere Application Server 6.0, WSAD 5.0, UML, Hibernate 3.1, JDBC, Spring 2.0, CVS, XML, Oracle 10g, CXF (JAX-WS), XML Spy, AJAX Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC August 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC- Requirements gathering, Conceptual Design, Analysis, Detail Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing  • Implemented Use Case Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams during the design phase using Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed user interface with Servlets and JSP.  • Responsible in creating Servlets, which route submittals to appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render, retrieved information.  • Involved in implementing the DAO pattern for database connectivity and used the JDBC API extensively.  • Used Waterfall approach for the Software Development  • Also, worked with the PDF and EXCEL format file download of user data on JSP's when user wanted to save his/her personal data on JSP page tables.  • Involved in collecting requirements from Business Users and Data Modeling, designing and developing Tools using J2EE, Java, Servlets, EJB, and JSP.  • Worked on WSDL's files in SOAP web services for publishing Services and for consume some webservices.  • Involved in writing complex queries using PL/SQL to extract data from database and to delete the data and to reload the data on Oracle database  • Used another Jakarta commons logging, ANT and SVN.    Environment: Java 1.6, XML, XSL, JDBC, SQL, PL/SQL, SOAP, Eclipse, Ant, SVN. Java Developer Constant Contact - Boston, MA October 2006 to July 2008 Responsibilities:  • Developing solutions to requirements, enhancements and defects.  • Involved in requirements Design, Development, and System Testing.  • Developing UI screens using JSP, Servlets.  • Developed J2EE Backing Beans, Action Classes, and Action Mapping and Application facades and hibernate classes to retrieve and submit using the JSF Framework.  • Implemented the JSF package with MVC framework.  • Created multiple view access for access control between administrators and Adjusters.  • Developed and utilized J2EE Services SERVLETS, JSP components.  • Implemented Action class to encapsulate the business logic.  • Used Struts framework for developing applications.  • Used various design patterns like Singleton, Facade, Command, Factory, DAO.  • Used Object Oriented Application Design (OOAD) for deriving objects and classes.  • Data-retrieval from back-end database using Data Source from JDBC Drivers.  • Stored Procedures, database triggers were used at all levels.  • Communicating across the team about the processes, goals, guidelines and delivery of items.  • Developed the Java Code using Eclipse as IDE.  • Utilize Struts (MVC2) framework and developed JSP pages, Action Servlets and XML based action-mapping files for web tier.  • Configuration of Tomcat 4.1 for the application on Win NT server  • Used Java script for validation of page data in the JSP pages.  • Responsible for code version management and unit test plans.    Environment, J2EE ( Java 1.4, JSP, SERVLETS), DB2, Struts Framework, XML, JDBC, JNDI, Windows XP, JavaScript, UML, HTML.