Java Technology Lead <span class="hl">Java</span> Technology Lead Java Technology Lead - Aetna Chicago, IL Experienced IT professional with 10+ years of profound experience in software design,  development and implementation of enterprise applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies on  Linux/Windows platform for Healthcare, Insurance and HR businesses.    • 4+ years of experience in Leading development team of around 10 members.  • Profound experience in J2EE technologies not just limited to Struts framework (MVC), Springs,  EJB, Spring boot, MDB's Web Services, Micro services.  • Proficient in UI Design using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON.  • Expert in ORM frameworks - Hibernate 3.0 and JPA.  • Expert in object-oriented design methodologies with hands-on experience in various design  patterns like Singleton, Factory method, Abstract Factory, Facade and Builder.  • Experience in developing (SOA) Web services using technologies like JAXB, JAX-WS, SOAP and  REST.  • Expert in MSSQL 2012/08, Oracle 10g, MySQL and PostgreSQL with excellent proficiency in  writing complex SQL queries and analyzing SQL plans to improve performance.  • Experience in the design, development and implementation of applications using XML, XSL,  XSLT, XML Schema, XML Namespaces and XPath.  • Experience in using CSS, XHTML, JQuery, JSF and JSP.  • Experience in deploying, maintaining and troubleshooting WebLogic Server, Apache HTTP  server, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WildFly and EAP7 server.  • Expert in TDD, Junit, Selenium WebDriver testing framework.  • Experience in (CI/CD) Continuous integration/Deployment process using Jenkins and Selenium.  • Experience in DevOps automation tools like TFS, Docker etc.  • Experience in Building Micro services and using IBM API connect  • Experience in Source control management (SCM) for Merging, branching, tagging, building for  Releases.  • Experience in ANT & Maven build Environment.  • Experience in scripting language like Shell and Perl.  • Have involved in full development lifecycle using SDLC life cycle covering Requirement analysis,  high level design, detail design, development, unit testing and support.  • Work experience on projects in waterfall and agile scrum methodologies.  • Strong experience in production build and deployment process.  • Experience in managing and working with multiple vendors and geographically distributed  teams.    Key Domain and Technical Knowledge    Domain: Health care, Insurance and HR  Technologies: Java, J2EE, MDB, Hibernate, JPA, SOAP, Restful, JUnit, Struts, Spring  Build tools: ANT & MAVEN  Databases: Oracle 10g, MSSQL 2008 - 2012  Tools/IDE: Eclipse, IBM RAD, Netbeans, SOAP-UI, Toad, DBVisualizer,  Microsoft Management Studio Client, Visual Studio, Swagger, PostMan  Scripting and Markup: XML, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQUERY, Groovy DSL  Version control: SVN, CVS, TFS, IBM Clear case  Continuous Integration: Jenkins, Selenium, Docker.  Operation system: Linux, Windows Server 2008 server, Windows 7 Work Experience Java Technology Lead Infosys (Aetna) - Chicago, IL December 2012 to Present Location: Chicago, USA    Description: CBAS (Complete Benefits Administration System) is an application processing the entire  claims loaded to the system. It is also responsible for creating Explanation of payment, doing  settlements, creating Nacha files etc. This project involved requirements elaboration, design, build, testing, implementation and support. The system is developed / maintained in multiple releases using the staged waterfall development methodology.    Responsibilities:  • Performed risk analysis of the requirement to identify the key business risks area for the CBAS  projects.  • Involved in creation of detail design documentation for the CBAS modules.  • Driven the detail design document meeting involving Business and QA.  • Developed MDB's (Message Driven Beans) with aggregator pattern.  • Converted legacy processes into MDB based process to increase the performance.  • Worked in migration of application from PostgreSQL DB to MS-SQL server DB.  • Involved in coding and Unit Testing using Eclipse.  • Performed Continuous Integration Testing using Jenkins & Selenium.  • Performed code configurations and maintenance using TFS.  • Participated in code and design reviews of major projects.  • Developed Shell scripts and Groovy scripts.  • Performed the analysis and provided suggestion/solutions for the high priority production issues  involving high analytic skills.  • Performed analysis of real time performance issues in production by analyzing Thread dumps by using other performance tools like J-Profiler & Samurai.  • Involved in deployment of application in JBoss 6.1 and WildFly.  • Performed the analysis on application to find the areas to improve performance and provided  suggestions.  • Performed source control management activities like branch and merge in Microsoft TFS.  • Ensured timely completion of all requirements as per the corporate guidelines and SDLC  process.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, EJB, MDB, JMS (Active MQ), SOAP, Restful, Apache Click, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, MS-SQL, JUNIT, Jenkins, Selenium, Shell, Groovy, ANT, Maven, Arquillian, Linux, GitHub,  Git, IBM APIc, Samurai.    Employer: Infosys Ltd Senior Java J2EE Developer Infosys (Kaiser Permanente) March 2012 to November 2012 Description: Go Yonder, is a wellness health engagement application with Gamification platform. This  application is developed in LifeRay Portal. This application development involved developing of the interface for both computer and Mobile browsers.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements & implementing various LifeRay portlets in the application.  • Involved in Creation of detail design documents and presented to the architect and peers.  • Enabled the support for mobile interface for the application and optimized it for both Android  and iOS browsers.  • Participated in detailed design and peer code reviews.  • Designed and developed front-end components using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQUERY, JSON  and CSS for presentation layer.  • Responsible for executing all phases of SDLC starting through requirement gathering, development, testing, regression, UAT sign off.  • Ensured timely completion of all requirements as per the corporate guidelines and SDLC  process.  • Provided the remediation and guidelines and recommendations.  • Involved in setting up of application in Linux environment to do Load testing.  • Created automated load test suite using Apache JMeter for the web application to do load test.  • Worked on build and deployment of application in Tomcat 6.0    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Restful, LifeRay Portlets, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, MySQL, Apache  JMeter, ANT, Junit, Linux. Senior Java J2EE Developer Infosys (EyeMed) June 2011 to February 2012 Description: EyeMed was implementing The TriZetto Group, Inc.'s FACETS product as their core vision  benefits administration platform.  EyeMed CSI implementation project involves developing use cases, completing functional requirement  specification documents, creating technical architectural documentation, creating technical design  documentation, code delivery, documenting unit test cases, executing unit test cases, creating  environment migration plans, creating implementation plans, solution implementation, system  integration testing (SIT) support, user acceptance testing (UAT) support, client migration support, and post-implementation support.    Responsibilities:  • As a developer, involved in design phase that included designing class diagrams and sequence  diagrams for various SOAP based web services.  • Prepared a detailed design document from the requirement.  • Involved in Analysis and implementation of requirements.  • Development of SOAP web services for various requirement.  • For commonly used functionality, developed reusable common components and exported as utility libraries so that other web services can use it.  • Involved in Unit Testing and Integration testing.  • Involved in peer review of codes.  • Installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat 6.0 web server in development environment.  • Deployment of Web Services in development environment.  • Created Maven POM for the web service projects.  • Worked on High Level Design (HLD) and Low Level Design (LLD) documents for integrated  projects and participated in code review meetings with Lead Architect.  • Worked as an active team member and provided knowledge transfer to team members  • Worked in complex stored procedure with high performance tuned in MS-SQL  • Ensured in timely completion of all requirement as per the corporate guidelines and SDLC  process.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, SOAP Web services, MS-SQL, XML, Apache Tomcat, MAVEN, JUnit, TOAD, Linux. Java Developer Infosys (Allstate) August 2010 to May 2011 Duration: From Aug 2010 to May 2011    Description: This project involves analysis of the defect reported in Alliance Auto insurance product in production environment, find the root cause and fix the issue for the upcoming service pack releases.  Also worked in a tool called as Coverage Editor Tool. It is a web based application which is used to update the coverage value of Auto/Motorcycle insurance for different states in USA. Initially this tool  used DB2 database. Later this project was initiated to migrate the Coverage Editor tool to use Oracle DB  instead of DB2. And also removed all the functionality which updates the DB directly and modify it to generate the SQL script which will be provided to the end user/DBA's. Using that SQL scripts user will be  updating the DB manually after verification.    Responsibilities:  • Performed the analysis and provided suggestion/solutions for the high priority production issues  involving high analytic skills.  • Involved in documentation of the root cause analysis of defects.  • Worked in investigation, correction of defects, verification of defect fixes and quality related  activities.  • Involved in JUnit Testing and Smoke Testing.  • Participated in peer code reviews.  • Involved in migration of application from DB2 to Oracle.  • Worked in JPA's to configure the Oracle instead of DB2.  • Developed complex SQL queries and SP's in Oracle using TOAD.  • Worked in IBM Clearcase and IBM clearquest.  • Involved in the development of code using IBM RAD (Rational application development)  environment.  • Worked in IBM websphere for deployments  • Involved in code merge in clearcase versioning application.  • Created knowledge asset documents.  • Engaged business users to understand business processes to come up with solutions and enhance existing system.  • Ensured in timely completion of all requirement as per the corporate guidelines and SDLC  process.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Servlet, JSP, JSF, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQUERY, CSS, Taglib, Struts  MVC, JPA, JDBC Template, DB2, Oracle 10G, Oracle, TOAD for ORACLE, IBM clearcase, IBM clearquest, IBM RAD. Java Developer Checktronix India Pvt Ltd June 2008 to July 2010 Project Title: CVParsingService, DocumentIdentificationService, MatchDocumentService and ApplicationExceptionUI.  Role: Java Developer  Duration: From Jun 2008 to Jul 2010    Description: Burning Glass Technologies delivers job market analytics that empower employers, workers, and educators to make data-driven decisions. Lens & XRay are the product which is  built on artificial intelligence text parsing technology. CVParsingService, DocumentIdentificationService, MatchDocumentService are the Webservice API's to connect with the parsers and identify whether a provided document is a resume or a posting and then  parse the document to retrieve the necessary data and run the matching for posting for a given  resume based on the score. All services are developed as JAX-WS based SOAP services.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements & implementing various components of the application using SOAP webservices.  • Prepared the detailed design document for various web services and UI applications.  • Designed and developed front-end components using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQUERY, Yahoo-UI and CSS for presentation layer through proprietary middleware  framework.  • Involved in Integration of the components with the external application like Lens/XRay.  • Worked on Integration testing of the component.  • Involved in daily status and weekly status calls and provided the status of application  development to client.  • Created PERL script to crawl the web to collect various data for developing/enhancing  locale Parsers (Lens/X-ray).  • Installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat 6.0 server in Linux and worked on deployments.  • Developed complex queries in MySQL.  • Ensured in timely completion of all requirement as per the corporate guidelines and SDLC process.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, SOAP Web services, MySQL, XML, Apache Tomcat, MAVEN, JUnit, ANT, PERL, YAHOO-UI, CSS, Linux. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer in sciences Anna University 2008 Skills Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Spring, Java Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bharathmuthuraman