Summer Intern Summer Intern Experienced CS graduate student Baltimore, MD Work Experience Summer Intern NuStar Energy - San Antonio, TX May 2019 to Present • Directly modified two reports in our production environment to convert them from read-only reports to user-interactive transactions to aid in the monitoring process of those reports.   • Executed the work from start-to-finish, including writing technical specifications, executing demos, development, execution, and testing.   • Investigated to convert an older back end BDC process into a more efficient technology i.e using BAPI function calls.  • Also undertook 2 online courses -   1.   Developing web apps with SAPUI5  2.   Evolved web apps with SAPUI5 Full Stack Java Developer Tata Technologies Ltd 2017 to 2018 July 2016 - May 2017    • Undertook on job training for three months in SAP ABAP  • Implemented enhancements in ABAP reports and smart forms.     May 2017- July 2018    • Developed end to end web applications using MVC frameworks like Struts and Spring which includes skills like HTML, CSS. Javascript, Java, JQuery, SQL etc.   • Awarded Best Project of Quarter Q2 2017-18.  • Actively participated in project life cycle using agile methodologies and documentation for ISO and CMMi quality processes.   • Maintained coding standards using SonarQube, version controlling using Serena Dimensions and deployed applications using PUTTY.  Student Intern Mithi Softwares July 2015 to June 2016 • Developed the project titled 'Collaboration around contacts' which was an Android application for the Mithi Software Ltd's customers.  • Implemented the existing 'RESTful' web services using GET, SET methodologies.  • Researched on synchronization algorithms between server and mobile devices on multiple logins. Head - Technical Committee Association of Students in Comp and IT June 2015 to June 2016 Education MS in Computer Science University of Maryland - Baltimore, MD May 2020 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology University of Pune June 2012 to May 2016 Skills Java, Python, SQL, Javascript, HTML 5, CSS, Struts, Spring, JQuery, Git Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/prachiatlinkedin Additional Information Backend skills: Java, Python, Struts, spring framework  Skills Query Languages: DB2, SQL, MongoDB  Scripting Languages: Javascript, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS