Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - United Health Group Minnetonka, MN • Over 8+ years of work experience as a Software Developer ( Java) with all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  • Extensive experience in using Java, J2EE, EJB, JNDI, JMS, Web Services, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, XML, ANT, Java Beans, JDBC, JFC/Swing.  • Experienced in developing MVC architecture using Servlets, JSP, Struts Framework, Hibernate Framework, Spring Framework and Angular JS.  • Excellent in front-end UI design implementations by writing HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Ext JS, Angular JS, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile to make better Single Page Application SPA.  • Hands on experience in writing light weight Node.js express server, and using technologies like Ajax, JavaScript/jQuery, JSON to make connections between server and databases like MongoDB and MySQL.  • Implemented rich web applications using AJAX, DOJO and JSON.  • Expertise in using UI features like DOM wrapping, server push data retrieval, Drag and drop.  • Experienced in the functional usage and deployment of web applications in Glassfish and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in using various J2EE Design Patterns such as Session Façade, Service Locator, DAO, DTO (Data transfer object), Value Object, Front Controller, Factory, Business Object, Value Object and Singleton.  • Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, and client-server environments including Java Platform Enterprise Edition ( Java EE), Java Server Pages (JSP), Java Servlets Spring, Java database Connectivity (JDBC) and Rest full Web Services technologies.  • Experience on OOP (Objective Oriented Programming) like Inheritance, polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation.  • Good knowledge in advanced Java language concepts like Multithreading and Serialization used in distributed systems.  • Experience in working on various Spring modules (Spring MVC, DAO and AOP) along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Proficiency in Hibernate and the O/R mapping to map Java domain objects with the database, spring framework to easily configure J2EE applications.  • Good exposure and experience with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, WSDL, JMS ( Java Messaging Service).  • Experience with XML and related standards and technologies like WSDD, DTD, XSL, XPath, SAX, XSLT, JSTL and DHTML.  • Experienced in using SOAP UI and Log4j tools.  • Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services AWS  • Knowledge of using Apache Camel through Fuse Mediation Router.  • Hands-on experience with various Application servers and Web servers (IBM Web Sphere Application Server, Web Logic, JBoss, and Tomcat) with wide variety of development tools like IBM RAD, My Eclipse.  • Extensive experience in Java, J2EE, JEE technologies such as Portlets, JSF, EJB, ESB, MQ, JTA, JAXB, JiBX, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SAAJ, JAAS and JPA.  • Experience in developing UI using Adobe Flex 3, Action Script 3.0, MXML and GWT.  • Very strong experience designing web based application which supports cross browser requirements for IE 7/8/9, Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  • Good Exposure in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures/functions etc. for relational databases like Oracle 11g/11i/10g/9i/8i, DB2, SQL Server 2008, My SQL, and Sybase etc.  • Strong experience in database design using DDL, DML, writing complex SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Rich experience in agile methodologies such as extreme programming (XP), Scrum, waterfall model and Test driven environment.  • Experience in using Open Source Frameworks like Junit, Log4J.  • Experience working with versioning tools like CVS, SVN, GIT and Clear Case and build tools like ANT, Maven.  • Strong experience in client interaction and understanding business application, business data flow and data relations from them.  • Committed to excellence, self-motivator, fast-learner, team player, ability to deal with people diplomatically and a prudent developer with strong problem-solving skills and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer United Health Group - Minnetonka, MN May 2015 to Present Project: eMedical System  Description: eMedical System is an online application which has been developed at UHG. The objective of the project was to redesign a hospital management system from a thick client-server application to a thin web-based client. The project was designed for the hospital/clinic to manage their patients, their treatments, their results. The redesigned application can now let patients also login to the system to setup/change their appointment, view their treatment plans and pay their bills.  Responsibilities:  • Created use case diagrams in UML using Rational Rose  • Re-engineered the application with screens in JSP based on Struts framework  • Involved in the design of the applications using J2EE. This architecture employs a Model/View/Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Participated in Agile Development Team, and having daily SCRUM meeting for progress reporting as well as task distributing.  • Involved in Core Java coding by using Java APIs such as Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Generics, Enumeration, and Java I/O to fulfill the implementation of business logic.  • Configured the xml files for Open Source Spring 3 Framework to fulfill the Proxy Pattern.  • Configured the xml files for Hibernate 3 and applied its Object Relational Mapping ORM to enable the data transactions between POJO and Oracle Database using caching on SessionFactory as well as caching on query.  • Responsible for the overall project development of Fund module Flex4.1 version wrote the CRUD operations of Mutual Funds and Financiers list using iBATIS and DB2.  • Developed XML files, DTD's Schema's and parsing them by using both SAX and DOM parser's using Java 1.2 and Xerces API.  • Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, CSS, XML, HTML, Knockout.js, Hbase, NoSql, XSLT, projects written in C.  • Developed Web Applications using HTML. Parsed the data which is in XML format using SAX parser and loaded the data into databases.  • Responsible for creating complex SQL queries, stored procedure and also analyzed the tables in MySQL database.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable  • Worked with NoSql Databases like Apache Cassandra, Mongo DB.  • Used a custom framework sitting on the top of Nodejs and MongoDB and has used a lot of clients side javaScript plug-ins  • Integration of Spring Portlet Framework with the Flex based custom components.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control and Transaction Management in the GUI for Maintenance Screens.  • Designed and Developed the UI using PrimeFaces JSF libraries and Javascript  • Extensively used the JSON objects with AJAX for UI displays.  • Used Oracle 11g as the backend.  • Automated AWS deployments with shell scripts and Ant scripts, and connected AWS test environments with hosts used for builds.  • Creating Stored Procedure and fine tuning the existing procedure to handle huge amount of transaction.  • Worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending them mails about different policies.  • Trace errors in the Glassfish Server log files to find the location of an existing problem.  • Involved in configuring Hibernate mapping files/annotations and POJO objects.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, Hibernate cache concepts.  • Designed and developed Restful Web services using spring framework.  • Data communication between various events in the ordering and fulfillment systems is developed using SOAP.  • Designed, Developed and Implemented document transformation applications using XML Spy tool.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website that fit all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone.  • Developed Stored Procedures and triggers for database intensive tasks  • Created indexes and referential constraints for performance and data integrity  • Used Ajax, JSTL and Javascript in front end design  • Used JUnit for Unit testing and Maven for build.  • Log 4J was used to monitor the error logs and used GIT as version control tool.  • Extensively worked on performance tuning of SQL Queries to improve the performance of the daily and monthly jobs.  • Developed International Error Correction Screens using custom front end forms using XML, XSLT, Angular JS  • De-normalized the database for optimum performance  • Involved in development of data abstraction layer using Hibernate ORM framework with spring support, and JDBC driven components.  Environment: J2EE, Java 1.6/1.7, Spring framework, Spring MVC, JSP 2.0, JSF, Servlets 2.3, Hibernate, AJAX, Web services , AWS, SOAP, XML, Java Beans, Angular JS, Knockout JS, XStream, iBATIS, Glassfish, Apache POI, Ext JS, JQuery, JavaScript, Oracle 11g, IBM RAD, Nosql, Websphere 7.0, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, REST, Apache Camel, CVS, Mongo DB, Apache Maven, JUnit, Java EE, HtmlUnit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Deutsche Bank - New York, NY March 2014 to April 2015 Project: Online Investment Services (OIS)  Description: The project Online Investment Services (OIS) was designed to facilitate trading in short term paper (Mutual fund, Repos, CDs, Commercial Paper, CRA, and Time Deposits) for high net worth corporate and individual customers. The system comprised Trading desks that were created internally (logical entity) to handle region specific customers and business entities namely Broker were created to provide an interface for the clients to place orders. The application was built on J2EE architecture with MVC framework.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the integration of spring for implementing Dependency Injection (DI/IoC). Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IoC framework.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver. Used Design Patterns such as Singleton, Business Delegate, Session Façade, Service Locator, Simple Factory Pattern, and Data Transfer Object.  • Implemented spring-hibernate as Data Access Layer.  • Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status. Used Spring DAO Module along with Struts Framework to deal with Database.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC(Inversion Of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  • Developed session, entity beans and message driven beans.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, AJAX, Knockout.js, JSON.  • Developing or maintaining a production-level cloud-based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images like AMI  • Developed front-end screens using Spring MVC, JSP, HTML, AJAX, jQuery, backbone, marionette, Javascript and CSS.  • Integrated configured Camel with ActiveMQ to use it as bus.  • Developed the User Interfaces using Struts, JSP, JSTL, CSS, XML, HTML, Knockout.js, Hadoop, Hbase, NoSql, XSLT, and Ajax, Javascript.  • IBM Websphere hosting and Apache Tomcat webserver integration- both on Windows and AIX platform.  • Designed and Developed the UI using PrimeFaces JSF libraries and Javascript.  • Worked on Ext JS for user interface widgets with High performance scalable grids, trees and menus.  • Designed REST middleware to connect Android UI with existing back end layer.  • Experience with eclipse plug-ins like Find Bugs, PMD plugins  • Designed the data flow for the client-side screens and the object interaction layer for the server side components using Rational Rose.  • Involved in Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • MQ was used to provide a single unifying transport that reduces cost and maintenance efforts, including support for HTTP, REST and JMS.  • Used XML/XSLT for transforming common XML format and SAML for Single Sign-On.  • Designed configuration XML Schema for the application.  • Used JavaScript for the client side validation.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using Javascript, jQuery and Backbone.js and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST- full server on a different domain.  • Used XMLHttpRequest Object to provide asynchronous communication as part of AJAX implementation.  • Utilized the Jquery, Angular JS, Javascript framework to render widgets on web pages.  • Developed Hibernate and Spring-based application configuration framework for simulating database configuration.  • Design and development of Web Services using Rest with Spring MVC. (Spring MVC, Spring Security, Apache CXF Rest)  • Git for source code maintenance.  • Involved in the creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases using Test Driven Development TDD technique.  • Authored persistence layer JDBC using Hibernate API and Data Models and Java Bean.  • Designed GUI using AJAX, CSS, XSLT, Javascript, XML.  • Completion of modules as per defined scheduled without any delays.  • Used Hibernate for accessing data from Oracle 10g database, Configured hbm access files for accessing Database.  • Used Jenkins to automate builds and deployments  • Used JBoss as application server to implement JMS and EJB components  • Participated in SCRUM meetings and worked on agile methodologies.  • Used Jasper Report for generating reports and Jfree for generating graphs.  Environment: J2EE, JSP,JDK 1.6, Angular JS, NOSQL, AGILE Methodology, IBM Content Management, HTML5, Struts2, WAS, JavaScript, XML, JDK, MAVEN, Jmeter, SVN, IBM Rational Clear Case, REST, ExtJS, SOAP, Apache Camel, WSDL, WebSphere Application Server, Jenkins, SVN, Log4j. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer United Airlines Inc - Chicago, IL April 2013 to February 2014 Project: Easy Check-in Online  Description: United Airlines Inc is the world's largest airline when measured by number of destinations served. Easy Check-in Online (ECO) is a web based application developed for United.com. It allows customers to travelling on a United, United Express or Ted flight to check-in for flights from home. Also, if originating flight is on United, United Express or Ted, customers will be allowed to check in to their connecting flights on most of the other carriers.  Responsibilities:  • Prototyped, designed and developed CCIS application framework along with a team of 5 developers complying with SOA architecture. This framework was reused in many of new applications/projects in CCIS department significantly reducing time/cost.  • Created MULE ESB artifact and configured the MULE config files and deployed.  • Used Angular JS for client while server validation through Expression Language.  • Built, published and consumed REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks such as appointment cancellation, technician job management for DispatchTechIVR and Call Reduction modules.  • Developed SOAP web services for TSG UI and Outage Board applications. Used JAXB for marshalling and unmarshalling of Java objects to XML and vice versa. Used SOAP UI tool for testing and Liquid XML editor to validate XML documents against XSD's.  • Used Jquery, Angular JS, JSP, Javascript, HTML, CSS and JSTL for the front end modules of TechIVR and Outage Board web applications.  • Provided the support for integrating the RESTful web services with clients  • Performed unit testing using JUnit and Integration testing using IVR system.  • Invovled in creating Restful web services using JAX-RS and JERSEY tool.  • Developing the orchestrating of service through ESB calls to provide API's to the service portal.  • Applied OO design concept and design patterns such as DAO, Singleton, Factory, Business Delegate and Service Locator to improve the existing Java/J2EE based code base.  • Re-architected, refactored, and performance tuned a WebLogic and J2EE based CCIS call Reduction application, which previously came down almost daily, became a true 24x7 application at CCIS.  • JBOSS ESB development and providing necessary inputs to the service portal.  • Multitasked by gathering business requirements from user, duration and feasibility of requests and working on other projects by resolving issues.  Environment: Java , J2EE,,Junit,JDK 1.5, Spring core, Spring MVC, Hibernate, SOAP/Rest Web services, Ajax, XML, jQuery, HTML, CSS, TCServer, SVN, Maven, Jenkins, Splunk, SFX, MAX, SEED. Oracle Java/J2EE Developer T-Mobile - Bakersfield, CA June 2012 to February 2013 Project: Equipment Installment Program  Description: T-Mobile is a leading Telecom Domain company based in USA. T-Mobile Equipment Installment Program (EIP) team works with clients to help their customers finance their Mobile devices from various available installment plans, Introduce new plans and calculate down payment and monthly Installment using Credit Information of a end user. Also helps them Return or Exchange their Mobile Device and upgrade to a new mobile device using jump Upgrade Option. This Project was developed using Spring, Hibernate, Struts 2.x, Maven, JPA, HTML 4.0, CSS, Javascript, Jquery, RUP, JMS, DB2, Weblogic Application Server, and SOAP Web Services.  Responsibilities:  • As a team member, understood the Business, Business Flow, Design, Development and Testing for Closing and Funding Module.  • Invovled in System design using UML (Use case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams) diagrams created using Rational Rose. Customized Struts framework.  • Involved in project migration (existing swing application to web integration) using Struts 2.0 web framework based on MVC2 Architecture.  • Served integral role in analyze, design, develop and implement new requirements  • Used Java Beans, Servlets, Action classes, Action Forms as Model, JSP, Struts tag libraries, Custom Tags, JSTL, Tiles as view & Action Servlet as a Controller and JQuery.  • Implemented Design Patterns- Business Delegate, Session Façade, DAO, Value Object, Proxy Pattern and Service Locater patterns.  • Created several custom tags for JSP for maximum re-usability of user interface components.  • Participated in several design sessions in order to create common development strategies (eg. Error handling, exceptions, performance improvement practices, session management etc.)  • Designed and developed several Servlets, JSPs and JAVA classes for presentation layer.  • Extensively worked on ILOG JRules engine which integrate with J2EE application.  • Responsible for writing business rules and accessing (firing) the rules in Session Beans.  • Design implements the server side (Business and persistent) logic using EJB.  • Implemented application communication through asynchronous messaging service using MDB.  • Followed Test Driven Development TDD, Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software.  • Wrote Oracle SQL queries and Stored Procedures using SQL/PLSQL.  • Responsible for code reviews, integrated all the modules using WebLogic Application Server.  • Implemented Junit Framework for the entire application.  Environment: Java (jdk1.5), J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, EJB, XML, Oracle 10g, UNIX, Weblogic10 and T Line Framework Java/J2EE Developer JAX-RS - State Street, California, US December 2011 to May 2012 Project: Record Keeping System- Reconciliation  Description: State Street Corporation, known as State Street, is an American Worldwide Financial Services holding company. State Street also has many clients like MSIM, Am Bank, F&C etc. Its main function is to convert clients Legacy data into format understand by RKS and Load into it and will provide It to client so that they use RKS instead of using their Legacy Systems. RKS stands for "Record Keeping System" and is the Investment Manager's IBOR "Investment Book of Records". RKS stores all portfolios, holdings and Valuation Records for an Investment Manager. It includes providing data Gathering, and data Mapping, of client data for static (portfolios, assets) etc. and dynamic (holdings, open positions) for conversation purposes. Web based access to proprietary record keeping system.  Responsibilities:  • Invovled in developing UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Visio tool.  • Worked on supply chain management and Banking and capital market domain.  • Extensively worked on N-Tier architecture systems with application system development using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Web service (Restful), JMS, and JDBC.  • Consumed Web Services for transferring data between different applications using development using RESTful APIs along with JAX-RS.  • Designing and developing the JMS objects and used MQ Series as provider.  • Invovled in the development of project back-end logic layer by using most of the core java features such as Collection API, Interfaces, Multi-Threading and Exception Handling programming.  • Integrated Spring Security to provide security features like Authentication/Authorization.  • Utilized Hibernate 4.3x and JPA 2.0 for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) purpose for transparent persistence onto the MySQL database and communication with data layer.  • Invovled in creating responsive web pages using CSS3 media queries along with HTML5 and Javascript.  • Used SVN as a version control system.  • Used Log4J logging framework for logging message at various levels  • Involved in testing following TDD, developing Junit 4.11 test cases along with agile methodology.  Environment: BEA Web Logic Server 8.1, S/w Java 1.4.1(EJB 2.0, JDBC, JMS, Servlets, JSP, XML Parsing using JAXB, HTML and Java Script), RDBMS, Oracle 8i, Rational Rose 2000, Eclipse 3.1 and Visual Source Safe, Struts, Intel Based Machines, HP UNIX boxes, HP-UX 11.00 and Windows 2000/XP. Java Developer Global Greens, Andhra Pradesh - IN April 2007 to November 2011 Project: Global Greens Sales Automation System  Description: A web application to provide a solution for automating their sales and distribution across the country. Global Green Company Pvt Ltd is the first 'seeds to shelf' company in India and were managing their sales and distribution through phone/fax/email prior to this automation. The application facilitates the regional sales office to input their purchase orders, generate invoices, Store customer profiles, generate sales reports, year to date sales, pending indents, purchase orders.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the application using J2EE patterns.  • Developed Java Beans for business logic.  • Developed the presentation layer using Struts Framework.  • Responsible for coding all the JSP, Servlets used for the Used Module.  • Developed the JSP, Servlets and various Beans using WebSphere 5.x server.  • Wrote Java utility classes common for all of the applications.  • Designed and implemented highly intuitive, user friendly GUI from scratch using Drag and Drop with Java/ Swing and CORBA.  • Extensively used multithreading concepts.  • Deployed the jar files in the Web Container on the IBM WebSphere Server 5.x.  • Hands-on experience in installing, configuring and deploying application on WebSphere Portal Server.  • Designed and developed the screens in HTML with client side validations in Javascript.  • Developed the server side scripts using JMS, JSP and Java Beans.  • Adding and modifying Hibernate configuration code and Java/SQL statements depending upon the specific database access requirements.  • Invovled in Database design and development. Invovled in SQL scripting. Invovled in the system integration and testing.  • Design database Tables, View, Index's and create triggers for optimized data access.  • Developed Web Services using Apache AXIS tool.  • Designing of the system as per the change in requirement using Struts MVC architecture, JSP, DHTML.  Environment: Java 1.2.3, Servlets 2.2, Enterprise Java Beans 1.1, SQLServer, JSP, HTML 4.0, Java Script, UML, Weblogic 5.1, ASP .net, IIS, MTS, COM Component, Windows NT. Education Bachelor's Skills Apache (7 years), Java (10+ years), javaScript (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), Servlets (9 years) Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY    Java Technology: XML, Spring 3.2 framework, Xstream, JIBX, Junit, XMLBeans, JAXB, Hibernate 4.3, JDBC, JMS, EJB 2.0, JSP, Servlets, Web Sphere MQ, jasper, EXT JS and DOJO, TIBCO, EMS, Spring data, Active MQ, Gradle10.0, Apache Camel, JUnit, Soap UI.  Client Technology: jquery, jqgrid, css 3.0, HTML5, jquery ui, less require js (AMD), Angular JS, Javascript, knockout js, JSON, Json Schema, Jshint, Qunit.  Application Programming: JAVA, VB 6.0, and UML.  Operating Systems: WinNT, Win2K, Win XP, Win 98, Win 95, Win ME, Win 8/8.1/10 Unix, Sun OS 5.8, Linux, Mac 10.1  Application Servers: BEA Web Logic 5.1/7.0.1/8.1/9.1/11G Web sphere 4.0 & 7.0, Tomcat, IIS, MTS, Appache HTTPD Server, JBOSS.  Mobile Technologies: Requirejs, Angularjs, nodejs, apache cordova, mobile Angularjs, Javascript, angular metrial design, android, wp8, jqgrid, jquery, HTML5, nggrid, Xcode.  Databases: ORACLE 8.1.7/9i,10i,10g,11i,11g, MS SQL Server 7.0, MongoDB, Sybase, Nosql, MYSQL.  Tools: Eclipse indigo, Visual Source Safe, SVN, Rational Rose, Clear Case, Clear Quest, Rational software Architect and cruse control, Find bugs check style, J-Slint, HTTP watch, PTP, Hudson, selenium.  Domain: Travel, Investment Banking, Retail and corporate banking, Cargo and Supplier chain management.  Knowledge of: Life ray, ice faces and file net, TIBCO designer, phone gap Android mobile application  Software methodologies: Waterfall, V Model and Agile-scrum.