Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - GE-Transportation Atlanta, GA • 8+ years of professional experience in Full Stack Development of Enterprise Web, Mobile and Standalone applications, involved in complete software development life cycle including requirement analysis, design, development, testing, integration, deploying, project management, and maintenance of applications.  • Extensive experience in core Java and Advanced Java frameworks such as Spring (MVC, IoC, AOP, Security, DI, JDBC), Servlets, ORM tools ( Java Persistence API, Hibernate and MyBatis), along with other java technologies like EJB, Junit, Apache Struts 2, Apache Axis, JFC (SWING, AWT, Java 2D), JSTL and log4j.  • Excellent Proficiency in frontend development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Backbone.js, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX and Adobe Flash.  • Expertise in developing and registering web services using JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SAAJ, JAX-RS, SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI registry along with developing micro services and other middleware.  • Well versed in code management using tools like Tortoise SVN, Perforce and Git as well as software development methodologies like Agile and Scrum.  • Extensive experience with building cloud based applications.  • Strong experience in developing and deploying applications through application servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic and Jboss along with environments like Node.js.  • Proficient with J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Service Locator, DAO, DTO, Value Object, Front Controller, Factory, Business Object, and Singleton.  • Experienced with use case diagrams, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams and class diagrams using UML modeling tools like Rational Rose and Visio.  • Defined and created various functional requirement documents and design specification documents after performing requirement analysis for the systems to be developed and worked with bug tracking tools like JIRA  • Good experience with Cassandra NoSQL Database.  • Held responsibility for conceptual design, creation, and maintenance of system diagrams for development, testing & production environments, taking part in review of use case, design, code, test and implementation plans while working on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Excellent experience in building application with service-oriented-architecture (SOA)  • Skilled at interacting with clients, collection of requirement specifications from the client site, performing requirement analysis and designing.  • Has strong analytical & creative problem solving abilities along with written and verbal communication, interpersonal and presentation skills.  • Handled multiple tasks while managing time efficiently, meeting deadlines, coordinating project schedules and releases, meeting with clients and addressing their concerns.  • Has ability to quickly learn and apply new tools and technologies, translate algorithms and ideas into software applications.  • Hands on experience on SSO.  • Designed back-end solutions for large-scale, on-demand marketing systems.  • Developed software using Jenkins integration service.  • Developed and deployed end-to-end enterprise applications using web technologies and enterprise technologies in client-server environment and distributed environments like 3-tier and N-tier architectures.  • Worked on testing tools like JUnit for application integration testing and built highly scalable and high performing web applications that support day-to-day operations. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer GE-Transportation - Atlanta, GA September 2015 to Present Description: GE Transportation, formerly known as GE Rail, is a division of General Electric. The organization manufactures equipment for the railroad, marine, mining, drilling and energy generation industries. It is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois while their main manufacturing facility is located in Erie, Pennsylvania. Locomotives are assembled at the Erie plant, while engine manufacturing takes place in Grove City, Pennsylvania.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Full stack development based on J2EE specifications and Spring Framework with MVC architecture.  • Developed using web based technologies such as Hibernate ORM and Web Services (REST/SOA /micro services)  • Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, Session Façade, Factory, MVC, Business delegate, session facade and DAO design patterns.  • Used JPA (Object Mapping for the backend data persistency)  • Worked with tracking tool JIRA on Agile Scrum performance estimation and capacity planning work with the project manager and product development teams to create and implement projects.  • Development of front end web pages using JSP2.0, JSON, Angular JS, JS Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Spring TLD.  • Developed using Maven build scripts to automate the deployment to various Web Server.  • Configured Oracle WebLogic Server forms part of Oracle Fusion Middleware portfolio which supports Oracle, and other JDBC-compliant databases.  • Developed the application on Spring One Source and deployed it on Jboss.  • Worked with NoSQL Cassandra to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details for Ethernet provisioning and customer order tracking.  • Responsible for integration with CRM and Single Sign-on (i.e. SAP-CRM.)  • Worked exclusively on Tomcat for managing performance and security optimization for Web Applications.  • Used GIT for source control and developed a logging component using Log4J to log messages and errors.  • Involved in resolving bugs post production and resolved performance issues and participated in code reviews.  • Worked on relational databases and wrote SQL scripts to manage the database.  • Integrated the WSSO Web Single Sign on (SSO) technology with RDS GUI Graphical User Interface to enable global authentication to the GUI.  • Used JSP and HTML/CCS to implement the Web Service in Tomcat.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement.  Environment: Java, JSP, JMS, AJAX, Log4j, jQuery, RESTful web services, JSON, XML, JAX-WS, Apache CXF, AngularJS, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML, Apache Tomcat, CSS, EJB, SSO, Cassandra NoSQL, ANT, SAP, JUnit, Jboss, GIT, and Oracle, MongoDB. Java Full Stack Developer Charter Communication - Tampa, FL April 2014 to August 2015 Description: Charter Communications navigated its way to the #2 cable company by making a bigger boat. The cable system operator leaped to the second spot, behind Comcast, with its acquisitions of Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks for a total of some $70 billion in 2016. The deal expanded the reach of the company, which has taken the name Charter Spectrum. Serving 17 million video subscribers and 19 million broadband customers, it offers a full range of services to residential and business subscribers including cable TV, high-speed Internet, Voice over IP telephone, and entertainment packages. Its Charter Business unit provides Internet access, data networking, phone, and wireless backhaul services to about 500, 000 commercial clients.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on gathering system requirements for the application, working with the business team to review the requirements in the software requirement specification document, architecture document followed by other phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Designed and developed systems based on J2EE specifications and used Spring Framework with MVC architecture.  • Used Spring Roo Framework Design/Enterprise Integration patterns and REST architecture compliance for design and development of applications.  • Involved in the application development using Spring Core, Spring Roo, Spring JEE, Spring Aspects modules and Java web based technologies such as Web Service (REST/SOA /micro services) including micro services implementations and Hibernate ORM.  • Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, Session Façade, Factory, and MVC design patterns such as Business delegate, session façade and DAO design patterns.  • Worked on Agile Scrum performance estimation and capacity planning work with the project manager and product development teams to create and implement projects.  • SAP Business Objects XI Reporting with SSO Site Minder V6 Integration.  • Used Struts and JSTL in the JSP pages.  • Worked on SSO to integrate security for user authentication.  • Implemented service layer on top of Cassandra using core Java, Datastax Java API and Restful API.  • Tested the code using TDD approach to development which combines test-first development where you write a test before you write just enough production code to fulfill that test and refactoring.  • Developed front end web pages using JSP2.0, JSON, jQuery, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript and SPRING TLD.  • Developed Maven build scripts to automate the deployment to various Web Servers.  • Integrate Flex with SAP CRM as Java as Middle layer using JCo API.  • Configured Tomcat server which gave users a single point of access to the applications, services, information and social connections they need.  Environment: Java, JSP, Tiles, Uniface, Soap Web Services, PL SQL, SDLC, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat, HTML, Jboss, CSS, Oracle 11g, CVS, Windows XP, Eclipse, RAD (Rational Application Developer), SAP, Cassandra, Toad, SSO, SQL Developer, putty, WinSCP, Rallydev. Full Stack Java Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH August 2013 to March 2014 Description: Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company is well known for providing insurance and financial services in the United States. One of the Web Application CIQ involves the design and development of a Web based internet application to provide online insurance services. The web application provides functionalities such as Internet Insurance Quote for Customers and Agents. The customer can access complete account information, policy information, and receive instant auto insurance quote and report a claim. Developed from scratch therefore involved in Design and Development of the web application until deployment and production support.  Responsibilities:  • Developed new architectural design solutions, functional and technical requirement specifications, use cases, non-functional requirements and provide expertise to technical and functional efforts, teams, and projects with full stack development.  • Designed new UML diagrams through Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence, components, activity.  • Identified scenarios and strategies for performance testing and collaborate with test team on execution.  • Established relationships and lead/direct technical development teams for SOA-based design, architecture, development, and testing.  • Created Architecture enhancements for Distributed J2EE applications and legacy integration with Mainframes applications.  • Involved in the application development using Spring Core, MVC modules and Java web based technologies; such as, Servlets, JSP, Java Web Service (REST/SOAP based), WSDL.  • Worked on Backbone views with declarative event handling which connects it all to the existing API over a RESTful JSON interface.  • Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, business factory and J2EE design patterns such as Business delegate, session façade and DAO design patterns.  • Developed the HTTP based Web Service Client which calls up the existing web service to get the application related data which comes in XML format.  • Used Hibernate - Object Relational Mapping Tool for the backend data persistency.  • Created a spring container file for configuring Hibernate and to perform Dependency injection among all bean class involved in business logic operation.  • Worked with Tomcat as the application server and WebLogic as the webserver.  • Used Struts and JSTL tag libraries in the JSP pages.  • Very good understanding Cassandra cluster mechanism that includes replication strategies, snitch, gossip, consistent hashing and consistency levels.  • Developed front end web pages using JSP2.0, JSON, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript.  • Developed Maven build scripts to automate the deployment to various Web Servers.  Environment: UML, OOAD, Agile/SCRUM, GOF Patterns, SOA Patterns, EAI Patterns, RSA, MS Visio, Java 7, JSP, Droplets, jQuery, MySQL, Angular JS, JSON, Dynamo Servlets, JDBC, Struts1.1, Cassandra cluster, ATG 9.0, XML, Apache Tomcat, EJB, JMS, Oracle 10g, Linux, Maven, XML, Web Services (SOAP, Rest full), Soap UI, Splunk, Jenkins Java/J2EE Developer Agfa Healthcare - Mountain View, CA November 2012 to July 2013 Description: Agfa HealthCare supplies hospitals and other care organizations with imaging products and systems, as well as information systems. It comprises of many projects like Enterprise Imaging, Integration Care, Digital Radiology and Education. In Agfa, I work for cardiology department as a R&D java developer, where it is a section of Enterprise Imaging project and it captures the images of heart, create the cardiac data of patient and will be send to care teams. As part of project, I implemented the GUI and report view by using the AngularJS framework and Core java concepts (with EJB as interface)  Responsibilities:  • Developed SVN controls to track and maintain the different version of the project.  • Actively involved in analysis, detail design, development, bug fixing and enhancement in agile methodology.  • Involved in daily scrum and sprint planning meetings.  • By using AngularJS implemented rich functionality by creating advance directives, services, events, CRUD, grid options, and multi - selection. Also added new features and worked performance optimization.  • Enhanced the features of diagram based graphics by using SVG and AngularJS frame work.  • Created templates using HTML & CSS and developed components using AngularJS.  • Performed Unit Testing using Jasmine.  • Worked on Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate Objects in business logic layer to generate the data into Jasper Reports.  • Expertise in Selenium Automation using Selenium WebDriver, Selenium IDE, Java & Maven.  • Used iReport tool for Jasper Report configuration.  • Created documents for Software design and work flow with sequence diagrams, data flow diagrams and entity relationship diagrams.  • Developed Exception handling framework and used log4J for logging.  • Involved in writing test cases for Selenium Automation Tool to test the application.  • Extensively use Eclipse, Notepad++ and Sublime IDE's with SVN Tortoise as Code Repositories.    Environment: Java, J2EE, EJB, Json, RESTful Services, AngularJS, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Selenium IDE, iReport Tool, HP Quality Center, Eclipse, MySQL and Jboss Server. Java/J2EE Developer ING Vysya Bank - New Delhi, Delhi August 2010 to October 2012 Description: ING Vysya Bank was a privately owned Indian multinational bank based in Bangalore, with retail, wholesale, and private banking platforms formed from the 2002 purchase of an equity stake in Vysya Bank by the Dutch ING Group. This merger marked the first between an Indian bank and a foreign bank.[3] Prior to this transaction, Vysya Bank had a seven-year-old strategic alliance with erstwhile Belgian bank Banque Bruxelles Lambert, which was also acquired by ING Group in 1998.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development of e-bill payment system as well as account transfer system and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams Prepared solution  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs.  • Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture.  • Hands on experience on MS Sql solving complex query.  • Used Eclipse for writing code for JSP, Servlets.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tables. These POJOs are serialized Java Classes that would not have the business processes  • Implemented Hibernate using the Spring Framework (Created the session Factory)  • Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate and Transfer Object.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Singleton and Factory.  • Deployed the applications on BEA WebLogic Application Server.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Used CVS for version control across common source code used by developers.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to ORACLE.  • Refactored the code to migrate from Hibernate2.x version to Hibernate3. x. (I.e. moved from xml mapping to annotations) and Implemented the Hibernate Filters and Hibernate validators.  • DAO and the hibernate transactions was implemented using spring framework.  • Used AJAX and JavaScript for validations and integrating business server side components on the client side with in the browser.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JNDI, Python, Oracle 10g, HL7, DHTML, ANT, Rationale Rose, Eclipse 3.1, Unix, Web logic Application Server, Hibernate 3.0, Spring, LOG4J, CVS. Java Developer Bangalore, Karnataka June 2008 to July 2010 Description: David Spencer Ltd. (commonly known as Spencer's) operated a department store chain in the province of British Columbia, Canada during the late 19th century and the first half of the 20th century.Founded in the city of Victoria in 1873 by David W. Spencer, the first store, located on Government Street, consisted of a dry goods shop operating under the name "Spencer and Denny". The store prospered and expanded, and a second store was opened in 1890 in Nanaimo. The Vancouver store, which opened in 1907, was so successful that it soon expanded to occupy almost an entire city block. Other stores later opened in Chilliwack and New Westminster.  Responsibilities:  • This project was to develop the e-commerce platform of Spencer's in India.  • Built the home page, implemented the add product functionality along with the variations in the product features.  • Implemented the checkout functionality and the payment gateway.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using AngularJS framework.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs.  • Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.  • Analysis of business & system requirements including impact analysis on existing systems.  • Involved in developing database transactions using JDBC.  • Involved in using Spring Framework IOC for bean conceptual application and Spring ORM framework for mapping database using Hibernate.  • Written hibernate-cfg.xml file in Hibernate for mapping objects to the relational database.  • Used web services to retrieve the custom documents.  • Developed messaging system using JMS and written message listeners.  • Developed DAO (Data Access Object) classes in order to access data from database.  • Used SVN as Version Control Software.  • Tested the critical application's functionalities before moving those into production by using various testing methodologies.  • Co-ordinated with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment, integration and conducting walk-through code reviews    Environment: Spring, HTML5, CSS, Junit, PayPal API, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Eclipse. Education Bachelor's