Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Capital One McLean, VA ? Around 12+ years of experience in Analysis, design, development and implementation of business applications with thorough knowledge in Java, J2EE, MVC/SOA/Microservice architecture, Spring Framework 4.0, Spring Boot, JPA, Hibernate 4.0.1, Servlets, JSP, jQuery, JDBC, Design Patterns, Maven and AWS.  ? Strong knowledge on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services like EC2, S3, EBS, RDS, VPC, and IAM and AWS developer tools.  ? Around 1 + years of Bigdata, Hadoop ecosystem, design and development.  ? Experienced in Cloudera 5.4.x, Ubuntu 16.0.x, Hadoop 2.6.x work Hadoop Components - HDFS, MapReduce programming using Hive, Sqoop, Oozie, Flume, Spark and Scala  ? Adequate knowledge on Pig, Python, Avro, HCatalog, HBase, Zookeeper and Kafka.  ? Extensive experience in the design and implementation of Continuous Integration, Continuous Delivery, Continuous Deployment and DevOps processes for Agile projects, working with technologies and platforms including Java, Jenkins, Maven, Subversion(SVN), GIT, Oracle, UNIX/Linux, VM Ware, AWS.  ? Experience on creating Microservices with Spring Boot, REST Web Services.  ? Experience on develop single page application using Angular 4, Node.js, Typescripts 2.6.x.  ? Experience to develop and deploy JAXB, SOAP, XML, REST API Web Services.  ? Experience to develop and deploy J2EE components on IBM - WebSphere Application Server v8.5. RAD 7.1, Oracle WebLogic 12c, JBoss application server 4.1, Tomcat 7.x  ? Good experience with J2EE Design Patterns and MVC, Struts 2.0, Spring Boot 2.0.  ? Experience in MQ series, JMS middleware technologies.  ? Experience on design patterns like Singleton pattern, Factory pattern, MVC design pattern and command pattern.  ? Hands on experience with Spring Core, IoC, Spring-MVC, JDBC, Web modules and Hibernate.  ? Hands on experience in Informix 9.x, Oracle 11g and backend programming. Good experience in SQL, PLSQL programming.  ? Exhibit strong web application development skills and good exposure in data model design with Oracle, OOAD, recognizing and applying design patterns.  ? Experience on DevOps role to Configure/build/deploy Java applications into DEV/SIT/UAT and PROD environments and follow up release process to push the prioritize version of CRs/code into production.  ? Production support provided development (quick fixes) and technical support and complex/critical applications. Coordination with other teams to resolve end-user issues promptly.  ? Actively participated in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) which includes requirement Gathering, Analysis, and Design, Coding, Testing and documentation.  ? Domain expertise in Financial Mortgage, Insurance, Retail, Manufacturing, Management Systems, Banking, E-commerce and Logistics. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Capital One - McLean, VA July 2017 to Present Small business card - As part of AMP (Accusation moderations platform) KYC and Lexis & Nexis service implementation into Micro-service architecture. The legacy XDS applications using third party EQIFAX, Trans union service to update KYC for small business customer. Also invoke third party service in order to evaluate the small business customer before approval of credit card. All the third-party Rest service needs to be rewrite and convert in to Spring boot-Rest API call and deployed into AWS platform.  Insight app customer verification, BOBC entity, document review and update sections has been implemented for Insight app using Angular 6.x, Rest API.    Responsibilities:  ? Agile sprint - daily stand up call.  ? Involve active participants in story growing meeting and define the complexities for each story.  ? Spring boot - Rest API developments for XDS - KYC applications integrate into tools layer.  ? Created Spring boot IS layer to invoke LexisNexis third party services and follow the capital one process to ensure on board third party services.  ? Wrote Junit - Mockito framework and ensure <80% code coverage before deploy into QA.  ? Created Insight application UI for BOBC details edit, document update screen using Angular 6, Type scripts, node.js.  ? Integrated Insight app UI into API using Angular - route & Service components in order to connects with process App and IDM API services.  ? Execute Jenkins pipe line to in order to successful deployment into Dev, QA & Perf environments.  ? Update bogifile in order to change if any AWS instances etc.    Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring core, Micro services architecture, Spring Boot 2.0.x, Swagger API, JAX RS, REST API, Kafka, Data lake, AngularJS 6.0, Typescript 2.6.x, Node.js, Bootstrap, Continues Integration - GIT, Junit, Mockito, ATDD, MAVEN 4.x, Jenkins 2.0, AWS EC2, S3, Amazon Cloud Watch, AWS Lambda, AWS IAM, Docker Container, Putty FTP, Agile - Sprint. Java AWS Developer Freddie Mac, Virginia VA July 2015 to June 2017 The new CSP infrastructure will facilitate the achievement of various securitization structures and future policy goals. This also provides a framework that will better serve the needs of the future housing finance system. Maintaining a highly liquid secondary mortgage market is a fundamental requirement for the success of the Single Security (SS) & Common Securitization Platform (CSP).    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, and Testing of the project  ? Involved in J2EE patterns MVC, Dependency Injection (DI), Inversion of Control (IOC), Data Access Object (DAO), Business Delegate, Service Locator and Singleton for the enterprise application.  ? Used RESTful methodology using HTTP Handlers in developing Web Service Replication interface for setting up data feeds for content transportation in XML and JSON formats.  ? Implemented RESTful Web services in SOA (Service-oriented) Architecture to retrieve data from client side  ? Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  ? Developed REST exception handling controller advice to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions.  ? Used Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot. Involved in build and deployment of Microservices/Spring Boot with Jenkins.  ? Exposing and consuming various web services using JAX-RS and JSON to different systems for business services.  ? Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling.  ? Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2instances.  ? Amazon IAM was used to maintain the user credentials and involved in creating custom IAM policies to various groups defined within the organization.  ? Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud Watch.  ? Using Hadoop eco systems to analyze Hadoop cluster using with various Map Reduce technologies design and developed data pipeline using Flume, Hive, HBase, HCatalog, Sqoop & Oozy.  ? Installed and configured Hadoop MapReduce, HDFS, Developed multiple MapReduce jobs in java for data cleaning and preprocessing.  ? Designed appropriate partitioning/bucketing schema to allow faster data retrieval during analysis using HIVE. Importing and exporting data into HDFS and Hive using Sqoop.  ? Worked on configuring multiple Map Reduce Pipelines, for the new Hadoop Cluster.  ? Experience in importing and exporting data from various databases like RDBMS, MYSQL, Sybase, Oracle and DB2 into Hive , HBase using Sqoop.  ? Implemented Spark using Scala and utilizing Data frames and Spark SQL API for faster processing of data.  ? Implemented Spark RDD transformations to Map business analysis and apply actions on top of transformations.    Environment: JDK 1.8, JSP, HTML, AngularJS, CSS, HTML5, Bootstrap, Spring core, Microservices - Spring Boot 2.0.x, Hibernate 4.0.1, Weblogic12c, JMS, Rapid SQL 8.0, JAX RS REST API, DB2, Continues Integration - GIT, MAVEN 4.x, Jenkins 2.0, Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Cloud Watch, AWS Lambda, Amazon IAM, Cloudera 5.8.x, Ubuntu 16.0.x, NAS Storage, Docker Container, Putty FTP, Oracle 11g. Java Developer John Hancock - Manulife Financial - Boston, MA November 2011 to June 2015 Mortgage Front office, eMD application is a system for Investment Division, loan origination process. It is used to capture the loan data from initiation through funding of the loan. Using eMD UI application, the loan will be track and followed till funding of the loans.    Responsibilities:  ? Design and develop applications based on technical/functional design documents. Includes hands on involvement in designing, coding and testing of program modules.  ? Anticipate, mitigate, identify, troubleshoot, and correct hardware and software issues on servers, and workstations. Escalated incidents as necessary.  ? Performed software and hardware upgrades, patches and reconfigurations on all physical and virtual servers.  ? Development of technical design documents (specifications) based on functional design documents (business requirements)  ? Estimation and analysis for new development/enhancement projects come up with high/low level design document.  ? Involved in building a high efficiency Dynamic single and multiple Web Application Using Bootstrap.  ? Hands on with Git / GitHub for code check-ins/checkouts and branching etc.  ? Built Continuous Integration environment using Jenkins, Maven and puppet.  ? Design and development of new Metro code functionalities component developed on UI layers using HTML, XML, XSLT and Controller class, IO classes, SOAP services for generic metro code information and back end store procedures.  ? Creation of Spring POJO classes and complete configuration of spring MVC for Collateral Property, Multifamily & Commercial loan modules.  ? Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) framework and Spring regarding flow of request by Dispatcher Servlet.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Adapter, Service locator, Session facade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  ? Involved in Production support for the mortgage applications and respond to business users if any production issues in a timely fashion.  ? Using Eclipse/STS IDE to debug if any JAVA issues while deploying or integrate with other Java applications/Interfaces.  ? Debugging code base and find out any production root cause analysis and come up with immediate solution.  ? Provided Technical Recommendations Process Improvements.  ? Ensure compliance with coding standards, source code control, version control, build & deployment procedures and performance Tuning.  ? Check the messaging queues and JMS routers for each application, integration and deploy into WebLogic12c server. Configure input/output queues to flow the messages and ensure its routed to the up/down stream systems.  ? Actively participate DevOps role into build, configure and deploy code in various application test environments and follow up release process to push the code into production.  ? Preforming DevOps role to continuous integration using GIT, Jenkins pipe, deployments into various environments, code coverage checking, release management prioritized the CRs for UAT testing/prod move.    Environment: Java 1.7, xsl/xslt, Spring-Core, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Java multi-threading, Hibernate 3.2, RAD 7.0, IBM WebSphere Application Server 7.0, Rapid SQL 7.5.1, JQuery, JAX RS Web-Services with SOAP, Oracle 11g, Jenkins Araxis merge, Unix, Service request tool Project & Portfolio Management(PPM), HP Quality center, XML Spy, Informatica jobs - monitor CAW, VBA macro, hummingbird connectivity 2007, EXCEL Macro and Putty. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services November 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Worked extensively with the client gathering the requirement. This helped to understand the business process of the system.  ? Used HTML, JSP, Java scripts, JQuery, Bootstrap frame work to create web pages and defining CSS class to reuse and consistent for all the web pages. & Servlets for Front end.  ? Used Spring framework 3.2 for configuration management and to reduce dependencies.  ? Creation of spring pojo classes and spring configuration for Order maintenance modules.  ? Hands on experience in writing Spring Restful Web services using JSON / XML.  ? Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate and JPA.  ? Extensively used Hibernate which is Object relation mapping tools used for persistence.  ? Creation of hibernate persistence classes for each service classes in Order maintenance modules.  ? Unit Testing and Deployed with RAD6.1.  ? Server memory management JVM performance tuning has been taken cared.  ? Worked extensively on each layer of the application that helped gain a good knowledge on the technologies used.    Environment: JDK 1.6, JSP 2.0, Bootstrap, Spring MVC framework, Spring Core 3.2, Spring IOC 3.2, Spring JDBC, Hibernate 3.2, Eclipse 4.0, TOAD, IBM WebSphere Application RAD 6.0, JAX Web-Services with SOAP, IBM-MQ series, JQuery, Oracle 9i. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2009 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirements analysis for Planogram-MOC generation module.  ? Interacted with business analysts and prepared Visio Diagrams.  ? Struts2.0 is the MVC framework and backbone of the application. Façade design patterns were extensively used for entity bean and session bean interaction.  ? Involved in Performance tuning.  ? Involved in designing of replacement of Entity bean with DAO pattern.  ? Involved in enhancement and bug fix of the ecommerce site.  ? Setting up an environment, configuring an application and deployment in IBM Web Sphere7 Application Server.  ? Used eclipse3.2 IDE for java development.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for all use cases and executed them.  ? Responsible for Development, Integration Testing, User Acceptance testing.  ? Involved in JUnit testing and generate report.  ? Responsible for creating SQL scripts for testing functionality.    Environment: Struts 2 .0, EJB, JSP, JDK 1.6, Log 4j, Adobe-Flex3.0, Cairngorm frame work, IBM WebSphere Application RAD6.0, Oracle 9.1, eclipse 3.2, Tomcat 6.1, HTML, JSP, AJAX, Java Script, XML, XSLT, JSON, JAX RS Web-Services with SOAP, Restful service 2.0, Ant, JUnit, Clear case 2003. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Chicago, IL August 2007 to March 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Interacted with business users to gather check-in online module requirement.  ? Develop the sequence and class diagrams and get it approved from the client  ? Designing classes using design pattern methodologies such as Singleton, Service Locator, and DAO factory and session façade patterns.  ? Developed Hibernate DAO classes and with the Spring frame work manager classes retrieve and save the data  ? Involved in Performance tuning.  ? Created the front end using JSP, HTML, XML, and advanced JavaScript.  ? Used Oracle as backend  ? Performed Unit Cases for components using JUnit  ? Configuration management - Clear case used.  ? Provided support for user acceptance testing & performance testing.    Environment: Java1.6, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, Struts, Hibernate, Multi-threading, JAXB2.0, SOAP, HTML, CSS, XML, PL/SQL, TOAD, Rational Rose, JavaScript, Weblogic 8.1, eclipse 3.0, Maven Java Messaging services(JMS), MQ and Apollo mainframe server, Content management application (CMA). Senior Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services May 2006 to September 2007 KOM ++ (Commission Maintenance System)  • Generation of Commission Payment Files.  • Online Enquires and Manual Adjustments.  • Online screens to correct any error events.  • Screens for Reports Generation.  • Batch programs to provide projections to the management.    Responsibilities:  ? Interacted with customer to understand the requirements.  ? Responsible for project delivery right from design, development and testing till the deployment of all the modules.  ? Implemented atomization of testing process Coding and Implementation of the System.  ? Enhanced the notification part of the application.  ? Developed the new screens and the code for maintaining the outage of the application  ? Developed a standalone program to generate reports scheduled using windows scheduler jobs that runs every successful completes of cycle that server runs on UNIX.    Environment: Java, Struts 1.1, Oracle 8i, MS access, JSP tag libraries, IBM WebSphere 5.1.2, JUnit, Unix, Shell scripts, CVS Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services January 2006 to August 2006 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for Analysis, Design, Development, Integration Testing, User Acceptance testing, Implementation and Maintenance stage  ? Used Struts1.1 for building the application.  ? Developed presentation layer with JSPs, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, AJAX.  ? Interacted with business users to gather and document the requirements  ? Development of Oracle views and unit testing.  ? Created Tables and Views in Oracle 9i.  ? Created SQL scripts for testing. Responsible for writing SQL Queries and executing using JDBC API.  ? Unit Testing & Stage Testing. Deployment and support  ? Mentoring and knowledge transfer to new recruits and fellow developers.    Environment: Java/J2EE, DB2, WSAD 5.1.2, Struts, JDBC, JSP, Unix, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ant, PL/SQL, TOAD Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (10+ years), J2EE (6 years), Java (10+ years), JSP (8 years), Oracle (10+ years) Additional Information Skills:  Java (12 years), J2EE (8 years), HTML (8 years), JSP (8 years), UNIX (3 years), Oracle (5 years).