Sr. JAVA Developer Sr.<span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. JAVA Developer - Smart Source Technologies Chicago, IL • Senior Java/J2EE Developer with 12+ years of experience in Systems Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Web and Client/Server and Enterprise Application development using Java and J2EE Technologies.  • Experience on J2EE technologies including Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, JPA, JAX-WS, Strut  • Expertise in the implementation of core java concepts of java, J2EE Technologies, JSP, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation, JMS, Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, XSD, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading, Data structures etc.  • Extensive Knowledge in Node.js for Server Side programming.  • Experienced in building cross browser compatibility applications using AngularJS and Node.js.   • Experience with working in java script framework like JQuery, AngularJS and Node.js.   • Experience with Controllers, Views, and Stores in ExtJS.  • Experience in developing ExtJS components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Comb o-Box and Button.  • Good Experience in working with the Document Object Model (DOM) and DO M Functions.  • Experienced both in working on Designing table-less layouts and table-based layouts.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Experienced in Front End frame works such as, NodeJS, React JS, Backbone JS, AngularJS jQuery,Ajax, JavaScript, Bootstrap3, Bootstrap4 and UIKit.  • Experience in Spring Modules Spring MVC, AOP, IOC, Spring Boot, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Dashboard, Spring Security, Thyme leaf, Spring Heroku.  • Experience in Design and Development of High Performance CPD processes by using multithreaded processes which in turn improved the performance by a lot.  • Experience in creating components using React.js.  • Experience in Creating, configuring and maintainingWeblogic managed servers and server clusters.  • Experience in persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping java classes with database.  • Experience in Microservices Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Spring Boot.  • Expertise in Microservices developing SOA and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Experience in working withSOAP andREST web services and good at managing different data types using RESTful services like JSON, XML and data types.  • Experience in development, testing and deployment of enterprise applications on Windows & UNIX platforms using IDE’ssuch as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer, NetBeans, intelliJ 14.x/15.x  • Experience in using different controlling/tracking systems Subversion, CVS, GIT, and Rational Clear Case.  • Experience with major relational databases – Oracle 12c/11g, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, DB2, My SQL and Proficient in No SQL DB such as Apache Cassandra DB, MongoDB.  • Hands on experience in Amazon Web Services provisioning and good knowledge of AWS Services like EC2, S3, ELB, RDS, VPC, Route53, cloud watch, Cloud formation etc.  • Expertise in testing Junit tools like JMeter, Selenium, Karma, Jasmine also in Mockito.  • Expertise in employment of Apache Kafka, Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service.  • Knowledge on Jenkins with configuring check styles, Test coverage andSplunk Tool for production support.  • Experience in Implemented UI design using HTML and CSS.  • Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss.  • Experience in using build tool as ANT, Gradle, Maven to compile, package the components to the application servers MAVEN Scripts for customizing WAR/JAR file management for web applications and log4J.  • Experience in creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and integrating with spring boot for running applications securely on container platform by flexible integrating existing process with log4J for logging. Work Experience Sr. JAVA Developer Smart Source Technologies - Brooklyn, NY, US November 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Worked as a Java Developer and involved in analysis of requirements, the design, development, integration, deployment and testing. Followed Agile, Scrum approach of development strategy.  • Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc.  • Added Planned Start date, Planned End Date features using Java Swing.  • Added Scaling Duration and calling hour's features using Java Swing.  • Used RAD IDE for developing GUI.  • Responsible for maintaining technical and functional documentation • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP and REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks).  • Generated DAO's to map with database tables using Hibernate. Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Criteria for database querying and retrieval of results.  • Uses Second Level Cache to enhance performance and Proper Memory Management • Involved in J2EE Design Patterns such as Data Transfer Object (DTO), DAO, Value Object and Template.  • Used Spring IOC, AOP modules to integrate with the application.  • Developed SQL Queries for performing CRUD operations in Oracle for the application.  • Used Maven for generating system builds and Bamboo for continuous integration.  • Used LOG4J, JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Wrote JUNIT Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Mockito.  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.  • Developed presentation layer using JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Enhancing the product with new features as per client requirements.  • Developed custom web forms a JavaScript.  • Developing application design guidance and consultation, utilizing a thorough understanding of applicable technology, tools and existing designs.  • Used AngularJS and Handlebars.js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  • Deployed application using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) CLI. Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry, the connection/service binding details are injected from the deployed cloud platform itself.  • Created AngularJS Controller which Isolate scopes perform operations in UI.  • Using AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Wrote Cloud Formation templates and deployed AWS resources using it.  • Created many custom filters using Angular 4.0 and external module to manipulate the routing.  • Extensively used Spring Framework modules like MVC, DI(IOC), Spring Security and AOP.  • Developed services that are reusable and interoperable, based on SOAP, WSDL, JAXWS, JAXRPC Web services.  • Hands-on writing Stored Procedures, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL, PL/SQL programming and SQL Loader.  • Did load testing of SOAP Web Services using SOAP UI and Apache JMeter tools.  • Developed a GUI to help to read the logs generated by the scripts, the logs were saved in Oracle DB, the GUI was created using flask, D3, jQuery table sorter.  • Deployed the application in JBoss production server running in LINUX Platform.  • Used advanced Java8, features like Lambda Expressions Streams, Filters, Enhanced concurrency methods etc.  • Implemented Internationalization using Spring MVC Interceptors and Spring Core modules.  • Strong understanding of Microservice architectures, patterns, related frameworks and prior hands on experience in developing and deploying Microservice solutions.  • Successfully designed and developed Java Multi-Threading based collector parser and distributor process, when the requirement was to collect, parse and distribute the data coming at a speed of thousand messages per seconds.  • Implemented the project structure based on Spring MVC, pattern using Spring Boot.  • Hands on experience Spring Boot Actuator, Spring Cloud, and Netflix Eurekha.  • Design and develop Selenium tests to verify functionality of internal business applications and resulting data.  • Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, CSS, HTML to speed the application.  • Prepared and presented UNIX production and implementation schedules to the Project Manager and client.  • Implemented Screen Navigation using Angular Routing and Spring MVC.  • Involved in creating dynamic web site design and programming using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Built HTML and CSS system for controlling text display issues cross-platform and cross browser.  • Responsible for CI and CD using Jenkins, Maven and Ansible.  • Coordinated Kafka operations and monitoring (via JMX) with DevOps team.  • Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring Boot.  • Developing Docker images for development and testing teams and their pipelines.  • Experience in develop and configure monitoring solutions to provide full visibility to the different platform components using tools and services like Amazon Web Services, Cloud Watch, Splunk.  • Experience designing and developing applications on relational databases Oracle DB. Sr. JAVA Developer Stefanini, Inc - Dearborn, MI, US February 2015 to October 2017 Environment: Java, Agile, Spring MVC, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, NetBeans, XML, Hibernate, RESTful Web Service, Tomcat, SVN, Ajax, JUnit, SQL Server, AWS, ActiveMQ, Node.js, Maven, Spring JMS, ReactJS, D3 Js, Jenkins, SASS.  Stefanini, Inc. Dearborn, MI Feb 2015 to Oct 2017  Sr. JAVA Developer    Responsibilities: • Developed and tested modules using Agile (SCRUM) methodologies and developed Technical design documents.  • Work flow and workflownavigations were developed to work per the user roles.  • Worked with controller, service and view components in applications using Spring 3.5 framework.  • Implemented Spring modules like Controller, DI/IOC, Auto wiring, Spring security, AOP and AspectJ.  • Service Oriented Architecture was exposed through RESTful web services with loose coupling between layers using Springframework during development.  • Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Node.js and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Securityauthentication protocol respectively.  • Enterprise level web applications were supported by building Spring based Java and Scalamicro services.  • Consumed messages from JMS-Message driven beans and Active MQ. Integrated Active MQ services with Beans.  • Created Single Page Application which can data bind with server with AngularJS framework.  • Improved source code maintenance which resulted in significant code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spin and superior performance by refactoring existing AngularJS application.  • Java expression tags were avoided using Bean, HTML and LogicTags, and used display tags to render large data.  • Developed effective web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.js and Bootstrap.  • Involved in developing role basedHTML navigational menu, where in menu items change dynamically based on the values derived from database in the form of XML data.  • Hibernate DAO classes were developed to retrieve and save data using Spring framework manager classes.  • Experience in Creating, Dropping Indexes, Tables, Stored Procs and Views on Mongo DB.  • Cloud environment for micro services was provided using Spring cloud Netflix (Eureka server, Ribbon).  • Expertise with employment of Spring Kafka and Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service.  • Deployed the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using Cloud Foundry and other cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka as fallback method, Spring Ribbon for load balancing and a broker service to maintain status using Spring Kafka and Zookeeper.  • Developed client applications using JAXR and JAXM to connect to the UDDI registry.  • Apache Mesos and Kubernetes were used as the best ecosystem to deploy and manage Micro-services.  • Ant is used for building the application EAR.  • Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for GIT.  • Log4J is used for logging purposes and debug levels are defined for controlling what we log.  • Writing Unit test cases using JUnit testing framework and performed unit and system testing.  • Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica set.  • Selenium's playback tool feature for authoring tests has been used in executing more than 100 test cases.  • Expertise on Selenium Data Driven framework and integrating it withMaven, TestNG and Jenkins.  • Created and configured management reports and dashboards using Splunk.  • Merging properties of different environments to incorporate necessary changes that get reflected in new environments.  • Working with on-site and off-site resources for successful implementation of the Workflow module.  • Experience in installation, configuration, Deployment and management of web and enterprise applications on Web Sphere Application server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.5, UNIX, JBoss 3.0, Spring core, MongoDB, JMeter, Hibernate, Jetty, Perl, Spring MVC, Hibernate, SOAP Web services, Filenet, Ajax, XML, jQuery, HTML5, CSS, TC Server, SASS, JAX-B, SVN, Maven, Jenkins, AWS, SFX, Splunk, MAX, SEED. Sr. JAVA Developer Kforce Technology Staffing - Jacksonville, FL, US September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities: • Involved in Brain Storming sessions, Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of tasks for the user stories.  • Worked in TDD Environment that includes Testing, Coding, Analyzing, Designing, Implementation and Production Support.  • Used Design Patterns like Singleton, MVC, Front Controller, Service Locator, Session Facade and DAO • Involved in the front end using JSP, JSTL and jQuery, Servlets, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Developed the web application by using PrimeFaces employing AJAX at client -side components.  • Worked on Spring modules like Dependency Injection (DI), Spring AOP, Spring JMS and Spring Security.  • Used Spring JMS to post and consume the messages from the IBM MQ Server.  • Extensively used Hibernate mappings, HQL, Criteria, Lazy loading Transactions and Locking's.  • Developed Batch Rescore Tool to rescore multiple claims usingMultithreading.  • Used jQuery to make the application highly interactive and used JSON objects for efficient Client-side coding.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI using AJAX and calls to backend RESTful services.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, CSS3 • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete functions.  • Extensively used Hibernate named queries, Criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database.  • Experience designing and developing applications on NoSQL databases Cassandra.  • Involved in deploying and testing the application inJBoss application server.  • Responsible for continuous monitoring and managing Elastic Map Reduce cluster throughAWSconsole.  • Developed Unit /Integration test cases using Junit, Easy Mock, Mockito and Selenium tools.  • Used Ant/Maven tools for building and deploying the Web applications.    Environment: Java 1.7, TDD, Spring, JPA, Hibernate, Web services, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, Java Script, Jenkins, JBoss CVS, IBM MQ, Mockito, Spring MQ, Spring MVC, Web Services, JAXB, WSDL, XSD, AWS, XML, BRMS, SQL, ANT, MAVEN Cassandra. JAVA Developer Oakridge Infotech - Tampa, FL, US December 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities: • Used Ant/Maven tools for building and deploying the Web applications.  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development and the project was developed using Agile based SCRUM Methodology.  • Successfully executing Offshore modeling by effective and on time knowledge sharing with offshore project groups through weekly team meetings and daily status update calls.  • Implemented Struts Framework and Hibernate in the new version of the Application.  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts and JavaScript.  • Developed Action classes, Dyna Action Forms and used Validation framework.  • Used EJB Stateless/Stateful session beans to implement business logic, session handling, and transaction and deployed Enterprise Java Beans both Session and Entity on WebSphere Application Server.  • Taken care of java Multi-Threading in common java classes/library.  • Extensively used Java Scripts to enforce client-side validations and used jQuery for Ajax processing.  • Involved in development of various web services using IBM WebSphere to interact with other Applications.  • Involved in Unit testing, Troubleshooting and Debugging. Modifying existing programs with enhancements.  • Developed the UNIX shell scripts to automate jobs.  • Developed Entity Beans as Bean Managed Persistence Entity and Hibernate to connect to backend database DB2.  • Worked on Linux environment for deploying the application, running scripts for jobs.  • Involved in Fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application.  • Worked as the part of a core team to monitor and enhance the performance of the application.  • Provide guidance and direction to team members in their day-to-day activities.  • Extensively used DB2 for CRUD operations.    Environment: Jakarta Struts Framework 2.0, Core Java, jQuery, Ajax, Hibernate 3.0, EJB, CSS, Eclipse, WebSphere Application Server 6.5, JUnit, UNIX, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, DB2. JAVA Developer CyberCoders - Jersey City, NJ, US January 2009 to November 2011 Responsibilities: • Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Preparing Functional Specifications, and TechnicalSpecifications per their requirements.  • Developed and tested modules using Agile (SCRUM) methodologies and developed Technical design documents.  • Provided installation, configuration & maintenance of pre-prod and production Cloud environments including services such as Tomcat,Apache, Jetty, SQL Server, and Jira.  • Used Spring's IOC, AOP and auto wiring concepts in developing the application.  • Used Spring Container to performed dependency injection.  • Used Hibernate to map the database with POJO using hbm.xml files.  • Extensively used spring core, Filters, servlets and server side programming.  • Built html templates for high traffic and complex data driven website.  • Developed RAML based REST web services for API's using MuleESB.  • Developed SOAP webservices using Apache CXF webservices and Spring framework.  • Worked in configuration of APACHE CAMEL and executing routes, integrating applications using Red Hat Jboss Fuse.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for dependency injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Spring framework.  • Used Mongoose Connector to connect to MongoDB through Express framework.  • We used Multithreading in this application to improve the performance.  • Error handled with Java-based GlassFish server issues, front-end WordPress issues, algorithmic bugs, and MySQL dataexceptions.  • Used automated scripts to perform routine management tasks on Web Sphere environments like Monitoring Disk Space, CPU and Memory Utilization.  • Development of MQ application programs for Java JMS environments using queues and messages.  • Handled protocols in support based on Rabit MQ JAVA client.  • Created the Rabit MQ setting and mapping files.  • Java Development with IBM MQ, Activiti and Web Services.  • Designed the Architecture of the project as per MVC standards.  • Deployed the application on JBOSS application server.  • Used AJAX technology for creating interactive Web Applications.  • Developed SOAP message envelopes and headers using WSDL.  • Developed JSP for orders module and Customer Service Department.  • Used Gradle as a build tool and understanding the antifactory and repo structure.  • JDBC DAO classes were developed to retrieve and save data using Spring framework manager classes.  • Used Nexus, Jenkins as a build tool and retrieved all the dependencies required for the application.  • Used PL/SQL, Stored Procedures for handling SQL Server database.  • Involved in Integration of all the modules and deploying them on the Application server and used JMS.  • Involved in bug fixing of various modules in the application that were raised by the testing team.    Environment: Java (JDK 1.6), J2EE, Ajax, Spring 3.0, JDBC, Web services, Jersey, JAXB, Log4j, SQL Server, SVN, Eclipse, JUnit, JSP, ANT, HTML, CSS, JSON, XML, Tomcat. JAVA Developer Indotronix International Corp - Basking Ridge, NJ, US June 2006 to December 2008 Responsibilities: • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like requirement gathering, coding, testing, and implementation.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux libraries.  • Used Jenkins plugins for code coverage and to run all the test before generating war file.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using Hibernate (ORM) framework.  • Developed rich User Interface using jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Used AJAX function calls using jQuery functions to handle the user requests asynchronously and to have faster responses from the server by directly connecting to the server.  • Obtained JSON responses to front-end using GSONAPI.  • Implemented web services, used to retrieve data that tells whether the claimant is incarcerated or not.  • Developed applications using Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping files, configured XML files, hibernate query language.  • Developed JSP pages for correspondence team.  • Implemented web services using WSDL/SOAP and created web services and clients to use those services.  • Used Agile methodologies for application development.  • Implemented server-side programs by using Servlets and JSP.  • Developed the front-end by doing hands-on coding using semantic mark up, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and other front-end technologies as required by the program with a focus on usability.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and CSS media queries • Worked on writing Selection Criteria codes to be reused in various functions interacting to database • Used Oracle database as backend database.  • Used JavaScript to perform Client-Side Validation.  • Designed and implemented using MVC, integrating hibernate and spring boot framework.  • Used Web Services (SOAP and REST) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Developed JAX-WS SOAP web services using XML, WSDL, XSD through Apache CXF Implementation.  • Created jobs in Jenkins and deployed the applications in different environments (DEV/QA/UAT/PROD).  • Worked in all areas of Jenkins setting up CI/CD for new branches, build automation, plugin management and securing Jenkins and setting up master/develop configurations.  • Worked on security issues for the User Management service.  • Maven for the application builds and Jenkins for the continuous integration.  • Created a mock API, which includes all the JSON data in that.  • Written complex SQL queries to fetch data from the database.  • Worked on implementing continuous testing for all modules. Unit test-case preparation for every module developed.  • Worked with QA team to resolve the defects and UAT defects with the business users.  • Deployed Applications on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Involved in Core Java coding by using Java API's such as Collections, Multithreading, Exceptional Handling, Generics, Enumeration and Java I/O to fulfill the implementation of business logic.  • Used Multi-Threading to make it Asynchronous for faster and parallel processing of documents.  • Performing the Bug fixing and updating in to the EXCEL sheets.  • Involved in Unit testing for various components using Junit.  • Participated in technical review, formal presentation and accurate documentation.    Environment: Core Java, SQL Design Patterns, Spring, OOPS/OOAD (UML), XML, Hibernate, Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN source control, BugZilla, Autosys, Aqua Studio, JIRA, GWT, Smart GWT, Ajax Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (10+ years), database (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), Web Services (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java, J2EE, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL.  Java Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, EJB, RMI, Web Services, SOAP, Log4j  Distributed Technologies Web Services, JMS, WebSphere MQ  IDE WSAD, Eclipse, RAD, Spring STS, NetBeans  Framework Struts, Spring MVC, Spring, Hibernate, Apache axis for Web Services  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, XML, DOM, GWT, XPath, DOM, DTD  Methodologies SDLC, UML, Design Patterns, SOA  Version Control Systems CVS, Clear Case, SVN, GIT  Operating System All Versions of Microsoft Windows, UNIX and LINUX  Database Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g/12C, MySQL,DB2, SQL Server