Sr. JAVA DEVELOPER Sr. <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Sr. JAVA DEVELOPER - CROSS COUNTRY HOME SERVICES (CCHS) Seattle, WA * 9+ years of versatile experience in Software Development Life Cycle. Analysis, design, development and implementation of software applications and in developing n-tier architecture based solutions with distributed components and internet/intranet applications.    * Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) Programming.    * Proven expertise in implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Spring MVC, ORM, JDBC, DAO and AOP) and Hibernate.    * In-Depth understanding of entire web based architectures, web technologies, SDLC and OOAD.    * Vast experience with J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, JSP, Struts, EJB, Java Beans, Servlets, JMS,RMI, Hibernate on Windows platform.    * Expertise in Java IDEs such as RSA/ RAD / Eclipse and Web Server like Apache Tomcat.    * Excellent knowledge and experience in DB2, PL/SQL, Oracle, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server and Oracle Database.    * Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.    * Good at Documenting and Understanding User requirements and System Specifications.    * Experienced in Creating Domain Model, Activity Diagrams, Use Case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and Object Model using Rational Rose Tool.    * Extensive domain knowledge on business verticals of Financial, Credit Cards Maintenance and Insurance Underwriting.    * Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and UDDI.    CORE TECH SKILLS  Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, iBatis, Hibernate, Multi tier architecture, C, C++, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, EXT-JS, Ajax, JQuery, Angular.js, Backbone, Node.js, Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. JAVA DEVELOPER CROSS COUNTRY HOME SERVICES (CCHS) - Charlotte, NC February 2014 to Present Cross Country Home Services is focused on operational excellence as a means of ensuring that its client's programs run smoothly and deliver results. Building and maintaining end-to-end portal solutions using a full-stack solution for internal and external customers, vendors and service providers in the Home Services Industry. Guided clients through the company's claim process, communicated directly with service providers to obtain diagnostic information on HVAC, plumbing and electrical systems.  Responsibilities:  * Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  * Working on framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  * Developed a pipeline to process the user requested analysis using Python Scripts, and CronJobs on the server  * Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using Web sphere Studio Application Developer and used CVS for version control.  * Performed software builds using makefiles, scons, VM 8 and Subversion in a Linux and Windows environment.  * Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  * Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC  * Developed applications using WebSphere, Phython Scripting, Powershell, Linux, Cloud Puppet, Chef, Ruby on Rails, vSphere, vCenter, vCloud, vFabric, Weblogic, Apache, and Tomcat.  * Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  * Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP's, Servlets, Java Web Start, EJB's and Web logic.  * Backend development with PHP, MYSQL, BASH, LINUX, UNIX  * Design (architectural), develop, and deployment of front-end and presentation layer logic of sites using JSP, HTML/DHTML, CSS, XML, JSON, AJAX and JavaScript.  * Developed python scripts, on linux platform, to process data from upstream systems that were scheduled to be executed at specific times by Autosys  * Developed Servlets, Enterprise Java Beans (EJBs), data access layer code for the application on Websphere Application Developer.  * Developed web applications within a LAMP (Linux, Unix, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment that includes distributed web servers and a MySQL database cluster.  * Dealt with java Beans helper classes and servlets for interacting with the user interface written in JSP.  * Done Python scripting implementation for processing database records.  * Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  * Worked on Posting queue logic by implementing Message-Driven bean (MDB) using JMS and deployed on JBoss server.  * Created the set up for running Distributed data storage and computation in windows by using virtual Hadoop , Linux (Cygwin) and Openssh and successfully deployed web application in JBOSS server , connecting to Hbase nosql database running in Hadoop environment through Zookeeper coordinating service  * Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic.  * Worked on stored procedures, triggers, cursors, DB scheduler, PL/SQL, MySQL and SQL queries  * Wrote unit testing of various components layer with JUnit framework.  * Wrote complex reporting applications with Ext JS and Sencha Touch for Windows Azure and Amazon Web Services, Linux, Unix and Windows servers  * Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, using MS SQL Server.Worked with MySQL for MySQL, SQLYog and Workbench.  * Used CVS to maintain source and version management and used Eclipse as IDE.  * Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT and LINUX.  * Analyzed and resolved production system problems tracked with Rational Clear Quest and JIRA.  * Implementing and designing Modules based on messaging (SMS), The projects were developed in Java (J2EE) and Python for scripting.  * Developing unified Global Transaction Banking platform using Google Web Toolkit (GWT) to support a consistent web experience.  * Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic, Web Sphere, jboss and Apache Tomcat.  * Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  * Development with Java, J2EE, JSF, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle, Eclipse, MyEclipse, BEA Workshop Studio, JUnit, & Ant for deployment on Apache/Tomcat. Focus on development of secure communications involving SSL/TLS, PGP, S/MIME, OpenSSL and PKI. Development and deployment on both Linux, Unix and Windows platforms.  * Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  * Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  * Developed automation test cases using Java and Junit on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Junit, UML, Python scripting, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, Tomcat, JBoss, Ibatis, iText, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), Selenium, Jasper Report, Ilog, Web 2.0, Oracle, Crud, PL/SQL, MySql, MS-Sql, JDBC, Oracle Coherence, Linux, MongoDB, Apache CXF, Web Services, SOAP, RESTful, SOA, Ant, RAD, Agile, Unix, Scrum, Maven, CVS, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), Websphere, WebLogic, Windows XP, Linux Sr. JAVA DEVELOPER RESTAURANT.COM - Charlotte, NC December 2012 to January 2014 The nation's largest dining deals site, that utilize Restaurant.com gift cards for grow, and keep campaigns and to power successful loyalty programs. The Project involved the enhancement of web-based online services to customers. It gives customers a secure and easy access to online functions.  Responsibilities:  * Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method and Data Transfer Objects (DTO)  * Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases  * Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture (Struts Framework), Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  * Wrote various C++ utilities for different flavors of UNIX /LINUXservers (Sun Solaris, IBM AIX and SCO)  * Designed extensive additions to existing Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  * Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate  * Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment  * Involved in Development of the application Using J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSF, Struts).  * Designed a data analysis pipeline in Python, using Amazon Web Services such as S3, EC2 and Elastic Map Reduce.  * Used python scripting and configuration management tools Chef, Puppet, and CF Engine and Web Service like AWS.  * Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, XML, HTML and CSS for developing the Web component  * Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.  * Set up JBoss Server, Configured MySQL Cluster in Linux OS and installed OpenCall XDMS  * Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Backbone.js, and Celery  * Create web service component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware that pulls credit reports.  * Optimized the Cassandra cluster by making changes in Cassandra properties and Linux OS configurations.  * Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  * Worked in RDBMS implementation using SOAP, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL on Oracle database.  * Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  * Created, cloning Linux Virtual Machines, templates using VMware Virtual Clients  * EJB components are deployed on the Web Logic Integration with MQSeries using JMS.  * Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, Log4J, Oracle, MySQL and MS SQL Server  * Deploy build to SIT(System Integration Testing) Server using a customized JBoss menu in Linux and Unix.  * Build use cases components; create design documents with different UML diagrams using Rational Rose.  * Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  * Executed project using waterfall model and practiced Agile Project Management & performed the Scrum.  * Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages  * Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  * Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), JIRA/ Quality Center for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  * Responsible in configuring and setting-up Apache Tomcat/Spring-TC Server for the development phase.  * Design and develop GUI and back-end components for analysis and collaboration software in Google Web Toolkit, Java and XML in a UNIX environment.  * Supported online gap site for deployment of application and modeling changes on RHEL servers for agile continuous integration using Subversion repositories. Red hat Linux, Unix, Centos, Microsoft servers.  * Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in Web Sphere server  * Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQLs.  * Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML  * Web development including standardizing the toolsets used from Eclipse to using Git for source control  * Used Github repository for version control.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, DB2, CRUD, Python Scripting MySQL PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle Coherence, MongoDB, Apache CXF, REST, SOAP, JBOSS, Web Services, iText, Oracle EMC, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), JIRA, Jasper Report, Ilog, Linux, JRules, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, UNIX, Eclipse, Websphere Application Server (WAS), Unix, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum, SVN, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven Sr. JAVA J2EE PROGRAMMER CIGNA HEALTHINSURANCE - Chicago, IL May 2011 to November 2012 Cigna is an American worldwide health services organization. It's one of the largest health service companies and health care insurance providers in the US market. In this project, we are focused to develop a system which keeps a track on the people who need health services like supplemental insurance plans, health plans which provide comprehensive medical and drug coverage, in turn utilizes a designated network of doctors and hospitals who work together to provide the best care in the most cost-effective manner.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  * Used JSF messages for handling the error messages for the applications  * Preparation of the framework classes for communication between portal to EJB and Hibernate  * Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  * Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  * Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database  * Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  * Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations  * Designed and Developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2 . Used NetBeans IDE to develop the application.  * Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  * Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  * Worked with Rational ClearCase to provide sophisticated version control, workspace management and parallel development support. Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  * Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  * Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  * Integrated EMC Documentum with (CMIS) for Content Management.  * Working with the JIRA tool for Quality Center bug tracking.  * Designed and developed front end screens for new reports using Swing components.  * Developed an application in Java using Oracle ADF framework.  * Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe  * Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  * Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems  * Installed Drupal open-source content management system on domain.  * Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the system using Ruby scripts  * Website development based on WordPress as a content management system.  * Designed and developed the individual components of the system using C++ and CORBA  * Developed code usinf C, C++ for secure transaction.  * Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, iBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL Server, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, Wordpress, Drupal, Z, ASP, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS, VB Sr. JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER SYNNEX - Chicago, IL March 2010 to April 2011 Synnex CIS Integration: This project is degined to integrate Enterprise Renewals Manager with Synnex legacy System CIS. This Integration is desinged on a generic framework to allow data to flow from application to CIS and CIS back to application. This project involves a dedicated database which acts as a intermittent data holder sitting in between CIS and application. Oracle Jobs are scheduled to pull and push data to intermittent database. Java / Jboss jobs are scheduled to send data to CIS from intermittent database.  Responsibilities:  * Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  * Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  * Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  * Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  * Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  * Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  * Design, Development and testing of Java framework to transfer data from application to CIS and also from CIS to application.  * Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  * Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  * Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  * Wrote complex sql statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  * Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  * Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  * Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  * Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  * Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  * Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  * Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer.  Environment: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC , Java Script, Struts , Hibernate, JUnit, JavaScript, DHTML, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, SQL Developer, TOAD, Spring , WSDL, Axis , tcpmon, Ant, WinCVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix. JAVA DEVELOPER BANK OF AMERICA - Secaucus, NJ August 2008 to February 2010 Project: Online Banking  Bank of America is an American multinational banking and financial services corporation. This application allows online banking for Bank of America customers to view their account balance, view monthly statements and to transfer funds to within Bank of America or otherbank customers. This application also allows setting up e-bill payments.  Responsibilities:  * Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  * Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  * Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  * Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  * Generic Tree Navigation control).  * Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  * Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  * Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  * Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  * Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  * Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  * Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  * Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  * Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  * Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  * Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  * Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  * Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  * Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  * Development of GUI using AWT  * Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  * Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  * Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.  Environment: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Struts, Junit, log4j, JavaScript, DHTML, WebSphere Application Server, Axis, WSAD, XML, XSLT, Xalan-j, Ant, SQL Server, SQL Query Analyzer, JProbe, CVS, OPPROX Reports, Windows'XP, Unix-IBM AIX. JAVA DEVELOPER INFOSYS - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2006 to July 2008 Responsibilities:  * Involved in deploying the application with Struts Framework and Hibernate  * Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio.  * Implemented the AJAX, JSPs, and Servlets, in the MVC Struts Framework to effectively handle the workflow of the application  * Experienced in validation XML manually and programmatically  * Experienced in consuming third party Jars  * Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  * Implemented Design Patterns like MVC, Session Facade and Data Transfer Objects  * Implemented WSDL XML document to located and describe the web services  * Developed Ant scripts to deploy EAR, WAR files for deployment into server  * Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles  * Worked with Log4J for logging purpose in the project  * Involved in building and deploying scripts using Maven to generate WAR, EAR and JAR files    Environment: J2EE, Scripting, Core Java, Unix Shell scripts Sybase ASE, Solaris, Linux and Windows NT/XP, Eclipse, SVN, Putty, Ultra Edit, AJAX, JavaScript and JBOSS Education Bachelor's Skills UNIX (10+ years), JBOSS (10+ years), LINUX (9 years), TOMCAT (8 years), ORACLE (8 years), Java (9 years), Spring (9 years), Hibernate (9 years), Liferay (5 years), Elastic Search (4 years), HTML (3 years), CSS (5 years), Angular (5 years), Javascript (5 years), JQuery (4 years), Asp.Net (4 years) Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  SQLServer, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, Eclipse, Flex Builder, NetBeans, RSA, MS Visio, Windows , Linux , Unix.