sr. Java Full Stack Developer sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - BCBS Dallas, TX • 10 years of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding and testing.  • Proven software development experience using different methodologies Agile and Waterfall.  • Worked in Agile Scrum environment using incremental approach and have participated in sprint ceremonies.  • Experience in Web based application development using Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, spring, Web Services and XML.  • Experience working on Web technologies: HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Typescript, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, AngularJS and Angular 4.  • Proficient in Java/J2EE Design Patterns including singleton, command, Model View Controller, Data Access Object and Business Delegate.  • Strong experience in implementing MVC framework like spring and ORM tools like Hibernate in J2EE architecture and used Log4j for Logging and Junit for testing.  • Solid experience in deploying J2EE components on Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere and JBOSS application servers.  • Experienced in developing and consuming SOAP and REST services using spring framework.  • Extensively used Java 8 Streams, Lambdas and Filters to process data  • Thorough knowledge in SQL/PL-SQL and experience in RDBMS like Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Worked on Enterprise JavaBeans is service -side model that encapsulate the business logic of an application.  • Experience in requirement analysis & gathering, and in UML - for developing application specific Object model, Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and State diagrams.  • Experienced in working with CI/CD build tools like Jenkins, Maven and Gradle.  • Hands-on experience in IDE Tools like Eclipse, Net Beans and Toad and worked with Version Control Systems like CVS, SVN and GIT.  • Working experience with the operating systems like UNIX and Windows.  • Worked on the initial stage to production deployment and supported the application in the production  • Expertise in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, Mongo DB and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  • Experience in AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, Elastic Load Balancer and Auto Scaling Groups.  • Areas of expertise include Designing, Configuring, Customizing, Developing, Administrating, Supporting, Maintaining, Upgrading based Web Solutions.  • Development experience includes working with cross functional team and global development teams in Onshore/Offshore Model.  • Strong analytical, interpersonal and communications skills. Work Experience sr. Java Full Stack Developer BCBS - Dallas, TX, US December 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing.  • Designed and Developed enterprise level angular component libraries such as data-tables, autosuggestion, pagination etc. Implemented React JS on server-side validations, to handle actions and Events and Encapsulation.  • Experience on developing latest version of Object Oriented JavaScript Libraries like AngularJS, NodeJS and had hands on experience with Web Responsive using Bootstrap's templates.  • Used Node.JS to run AngularJS on server with mock JSON data and completed the UI development independent of server.  • Created forms and sessions using Node JS and Express.js to store the user data and provide dynamic views based on the users.  • Designed, Configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation.  • Experienced in setting up Amazon EC2 instances, virtual private cloud (VPCs), and security groups. Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Creating snapshots and AWS Machine Images (AMIs) of the instances for backup and creating clone instances.  • Involved in creating EC2 instances and installed required configurations and applications on it and created S3 buckets for storing object level data into it.  • Experience with designing and configuring secure Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through private and public networks in AWS and create various subnets, routing table, internet gateways for servers.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring Boot, Micro Services and Hibernate ORM. Used Spring Core Annotations for Spring DI, Spring MVC for REST APIs and Spring Boot for Micro-services.  • Developed the Restful Web Services in Node.js and exposed as a Micro Service.  • Spring Boot Microservices were developed using Microservices architecture with RESTFUL and Apache Kafka.  • Using Kafka on publish-subscribe messaging as a distributed commit log, have experienced in its fast and Python and Scalable.  • Built micro services as Dockers with Tasks and deployed containers in AWS using ECS and integrated with ELBs and API Gateway.  • Exceptionally handled heavy traffic with the help of Spring Ribbon and Kafka broker service.  • Designed and Developed a Light Weight RAFT using Rest-Assured Framework and Spring Boot Micro Service and exposed it as RESTful Micro Service to the Client Teams. Hosted the Micro Service in AWS using Docker Image.  • Used Spring MVC module to develop MVC Architecture.  • Extensively used Core Java 1.8 concepts and implemented Collections, I/O, Exception Handling and Generics in logic design and development.  • Configured Spring Container to implement IOC/DI of the Spring Beans, and to manage the beans life circle.  • Worked on providing Authorization and Authentication to applications using spring security and protected the application against attacks like session fixation.  • Used spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template to perform the database the database operations by connecting Data Sources available.  • Using Hibernate ORM tool for Memory mapping object-oriented domain model to relational database.  • Build micro services to migrate the data from relational DB to Mongo and optimized the performance using Java 8 concurrency packages.  • Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, sharing and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Worked on Karma to unit test the Angular API modules.  • GIT is used for the version control, Maven is used for build script and configured log4j, .log files.  • Used RAD IDE for Server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Node.JS, Bootstrap, JSON, JSP, JNDI, Oracle, Spring AOP, Spring cloud, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Kafka, JDBC, Amazon Web-Services (Elastic Search),SOA (Service-oriented) Architecture, REST, JAX-RS, Jersey, Docker, Junit, JAX-B, Mongo DB, Web Sphere, JIRA, Maven, GIT, RAD, Jenkins, Unix, Agile Methodology. Java/J2EE Developer US Cellular - Schaumburg, IL, US July 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose.  • Used AJAX API for intensive user operations and client-side validations.  • Developed the application using JSF 1.1 MVC Framework.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment.  • Wrote Stored Procedures and complicated queries for IBM DB2.  • Worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  • Designed and developed Hibernate DAO's using spring framework's Hibernate Dao Support and Hibernate Template  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using HTML, JSP, JS, Dojo Tool Kit, CSS and AJAX  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, Oracle 10g using Toad tool.  • Involved in developing the Graphical User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JSP.  • Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in IBM Web Sphere.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  • Implemented PL/SQL procedures and views in Oracle Database.  • Implemented Log4J 1.2 for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appender's components.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and Clear Quest for bug tracking.  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, XMI, JSF, Hibernate, SQL, PL/SQL, Agile, spring, Oracle10g, XMI, CSS, Log4j, Subversion, JQuery, Angular JS, JBoss Application Server 7.1, Maven 2.0, Eclipse, JIRA, Fisheye, UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer VIRGINIA COMMERCE BANK - Arlington, VA, US March 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles.  • Developed the application under J2EE architecture using JSP, Struts, spring, JavaBeans, and iBatis.  • Worked on various use cases in development using Struts and testing the functionalities.  • Used AJAX in user validation and suggestion list and to display dialog boxes.  • Involved in preparing the High Level and Detail level design of the system using J2EE.  • Sever side validations are done using Struts Validator Plug-In.  • Created struts form beans, action classes, JSPs following Struts framework standards.  • Developed Web Interface using Struts, Java Script, HTML and CSS.  • Developed presentation screens by using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).  • Used Spring Framework and created the Dependency injection for the Action classes using Application Context.  • Developed the Business logic on the web tier using EJB Stateless Session beans.  • Worked on MQ with J2EE technologies on the Web Sphere MQ.  • Used display tag libraries for decoration and used display table for reports and grid designs.  • Worked on Rest based Web services for Mule ESB flows.  • Extensively used Mule ESB and MMC Server for application deployments.  • Worked on core java, using file operations to read system file (downloads) and to present on JSP.  • Developed an API to get the Service Level Validations from SAM.  • Developed a RESTful service to provide all the CRUD capabilities.  • Analyzed, designed and implemented DAO pattern for accessing Database using connection pool.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Involved in configuration of XML flat file and parsing the XML file using the SAX Parser.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and Junit for unit testing.  • Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects.  • Worked on Reconciliation, which involves in providing root cause analysis and data fixes.  • Configured Web Sphere Application server and deployed the web components.  • Used VSS for version control and source code management  • Extensively involved in designing UI, reporting and specification documentation.  • Responsible for the user module, setting rights and permission to users through the keywords set with database and testing.    Environment: JDK1.5, JSP, JSF, Struts, iBatis, Spring, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, XML, EJB, PL/SQL, IBM Web Sphere Application server 5, Mule ESB, Junit, Web Services (JAX-WS), VSS, SAX Parser, Oracle 9i. Java Developer Comerica - Dallas, TX, US September 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed an original object model design using database objects.  • Developed user interfaces using JSPs, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Generated Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams with Microsoft Visio and RAD.  • Designed patterns implemented such as Singleton, Front Controller, Factory pattern, Data Access Object.  • Involved in writing of Web services using SOAP, WSDL, deployment, and configuration and testing.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL and stored procedures as part of database interaction.  • Extensively used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping for data persistence.  • Unit testing, bug fixing in multiple environments (DEV/INT/CERT/PROD) and reproduce bugs for fixing and code review of individual modules in the application.  • Parsed XML using SAX Parser and send that data to consumers as part of Batch Application.  • Developed unit test cases using Junit framework.  • Accessed and manipulated the Oracle9i database by writing SQL Queries.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK, JSP, JDBC, SAS, VBA, HTML, XML, ANT, SQL, PL /SQL, Struts MVC, Hibernate, Oracle 9i/ 10g, UML, Eclipse, Junit, CVS, JIRA, CSS, SQL, AJAX, Windows XP, UNIX / LINUX. Java Developer BDS systems private LTD - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and used Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  • Involved in development of Debit Memo module using JSPs and Servlets.  • Developed Object -- Relational (O/R) mapping using Hibernate 3.0. Developed Data Access Object (DAO) persistence layer using Hibernate 3.0.  • Involved in development of Web Services using JAX-WS 2.1 to get data from the SAP System.  • Used Tomcat Application Server 5.5 for development purpose.  • Used Oracle SQL Developer 1.2.0 for Oracle 10g for running queries to confirm the results from the application.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures for the application in Oracle.  • Worked on code-merge, code integration and module integration. Involved in monitoring the defects and assigning it to the concerned.  • Configuring, implementing and supporting High Availability (Replication) with Load balancing (sharding) cluster of Mongo db having TB's of data  • Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  • Used Junit for Unit Testing and Clover for code coverage.  • Used CVS as Version Control System for the application.  • Provided support to the testing team and involved in the Bug Fixing.  • Deployed the application on to IBM Web Sphere 6.1 in UNIX environment IBM AIX 5.1.0.3. Tested the application after making the necessary configuration.    Environment: EJB, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 2.0, JSP 1.2, Java Swing, Servlets 2.1, MQ Series, XML, SOAP, Mongo dB, WSDL, JavaScript, UML, HTML, CVS, Log4j, Junit, Web Sphere App server 6.1, WSAD 5.1.2, SQL Server 2008. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Perl, UML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JQuery  Java Frameworks Servlets (3.x), JDBC (4.x), JSTL Java Server Pages (JSP 2.x), JSF, JMS, JPA.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, AngularJS, AJAX, Backbone.js, JQuery, SOAP and Restful), Node.js.  Frameworks Struts (2.x.x), Spring (3.x/4.x), Hibernate (3.x/ 4.x), Apache Camel (2.x), Swing, Apache CXF, Apache Karaf.  Servers Tomcat (8.x/ 9.x), Web Logic (9.x), Web Sphere (6.x), Red Hat JBoss Fuse, Glassfish Server (4.x).  Databases Oracle 10g/11g/12c, MSSQL, MySQL (5/6), IBM DB2, MongoDB (3.x), Cassandra (3.x).  Tools Ant (1.x, Gradle (3.x), Maven (3.x), Log4j, Git (1.x/2.x), SVN (1.x), CVS (1.x.x)), Junit (4.x), Selenium (3.x/ 4.x) Mockito), Jenkins, Hudson and Bamboo.  IDE Eclipse Luna(M6), Mars(M7), Neon(RC3), IntelliJ IDEA(15.x), Net Beans(8.x), RAD(7.x)  Platforms Windows (7/ 8/10), Windows Server 2008/12, Ubuntu (15.04), Red Hat Enterprise Linux.