AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - BOSE Boston, MA ? Around 10+ years of experience in IT industry and technical skill set expertise in Analysis, Design and Development of product life-cycle which includes experience in AEM with hands on experience in building and deploying enterprise level Web Content Management solutions on AEM 5.6.1, AEM 6.0 and AEM 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3.  ? Experienced in creating and developing of AEM templates and components using AEM, Crxde, Sightly, OSGIFramework, Apache Sling and technologies such as JAVA/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, XML, JavaScript, Jackrabbit, CSS and HTML.  ? Experienced in designing and developing the customized dialogs and design dialogs for all the components for providing various options to authors while creating.  ? Experience in developing responsive web design using TouchUI and inherited the basic components with respect to the Organization requirements in AEM.  ? Experienced in using AEM Developer tools for exporting and importing content to and from AEM repository.  ? Worked on Sling models, exporter and used annotation system and also developed and deployed custom OSGI bundle in Apache Felix Console.  ? Experience in Adobe CRX (Content Management Extreme), and APIs for CRX platform like JCR API, Workflows and also expertise in DAM (Digital Asset Management).  ? Developed some reusable framework like building business logic blocks using Core Java.  ? Involved in developing the multiple enterprise applications, which are developed using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate framework, RESTful web services.  ? Understanding of CQ5 building blocks, CRX repository, Apache Sling, leveraging web content management components for customization and portion of websites.  ? Worked on Multi Site Manager and extensively used CQ tag libraries in the components.  ? Experience in building using pom.xml & maven deployment methodologies.  ? Worked on dispatcher configurations for cache and load balancing.  ? Understanding the business requirements and delivering them on time following AGILE development model. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AEM Developer BOSE - Boston, MA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed page components, Templates, Client libraries using AEM touch UI to support different Webpages.  ? Upgraded project from AEM 6.1 to AEM 6.3.  ? Worked on Editable templates, MSM, Services and servlets and workflow.  ? Developing web pages using CQ5, HTML, CSS and java script.  ? Developed WCM Use Classes and Sling Models to meets the requirement.  ? Developed custom components in Touch UI and Classic UI.  ? Used the Query Builder API to query AEM content depending upon the requirement and usage.  ? Involved in creating Form Component and various Form field types, configured and added Google reCaptcha to the form to improve security of the site.  ? Involved in creating project structure using Adobe Archetype.  ? Implemented the internationalization (I18N) for all the components in AEM.  ? Created and deployed custom web applications as OSGI bundles through Apache Felix Console.  ? Used Maven automated build scripts to compile and package the applications.  ? Ability to manage the pages (Web Sites), assets (DAM).  ? Used GitHub version control system as a source repository to organize the code base.  ? Developed Components that include fetching the content dynamically based on tags.  ? Responsible for client libraries useful at Page, Global and Component level using CSS and javascript files.  ? Good team player with extraordinary problem-solving and trouble-shooting capabilities.  Environment: AEM 6.3(Templates, Components, i18n, Sling, OSGI, workflows, jobs, JCR, HTL/Sightly, etc., ), Spring, CQ DAM, CQ Tagging workflow, Apache Sling, CRXDE, JCR, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Apache Maven, Angular.JS, GIT, JIRA, Apache HTTP Server. AEM Developer Thomson Reuters - Jersey City, NJ June 2015 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed Templates, Client libraries, and page components and packages.  ? Developed and customized library components, dialogs, widgets and developing UI using AEM.  ? Worked on DAM for the maintenance of media files and created design dialogs for the common components in the entire portal.  ? Developed components supporting Touch UI and Classic UI using Sightly, JSP.  ? Developed workflow components related to digital assets upload workflow (documents and videos) as per the client requirements.  ? Involved in enhancing the form design to improve visual layout and user interface of forms to make them look more professional and easier to use.  ? Involved in development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages..  ? Used GIT to review code and do a continuous integration.  ? Created Responsive Designs using HTML5, CSS3.  ? Working with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  ? Used JIRA as a project management tool for the story creation and tracking down the defects. Implemented Agile methodology as a SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).  Environment: AEM 6.1, AEM 6.2(Templates, Components, i18n, Sling, OSGI, workflows, jobs, JCR, HTL/Sightly, etc., ), Spring, CQ DAM, CQ Tagging workflow, Apache Sling, CRXDE, JCR, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Apache Maven, Angular.JS, GIT, JIRA, Apache HTTP Server. CQ5 Developer CSSI - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Developed Adobe templates & reusable components using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax  ? Experienced in content migration from site Executive to adobe CQ 5.6.1 to AEM 6.0  ? Extensively used CQ5 tagging features in developing components and templates  ? Analyze functional & business requirements for optimum utilization of CQ5 components & performance  ? Developed digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the adobe CQ/AEM product suite used DAM for various Assets  ? Implemented the Sling Servlet, OSGI bundles for interacting with remote spring webapp services and custom business logic in java  ? Used HTML, CSS, JQuery and extJS for designing and implementing custom CQ5 components  ? Involved in writing Unit test scripts to check the functionality of the middle tier and aid in debugging phases.  ? Used Maven scripts to build the application & used the continuous integration server to deploy.  ? CQ Preview Site for pre-publishing authored content to test the Prod Simulation.  ? Performed unit testing on developed modules & involved in trouble shooting the components.  ? Experience working in an agile environment, involved in daily standup meetings.  Environment: Adobe CQ5.6, AEM6.0, Java (JDK 1.6), JSP, Servlets, Ext.JS, HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, OSGI bundles, Spring WebApps, Github, log4j, Windows and Linux Java Developer Samyukatha Info, HYD May 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Developed some reusable framework like building business logic blocks using Core Java.  ? Developed web components using Servlets, JSPs, Tag libraries, XML, XSL, Tiles framework, Struts, and UML.  ? Used AJAX in one of the modules to do asynchronous changes to the pages.  ? Used JSTL in struts based JSPs.  ? Worked with Cascading Style Sheets (CSS).  ? Involved in writing Unit test scripts to check the functionality of the middle tier and aid in debugging phases.  ? Developed Java Batch Programs using core Java to retrieve data from database and to run some schedule jobs for Reporting.  ? Utilized the various J2EE Design patterns to develop the Business modules based on the required functionality  ? Business Components are developed (Model Components) using Enterprise Java Beans (EJB).  ? Experience in using Java Script, JS libraries for the presentation tier and developer the screens of the application.  ? Enabled seamless mapping from database objects to object-oriented language objects with Hibernate Framework.  Environment: Java 1.4 SDK, java Script, JSP 2.0, AJAX, XML, JSTL, JNDI, EJB 2.0, UML, Web sphere, Struts, CSS, Apache Ant 1.6.2, Eclipse, Log4J, hibernate. Java Developer Tetra Packs March 2009 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Developed web components using Servlets, JSPs, Tag libraries, XML, XSL, Tiles framework, Struts, and UML.  ? Used Ajax in one of the modules to do asynchronous changes to the pages.  ? Used JSTL in struts based JSPs.  ? Worked with Cascading Style Sheets (CSS).  ? Involved in writing Unit test scripts to check the functionality of the middle tier and aid in debugging phases.  ? Worked with Struts front-end utilizing the Struts tiles framework and Struts Validation Framework to implement the GUI interface.  ? Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript.  ? Involved in writing the Stateless Session Beans.  ? Developed application code using Core Java and J2EE (Servlets, XML) in Eclipse tool.  ? Used JNDI realms to authenticate users in a web application.  ? Solely responsible for writing the automation tool in java for manipulating the dates.  ? Worked on XML conversions and validations.    Environment: Java 1.4 SDK, java Script, JSP 2.0, AJAX, XML, JSTL, JNDI, EJB 2.0, UML, Web sphere, Struts, CSS, Apache Ant 1.6.2, Eclipse, Log4J, hibernate. Education Bachelor's Skills Ant (3 years), Apache (10+ years), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Clearcase (Less than 1 year), Controls systems (Less than 1 year), Css (7 years), Databases (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (3 years), Git (4 years), Html (3 years), J2ee (3 years), java (7 years), java script. (7 years), Jquery (2 years), Jsp (10+ years), Maven (6 years), Sdlc (2 years), servlets (10+ years), Struts (3 years), Xml (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information ? TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Core Java, J2EE  Enterprise Web Products CQ5.6, AEM 6.0, 6.1, 6.2,6.3  Technologies XML, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JSON, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Web Services  Web/Application Servers Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, Jboss  Operating Systems NetBeans, IntelliJ, Eclipse, and CRXDE  Version Controls Systems GIT, SVN, ClearCase  Databases SQL, My SQL, Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), MongoDB  IDE NetBeans, IntelliJ, Eclipse, and CRXDE  SDLC Agile, Waterfall  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Jenkins  Framework Spring MVC, Struts MVC, Hibernate, SOAP, REST