Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - FreddieMac, VA Falls Church, VA • 11 plus years of experience as a Software Developer in JAVA / J2EE and .Net Technologies.  • Experience in Software Design & Development in End to End (Client-side and Server-side) Web Applications using JAVA/J2EE Technologies.  • Expertise in designing, developing and deploying applications using J2EE technologies including Java,JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, EJB, Hibernate, JSF, Web Services, Oracle, Db2, PostgreSQL, AngularJS, JQuery, Javascript, XML, XHTML, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Experience in designing/developing web applications using MVC2 framework with Struts, Spring framework, Spring Boot.  • Strong experience in Message Oriented and Service Oriented Technologies like JMS, WSDL / SOAP Web Services.  • Experience with J2EE standard and compatible web/application servers BEA Weblogic, JBOSS & Apache Tomcat.  • Full Life Cycle Development experience with exceptional analytical and problem solving skills. Ability to manage and deliver results on multiple tasks by effectively managing time and prioritizing tasks. Able to work within a team environment as well as independently.  • Hands on experience in Hibernate (ORM) framework.  • Good experience in Unix Shell Scripts, Jenkins.  • Hands on experience in using SSL, SSO (Single Sign On), WS-Security.  • Hands on experience in using ANT, Maven, JUnit and Log4.  • Good experience with JQuery and JavaScript including AJAX.  • Good knowledge on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Expertise in designing applications using .Net including C#.NET, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, MS SQL Server and WCF.  • Experience in working with SOAP UI, Fiddler and Postman tools for testing Web services and Web API Applications.  • Extensive Experience in RDBMS including Conceptual/Logical & Physical Database Design and Model using SQL, PL/SQL Programming, SQL Query Analyzer, Packages, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Complex Queries, Query Tuning.  • Experience in SOAP based Web Services and Restful services.  • Exposure to SDLC Methodologies such as waterfall and Agile methodology using Scrum with JIRA tool.  • Involved in Consuming Restful Services using Angular $http Service.  • Experience in developing applications using Layered (N-Tire), 3-tier architecture.  • Having good hands on experience in version control repositories like GitHub, TFS and Integrity client.  • Worked in preparing/following all the process documents as per the CMMi Level 5 process specifications.  • Designed, developed, and customized several user interface templates and screens using Html, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery.  • Have good knowledge in designing applications using design patterns (Singleton, Factory and Dependency Injection).  • Experience in working with Business Analysts and in gathering business requirements from them.  • Taking on new responsibilities and known to perform excellently in time-crunching situations.  • Strong problem-solving, self-learning, verbal & written communication skills. Ability to meet deadlines and handle pressure in coordinating multiple tasks in a work/project environment.    Technical Details:    Programming Languages /Scripting Languages/ Web Technologies  Java, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, RMI, JMS, Java Beans, LINQ, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, CSS, XSLT, XML, HTML, AngularJS, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET C#.NET, Entity Framework    Services RESTFul services, SOAP based Web Servies, WCF  Frameworks Spring, Spring Boot, JPA, .Net Framework  Databases Sybase, Oracle, SQL Server, Db2  Application Servers BEA Weblogic, JBOSS & Apache Tomcat, Internet Information Services (IIS)  Development Environment Eclipse, Visual Studio  Version and Source Control Git, TFS, MKS Integrity Client Work Experience Senior Java Developer FreddieMac, VA November 2017 to Present Description: Primary market such as banks like Bank of America, Wells Fargo issues mortgage to mortgage seekers. These banks sell their loans to Freddie Mac which is a Secondary Market. Primary market typically creates a contract in Freddie Mac's Selling system and put details about loan which makes up this contract. Freddie Mac securitizes these loans and sells these securities on Exchange. These loans and contracts are validated by the Loan APP and Contract App applications.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, EJB, JMS Messaging, Eclipse Link, Jenkins, WebLogic, DB2,Git, WinScp, Putty, Linux, SoapUI, SOAP Web Services, Restful Web Services    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle including Requirements Analysis, Design and Development of the application.  • Analysis of assigned requirements and working on them.  • Design and code application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach.  • Deploy the application in WebLogic Application Server.  • Used Jenkins and Maven for Deployment.  • Implementing Multithreading concepts.  • Using Eclipse Link for backend persistence.  • Creating a new REST service  • Implemented business logic in REST Service to invoke database to retrieve data into application.  • Resolved technical problems relating to the application by identification and fixing bugs.  • Attending status calls and reporting to managers.  • Using GIT repositories for the purpose of version Control and source code Maintenance needs.  • Coordinating with team in troubleshooting and fixing production application issues.  • Involved in unit testing, system testing and UAT. Senior Java Developer Moody's Investors Service, NY February 2017 to October 2017 Description: AccuRate is a creative workflow application that supports Moody's core business of rating Debts and Issuers. Moody's Associates and Analysts use AccuRate Application to Create new deal, assign ratings, publish ratings, press releases, Credit opinions, research and analysis for all corporations based in Structured Finance Group (SFG) and Corporate Finance Group (CFG).    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Agile, Jenkins, Eclipse, Sybase, XML, HTML4, HTML5, Hibernate, Weblogic, Tomact, SQL developer, WinSCP, AngularJS, JavsScript, Web services, GIT.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering and improving the architecture of the application.  • Daily sync-up with the Offshore Team to discuss over the day to day progress.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML and CSS.  • Involved in the design & development of business module applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, Spring and Hibernate.  • Analysis of assigned requirements and working on them.  • Interacting with UI Analyst and Database people for proper understanding and generating the Java code.  • Used Jenkins and Maven for Deployment.  • Developed SessionBeans and Entity Beans (JPA).  • Analyzing the existing logic in SOAP based Web Service and creating a new REST service.  • Implemented business logic in REST Service to invoke database to retrieve data into application.  • Resolved technical problems relating to the application by identification and fixing bugs.  • Used dependency injection to write loosely-coupled, testable code in AngularJS.  • Using Git-Hub for the purpose of version Control and source code Maintenance needs.  • Involved in Integrating databases with Hibernate (ORM).  • Coordinating with team in troubleshooting and fixing production application issues.  • Involved in unit testing, system testing and UAT. Java Developer Moody's Investors Service, TCS Hyd January 2015 to June 2016 Description:: Issuer Value Statement (IVS) is an Intranet site that is used by Moody's senior management to assist in communicating the value of an Issuer's relationship with Moody's Investors Service (MIS). The system extracts relevant data from numerous MIS databases and consolidates it by Issuers and their families. Using this site, users will have access to several prioritized metrics and statistics that reflect various aspects of Moody's relationship with an Issuer, including Relationship Activity and Investor Interaction.    Environment: Java, Eclipse IDE, Sybase, Agile, Jenkins, GIT, XML, HTML4, HTML5, CSS3, Weblogic, Tomact, SQL developer, Hibernate, WinSCP, JavsScript, Web services, Windows.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Java and J2EE developer and Involved in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle including Requirements Analysis, Design and Development of the application.  • Involved in the design & development of business module applications using Java with Data Structures, Design Patterns and J2EE technologies like Servlets, Spring and JDBC.  • Implemented and created Stored Procedure, Triggers using PL/SQL.  • Deployed web application in WebLogic Application Server.  • To setup application environments using technologies like WebLogic, Apache, AD, Sybase etc.  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach.  • Requirement gathering and improving the architecture of the application.  • Used Hibernate framework for the backend persistence.  • Implemented Multithreading.  • Conducting requirement reviews and design reviews with the client.  • Involved in Go Live and Post Production Support.  • used GitHub for version controlling.  • Actively coordinated with middleware, backend, business and quality analysis teams for deployments and issues.  • Attending status calls and reporting to client managers.  • Involved in defect fixing and working with QA Team. Java Developer Moody's Investors Service, TCS Hyd March 2012 to December 2014 Description: Moody's Contact Relationship Management (CRM) allows associates from across a wide range of business lines/groups, which includes Issuer, Intermediary, Project Finance, Quarterly Short Term Issuance Form, Media, Regulator, Business Development and Structured Finance to maintain their client's contact information. It is the central repository and Moody's internal application to leverage contact information through data integration and analysis.    Environment: Core Java, JSP , Ajax, JDBC, JNDI, UDDI, SOAP, Agile, UML, XML, HTML 4, Log 4j, Oracle 9i, SQL, PL/SQL, MKS, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat, JBoss, Maven and Windows XP.    Responsibilities:  • Discussion with client about the requirement.  • Involved in the design & development of business module applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP and JDBC.  • Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Developed SessionBeans and Entity Beans (JPA).  • Involved in the J2SE technologies like Core Java, JNDI and RMI.  • Developed and worked on Procedures and Function in PL/SQL.  • Implemented WebServices using SOAP.  • Implemented SSO using LDAP through back channel process.  • Involved in Integrating databases with Hibernate (ORM).  • Implemented Multithreading.  • Developed Client web services using SOAP over HTTP protocol  • Deployed web application in JBoss Application Server.  • Used Java Naming/Directory Interface (JNDI), and JDBC connection pooling to access the product information from the database tables.  • used MKS for version controlling. Java Developer Moody's Investors Service, TCS Hyd April 2011 to February 2012 Description: RAST is the web application for storage and tracking of Rating Applications by the US and Global Fundamental Issuer Relation (IR) groups. This is the central repository for storing Rating Applications and to monitor which Applications had been sent and received ,to track whether Applications had been signed by Issuers was received or not.    Environment: Windows, Core Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Struts, servlets, JBOSS, Weblogic, EJB, HTML, collection Framework, Oracle 9i, Eclipse 3.0 , Javascript, Hibernate, JQuery    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the J2SE technologies like Core Java, JNDI, JDBC and RMI.  • Worked and implemented struts based Application.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Developing and coding J2EE Components with Java Beans, business objects with Hibernate and Servlets  • Implementing the design patterns using Singleton.  • Designed the Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams for the assigned modules.  • Worked on PL/SQL objects like procedures, views, functions, etc.  • Worked on Weblogic, JBOSS for deployment of Server Components. JavaDeveloper DRS Group Pvt. Ltd March 2010 to March 2011 Description: DRS Logistics is a web based application developed for DRS Group. It is a comprehensive application wherein all the activities related to moving and packing are handled. This includes Household, Commercial and Parcel. It includes all functionality to support services starting from Enquiry to Delivery of goods. There are several modules such as Booking, Billing, Marketing, Packing, Operations etc.  As a team member, I am working on following modules:  1. Booking  2. Billing  Environment: Core Java, UNIX, Jsp, CSS, Oracle, HTML, CSS, JavaScript    Responsibilities:  • Involved in interacting with the business to understand the enhancement requirements and to create the design.  • Involved in the implementation and unit testing of solutions consisting of configuration changes, code changes or both.  • Developed a web portal using J2EE to provide the user interface for the client to perform all the operational and billing activities  • Supervised the reconciliation of the complete data to avoid discrepancies in current billing system  • Involved in developing and modifying the GUI screens using HTML, JSP and CSS  • Developed web tier component ActionServlet class and ActionFormBean classes using the struts framework  • Developed Java Script Validations  • Involved in the J2SE technologies like Core Java, JNDI, JDBC.  • Developed JSP to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side  • Changes in the current system configuration as per the new Business requirement  • Involved in the development of triggers and stored procedures using PL/SQL backend implementation using Oracle Database Net Developer DRS Group Pvt. Ltd March 2008 to February 2010 Description: DRS international school is part of the DRS Group. DRS School Management System is a web-based, database driven school management software application developed for complete school data management. All features starting from school registration, student timetable, fee payment, examination results, back-office administration everything is maintained online. Parents can also view their children's status online. This application consists of mainly three Modules: Admin, Staff and Parent. Various Reports can be generated using this application. There are different types of logins such as Admin, Parents, Student, and Staff.  As a team member, I worked on below modules:  1. Admin  2. Staff  Environment: ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, C#.NET, Web Services, ADO.NET, Ajax, Javascript, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server 2005.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for various deployments and coordinated with SCM and Middleware teams.  • Involved in developing front end using ASP.NET, HTML, and CSS.  • Actively participated in design and development of Database using efficient Database techniques.  • Developed web forms for the end users using C#.NET and ASP.NET.  • Involved in querying the database using ADO.NET and Stored Procedures for generation of reports.  • Extensively used .NET inbuilt components like Data Grid, Data List and Calendar controls along with other .NET server controls.  • Implemented XML Web Services using C#.NET.  • Involved in creating Custom Controls, web controls and User Controls.  • Utilized Nunit to unit test .NET code.  • Uploading the Data from text files to tables & wrote stored procedures to purge old data.  • Instrumental in maintenance of data integrity in back end. .Net Developer UROGULF - IN January 2007 to February 2008 UROGULF Certificate Attestation    Description: UROGULF is a certificate attestation firm and it has several branches spread across the globe. This project is aimed at automating the Enterprise wide Business process and activities of all branches accurately by maintaining a centralized database.    As a team member, I worked on below modules:  1. Morning Reports  2. Lessons Learned  3. Conference Room Booking System  4. Hosting Optimization  5. Data Analysis Tool  Environment: ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, C#.NET,ADO.NET, Ajax, Javascript, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server 2005.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for various deployments and coordinated with SCM and Middleware teams.  • Involved in developing front end using ASP.NET, HTML, and CSS.  • Actively participated in design and development of Database using efficient Database techniques.  • Developed web forms for the end users using C#.NET and ASP.NET.  • Involved in querying the database using ADO.NET and Stored Procedures for generation of reports.  • Extensively used .NET inbuilt components like Data Grid, Data List and Calendar controls along with other .NET server controls.  • Involved in creating Custom Controls, web controls and User Controls.  • Uploading the Data from text files to tables & wrote stored procedures to purge old data.  • Instrumental in maintenance of data integrity in back end.    Achievements:  • Received on spot award for gaining the knowledge for an application in short span of time and extending support during production deployment.  • Received Commitment award for developing and delivering a project within the timelines with zero defects in short span of time. Education Master's Degree in Mathematics Kakatiya University