Java - PIM Integration Lead <span class="hl">Java</span> - PIM Integration Lead Java - PIM Integration Lead - Bayer (Earlier known as Monsanto) Maryland Heights, MO • Core Java/J2EE developer with 10.7 years of extensive IT experience in Object Oriented and Web-based Enterprise  applications development using Java/J2EE and Client-Server technologies  • Experience in Informatica MDM. Implemented features like User Exit using Siperian Integration Framework (SIF), IDD  User Exit, Post Load UE, Custom cleanse java library.  • Experience in Informatica PIM. Implemented features like custom java application to feed import to PIM, Import &  Export data from PIM  • Having experience in different stages of Application and Product Development -Analysis, Designing, Development,  and Deployment.  • Experience in building web applications using Struts and Spring framework features like MVC, DAO, Security, Batch  and Web Services using Eclipse.  • Experience in Core Java concepts that includes Exception handling, Multi-threading, Synchronization, Serialization,  IO, Collections framework.  • Experience in Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB and MDB (Message Driven Beans), JNDI, Custom Tags, and JMS.  • Experience in Apache KAFKA.  • Hands on development working experience with Open source libraries and in-depth working knowledge of Spring,  Spring Boot, Hibernate, and Struts, DAO, JDBC and Webservices (Soap, WSDL and Restful API) frameworks.  • Involved in development of SOAP-based web services using WSDL, SOAP, CXF, AXIS, JAX-WS and RESTful web services  using JAX-RS, CXF and Jersey APIs.  • Experience in working with the Restful API along with the Ajax calls from the web page and representing the JSON data  on the web pages.  • Expertise in RDBMS namely Oracle, MS-SQL Server, MySQL.  • Experience in developing UI using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap and AJAX.  • Working experience in using logging framework Log4j.  • Experience in working with application servers like WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in writing SQL Queries, Oracle PL/SQL that includes Procedures, functions, triggers, cursors and packages.  • Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3bucket and SQS through AWS Console.  • Hands on Experience in configuring and using Maven and Ant build tools.  • Experiencing in writing Maven Scripts to create JAR, WAR, EAR & dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto  the Application Server.  • Participated in the designing and developing of Software using Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience with source code control management like subversion SVN, GIT.  • Methodical knowledge of Application development life cycle and Software Engineering Principles. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java - PIM Integration Lead Bayer (Earlier known as Monsanto) - St. Louis, MO March 2018 to Present USA  Operating Systems Windows 7 Pro  Programming Languages Core Java/J2EE, Informatica PIM, Amazon AWS (EC2, S3 Bucket, SQS, Cloud Foundry), Spring  Boot, REST Web Services, Apache Kafka, OAuth2.0, Maven    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  With the Omni-channel retail environment consumers' demand for information is continuously increasing. To provide them with a high-quality buying experience, Monsanto must provide them consistent product information across all channels.  Currently within Monsanto there are multiple systems that stores product information locally, making it difficult to produce the information in a unique consistent way. Current Scope of PIM implementation is to Ingest and maintain the marketing data  of various LOBs across different Geographies, in multiple several languages and make them available to AEM (Adobe  Experience Manager) to populate marketing websites. Thus, the main objective of the PIM implementation project is to create  a single source to maintain all product related information before it is consumed by downstream systems and it goes out to the outside world.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  Monsanto IT vision is to deliver a best-in-class IT portfolio that drives consistency and business value to enable its global  leadership position in agro-chemical and agricultural biotechnology. It is a global modern agriculture company which develop  products and tools to help farmers around the world grow crops while using energy, water, and land more efficiently. Monsanto  believe innovation has the potential to bring humanity's needs in balance with the resources of our planet. Modern agriculture  provides the tools to help.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE PROJECT:  1. Participate in business meeting along with Business Associate to understand the requirement.  2. Analyze the requirement and share estimates with Project manager.  3. Design & develop the functionalities as per the requirement.  4. Responsible to host product marketing data from various sources.  5. Developed an Spring boot application to host various source data though KAFKA implementation.  6. Developed an Spring boot application to expose Restful webservices using OAuth2.0 implementation.  7. Developed an application to publish data from Informatica PIM to S3 bucket of AWS.  8. Development of client specific custom java application using Informatica PIM SDK. Also develop, write & maintain  business rules in Informatica PIM system.  9. Deployment on Cloud Foundry.  10. Code review, Unit Testing etc.  11. As a Team lead, Co-ordinate and distribute work to the offshore team, help them if they need help.  12. Involve in documentation for unit testing, migration, deployment. Help Infrastructure Support to migrate code in upper  environments.    PROJECT PROFILE: Associate Cognizant - College Station, TX April 2014 to Present 77845.  Solutions Phone (979) 6917700    PROJECT PROFILE: Java - MDM Integration developer Intel Inc - Folsom, CA November 2017 to February 2018 USA  Operating Systems Windows 7 Pro  Programming Languages Core Java/J2EE (JSP & Servlet), Spring framework, Informatica MDM 10.2, MDM-SIF  Framework, IDD, IDD User exits, MDM Post Load User Exit, Maven    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  Customer Prime intends to provide a process for businesses users to achieve a complete roll up of CMF and SFDC source records up to Prime Customer Account level, which is the top entity of hierarchy. It takes the data from Re-platform Informatica MDM  application (INTC_ORS) and implements business rules to get associations between source records and Prime Accounts. The  INTC_ORS provides legal hierarchy information (from DNB) and Intel Ultimate. I-Ultimate are again associated to various Prime  Customer Accounts, the relationships being created inside Customer Prime Application. Each Customer Prime in turn have a Revenue Reporting Classification code, associated with it, thus completing the hierarchy roll up. The as-is process is too  complicated for business users to maintain and manage effectively. As well a lot of areas are manual efforts involved and this  program is trying to provide them an automated platform to carry out the same functionalities.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  Intel Corporation is an American multinational corporation and technology company headquartered in Santa Clara, California, in the Silicon Valley. It is the world's second largest and second highest valued semiconductor chip makers based on revenue after being overtaken by Samsung and is the inventor of the x86 series of microprocessors, the processors found in most  personal computers (PCs). Intel supplies processors for computer system manufacturers such as Apple, Lenovo, HP, and Dell.  Intel also manufactures motherboard chipsets, network interface controllers and integrated circuits, flash memory, graphics  chips, embedded processors and other devices related to communications and computing.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE PROJECT:  1. Developed IDD & Post Load User Exit.  2. Developed SIF (Siperian Integration Framework).  3. Developed custom Java applications to implement various custom business specific functionalities.  4. Developed custom java library cleanse functions.  5. Developed composite services.  6. Involved in database activities like Data load, Analysis of the rejected records and root cause analysis of the failed jobs.  7. Involved in running of Informatica MDM batch jobs which load the data from landing to Stage and stage to Base Object  in different environments. Validate the ORS.  8. Unit testing & bug fixing.  9. Prepared documentation for unit testing, migration, deployment. Help Infrastructure Support to migrate code in upper  environments.    PROJECT PROFILE: Java - MDM Integration Developer Avnet Inc August 2017 to November 2017 Location Airoli, Navi Mumbai, India  Operating Systems Windows 7  Programming Languages Core Java/J2EE, MDM 10.1, MDM-SIF Framework, IDD, User exits, Webservices    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  AVNET objective for this engagement is to have Cognizant to support the stabilization and maintenance of its Informatica MDM  tool including enhancements and development for drivers such as productivity improvements. An initial Knowledge Transition  by IPS to Cognizant team followed by Cognizant supporting the MDM application and stabilize it along with enhancements into the application leading to improved capabilities.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  Avnet, Inc. is one of the world's largest distributors of electronic components and embedded solutions and is headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona. Although the corporation's products have been an important part of computer networking.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE PROJECT:  1. Developed SIF (Siperian Integration Framework)  2. Developed IDD User Exit and Post Load User Exit.  3. Developed real time services using JMS for INFA MDM  4. Developed various SOAP/REST Webservices for INFA MDM  5. IDD & MDM Configuration & implementation.  6. Developed custom java UI & IDD Limitations.  7. Unit testing & Bug fixing of the development.  8. Prepare documentation.    PROJECT PROFILE: Java - MDM Integration Developer Zurich North America February 2017 to May 2017 Location Airoli, Navi Mumbai, India  Operating Systems Windows  Programming Languages Core Java/J2EE, MDM 10.1, MDM-SIF Framework, IDD, User exits, Webservices    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  New system on boarding which will be source for Global customers. Configure new Source system and trust settings. Design  process from ETL to MDM BO for one-time data load. Enhance Address Cleansing and Standardization - IDQ Address Doctor - Global address cleansing. Changes to the Webservice code as per new source system. Changes to IDD functionality Address  screen for global addresses. Introduce new functionality - Webservice - Search Org by Name and Country. Introduction of new  Hierarchy - Global Ultimate. Enhance existing DNB process to pull data for global DNB process.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  Zurich North America is an Insurance provider in NA region and is part of larger Global insurance provider. The client had an existing Customer MDM in place, which was built to support USA and Canada customers. The global group has now decided to  expand the MDM to hold global customers from 230 countries.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE PROJECT:  1. Designed the functionalities as per the requirement.  2. Impact analysis & verify dependencies of the requirement.  3. Estimate the end to end development.  4. Development.  5. Unit testing of the development.  6. Bug Fixing.  7. Prepare documentation of all the activities.  8. All SVN related activities such as checking-in, checking-out, create branches, and create tags for all tracks.    PROJECT PROFILE: Java - MDM Integration Developer Reliance Industries Limited April 2014 to January 2017 Location Rabale, Navi Mumbai, India  Operating Systems Windows  Programming Languages Java, MDM 9.7.1, MDM-SIF Framework, User exists, Webservices, Java Messaging Services, IIR- JAVA Integration, J2EE (JSP & Servlet), JQuery, Struts2.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  Jio Analytics program is an initiative to give edge to Reliance Jio business by providing the right information to the right people  at the right time, enabling them to take the right decisions. To ensure that the data within the source systems and the downstream systems is clean and reliable, Reliance will be implementing the Data and Information Governance program  consisting of Master Data Management (MDM) project. As part of the project, the entities identified as crucial and relevant to the SID telecom model will be mastered and stored as part of the single version of truth. MDM is a controlled process by which the Master Data is created and maintained as a system of record for the Enterprise. It is implemented in order to ensure that  Master Data is validated as correct, consistent and complete. It also ensures that Master Data is circulated in context for  consumption by internal or external business processes, applications and users. The Master Data Management program will  involve creation of 5 masters such as Customer, Contract, Location, Asset and Product.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited is an Indian mobile network operator. Owned by Reliance Industries and headquartered in Navi  Mumbai, Maharashtra, it operates a national LTE network with coverage across all 22 telecom circles.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE PROJECT:  1. Designed the functionalities as per the requirement.  2. Impact analysis & verify dependencies of the requirement.  3. Estimate the end to end development.  4. Distribute the development work within the team including me.  5. Keeping track of all the development activities & inform the same to higher management in the stand-up meeting.  6. Unit testing of the development.  7. Bug Fixing.  8. Prepare documentation of all the activities.  9. Prepare deliverables for the deployment.  10. Coordinate with all the team leaders for deliverables. Java Developer Bank of America Merrill Lynch - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2013 to March 2014 Operating Systems Windows  Programming Languages Java, ATG a J2EE product (Art Technology Group taken over by Oracle), JSP, Servlet, Webservices, Documentum, JavaScript & JQuery    Databases & Tools Oracle 11g  Application Server WebSphere server    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  Benefits Online: BOL is an application for retirement peoples (Wealth management) to manage their investments after retirement. When a person retires from the company, he can go to BOL website & manager his investments to be safe in future.  Basically, this website is using ATG (Art Technology Group) which is a based on J2EE for content personalization. Depending upon the user profile the website shows the appropriate content to the user. It is a website which front end has been developed  in .NET & the contents on webpage has been rendered by WebSphere. For example, of ATG in a very simple way is, Bank needs  to show a particular message for the employees who has a particular plan so we can create a content which will show only for the users who has the mentioned plan code. ATG is a based-on data anywhere architecture.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  Bank of America Merrill Lynch is an American multinational investment bank under the auspices of Bank of America. It provides  services in mergers and acquisitions, equity and debt capital markets, lending, trading, risk management, research, and liquidity and payments management. It was formed through the combination of the corporate and investment banking  activities of Bank of America and Merrill Lynch following the acquisition of the latter by the former in January 2009.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE PROJECT:  1. Developed functionalities in project as per the requirements which are set for future scope.  2. Client interaction for requirement, estimation & clarifications.  3. Design & Development of functionalities.  4. Unit testing & Bug fixing.  5. Documentation.    PROJECT PROFILE: Java Developer JPMorgan Chase & Co - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2012 to January 2013 Programming Languages Java, JSP, Servlet, Struts1.2  Databases & Tools Oracle & Sybase  Application Server Weblogic server    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  iSTP (Instrument State through Processing): iSTP application is an automation tool which verifies whether the instruments has  been flowed from oracle to Sybase database or not. The instrument could be BOND, EQUITY, FUTURE, OPTIONS etc. Users are  doing some activities like create/update on particular instruments. After certain action all the relevant data should be flowed from oracle to Sybase because the Sybase database is using by some legacy systems, Hence all the relevant data should be  captured in Sybase as well. The application shows output as whether the instrument processed successfully or not, if not then  it shows the mismatch parameters.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is an American multinational investment bank and financial services company headquartered in New  York City. In addition to be the largest bank in the United States, JPMorgan is the world's second most valuable bank by market  capitalization.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE PROJECT:  1. Developed functionalities in project as per the requirements.  2. Client interaction for requirement, estimation & clarifications.  3. Unit testing & Bug fixing.  4. Documentation.    Name of the Designation Address of the employer From To Duration  Company (Years) Java Developer Nordea Bank AB - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2011 to June 2012 Location Godrej IT Park, Godrej & Boyce Compound, LBS Marg, Vikroli (W), Mumbai 400 079, India    Programming Languages Java, JSP, Servlet, Struts2, SAS  Databases & Tools Oracle  Application Server Weblogic server 10.3    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  CPS-EP: CPS-EP application evaluating credit to the corporate and institution customers in the Nordic countries within Nordea.  It Calculate the Economic Capital (EC), Estimates of the credit risk figures and operational risks figures, Validations, Master  Data driven business rules, Margin and fee analysis, Single transaction Profitability Analysis, Customer Profitability analysis & Generate Reports.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  Nordea Bank AB, commonly referred to as Nordea, is a Nordic financial services group operating in Northern Europe. The bank  is the result of the successive mergers and acquisitions of the Finnish, Danish, Norwegian and Swedish banks of Merita Bank, Unibank, Kreditkassen (Christiania Bank) and Nordbanken that took place between 1997 and 2000. The Baltic states are today  also considered part of the home market. The largest shareholder of Nordea is Sampo, a Finnish insurance company with around 20% of the shares. Nordea is listed on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange, Helsinki Stock Exchange and Stockholm Stock.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE PROJECT:  1. Developed functionalities in project as per the RFS (Request for service).  2. Working as a developer with third party vendor (Accenture, Sweden) of NORDEA for development & integration for CPS-EP project.  3. Created parallel development environment for various development buckets.  4. Bug Fixing.  5. Documentation.    PROJECT PROFILE: Consultant Capgemini India - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2010 to June 2012 400 079, India    PROJECT PROFILE: Engineer Tata 2011 to 2012 11. All SVN related activities such as checking-in, checking-out, create branches, and create tags for all tracks.  12. Raising tickets on rational tool (Change & Configuration management tool) for higher environment deployments.    Name of the Designation Address of the employer From To Duration  Company (Years)  Tata Systems Akruti Business Port 08/08/2012 03/27/2014 1.8 Years  Consultancy Engineer Gateway  Services Park, Road No 13, MIDC, Andheri, Mumbai 400 093    PROJECT PROFILE: Java Developer Government of Netherland - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2010 to December 2010 Location Godrej IT Park, Godrej & Boyce Compound, LBS Marg, Vikroli(w), Mumbai 400 079, India    Programming Languages Java, JSP, JCTL, Struts1.2  Databases & Tools Oracle, MS SQL 2005 & Firebird  Application Server JBOSS 4.2    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  Dossier application mainly concentrates on the CARE sector of Netherlands. CARE providers can either do internal  organizational (@care) services or outside organizational services (Go to client's home). Dossier application is made for Health  institutions, which house and help the elderly. It supports the professionals, who give day to day care at the locations. The  doctors are supported with a medical module, which makes it possible to write recipes based on the current medical state of a patient.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  Government of Netherland.  ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE PROJECT:  1. Developed functionalities in project as per the FD (Functional Document) i.e. provided by client.  2. Bug fixing.  3. Documentation.    Name of the Designation Address of the employer From To Duration  Company (Years) Java Developer United bank of India - Mumbai, Maharashtra February 2009 to January 2010 Location 404, Winchester, High Street, Hiranandani Business Park, Powai, Mumbai 400076.    Programming Languages Java, JSP, Servlet, Struts 1.2  Databases & Tools Oracle  Application Server Apache Tomcat5.5    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  The Cash Management System (Collection Module) handles the customer requests for collection of funds through electronic and paper-based modes taking care of credit arrangements, funds and instruments tracking  CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  United bank of India.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE PROJECT:  1. Interacting with client for their queries on the module.  2. Developed new functionalities for late return markings, branch emulation, Apportion charges during Funding.  3. Bug Fixing.  4. Documentation    PROJECT PROFILE: Engineer Solutions Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2008 to January 2010 Hiranandani Business Park, Engineer  Powai, Mumbai 400076.    PROJECT PROFILE: Java Developer United bank of India - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2008 to February 2009 Location 404, Winchester, High Street, Hiranandani Business Park, Powai, Mumbai 400076.    Programming Languages Java, JSP, Servlet, Struts 1.2  Databases & Tools Oracle, MS SQL 2005 & Firebird  Application Server JBOSS 4.2    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  The Cash Management System (Payments Module) handles the customer requests for bulk payments in paper and electronic  modes when initiation is done through Internet, phone or SMS. It is divided into 2 major application viz. Bank Back Office and Corporate Front End. Both the application will run independently as Back Office will be used by Bank User on intranet and  Corporate Front End will be used by Corporate on internet. Payments is a product that helps maintain the payment transaction between the bank & its corporate clients.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  United bank of India.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE PROJECT:  1. Bug fixing.  2. Developed new functionalities in the existing module.  3. Developed new functionalities for Instrument query, courier management Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Mumbai 2008 Diploma in Computer Technology in Computer Technology Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education 2005 Skills Eclipse, Java, Spring MVC, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Apache kafka, Informatica MDM, Jdbc, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Spring boot Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, HTML 5, JavaScript, jQuery  Web Services SOAP, Restful Web Services  Frameworks Struts, Spring, SIF (Siperian Integration Framework)  Informatica MDM (Master Data Management),  Products  Informatica PIM (Product Information Management)  Application/Web Servers Tomcat, Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss.  IDE Tools Eclipse (Juno, Galileo, Helios, Indigo), STS.  Databases Oracle 8i / 9i / 10g/11g, MySQL 4.1, MS SQL Server.  Cloud Management Amazon AWS (EC2 instance, S3 Bucket, SQS & Cloud Foundry)  Ant, Maven, Log4J, Spring Boot, REST API, SOAP UI, Apache KAFKA, Active MQ, JMS,  Tools  Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, AJAX, jQuery, CSS and JavaScript.  Operating System Windows