Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Wells Fargo Bank Seattle, WA * Over 9+ years of experience in analysis, design, implementation and testing of Object Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  * Strong knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Programming and its implementation.  * Expertise in design and development of various web- and enterprise-level applications using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle.  * Experience in implementing Java , J2EE , MVC Design Patterns and GOF Design Patterns.  * Experience as technical leader for Java developing teams, making and giving track of project work plans , making project tracking cards and coordinating track meetings with staff members.  * Expertise in analysis, design, development, testing and maintenance of large scale object oriented applications.  * Good experience in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOAD) using different design methodologies/process frameworks like SDLC and tools like Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio.  * Experience in using frameworks and tools like J Unit.  * Developed web applications by implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using JSP pages that interact with Servlets.  * Experience in working with frameworks like Struts, Spring and Hibernate  * Experience in using Java IDE tools like Net beans and familiarity with other IDEs such as Eclipse.  * Experience in using MySQL databases to write complex SQL queries, and familiarity with databases like SQL.  * Extensive experience in using SQL to write Stored Procedures and Triggers.  * Well versed with complete systems life cycle development processes of design, development, testing and implementation.  * Experience using and deploying enterprise applications in Web Sphere Application Server and Tomcat.  * Extensive Experience in Core Java with Multithreading techniques for Banking domain.  * Strong Analytical, Problem Solving, Debugging and Interpersonal skills with excellent understanding of system development metrics, techniques and tools.  * Quick learner, Hard dedicated worker with passion and drive to learn new skills.  * Experience in working with Virtual and Multi National Team.  * Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills along with can-do attitude.  * Ability to learn and use new systems and paradigms in considerably less time. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Wells Fargo Bank - Reston, VA May 2015 to Present Description:    Wells Fargo offers investment products through its subsidiaries, Wells Fargo Investments, LLC and Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC, as well as through national broker/dealer firms. The Community Banking segment includes Regional Banking, Diversified Products, and the Consumer Deposits groups, as well as Wells Fargo Customer Connection.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  • Working on framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Developed website and created graphics for website using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, React.JS.  • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Experience with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, Node.JS, bootstrap.JS, etc.  • Experience in implementing in setting up standards and processes for Hadoop based application design and implementation.  • In depth knowledge of Cassandra and hands on experience with installing, configuring and monitoring DataStax Enterprise cluster.  • Responsible for developing the UI side with ReactJS, SASS, HTML5  • Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC.  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  • I worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  • Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie,  Backbone.js, and Celery  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap for Virtual Infotech Inc.  • Design, Implement and Test Oracle ADF applications using JDeveloper  • Developed Oracle PL/SQLStored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process.  • Worked on web services SOAP and REST technologies  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Configured JMS Server setupand DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic Server.  • Implemented and created dynamic Web Projects using Maven Script and Angular, Web logic Application Server, Jenkins.  • Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite.  • Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases  • Implemented Selenium IDE with java script for Web apps.  • Provide direction and execution oversight for large Agile Development projects for the FBI as an integral member of the Program Management Office (PMO).    Environments:  Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Ibatis, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, Bootstrap.js, Backbone.js, JavaScript, Oracle, PL/ SQL, Cassandra, Hadoop, REST, Soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Weblogic, Git, Github, Junit Selenium, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Xml, Soa. Sr. Java Developer Nationwide Health Insurance - Reston, VA September 2013 to April 2015 Description:    Mobimed - With MobiMed Pharmacy App, getting the medicine you need is simple. A reliable and efficient access to healthcare services and flexible payment terms thereby, making it an affordable cost effective health insurance plan.    Responsibilities:  • Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • Expertise in Advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as Prototype, Ext JS, Angular JS, Node JS and Object oriented programing in JS.  • Implemented JBOSS Cache provider with Hibernate second-level cache for clustered caching using cache factory interfaces and also defined configuration mappings like setting the Isolation levels and other cluster configurations.  • Implemented business logic using Struts action components in the Struts and Hibernate framework.  • Expertise in developing enterprise applications using Struts Frameworks  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Development of java interfaces for different function calls which convert the webservice calls into EJB calls to the legacy system  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Involved in adding AJAX, JavaScript components to some of the jsp pages wherever needed.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  • Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front-End Framework.  • Developed PL/SQL procedure for login module and registration module.  • Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQLs  • Designed & implemented client/server application to plan package forwarding & route scheduling. Used JDBC for database connectivity.  • Designed extensive additions to existing Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  • Developed User Interfaces using JSP, and HTML.  • Developed Contract List to pull all the contracts which returned a JSON  • Developed front-end development and web application using HTML, CSS, JSP, bootstrap and JavaScript, JSF Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP.  • Build code using IDE Eclipse and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using Apache CXF  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Implemented improvements to the WebSphere Commerce Organization Console and the Administration Console to display, and allow for update, new member information.  • Used WSAD for writing code for JSP, Servlets, and Struts.  • Conducted software builds using Subversion in a windows environment via Cruise Control.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing usingJUnit.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java and related technologies using WATERFALL and AGILE SCRUM methodologies.  • Involved in detail design developing use cases, use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and high level activity diagrams using UML from the requirements.  • Developed Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • EJB components are deployed on the Web Logic Integration with MQSeries using JMS.  • Used JSP and JSTL Tag Libraries for developing User Interface components. Used SVN for version control and used Eclipse as the IDE for implementing the application and implemented session beans using EJB  • Designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles and Agile/Scrum development methodology and test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.    Environments:  Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, EJB, Angular.js, JavaScript, CSS, Html5, Node.js, Bootstrap.js, Backbone.js, JQuery, DB2, CRUD, PL/ SQL, JDBC, MongoDB, APACHE CXF, Soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, Subversion, Junit, Scrum, UML, Class diagram, JSP, JSTL, SERVLET, MAVEN, Xml, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP Sr. Java Developer Konica Business Technologies - Reston, VA April 2012 to August 2013 Description:  Business software or a business application is any software or set of computer programs used by business users to perform various business functions. These business applications are used to increase productivity, to measure productivity and to perform other business functions accurately. By and large, business software is likely to be developed to meet the needs of a specific business, and therefore is not easily transferable to a different business environment, unless its nature and operation is identical.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Developed complex Web based UI using Struts, Ajax and Java Script.  • Developed web-based customer management software using Facelets, Icefaces and JSF  • Maintained the business standards and the requirements inEJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  • Enhanced the functionality of screens using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Architected, Designed and developed the product using HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Javascript, Sencha, PhoneGap  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Designing the web client by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, EXT JS, and DOJO with JSON.  • Migration of the MVC based Reporting framework to GWT (Google Web Toolkit) using GWT-EXT.  • Java and JSP developer for J2EE web application on WAS, DB2 and AIX.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries  • Efficient in up gradation and migration from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005/2008/R2.  • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache Axis 2 on JBOSS.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Followed an Agile, Software Development methodology. Used NetBeans IDE  • Configuration and deployment of application on to Jboss application server  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Developing test suites in Selenium WebDriver ( Java) with TestNG framework in Eclipse IDE for regression and sanity testing.  • Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  • Participated in converting the business requirements to software specifications using Rational UML  • JSON is used for serializing and deserializing data that is sent to or receive from JSP pages.  • Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on Sql.  • Achieved necessary knowledge to solve many problems using C and Java throughout coursework.  • Served as Technical lead on upgrade of z/OS to V1R13 and installed ServerPac, ensuring smooth migration of new software into the production environment.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  • Contributed to organization of testing and quality improvement process (JIRA, Confluence).  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  • Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  • Configured glassfish server; Design shipping rate template upload UI using Adobe Flex and Developed Jasper report.  • Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators.  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Layout and design the overall architecture and migration approaches using Oracle ADF.  • Migrated code from ALBPM to Oracle BPM and highlighted the Oracle BPM related errors/issues to Oracle team.  • Utilized Web 2.0 social media strategy tactics to increase company visibility by 110%.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  • Install and configure a Linux server to publish applications and the DataBase  • Responsible for requirements gathering, designing, coding web applications using Ruby on Rails, JavaScripts, HTML, CSS and jQuery  • Configured WordPress publishing software for non-profit firm. Created weblog layout in HTML, CSS and PHP based on an original design according to client's branding needs.  • Made Fixes and enhancements to Online bill paying ASP software for water companies.  • Developed code for C, C++ to secure the transaction.  • Involved in developing PL/SQL stored procs and Informatica Workflows to migrate data from Legacy Mainframe/AS400 based systems.  • Led the effort in the setup of the Physical Operating environment where the Order Management System's Java, C, and COBOL applications will run. This environment includes the DB2 Client and Gateway, UNIX and Mainframe utilities.  • Expose PL/I database access layer as web service using RD/Z  • Assist with the development and execution of regulatory training for all JCL Bioassay employees and for training on QA policies, programs and initiatives.  • Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on Sql  • Developed an in house Bankruptcy Intake program in Classic ASP/ASP.NET. Program is inherited from Classic ASP Debt intake program. Used Visual Studio 2008 to develop this mix program of both Classic ASP and ASP.NET. Used vbscript, javascript, and added some new ASP.NET pages.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence.    Environments:  Java, Hibernate, Spring, XML, Tortoise SVN, JSP, DB2, MVC, J2EE, Agile, JUnit, Maven, UML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Log4J, Oracle , Vaadin, Agile methodology, JavaScript, AngularJS, Eclipse, PL/SQL, JBoss. Java Developer Alcoa Inc - Seattle, WA November 2010 to March 2012 Description:  Seattle WA Extensively involved in Automating process of build and deploy to the BETS test/production Interface, Web and Database servers. Also responsible for maintaining and managing the release code base critical for development and release deployments.    Responsibilities:  • Re-designed and re-implemented the company's web functionality into a modern n-tier architecture using J2EE framework. The Existing system was built using VB and Power Builder.  • Implemented the server side design using the industry standard J2EE design patterns like Business Delegate, Service Locator, Business Interface, Session Facade, and Data Access Object.  • Utilized various Rational Rose design methodologies for developing the framework.  • Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) of business requirements with the end users and business analysts.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Spring MVC  • Developed the application using Spring framework.  • Created sequence diagrams to show the page flows using WSAD.  • Developed Client side screens in XML using XSLT.  • Developed front-end screens using JSP and Tag Libraries.  • Used Hibernate for mapping object oriented design model to relational database.    Environment:  Java, J2ee, Spring, Websphere, Wsad, Oracle , Jdbc, Hiberante, Java Servlets, Jsp, Uml, Rational Rose, Javascript, Xml, Html, Junit JAVA Developer NWMSU - Maryville, MO January 2008 to October 2010 Description:  The main goal of this project is to enhance the services of the educational department by offering the new and existing students a web-based tool for submitting their artifacts. The new site offers students with an easy and fast system to upload artifacts both on campus and off campus.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in analysis, design and development of Portfolio Management.  * Created Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Activity diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  * Followed iterative approach in timely manner.  * Involved in implementing database design, connectivity and access.  * Wrote MySQL queries and used JDBC API.  * Worked in Windows environment for building the application using net beans IDE.  * Developed test cases and performed unit testing using J Unit.  * Extensively used Collabnet subversion for version control.  * Used Glassfish Server for deploying various components of application.    Environment:  Java, J2ee, Java Sdk, Jsp, Html, Jdbc, Ooad, Servlets, Svn, Mysql, Windows Xp Professional, Java Script, J Query, Glassfish Server, Net Beans Ide, Microsoft Visio. Java/J2ee Developer Harris Bank - Chicago, IL February 2007 to December 2007 Description:  AML provides a comprehensive Reporting and query capabilities. It capture's customer Details Store compliance rules monitors transactions and flags any violation of transactions against customer profile and compliance rules. The system generates all statutory Reports and provides for generation of Suspicious Activity Reports.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in modifying, updating and testing of the component.  • Involved in group meeting with teammates and made substantial changes to the architecture to improve performance of the Application.  • Modified JSPs, used struts tag libraries and Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  • Maintained Struts architecture throughout the application.  • Developed the bean classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers  • Successfully differentiated presentation from code.  • Used multi threading and socket programming.  • Created connection pools and data sources.  • Modified JavaScript to read client side activities (events) and data and event validations.  • Used WinCVS as version Control system.  • Suggested ER models and changes in the table structures  • Solved performance issues and brought optimal output from the available resources.    Environments:  Java, J2ee, Sybase, Bea Weblogic Server, Jstl, Sql Server, Struts Frame Work, Servlets, Jsp, Ejb, Wincvs, Javabeans, Eclipse, Uml, Windows Xp/Linux. Education Master's Skills J2EE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), UML (8 years) Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS  Languages Java, SQL, XML, C++, C, WSDL, XHTML, HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, PLSQL, ASP .NET, C# .Net.  Java Technologies Java, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JavaBeans, JQuery and EJB.  Frame Works Struts and Spring.  Development Tools WSAD, Eclipse, ANT , Log4j, Rapid Application Developer, Dreamweaver and FrontPage.  ORM Hibernate.  Design and Modeling UML and Rational Rose.  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, UDDI.  Databases Oracle, SQL Server,DB2, MS-Access  Scripting languages Java Script, Shell Script  XML technologies DTD,XSD,XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, JAXP  Version Control CVS, Clear case, SVN  Environments UNIX, Red Hat Linux, Windows 2000/ server 2008/2007, Windows NT, Windows XP.