Senior Software/Oracle ERP Cloud Integration Engineer Senior Software/Oracle ERP Cloud Integration Engineer Senior Software/Oracle ERP Cloud Integration Engineer - Cherry Road Technologies Milton, GA * Over 10 years of professional IT experience in Systems Design, Development, Testing, Integration, and Implementation of complex web based e-commerce, n-tier architecture systems and Client/Server applications  * Extensive experience in programming with Java, Struts 2.0.9/1.2.x, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring 4.x/3.X, Hibernate4.x/3.X, JSP, Servlets, AJAX, JavaScript, XML, XSLT, UNIX, Oracle, and Strong practical knowledge in enterprise middleware components such as Bea Web Logic 10.3.0/9.0/8.x, IBM Web Sphere 5.0/4.x, JBoss 4.x, and Oracle 9iAs and Web Server like Tomcat 5.x/4.x  * Strong working experience of Java frameworks like Struts 2 and Spring (IOC, MVC, DAO)  * Extensive experience in developing enterprise applications for J2EE platform using Servlets, JSP 1.2, JDBC, Web Services, Axis, JAX-RPC, JMS  * Possess expertise in developing web and mobile applications using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, nodeJS, AngularJS, ReactJS. Skilled at progressing from problem statement to well documented designs.  * Experience with XML and related standards and technologies like AJAX, SOA, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, XML, XSD, DTD, XSL, DOM, SAX, XSLT, HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript, AngularJS, GIT, Hadoop, Hive.  * Excellent work experience with XML/Database mapping, writing SQL queries, Store Procedures, Triggers with major Relational Databases Oracle 9i/8i, SQL Server  * Experience with Object Oriented Design(OOD) and Object Oriented Analysis(OOA), SDLC, RUP, UML associated Tools such as Rational Rose Accomplished a series of internet/intranet projects and Java-based C/S applications with different IDEs such as Eclipse, RAD, Flex Builder and Extensive work experience on UNIX, Linux, and windows 2000/NT/XP  * Part of Scrum, Sprint review, Retrospection, and Virtual Closure meetings as a part of AGILE. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software/Oracle ERP Cloud Integration Engineer Cherry Road Technologies - Atlanta, GA October 2017 to Present SOAP web service and REST web service is used to load the GL Journal data ,AP Invoices, Requisitions, Value Sets, Employee Upload, Time Entries upload, Contract update ,Cash entries using the ERP Integration Service web service. This process will uploads the data into Oracle Cloud UCM under a particular folder, after that it loads the data file into the corresponding interface table.  The web service returns the process id of the Load Interface file program and call final import program.  * Developed the web services calls , BI Report calls for multiple interfaces.  * A scheduled job is set to run every day to process the incoming files automatically.  * This can be executed from the shell script. So, for GL Journals integration, the process name will be called in the SOAP API to interface GL Journals periodically.  * When the final email is sent to the notification distribution list, and has an option to send the log files with the other details.  * Developed time card upload using REST web service calls.    Environment: Oracle Cloud ERP, Java 1.8, J2EE, Maven, Spring, Spring Boot, Web Services (Restful/Soap), Rest Template, JSON, Tomcat, Eclipse. Senior Java Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA May 2016 to October 2017 Contract)    WEBSIM (Web based simulation application for OSD provisioning projects)  Websim is a web-based application used to simulate the workflow across the several provisioning projects in OSD. It supports messaging protocols like JMS, HTTP, and simple xml messages. Users can customize their messages via GUI and setup rules and scripts to simulate error scenarios. It also supports high volume Performance testing and test Automation. Supports unsolicited message origination. This application can distinguish the messages from real or simulated ones. Can easily plug-in validations for any interface. Application can invoke functions, stored procedures and bean shell scripts and call external database at run time. Can identify different NTI types in the request and process them accordingly. It supports synchronous and asynchronous messaging.    * Developed web services for external vendor to update the port repository  * Extensively used JSP, Flex Framework for developing User interface modules  * Wrote the code for Ajax calls for auto suggestion by using JQuery libraries  * Developed the Business Logic for accessing the backend component  * Built projects using Ant build.xml and used log4j for logging error messages  * Used spring quartz scheduler for deleting the log files on timely manner  * Developed Oracle procedures and oracle package for port-pool application  * Developed RESTful web services for ISAAC interface simulator  Environment: Java 7, AngularJS, J2EE, Spring Boot, Web Services(Restful/Soap), AJAX, JQuery, JSON, JSP, JMS, Servlets, HTML, XML, CSS, WebLogic Application Server, Java Scripts, Ant, JUnit, My Eclipse. Senior Java Developer Hewlett Packard, GA February 2015 to May 2016 Contract)    iSAPort is the internal Support Automation Portal. Used for search for customers, devices, customer contacts, and patches, patch bundles/aggregate kits, and HP-UX software and modules device data packages, device configuration and device heartbeat analysis.    * Involved in developing the application for 1503 release and fixed existing production defects.  * Developed services and controllers and implemented AJAX calls for user actions.  * Responsible for HPSplit changes in iSAport application.  * Developed Apache Avro messages and posted on Apache Kafka topic.  * Developed Create Registration Token Page using AngularJS, Spring REST controller and Grommet Framework.  * Used Velocity framework for device heartbeet data for iSAPort reports.  * Developed service classes and validations and wrote FITNESSE classes and Selenium test cases for the application.    Environment: Java 6, J2EE, ReactJS, Spring MVC, Apache Kafka, Apache Avro, JQuery, GIT, Grommet, Velocity, Hadoop, Hive, HTML5, GIT, UNIX. Senior Java Developer The Home Depot, GA June 2014 to February 2015 Contract)    FIRST Phone Customer Readiness - order data is fetched' by FIRST Phone from COM Store Client, the Transfer application, etc. and displayed in the FIRST Phone. Customer Readiness has different modules Customer Orders, work pick list and Load. Customer Orders screen launches displaying today's orders by default. Application is developed using backbone.js Framework. This application is developed on Android device Motorola TC70.    * Developed mobile application using Android SDK and HTML5.  * Involve fixing on defects for current release and existing production defects  * Update functions which is developed in JQuery and Backbone.js  * Develop the Business Logic for accessing the backend component  * Build projects using Ant build.xml and used log4j for logging error messages.  * Developed RESTful web services for store online pickup orders.    Environment: Java 6, J2EE, Android SDK, Backbone.js, Underscore.js, JQuery, HTML5, RESTful web services. Spring, Hibernate, Java Scripts, Ant, JUnit, My Eclipse. Senior Java Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA May 2011 to June 2014 Contract)    WEBSIM (Web based simulation application for OSD provisioning projects)  Websim is a web-based application used to simulate the workflow across the several provisioning projects in OSD. It supports messaging protocols like JMS, HTTP, and simple xml messages. Users can customize their messages via GUI and setup rules and scripts to simulate error scenarios. It also supports high volume Performance testing and test Automation. Supports unsolicited message origination. This application can distinguish the messages from real or simulated ones. Can easily plug-in validations for any interface. Application can invoke functions, stored procedures and bean shell scripts and call external database at run time. Can identify different NTI types in the request and process them accordingly. It supports synchronous and asynchronous messaging.    * Developed web services for external vendor to update the port repository  * Used Spring Framework as a service layer, and integrated with Hibernate  * Extensively used JSP, Flex Framework for developing User interface modules  * Wrote the code for Ajax calls for auto suggestion by using JQuery libraries  * Developed the Business Logic for accessing the backend component  * Built projects using Ant build.xml and used log4j for logging error messages  * Used spring quartz scheduler for deleting the log files on timely manner  * Developed Oracle procedures and oracle package for port-pool application  * Developed RESTful web services for ISAAC interface simulator  Environment: Java 6, J2EE, Web Services, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, JSP, JMS, Servlets, HTML, XML, CSS, WebSphere Application Server, Java Scripts, Ant, JUnit, My Eclipse. Senior Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Alpharetta, GA July 2010 to May 2011 Contract)    MY Verizon  My Verizon Home Page has the features like pay the bill online, device details, minute's details and adds plans to the existing account, edit profile information to the account etc.    * Involved in home page redesign and refectories the existing code  * Developed Pre Order device implementation flow for the application  * Extensively used JSP, Struts Framework for developing User interface modules  * Wrote the code for Ajax calls for auto suggestion by using JQuery libraries  * Developed the Business Logic for accessing the backend component  * Built projects using Ant build.xml and used log4j for logging error messages  Environment: Java 6, J2EE, Web Services, Apache Axis, Struts, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, JSP, JMS, Servlets, HTML, XML, CSS, WebSphere Application Server, Java Scripts, Ant, JUnit, My Eclipse. Senior Java Developer IBM - Atlanta, GA July 2009 to March 2010 Contract)    Internet Pickup Application (IPA)  UPS Internet pickup application is used for schedule on-call pickups, modify existing pickup requests, and view the status of the requests by PRN. In addition to on-call pickup requests, the user can trigger or cancel a Green When Needed pickup.    * Developed the web components and service layer for the application  * Extensively used JSP, Struts Framework for developing User interface modules  * Wrote the code for Ajax calls by using JQuery libraries  * Developed the Business Logic for accessing the backend component  * Developed the application using Struts, and PGF framework used by UPS  * Built projects using Ant build.xml and used log4j for logging error messages  * Developed Stateless Session Beans for IPC client calls  * Developed the application for i18n and modified HTML, DHTML, CSS, and XML and configuration files  Environment: Java 6, J2EE, Spring,Hibernate, Struts, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, JSP, JMS, Servlets, HTML, XML, CSS, Web Logic Application Server 10.3.0, Java Scripts, Ant, JUnit, My Eclipse. Senior Java Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA June 2008 to July 2009 Contract)    SAM (Solicitation Address Manager)  SAM is a repository to host the solicitation information of AT&T Mobility customers and provide mechanism to access/update the information. On the Atlas events, addresses that are captured at account events are stored in SAM database at account level and addresses that are captured at mobile events are stored at mobile level.    * Developed User Interface using Struts Framework  * Developed the custom tags like security tag, address tag for the SAM application  * Used JSP, Struts Tags for developing User interface modules  * Consumed external vendor Web Services to update the SAM repository  * Wrote scripts for events statistics and monitoring the application  * Used Spring Framework as a service layer, and integrated with Hibernate  * Used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database SAM  * Involved in production support with 24x7 model  Environment: Java 1.5, Web Services, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, HQL, AJAX, JSP, JMS, Servlets, HTML, XML, CSS, Web Logic Application Server9.1, Java Scripts, Ant, JUnit, Weblogic Workshop, CVS, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, Toad. Senior Java Developer UPS.com - Atlanta, GA May 2006 to June 2008 Contract)    Prevent Fraud:  The Open Account application on UPS.com allows a user to open an account with credit card weekly payments. 43 percent of the Fraudulent Bad Debts are attributed to credit card payments. The current process will be kept, and in addition will perform some individual user authentication for card holder identity. The open account application asks for Credit Card number, Security Code, Expiration date, and address. With this information UPS.com authorize the credit card and allow the user to charge shipments to the Account and settle the credit card payment.    UIFS Freight:  UIFS is the UPS Internet Freight shipping application used to process air and ground LTL/TL shipments for UPS and its subsidiary companies (Overnite, Menlo), it uses the Freight Access Component (FAC) a centralized interface combining data from all the backend systems in the most efficient manner relieving client systems to track details of each subsidiary. This component is a web service oriented and it includes Shipping, Commodity, Pickup, Service Availability interfaces.    * Developed the application using Struts and PGF Frame work  * Used JSP, Struts Tags for developing User interface modules  * Implemented Hibernate as a persistence layer to interact with data base and spring framework as a service layer  * Developed the business services and used dependency injection of Spring Framework  * Developed several utility classes in JAVA for reusability across the project  * Developed action classes managing commodities, ground, and air detail flow  * Developed the application for i18n  Environment: Java, Struts, Web Services, JSF, AJAX, Prototype, JSON, JBoss 4.5, Ant, spring, Hibernate, JUnit, Eclipse3.1, Perforce Version Manager, JProbe, Oracle 9i, UNIX, Korn Shell Scripts, Toad, JavaScript. Java Developer Cingular Wireless - Atlanta, GA August 2004 to April 2006 Contract)    * Developed struts flow for migrating AT&T Customers to Cingular Customers  * Developed action classes and DAO objects for Add to Existing Customer Account  * Converted the existing servlet code to Struts framework  * Interacted extensively with various Middleware Systems  * Wrote the Service Locators for the various EJB calls the Middleware  * Solely Responsible for the new Interface design implementation in other Modules  * Modifying HTML, DHTML, CSS, and XML files  * Creating Design and Architectural diagrams for the Application  * Involved enhancement of the application as for the Best Buy and Radio Shack users  * Developed sequence, class diagrams for the all the action classes in Activation flow  Environment: Java, J2EE, Web Services, WebLogic Application Server 8.1, Struts1.2.9, Ant, JUnit, Eclipse3.1, Clear Case, RUP, JProbe, Oracle 9i, UNIX, Toad, JavaScript. Java Developer Verizon Data Services - Tampa, FL March 2003 to August 2004 Contract)    * Wrote classes and interfaces to parse AFP data to give XML data which is displayed on the GUI through Swing Applet  * Wrote multi-threading for handling the actions on the Applet GUI  * Componentized the Swing applet to create new functionalities for the Verizon Retype Tool  * Created Parser Utility classes to be invoked when data is to be parsed from AFP to XML  * Used Clear Case as the version control system on Solaris 2.9. Created Clear Case views to access source files from Clear Case VOB (repository)  * Wrote Java Class Validator to validate the IBM AFP format data content  * Wrote deployment descriptors to deploy JSP's and EJB's on BEA Web logic 6.1 application server  * Used Java Class Value Objects (J2ee Value Object Pattern) to get data (AFP and XML) from the database  * Wrote SQL queries and PL/SQL stored procedures to access update and modify different AFP data bills and XML data bills  Environment: Java2.0, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, EJB), XML, Weblogic Application Server 6.1, Struts1.1, Swing, Clear Case Version Control, Hummingbird Connectivity 7.1, Oracle 9i, DOM Parser, SAX Parser, JMS, JAXP, JBuilder 8.0. Java Developer St. John River water management District - Palatka, FL May 2002 to February 2003 Contract)    * Designed and developed GUI using Java multi-threading, XML, XSLT, Servlets, EJB  * Developed JSP custom tag libraries, and associated support in the controller servlet, that assists in creating interactive form-based applications, which is the one of the primary area of functionality using Struts Framework  * Developed client-side user interface using Java Swing and Extensively used JPanel, JApplet and JTree for the User Interface  * Wrote the code for retrieving the data from XML document by Using SAX parser  * Developed the JavaScript for Client Side Validation  * Developed the scheduled Task using UNIX Korn Shell script  * Prepared system and user documents for the complete project using Microsoft Visio  * Developed numerous shell scripts for deploying several J2EE application components on WebSphere application server running on UNIX platform  Environment: Java2.0, J2EE, Swing1.1, JDBC 2.0, Tag Libraries, XML, XSLT, IBM Web Sphere 4.0, IBM HTTP Server 2.0, LDAP 4.1, Maven, Top Link 3.5, Oracle 9i, EJB, UML, Rational Rose, Sun Solaris-5.6, IBM Visual Age 3.5, Sql*Loader Tech Wed Web April 1998 to March 2002 Java Developer    Project: TransMon  This project is keep track of the details of financial information of the shareholders, share transfer etc., main functions of this project are maintain the shareholder details, handling issues/bonus/rights, keeping track of share transfers, generating dividend warrants, providing information to management and generating reports.    * Created client interface using Designer 2000  * Developed Screens, Forms, Reports and database triggers, procedures, packages  * Involved in coding, and testing of the application    Project: Product Line Design System  This system automates the entire sequence of purchase activities from requisition to goods acceptance. It improves one's buying power and productivity. Quotations received can be recorded and the system can prepare comparative analysis statements for taking informed purchasing decisions.    * Responsible for developing user interfaces  * Developed database triggers, procedures, and packages  Environment: UNIX, Designer 2000, Developer-2000(Forms4.5, Reports2.5), Oracle7.x, SQL, PL/SQL, WinNT, Windows95, JAVA, Sql*Loader. Education B.E. in Electronics & Communications Engineering Nagarjuna University Skills Unix, Windows xp Additional Information Application Server: BEA Weblogic 9.0/8.x, JBOSS 4.x, IBM Web Sphere 5.x/6.x  Web Technology: Jakarta Struts 2.X/1.2.x, Web Services, Axis2.0, JAX WS 2.0, Spring 4.x, Spring MVC, Ajax, JSF, JMS, Hibernate, HQL, SOA, Tiles, Hibernate, OOPS, UML, IBM Rational Rose 2000,  Programming Languages: Java JDK1.5/1.3, Swing 1.1, JSP 1.1, ASP, Java Beans, EJB, JavaScript,AngularJS,Velocity, HTML, XML, XSLT.  Web/Scripting Tools: IBM Visual Age for Java 3.5, Dream weaver, Rational Rose, JUnit, TOAD, Flex3.0, Action Scripts 3.0, and MXML  Messaging Software: JMS  Databases: Oracle 10g/9i/8i/7.x, MS SQL Server 7/2000 EE, DB2, MS Access,Hadoop.  Web Server: IBM HTTP Server, Apache Web Server, iPlanet web server, Tomcat  IDE: Eclipse, RAD, Weblogic Workshop, Net Beans, J Builder  GUI's: Forms6i/5.0/4.5, Reports6i/3.0/2.5, JDeveloper9i/3.2.3, SQL*Loader, Actuate Reports6.0/5.0/4.0, SWING, Hive  Web Services Technologies: XML, XSLT, XSL, XSD, DTD, DOM, SAX, JAX-RPC, SOAP, RESTful, WSDL.    Operating Systems: UNIX, Windows XP/98, Windows NT 4.0