Java & Interwoven Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> &amp; Interwoven <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java & Interwoven Developer - Capgemini Pvt. Ltd 14+ years of experience in software development    CORE PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCIES:    • Expertise in using HTML, DOM, XHTML, CSS, XML/XSLT, XPath, Dom4J, JavaScript, Ajax.  • Thorough understanding of all the phases of a project life cycle (SDLC).  • Proficient in developing applications using RDBMS like Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Strong communication and analytical skills, ability to handle multiple tasks as well as work independently or in a team.  • Incorporating best practices and coding standards to organize the code.  • Decent knowledge of various IBM tools like RAD, ClearCase and ClearQuest.  • Hands-on experience Eclipse IDE.    CORE PERSONAL STRENGTHS:    • Ability to work in a wide range of technologies and able to switch from one technology to another as the situation and project demands.  • Able to quickly adapt to newer working environments and schedules and thus be productive in a shorter span of time.  • Proactive, well organized, and an efficient team player.  • Willingness to learn new technologies and to have deeper understanding of the technologies already learnt and have worked upon.  • Have excellent analytical and communication skills. Work Experience Java & Interwoven Developer Capgemini Pvt. Ltd October 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  • Technical Lead for Interwoven Teamsite Tool  • Handling Team of 4  • Participation in business requirements , Architectural Design, HLD, LLD documents  • Development using Perl , Java, XSLT  • Designing and Development of LiveSite Components  • Designing and Development of Workflows using WFT and WFM  • Pre-sales activitites - Preparing Technical Demos and Powerpoint Presentations  • Conduct Training on Interwoven  • Client co-ordination    # Project: IBA Java & Interwoven Developer Capgemini Pvt. Ltd September 2012 to Present Responsibilities:  • Managing and enhancements of existing internal web applications using java, j2ee  • Managing and leading the team of Interwoven Teamsite tool (WCM)    Environment: Java, J2ee, Interwoven TeamSite6.7.2  # Project: Symantec (Content Management System ) Teamsite Developer Mphasis Pvt. Ltd October 2011 to Present Responsibilities:  • User Management in Teamsite and OpenDeploy (Creating Roles, Groups, User accounts).    Environment: Teamsite 6.5, Perl, Linux    # Project: Mobile Web Application Teamsite Developer Hitachi Consulting India Pvt. Ltd June 2010 to Present Duration: June'10 till now  Client: Bank of America  Team Size: 2  Role: Teamsite Developer  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the designing components, templates and pages.  • Involved in the workflow development using Workflow Modeller  • Regular communication with the clients and onsite co-coordinators for proper synchronization of activities and knowledge sharing between onsite and offshore environments.  • Onsite experience for 45 days at Dallas, TX, USA  Environment: Teamsite6.7.2 / Livesite, Java, Linux, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML/XSLT, XPath Java Developer Hitachi Consulting India Pvt. Ltd March 2011 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Requirement Analysis, Design and Development, Testing and Documentation.  • Apache CXF open source framework  • Xcode development using Objective-C  • JBOSS server, spring 3.0.5, hibernate 3.6.4, Webservices using JAX-WS apis    Environment: Eclipse, Spring, Hibernate, XCode, Apache CXF  # Project: SAF Java Developer Hitachi Consulting India Pvt. Ltd January 2011 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Requirement Analysis, Design and Development, Testing and Documentation.  • Worked on Oracle ADF for front-end development  • Worked on Spring 2.5, Hibernate JPA  • Worked on maven build tool  • Worked on Oracle10g  • Weblogic server    Environment: Eclipse, JDeveloper, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle ADF  # Project: Mobile Web (Content Management System ) Teamsite Developer Hitachi Consulting India Pvt. Ltd November 2010 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Requirement Analysis, Design and Development, Testing and Documentation.  • User Management in Teamsite and OpenDeploy (Creating Roles, Groups, User accounts).  • Development and configuration of DCT, TPL, Workflows, Deployment scripts    Environment: Teamsite / Livesite, Perl, Linux Java + Teamsite Developer Capgemini India Pvt. Ltd April 2009 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of Data capture templates using Form Publisher API's, components using xslt, templates and pages  • Involved in writing Java classes at server side using Teamsite and getting data from database in XML format which was parsed and displayed at client side using XSLT.  • Used IW Form Publisher and Form APIs to customize and provide dynamic functionalities to the DCT (datacapture.cfg)  • Involved in creation and modification of Open Deploy Workflow as and when required in case of deploying or publishing the Teamsite content onto Runtime servers  • Involved in providing maintenance and enhancements to the GUI using various GUI technologies like JSP, HTML (both Table and Div Layouts), CSS, JavaScript and Ajax  • Developed Ultraseek search collections for much optimum, enhanced and improvised searching of data, thus providing more accurate and faster search results to the user  • Used Dom4J within Java classes to parse XML DOM structure and create the required XML nodes structure to be sent to the client side  • Used HttpSession classes for session tracking.  • Implemented various Linux commands to access various files and directories stored on the Linux server  • Developed Test Cases covering all the testing scenarios  • Used IBM software tools like ClearCase for revision control of source code and ClearQuest for logging and resolving of defects  • Used RAD, EditX and Edit Plus as the IDE Development Tools  • Used MS Excel for creating various records and documents like Query Logs, Review Logs etc  • Regular communication with the clients and onsite co-coordinators for proper synchronization of activities and knowledge sharing between onsite and offshore environments. Worked as lead  Environment: Teamsite / Livesite, Java, J2ee, Dom4J, Linux, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML/XSLT, XPath, AJAX, RAD, EditPlus, EditX, MS Office Java + Teamsite Developer Visualize Technologies February 2008 to March 2009 Responsibilities:  • Involved in creation of DCTs (Data Capture Templates) which were then used by content developers to create forms and generate content  • Used IW Form Publisher and Form APIs to customize and provide dynamic functionalities to the DCT (datacapture.cfg)  • Involved in development and modification of components using XML/XSLT/XPath, templates and pages which were then used to generate JSP pages  • Used JavaScript and DHTML to render dynamic elements to the web pages  • Used JavaScript for providing various Client-side validations. Also used Regular Expressions as and when required  • Handled design-related issues through CSS style and properties  • Involved in writing the controllers and service classes for various functionalities  • Involved in testing the code using JUNIT  • Involved in the development of DAO layer  • Implemented various MS SQL operations like insertion, deletion and updation of data.  • Used Eclipse, EditX and Edit Plus as the IDE Development Tools.  • Used MS Office to develop presentations and for documentation of the system.  • Regular communication with the clients and onsite co-coordinators for proper synchronization of activities and knowledge sharing between onsite and offshore environments.  Environment: Teamsite / Livesite, Java, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML/XSLT, XPath, AJAX, Eclipse, EditPlus, EditX, MS Office, Spring, Hibernate    # Project: SRDM Java Developer Visualize Technologies February 2008 to March 2009 Responsibilities:  • Involved in writing the controllers and service classes for various functionalities  • Involved in the development of DAO layer  • Implemented various MS SQL operations like insertion, deletion and updation of data.  • Used Eclipse, EditX and Edit Plus as the IDE Development Tools.  • Regular communication with the clients and onsite co-coordinators for proper synchronization of activities and knowledge sharing between onsite and offshore environments.  Environment: Teamsite / Livesite, Java, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML/XSLT, XPath, AJAX, Eclipse, EditPlus, EditX, MS Office, Spring, Hibernate    # Project: TFI(Learning Management System) Web Developer LearningMate Solns Pvt. Ltd August 2005 to September 2007 Responsibilities:  • Understanding the project requirements, production guidelines and checklist  • Ensuring on-time delivery and flagging risks, dependencies and issues  • Participated in the design and development of the web pages using HTML, Javascript, jsp, css, xml and xslt  • Worked on scorm 1.2  • leading the team of 3, scheduling of work, monitoring and tracking activities  • Identifying the best practices and sharing with the team    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML/XSLT, XPath  # Project: CRM Developer Camlin Ltd November 2002 to August 2005 • Understanding the project requirements, production guidelines and checklist  • Ensuring on-time delivery and flagging risks, dependencies and issues  • Involved in the customization of CRM Application using vbscript, ASP.NET Education BSc in Chemistry Address of University - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2001 Additional Information Skills Profile: Technical    ECM Tool: HPExtream, Adobe Experience Manager 6.1    WCM Tools: Teamsite 7.4.1, 6.7.2 / Livesite, IW Form Publisher and Form APIs, OpenDeploy WorkFlow  GUI Technologies: HTML, XHTML, XML/XSLT, XPath, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Jquery, JSON  Java/J2EE Technologies: Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Dom4J    IDE Tools: RAD, Eclipse, Edit Plus, EditX  Databases: MYSQL, MSSQL and Oracle9i, 10g    Operating Systems: Linux, Windows 9x/NT/2K/XP/7  Web Server: Tomcat 5.x, Apache, IIS, Weblogic,  Other Tools: MS Visio, MS Office