Senior Java/J2EE Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java/J2EE Developer - Guardian Insurance New York, NY • 10 years of strong IT experience in development and implementation of enterprise applications using JAVA, J2EE.  • Excellent designing, architecting, debugging, troubleshooting skills.  • Thorough in J2EE technologies like Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, Design Patterns, SOA, SOAP, Struts, Tiles, MVC, EJB, MQ Series, JMS, JSP and Servlets.  • Have worked on application servers like Web logic, WebSphere, Tomcat, JBoss, JRun.  • Strong in databases like Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, MySQL.  • Extensive experience in Apache STRUTS Framework versions, DynaAction, DynaValidator forms, Exception Handling, STRUTS Validator Framework.  • Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, JQuery, HTML, XHTML, DHTML & CSS to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • Experience in Drupal Themes developing Drupal custom modules, resolving Drupal configuration issues.  • Experience using Docker and docker Compose for deploying and testing applications  • Experience in Web services using AXIS, REST FUL API.  • Strong knowledge in Spring Framework using IOC/ AOP, Spring Transaction support (Declarative/ Programmatic), Hibernate in spring.  • Experience in working with Ghostwrite.js (Script Management Framework) to download the Display ads in the site.  • Experience in developing web based applications using Google Web Toolkit (GWT) and J2EE Servlet technology.  • Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Experience in developing MVC, OOPS, OOAD, J2EE Design Patterns, UML-Rational Rose and Java Sever Side Programming using development tools like Rational Application Developer RAD v7.0, log4j, WSAD, Eclipse, Toad, testing tools like Loadrunner, Clear Quest and Configuration Management tools like Clear case, VSS, Serena PVCS.  • Good knowledge in log4J implementation to persist the data into logs files.  • Experience in using JMS, MQ, MQ JMS API, and Integration of Web Sphere MQ with IBM WAS, Message Driven Beans (MDB).  • Worked with development tools like TOAD, Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, WSAD, Ant, Maven, Docket, and WSAD.  • Experience in various J2EE Frameworks like JSF, My Faces, iBATIS, JIBX, JAXB, AJAX, DWR, GWT, and DOJO.  • Used testing framework like JUnit, HTTP Unit, DB Unit, STIQ, and JMock.  • Strong experience on AGILE (SCRUM) and Waterfall SDLC.  • Proficient in Java Multi-Threading, Socket programming, Swing programming.  • Ability to deliver high quality stuff very efficiently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java/J2EE Developer Guardian Insurance - New York, NY March 2015 to Present Description: Guardian Life Insurance Company of America (GLICOA) is one of the top five largest mutual life insurance companies in the United States. The company serves a multitude of individuals, corporate and local customers every day. To serve the public effectively, GLICOA has a vast number of agents and agent teams that answer customers' call 24/7. These agents are in turn provided performance-based commissions. The focus of the project was to build and enhance an Agent Commission Processing System (ACPS) that would automate the process end-to-end starting with the agent entering his policy details till the calculation of commission.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the project using Rational Unified Process (RUP).  • Involved in designing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose, Visio 2003, UMLet, and Magic Draw.  • Developed user interface using JSP, Ajax based design, DHTML, Prototype 1.5, JSP Tag libraries and used lot of EXTJS (JavaScript) libraries for developing jsp.  • Designed web pages using SWING, JSP, XSL, XSD, XSLT, HTML, CSS, DHTML and server side validation with Validator interface of spring MVC.  • Used Java JDK 1.5 as development kit for java programs.  • Extensive exposure to Agile/Scrum development methods.  • Developed the front-end components using HTML, DHTML, Java Scripts, JSP, AJAX, Servlets, JSF, JDOM, XML and XSLT.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud MicroServices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Designing database, writing DML Statements with use of SQL/PLSQL.  • Implemented SPRING Model View Controller architecture to develop presentation tier and business layer using components like dispatcher Servlet, Handler Mappings, Controller, Model and View Object, View Resolver.  • Used JDBC for the data retrieval from the database for all the inquiries.  • Designing and coding of Action Classes and Business Classes for the Application.  • Implemented Spring Web Flow 2.5 Principles that builds upon Spring MVC to support user-level, application-directed control flows.  • Implemented REST based microservices using Spring framework, Eureka (Service discovery mechanism) and Jersey API. Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the services.  • Creation of docker containers and Docker Compose scripts for testing and deployment on AWS  • Involved in Parsing XML's using DOM, SAX, and JAXB to retrieve information that is returned from Web Services.  • Develop and execute unit test cases using Junit3.0.Used these test cases at fascade level, Session bean, persistence layer and service level.  • Used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Involved in developing Web Services and client.  • Involving in design meetings before developing the application and be proactive in discerning performance issues and developing high-performing application.  • Extensively used SQL, PL-SQL in constructing views, indexes, stored procedures, triggers, cursors, functions, relational database models.  • Process the JSON requests according to different types of modules, actions, and request data  • Design JSON responses according the request, send it back to the front end after the logic processing.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Backbone.JS, Angular.JS 2.0 and Ext.JS.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, ExtJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Introduced build tools, including browserify, gulp and grunt  • Modularized front end CSS and JS code with Sass and browserify.  • Created ruby based E-Mail Build system for clients to manage multiple templates while leveraging shared code with templates and YAML data. This system is distributed as a private ruby gem.  • Overhauled frontend architectures to use modern best practices, especially responsive design and Scalable and Modular Architecture for CSS. implementation of BEM naming  • Used the new features of GWT to enhance productivity at work (Used the OOPHM - Out of process hosted mode feature to use Firefox as the hosted mode browser for enhanced debugging instead of the IE browser used as default.  • Used GWT optimizations for reduced build times and efficient memory usage for faster development times).  • Migrated to GWT 1.7.1 in an effort to ensure that the site looked fine in the major browsers and ensure cross-browser compatibility including IE 8, Firefox 3.5, Safari 4 and Chrome 4.0.  • Involved in migration of the application from GWT 1.5.3 through GWT 1.6.4 to GWT 1.7.1.  • Involved in knowledge transfer / takeover of the application to the onsite development team from the existing vendor Open Path.  • Experience working with jQuery for pages which require fast response times.  • Used GWT-RPC for browser / web-server communication.  Environment: Web Sphere Application Server 6.1,JDBC,Spring MVC, JSF, Web Services, Hibernate 3.0, J2EE 1.4, JSP 2.0, Ajax, Servlets 2.4, JMS 1.1, XML, Log4j, JUnit, ANT, JavaScript, HTML,CSS, PL/SQL, Windows XP, GWT, JSON, Maven. Java/J2EE Developer Liberty Mutual - Dover, NH January 2014 to March 2015 Description: Liberty Mutual Insurance is an American diversified global insurer, and the second-largest property and casualty insurer in the United States. E commerce application provides services such as Auto Insurance and home insurance. The application is used for accessibility into the appropriate Agent Center applications and generating quotes and policies, payments and reports.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the project using MVC, Session Façade, and Service Locator and Business Delegate patterns.  • Followed agile methodology, interacted with the client, provide/take feedback on the features, suggest/implement optimal solutions and tailored application to customer needs.  • Integrated the application with Spring Framework for implementing Dependency Injection and provide abstraction between presentation layer and persistence layer.  • Developed Web pages using Struts view component JSP, JavaScript, HTML, jQuery, AJAX, to create the user interface views Migration 3rd party applications.  • Implemented validation on the JSP fields using Struts Validation framework which included writing validation.xml and validation-rules.xml files.  • Implemented all DAO's using Spring Framework. Implemented SOA using Web Services (SOA over WESB and SOAP over JMS) on ESB utilizing WebSphere Integration Developer (WID).  • Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine, configured O/R mapping and wrote hibernate queries.  • Involved in designing front-end screens using Java script, JSP, Angular JS 2.0, AJAX, HTML5 and DHTML.  • Designed Presentation layer using JSP, Struts framework and did front-end validations using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Involved in design and development of UI component, using frameworks Angular JS 2.0 , JavaScript, HTML5, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Followed Single Page Application (SPA) Pattern and used Angular JS MVC to build a cross-browser complaint application.  • Implemented core features of Angular JS 2.0 framework such as dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Directives, Templates, Services and Deep Linking.  • Designed and integrated the full scale Hibernate / spring.  • Used Spring IOC and spring's Hibernate Support, transaction management.  • Developed hibernate DAO framework with spring framework.  • Configured and deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server.  • Implemented Complex business Delegate layer using DAO's created and business logic.  • Exposed various capabilities such as Web Services using SOAP and WSDL.  • Worked on J2EE components like Servlets, JSPs and MDBs.  • Used MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Session facade, Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns.  • Involved in preparing High & low level design docs with UML diagrams using Rational Rose tool.  • Used X fire to read the XML response coming from the web service.  • Created JUnit test cases, and Development of JUnit classes.  • Configured log4j to enable/disable logging in application.  • Supported all the UNIX requests for various applications.  • Developed ANT script to build .war and .ear files for the application.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Springs, Struts, Hibernate, Eclipse, WebLogic 10g, jQuery, MVC, Oracle 11g, Rational Rose, HTML5, CSS, Angular JS 2.0, XML, UML, Web Services, JUnit, EJB, SVN, Windows, UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer CNA Insurance - Chicago, IL May 2013 to December 2013 Description: CNA will provide insurance solutions that allow customers to better manage their risks and grow profitably. It can use its expertise to continually evolve our products and services to anticipate and address our customers' needs. CNA broad portfolio enables to respond to a wide range of business risks while focusing on the specialized needs of our insured's in construction, manufacturing, technology, healthcare, professional services, financial institutions and small business.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered requirements from the Product owner and designed mock-ups based on the requirements.  • Involved in all phases of the Software development lifecycle (SDLC).  • Followed agile methodologies to execute project.  • Used UML modeling diagrams to describe the structure and behavior of the system.  • Utilized pair programming approach to ensure high quality code.  • Responsible for managing and executing project tasks.  • Involved in creating a data model for a service where multiple providers were involved.  • Involved in Creating and consuming SOAP and REST Webservices using annotations.  • Involved in generating JAXB classes from schema files.  • Developed several DAO classes interacting with EODDB2 database and participated in writing JPA criteria builders and predicates.  • Wrote stored procedures, triggers and functions to perform database operations.  • Implemented Spring AOP for declarative transaction management.  • Implemented spring dependency injection for all the DAO's, Service Beans.  • Involved in production deployment, supported.  • Working with XML parsers &configuring of XML files like Web.xml, etc.  • Involved in the integration of spring for implementing Dependency Injection (DI/IOC).  • Developed REST web services for external application integration.  • Developed service layer using various J2EE design patterns Singleton, DAO, Factory, and Repository, Builder.  • Developed a Message Driven Bean that uses JMS to manage backend transactions.  • Preparation of Test cases on JUnit during the unit testing and system testing phase.  Environment: JDK 1.7, Glassfish Application Server, IntelliJ, Oracle 11.2 DB, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 2.0, Node.js, JUnit, REST Web services, Control M, SQL Developer, Oracle Virtual Box. Java/ Java EE Developer PayPal - Sparks, MD August 2012 to May 2013 Description: PayPal allows any business or individual with an email address to securely, conveniently and cost-effectively send and receive payments online. Its network builds on the existing financial infrastructure of bank accounts and credit cards to create a global, real-time payment solution. PayPal deliver a product ideally suited for small businesses, online merchants, individuals and others currently underserved by traditional payment mechanisms.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating case diagrams, object model diagrams, class diagrams, and deployment diagram using UML/Rational Rose and followed Agile and scrum methodologies.  • Designed and developed Rich user interface using JSF2 in some modules and used front end technologies like HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery and AJAX.  • Implemented business layer and created beans using spring (DI, AOP, IOC, MVC) framework.  • Involved in integration of external systems using Service Oriented Architecture.  • Developed SOAP and Restful web services in Java using JAX-WS and JAX-RS, Apache Axis2 frameworks on SOA architecture.  • Used several core java principles like bit manipulations, logical operations etc.  • CVS and SVN was used for code versioning system, for building the application in repository and for production code maintenance.  • Involved in installation of JBoss application server in Multi cluster environment.  • Involved in development and modification of SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Involved in writing test cases using JUNIT for various modules.  • Involved in logging using Log4J and working with defects using HP QC (Quality Centre).  • Involved in testing, bug fixing and documentation of the system deployment.  Environment: Java 1.6, Java EE, HTML5, CSS3, Spring3.0, Hibernate 4, JSF2, MYSQL, JBoss, Glass Fish, DOJO, JPA 2, Maven, JUnit 4. Java/J2EE Developer TD Ameritrade - Newark, NJ December 2011 to August 2012 Description: TD Ameritrade offers a robust offering of products, programs and advanced technology, coupled with personal support from dedicated service teams that allow RIAs to grow and manage their practices more efficiently and effectively. TD Ameritrade can offer investing and trading services for more than six million funded client accounts that total more than $650 billion in assets, investor education services boasting hundreds of thousands of graduates, and custodial services for more than 4,500 independent registered investment advisors (RIAs).  Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Implemented the web-based application following the MVC architecture using Struts Framework and used Spring in developing beans which are used all over the application.  • Designed the front-end using HTML, CSS, Java script, AJAX and jQuery.  • Extensively used Custom JSP tags to separate presentation from application logic.  • Involved in writing SQL prepared statements, stored procedures, handled SQL Injection and persisted data using Hibernate session, transaction, and session factory objects.  • Used ANT/MAVEN for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files.  • Used Table per hierarchy inheritance of hibernates and mapped polymorphic associations.  • Developed one-much, many-one, one-one annotation based mappings in Hibernate.  • Developed DAO service methods to populate the domain model objects using hibernate.  • Used java collections API extensively such as Lists, Sets and Maps.  • Wrote DAO classes using spring and Hibernate to interact with database for persistence.  • Performed on e-Commerce by using JSF framework and JavaScript, Jquery HTML5 pages.  • Wrote and tested Java Beans to retrieve trading data and subscriber's information from MySQL database server.  • Implemented Unit and Integration test cases with JUNIT Framework based on Functional Flow.  • Used JUnit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules.  • Project coordination with other Development teams, System managers and developed good working environment.  Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts2, JBoss Application Server, XML, HTML, CSS, Hibernate 4, spring 3, JMS, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, JUnit, JDBC, ANT and Windows7. Java/J2EE Developer Portaltech - London November 2009 to October 2011 Description: During this period I worked on design, development & supporting web applications developed to create and maintain content required to publish recipes on splenda UK website. I also worked on design and development of Royalmail UK online commerce website used for selling online stamping products. Another project I worked on includes Thistle UK rebranding for redesigning and developing hotel chain website for online reservation using spring framework.  Responsibilities:  • Responsibilities include Use case modeling, Object modeling using Rose, and ER Database design.  • Model View Controller (MVC) architecture has been adopted to provide framework.  • Utilized UML & Rational Rose suite for designing of the System.  • Developed Session Beans to encapsulate the business logic and Entity beans as the persistence objects.  • Designed and developed user interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Involved in the development of distributed server side components and deployed the various Session and Entity Bean Components in the IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Designed and Developed Struts Action classes, DAO, Views using Struts custom tags.  • Developed Struts-based form validation, Application error handling using Struts Validator framework.  • Created Web Services using SOAP to provide services to other systems within the company.  • Deployed the application under WebSphere App Server.  • Resolved the production issues during migration onto the production server.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts 1.x, Rational Rose, IBM DB2, Unix, XML, XSLT, ANT, JDBC, Eclipse, Tomcat Application Server, WebSphere Application Server 5.1/5.0, SOAP, WSDL. Java Developer Beta Technology Associates August 2008 to November 2009 Project: Enterprise Hospital Information System Developer.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the project using MVC, Session Façade, and Service Locator and Business Delegate patterns.  • Involved in design and implementation using AGILE methodology.  • Understanding the requirements by interacting with business users and mapping them to design.  • Involved in developing SOAP and Restful web services functions to get data from the Mainframe.  • Involved in designing and implementing web service server using JBoss WebLogic, IBM WebSphere and Apache Tomcat and client applications by using SOAP, JMS based standards for messaging.  • Screens using custom front end forms using XML, XSLT, and JQuery.  • Involved in producing necessary WSDL to deploy as a web service.  • Created Configuration files for spring, Hibernate and JSF Navigation.  • Used Java Socket Programming for communication with POS.  • Used Junit Test Cases for unit testing to achieve required coverage.  • Used Configuration Management Tools for version control which is built on Win CVS.  Environment: JDK, Web service, J2EE patterns, Spring, JDBC, SOAP, AXIS, WSDL, JMS, UML Design, JSP, Log4j, XML, DOM, JUnit, Hibernate, Oracle, Agile, WebLogic, Rational Clear Case, WebLogic web services, Clear case, Clear quest. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and electronics in Electrical and electronics Visvesvaraya Technological University - Bengaluru, Karnataka 2005 Skills CSS (7 years), HTML (7 years), Java (9 years), Web Services. (8 years), XML (8 years), Web Sphere Application Server 6.1,JDBC,Spring MVC, JSF, Web Services, Hibernate 3.0, J2EE 1.4, JSP 2.0, Ajax, Servlets 2.4, JMS 1.1, XML, Log4j, JUnit, ANT, JavaScript, HTML,CSS, PL/SQL, Windows XP, GWT, JSON, Maven. (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Java Technologies: Java 1.4/5/6, Spring 2.5, Hibernate 3.2, Web Services, SOA, SOAP, Axis 1.x/2.x, EJB 1.1/2.0, JSF, My Faces, Struts 2.0, iBATIS 2.2, Servlets 2.1, JSP 1.2, JSTL, JMS, JNDI, Applets, JNI, RMI, CXF, Salto DB, JMX  • Application Servers: BEA Web logic 10.x / 8.1, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat 5.5, JBoss 3.2.7, JRUN 3.0  • RDBMS/Tools: JDBC 4.0, Oracle9i / 10g, DB2, MySQL, SQL Server 2005, JTDS  • XML Technologies: XML Parsers (SAX, DOM, Pull), XSL, XSLT, JIBX, JABX  • UI Technologies: Java Script, HTML, CSS, Java AWT, Java Swing, AJAX Frameworks GWT, DWR, DOJO,  • Version Control: AccuRev, CVS, SVN, VSS  • IDE & Tools: Eclipse 3.1, IntelliJ IDEA 6.5, Maven 2.0, Ant 1.x, Log4j, Xdoclets, TOAD 8.0, JBuilder, WSAD 5.1, Magic Draw, UML, Mercury Quality Center, Amber Point Continuous Integration Cruise Control and CC.NET  • Test Frameworks: JMock 2.0, JUnit 3.3.1, HTTP Unit 1.6.2, DB Unit, STIQ  • Operating System: Windows XP / Vista, LINUX, UNIX, UNIX Shell Scripting