Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - PNC Bank Columbus, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer PNC Bank - Columbus, OH April 2016 to Present RxBuilder application as a formulary management tool with e-prescribing support based on the NCPDP Formulary and Benefit standard. It is a means to allow a pharmacy benefit payer to communicate formulary and benefit information to prescribers via technology vendor systems. The purpose of RxBuilder is to provide flexibility so that you can define your own formulary lists, copay tiers, and rule sets in order to export the desired formulary and benefit information in multiple report formats - ie. spreadsheet, CSV, PDF, Word, NCPDP etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and sprint planning.  • Gone through Requirements in BRD & SR and Designs in TSDs.  • Involved in assigning the task to team and taking the status on daily basis.  • Involved in implementing business logic and data base connectivity.  • Developed the new UI screens in HTML/JSP using JSF 2.x framework.  • Co-ordinate Application testing with the help of testing team.  • Involved in writing database queries, stored procedures, functions, Triggers, Sequences etc in DB2.  • Configuring the application in RAD and configurations files.  • Used SLF4j for logging and Maven for building the application.  • Application is build and deploy using Jenkins and Auto Deployer tool respectively.  • Used Java & J2EE design patterns.  • Involved in client & server side validations.  • Used code version controlling using IBM Synergy.  • Used iNavigator and IBM Data Studio tools for database connectivity.  • Involved in SR document review meetings to understand requirements.  • Involved in assessment of project & followed the process.  • Involved in unit testing using JUNIT and Integration testing.  • Involved in preparing Unit Test documents and update the status.  • Fixed & Tracked defects using IBM Rational Change effectively.  • Involved in code build & deployment using Maven.  • Involved in writing configuration changes in RxSecurity files.  • Used Spring IOC(Inversion of Control) for dependency injection.  • Involved in writing JavaScript coding for UI screens validation.  • Used Spring Batch with Quartz scheduler to schedule and run the Spring Batch Jobs at scheduled time.  • Used IBM WebSphere Application server to deploy application locally.  • Used ServiceNow to raise requests/incidents.  • Involved in deploying various environments like DEV, IST etc.    Environment: Java 1.7, JSF 2.X, iBatis, JSP, html, Tag libraries, Spring IOC, Spring Batch, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, Java beans, IBM WebSphere Server 8.5, Windows/UNIX, Maven, JUNIT, Synergy, RAD, iNavigator, IBM Data Studio, DB2, IBM Synergy, IBM Rational Change, SOAP-UI, WinMerge, Beyond Compare, Edit Plus, Notepad++, Ultra edit. Senior Java Programmer DaVitaRx, TX August 2015 to March 2016 DaVita Rx is a pharmacy based company which had started a RX2.0 project in which we (ESB) will integrate between the EMPI and ODS systems. This integration is done using the Jboss FUSE. This application is used for the patient, Drug and clinic related details of the DaVita Rx and its clients.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile - Scrum methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and sprint planning.  • Gone through Requirements in BRD & FSD and Designs in TSDs.  • Involved in implementing business logic and data base connectivity.  • Part of Client side installation and configuration of project.  • Developed and deployed Web services to interact with partner interfaces, and client interfaces to consume the web services using CXF, WSDL, SOAP, AXIS and JAX-WS technologies  • Used Restful web services using JERSEY tool to develop web services easily and to be invoked by different channels.  • Co-ordinate Application testing with the help of testing team.  • Involved in writing services to write core logic for business processes.  • Involved in writing database queries, stored procedures, functions, Triggers, Sequences etc.  • Configuring the application in JBoss Fuse ESB and spring configuration files.  • Used SLF4j for logging and debugging applications and splunk for the run time logs.  • Services are build and deployed using Jenkins.  • Coding using JBoss FUSE ESB end point java classes for these requests which call the external NMS system.  • Done with Routing, Exception handling, Orchestration, Transformation & Messaging using JBoss Fuse ESB.  • Used Java & J2EE design patterns.  • Involved in validations using properties file.  • Involved in deploying the services on the Fuse server.  • Used code version controlling using GIT, SourceTree.  • Involved in assessment of project & followed the process.  • Instrumental in tuning the framework to meet the performance standards.  • Involved in unit testing using JUNIT and Integration testing.  • Ran Sonar Qube report in local machine & fixed check styles, PMD & Find bugs issues, also used Clover.  • Fixed & Tracked defects using JIRA effectively.  • Involved in code build & deployment using Maven.    Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, Tag libraries, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, Java beans, JBoss Fuse ESB, Windows/UNIX, Maven, JUNIT, GIT, SourceTree, JBoss Developer Studio, JBoss Fuse ESB 6.2, OSGI Bundles, Web Services-WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JERSEY, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, QC, WebLogic Application server 10.3, Sonar QUBE, Clover, SOAP-UI, WinMerge Edit Plus. Java Developer TD Ameritrade - Omaha, NE May 2013 to July 2015 Project - I: Automated Enrollment Solution (AES) application automates the enrollment process for the various products the Wells Fargo Bank offers to wholesale/corporate customers. It involves bank personnel filling up the Sales Order Forms and Product Enrollment Templates (PETs) in AES to enroll the customers to different products.    Project - III: IPSS (Internal Projects and Support Services) is list applications used by employees in WFIS and WFPH. It contains list of Applications like ePay, ePay Invoice Tracker, RCS Traxx, TRAMS and VMS (Vendor Management System) etc.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile - Sprint methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning.  • Discussed with Product Owner & the team members to finalize the requirements for the features.  • Applications was developed based MVC architecture using JSF 2.x framework and Prime Faces 5.0.  • Involved in Design, Development, Testing and Integration of the application.  • Prepared User stories corresponding to the features taken from Backlog.  • Involved in PSI estimations using Fibonacci approach and divided feature into different USs.  • Involved in preparing High & low level design docs with UML diagrams.  • Involved in the development of various use cases, sequence diagrams using UML.  • Understood current processes and actions from the legacy code.  • Developed the new UI screens in xhtml using JSF 2.x framework and also migrated some screens from PowerBuilder to Java using JSF 2.x framework.  • Worked on JavaScript to validate input, manipulated HTML elements using JavaScript, developed external JavaScript codes that can be used in several different web pages.  • Implemented EJB's session bean to maintain mobile session.  • Used MULE ESB to integrate AES system with other internal & external system.  • Created MULE ESB artifact and configured the MULE configuration files and deployed.  • Used Active MQ messaging to set up communication between applications in Mule ESB. And flows are created for JAX-WS and JAX-RS web services.  • Done with Routing, Exception handling, Orchestration, Transformation & Messaging using MULE ESB.  • Used Any Point & Studio Visual Debugger to debug the mule flows at Data mappers.  • Implemented methods to validate, invalidate, keep Alive session for login process and maintaining session credentials.  • Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the front-end.  • Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON( few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology) Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents.  • Worked on serialize and de-serialize of data in applications using JSON  • Used Spring MVC as Web module, involved in design, development of new Action classes to interact with business logic.  • Used Spring Frame work for IOC, AOP, MVCand DAO layer design patterns.  • Used Hibernate as ORM to map Java classes to data base tables.  • Implemented business logic components using POJOs.  • Developed adapter classes to create a layer over existing code.  • Transformed, Navigated, Formatted XML documents using XSL, XSLT, XPath, XSL-FO.  • Written PL/SQL - Stored procedures, Sequences, triggers and SQL jobs to trigger based on SSIS packages.  • Developed in-memory data grid solution across conventional and cloud environments using Oracle Coherence.  • Authenticating to the LDAP by Using the JNDI and developed the login Servlet which is responsible for initial authentication of the users coming from different systems.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) API to create, send, receive, and read messages.  • Tested components using JUNIT & Mockito during development.  • Used IBM Clear Case for source code version control  • Resolving spring framework artifacts and code build & deployment via Maven.    Environment: Java, HTML, XHTML, JS, AJAX, JSF Prime Faces 5.0, CSS3, Servlets, XML, XSLT, XPATH, Mule ESB 3.5, WSDL Web Services, SOAP, Web Sphere App Server 8.5, DB2, REST, JMS, Eclipse, JUNIT, Mockito, IBM Clear Case, Wicket Framework, Spring framework - DI, AOP, Batch, Hibernate, SSIS package, UNIX jobs Java Programmer RBC, NY January 2013 to April 2013 RBC Dexia offers a wide range of expertise and services to asset managers & distributors, pensions & institutions, financial institutions and insurance companies. Our unique global perspective, broad range of products and highly responsive service offers exceptional value to clients.    Responsibilities:  • Gone through Requirements in BRD & FDN and Designs in TSDs.  • Involved in developing JSP pages for IPA pages.  • Involved in implementing business logic and data base connectivity.  • Part of Client side installation and configuration of project.  • Implemented Struts framework (Action & Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate classes.  • Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Developed and deployed Web services to interact with partner interfaces, and client interfaces to consume the web services using CXF, WSDL, SOAP, AXIS and JAX-WS technologies  • Used Restful web services using JERSEY tool to develop web services easily and to be invoked by different channels.  • Used Hibernate to create data layer to the services to do CRUD operations in to DB.  • Set up Object & relationship mappings with Associations, inheritance, and named queries etc. using Hibernate  • Co-ordinate Application testing with the help of testing team.  • Involved in writing services to write core logic for business processes.  • Involved in writing database queries, stored procedures, functions, Triggers, Sequences etc.  • Configuring the application in MULE ESB and spring configuration files.  • Coding using MULE ESB end point java classes for these requests which call the external NMS system.  • Done with Routing, Exception handling, Orchestration, Transformation & Messaging using MULE ESB  • Used Java & J2EE design patterns.  • Involved in client & server side validations.  • Used code version controlling using SVN.  • Involved in the Database Design, Normalization & the development using Oracle DB.  • Supported the applications through production and maintenance releases.  • Involved in assessment of project & followed the process.  • Instrumental in tuning the framework to meet the performance standards.  • Involved in unit testing using JUNIT and Integration testing.  • Ran Sonar Qube report in local machine & fixed check styles, PMD & Find bugs issues.  • Fixed & Tracked defects using Quality Center effectively.  • Involved in code build & deployment using Ant.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, Tag libraries, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, Java beans, Mule ESB, Windows/UNIX, Ant, JUNIT, SVN, WSAD, Mule ESB 3.2, Web Services-WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JERSEY, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, QC, WebLogic Application server 10.3, Sonar QUBE, Edit Plus. Java Developer Wells Fargo, CA March 2012 to December 2012 The Enterprise Collections and Recovery(ECaR) is the system of record for collections activities. ECaR supports accounts from seven different accounting systems of record across six lines of business. Provides function such as Bankruptcy, Recovery, Legal, Foreclosure, Probate, Workouts, Charge-offs, Disaster Management, Real Estate, Insurance, Fraud, Pay-By-Phone, Credit Bureau, Extension/Re-age, Debt Counseling.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering, design and analysis of the system  • Responsible for coordinating the tasks and assigning work to the team members and keeping track of the deliverables.  • Worked with customers to gather requirements and develop use cases, project and test plans.  • Involved in designing the application by drawing UML diagrams using JUDE tool.  • Designed a flexible and highly dynamic framework that incorporates robust marshaling and un marshaling from XML and a business process layer to allow rapid development and deployment of web services by aggregating back-end service invocations  • Developed the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, Java script, AJAX, JQUERY, JSP and tag libraries etc.  • Produced as well as consumed the WSDL based web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, AXIS, Apache CXF, JAXB etc.  • Developed web services using Restful technology to support JSON and XML using JAX-RS.  • Worked as a Data Modeler for the team.  • Set up Custom business validations using validation framework.  • Created new connections through application coding for better access to DB2 database and involved in writing SQL & PL SQL - Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc.  • Monitored jobs running for NOPS and DOPS in UNIX environment.  • Implemented application using JSF MVC framework for maintainability.  • Involved in Authentication & authorization checks using Encryption & decryption techniques using x.509, Public/private key methods etc.  • Responsible for data migration to DEV, IST, UAT and PROD environments.  • Helped new team members & junior developers to make them on the board easily.  • Followed coding standards and ran Test suite to make sure 100% code coverage by using EMMA tool.  • Involved in JUNIT testing, integration testing, system testing etc.  • Involved in writing developer test cases & scope & traceability matrix.  • Involved in building the code using Ant, Ivy and the deployment.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSP2.x, Richfaces, HTML, DHTML, iBatis3.x, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JQUERY, Servlets, Web Logic10.x, Validation framework, MVC, RAD7.0, JUNIT, Mockito, JAX - RPC Web Services, LDAP, XML, XSD, XSLT, Unix, DB2 - SQL, PL SQL, QC, ClearCase Java Developer State Street , MA June 2011 to February 2012 SSTL enables investment managers, mutual funds, market risk management and capital markets to maintain & consolidate portfolio information by providing customized solutions to collect, process, store & report market risks information about various financial instruments. Front end includes web pages such as login, user profiles, user accounts, bill payment, viewing transactions.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering, design and analysis of the system  • Responsible for coordinating the tasks and assigning work to the team members and keeping track of the deliverables.  • Worked with customers to get the requirements and planned the deliverables accordingly as per schedule.  • Involved in preparing high level documents and low level documents with UML diagrams using MS VISIO tool.  • Used Struts framework to develop the application & used JNDI to set up connection pooling and maintained DAO layer for Data base calls.  • Used HTML, Java Script, JSP and Tag libraries to develop UI pages.  • Involved in DB design and DB changes for existing requirements, writing SQL queries, PL/SQL procedures, sequences, functions, packages using SQL Developer tool.  • Involved in writing ANT build script for deployment process.  • Used design patterns for designing the application.  • Followed coding standards while developing application.  • Involved in writing Schell scripts and UNIX jobs to run jobs.  • Involved in deployment of IST/UAT/PROD.  • Involved in creating JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool.  • Involved in doing Unit testing and integrations testing.  • Identified bugs will be fixed and moved in to respective environment appropriately.  Environment: Java1.5, Servlets, JSP2.x, Struts 1.3, JavaScript, CSS, WSAD 5.x, ANT1.5.x, Websphere7.x, beyond compare, shell scripts, UNIX jobs, ANT, JUNIT, Oracle 10g, Microsoft Visio, Edit Plus. Java Developer Nomura Financial Services October 2010 to May 2011 The FI-NeAT portal is a Nomura internal product helps the Analysts and Supervisory Analysts of Nomura to write articles by predicting stock market securities. The main components of FI-NEAT portal are Workflow, Authoring and Coverage.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in detailed requirements gathering, Analysis, Development and Testing.  • Produced UML diagrams (use case, class, and sequence diagrams) to document in design phase using Microsoft Visio tool.  • Involved in CR & Enhancements estimations, designs and tracking.  • Involved in developing Oracle SQL queries and PL SQL programming.  • Deliver the application code using Struts  • Integrate the GUI with back end Oracle data base.  • Developed UI screens using HTML, Java Script, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, XML and XSLT.  • Extensively used design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Façade, DAO, and MVC.  • Used Restful web services to upload a request agreement to process to hit Credit Engine to get the approval agreement details.  • Designed and implemented database abstraction layer using Hibernate DAO objects.  • Involved in backing up database & in creating dump files and created DB schemas from dump files.  • Written developer test cases & executed. Prepared corresponding scope & traceability matrix.  • Involved in JUnit testing, smoke testing, integration testing, and system testing.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP 2.0, Hibernate, JBOSS, JUnit, Sybase, HTML, LNS framework, Struts, Spring, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, XML, XSLT, Java/J2EE design patters, WSDL, SOAP, Restful Web Services, Windows, UNIX, Eclipse ganymede. Java Developer Koni Software Solutions January 2009 to September 2010 This project is aimed at delivering a Web Portal, which combines all the features of a modern day portal. It should include services of any web portal like News, Administration of Sites and portal, Searching and Web Services.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development, Testing and Integration of the application.  • Involved in developing JSP pages for Credit Card pages.  • Developed front end using HTML, JSPs, JSTL, Java Script, XML and XSL.  • Used J2EE design patterns for constructing server-side objects and client-side interfaces.  • Developed and implemented J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) using JISI framework.  • Used Java features extensively for Java coding.  • Developed a web-based reporting system with JAVA, J2EE, Servlets, EJB using Struts framework.  • Development of Web App Module using Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Struts, Oracle SQL Developer, BEA Weblogic, Eclipse, and IBM Clear Case.  • Leverage the use of open Source tools and APIs such as Log4J, Ant, Struts, JUNIT, EMMA etc,  • Used DOM API to parse XML files and displayed in JSP pages.  • Extensive use of Web rich internet applications including and not limited to AJAX and Object oriented Java Script libraries.  • Used Web Services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party and used SAX and DOM XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Involved in implementing business logic and data base connectivity using JDBC.  • Part of Client side installation and configuration of project.  • Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading and also used Struts Validation framework for input validations.  • Involved in implementation of EJB session beans and entity beans for business logic and data persistence simultaneously.  • Co-ordinate Application testing with the help of testing QA team.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and PLSQL programming - stored procedures, functions, sequences etc.  • Involved in creating different JSP pages corresponding to different types of credit card applications like • Used code version controlling using IBM Clear case.  • Tested the application on different browser like IE, Mozilla etc.  • Involved in JUNIT testing & Integration testing.  • Involved in writing Ant script and developed Cruise Control for Continuous Integration build.  • Involved in DRN, build and Integration.  Environment: Java 1.4, JSP1.x, Servlets1.x, Struts frame work1.x, HTML, JISI Framework, JavaScript, CSS, JDBC, JNDI, Oracle 9i-SQL & PL SQL, Java beans, EJB(Session beans, Entity Beans and JMS), Windows, UNIX, JUNIT, ERA, IBM Clear Case, QC, Web Logic Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (8 years), JUNIT (8 years), TESTING (8 years), UNIX (8 years), AJAX (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages: Java 1.4,1.5 and 1.6, C, C++, PL/SQL  Core Java Concepts Collections, Generics, Multithreading, Serialization, Exception Handling, RMI, File I/O and Reflection J2EE Servlet , EJB-Session Beans, Entity Beans, JMS, JDBC2.x/3.x, JNDI  Framework/Libraries, Hibernate 2.0/3.0  Web/Application: Servers Apache Tomcat , JBoss, WebSphere 7.0/8.1, Web logic 10.3  XML Technologies: XML , DTD, XSD, XML, XSLT, SAX, DOM, JAXP, JAXB  Web Development: HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JQUERY, JSTL , IDEs Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD, Net Beans  Design Skills UML (JUDE, Rational Rose, MS Visio), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), GOF Java &J2EE Design Patterns  Web Services: WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, CXF, AXIS, JAX-RS, UDDI, WS-Security, SOAP UI ORM Hibernate, iBatis  Database and Tools: Oracle MySQL, DB2, TOAD, SQL Developer    Operating Systems: Windows 2000, Windows XP, Unix, Linux, Windows 7  Source Control: SVN, CVS, IBM Clear case and Harvest Build & Deployment Maven, Ant , Jenkins  Testing: JUnit, Mockito, SOAP UI, Firefox PlugIn  Tools: Bugzilla, QC, FileZilla, Putty, WINSCP3, Edit Plus, Rally, SOAP UI