Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - United Health Group Avenel, NJ • Over 8+ years of experience in design, development and implementation of software applications in JAVA/J2EETechnologies.  • Conversant with all phases of project Life Cycle including Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing, Software quality standards and configuration management and change management and Quality procedures.  • Expertise in OOP design, collection framework, Exception Handling and IO System.  • Proficient in web application development using Java, JSP, JSF, Servlets, HTML, HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript and frameworks Spring and Hibernate.  • Proficient in Java Multi-Threading, Thread lifecycle methods and multiple request handling using synchronization  • 4 years of experience in UI development by using Angular JS, ExtJs, JQuery.  • Exposure to Analysis, Design and Development phases of Java Applications.  • Extensively worked in J2EE technology (Servlets, spring, Struts, JSF, JSP, EJB, JDBC, and XML) with various middleware technologies.  • Experience in working with MVC Architecture and Struts, JUnit, spring, Framework and implemented with design patterns.  • Good experience in working with Web servers like WebLogic6.1&8.x, Apache Tomcat 5.x.  • Experience in markup languages like HTML, DHTML, XML and Cascading style sheets (CSS).  • Worked on designing the applications and representing Design in UML diagrams with Rational Rose.  • Worked on Multi-threading for performing user options simultaneously thus by improving the effectiveness of the application.  • Excellent in defect fixing, solving complex problems and Performance Tuning.  • Expertise and experience in performing different kinds of testing like, functionality testing, unit testing, integration testing, performance testing, load testing, regression testing and System testing for the online applications.  • Well-experienced in Server maintenance, Administration and deploying Servlets, JSP and EJB components. Deployed in JBoss, WAS 6.0, WebLogic 10.0 and Apache Tomcat Application Servers.  • Working knowledge of Hibernate 3.0, spring.  • Good knowledge of SOA and Exposure to ETL tools.  • Experience in working the version control tools GIT, GITHUB, SVN  • Expertise in using database tool SQL Navigator.  • Worked extensively on XML (DOM and SAX Parsers) JAXP/JAXB.  • Experience with JDBC for connecting to DATABASE.  • Strong Knowledge of SQL and PL/SQL and good in writing stored procedures and triggers in Oracle 8i/9i/10g.  • Programming Experience in SQL and PL/SQL, Stored procedures, UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Hands on experience with on J2EE Architectures and Specifications (JDBC, EJB 2.0, SOAP, Xpath and XQuery)  • Demonstrated expertise in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Gathering, Requirements Analysis, Requirement Elicitation, Authoring Software Specifications, and High/Low Level Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Support.  • Implementation experience in web services using REST API like Jetty, Swagger.  • Skilled in deriving, determining and developing Functional Specifications, Technical Specifications and User Documentation for complex application.  • Experienced in Project Evaluation, Project Management and Status tracking with analytical and problem solving skills.  • A good team player with good Communication and Oral skills.  • Efficient leader with good interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer United Health Group - Avenel, NJ March 2015 to Present Description:  Request Center (RC) is a health care project currently being implemented. The project involves full stack development of the application including front end with Angular JS and back end development with spring and Hibernate. This project deals with Order management like making an order, assign that order for retail and validating order. Interacting with different applications using REST and SOAP services for Billing, Business validations and for downstream application. This project provides online maintenance of different cases belonging to that pharmacy and also rerouting patient cases.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented service layer with data access tier using Spring DAO.  • Worked on the spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Build RESTful Web services using JAX-RS API  • Created web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in Hibernate, Used the spring container for data source and to load the hibernate specific classes.  • Extensively used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework with Angular.js  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on WebLogic Server.  • Built Web Services for applications using REST.  • Worked on Java Multithreading, Collections & Coherence Framework.  • Implemented Java Multithreading to refresh the cache at a given set of time interval.  • UI design and development using JSF, richfaces and myface.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Designed and Developed Servlets and JSP pages for authentication  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using Web sphere Studio Application Developer and used CVS for version control.  • MySQL to access data in the database at different Levels.  • Involved in the integration of spring batch using shell scripting.  • Implemented TDD for JavaScript code and Angular JS code with Jasmine test cases  • Responsible for implementing SQL queries and managing JDBC interactions with data sources  • Explore single-page asynchronously data-driven UIs using REACT JS, REDUX and NODE JS.  • Worked on databases such as MYSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, and ORACLE.  • Created Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap, SVG and other media queries to support on all kinds of devices.  • Worked on the backend using Groovy and Grails, Value Object and DAO. Used different design strategies like Façade pattern, proxy command pattern to efficiently use resources.  • Followed agile process, created and maintained User stories in JIRA. Actively participated in Sprint grooming, retrospectives and daily stand up meetings.  • Developed various reusable helper and utility classes using Java Beans with Eclipse editor.  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes that created Pom.xml files.  • Practiced relevant agile development methodologies and worked daily with subversion and current networking technologies.  • Managing Product development / implementation using AWS cloud infrastructure  • Provide training on various educational technologies including Smartboards, Blackboard and Web 2.0 technologies.  • Lead, Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using WSO2.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, WebLogic, Richface, Angular JS, Linux, APACHE CXF, JMS, Shell scripting, REST, JSP, JDK 1.5, SERVLET, MYSQL, JDBC, AWS, Groovy, Eclipse, MAVEN, Agile, JIRA, Web 2.0, SOA. Sr. Java Developer Bank of America, DE August 2014 to February 2015 Description:  Bank of America is one of the largest financial institutions that offer services like easy banking, investment and fraud detection. The bank provides online banking to support its renowned customers. The current application is a part of online banking that a customer uses to set up his e-bills payments, view online statements and also do many other online activities. This application allows authorized users to access, update, and add products. This application is used for handling various kinds of banking products like Credit card, CD, Mortgage, Money Market.    Responsibilities:  • Created detail design document, Use cases and Class Diagrams using UML and Rational Rose.  • Created sequence diagrams to show the flow of pages using Rational Rose.  • Used to interact with Business Analyst in team meetings and involved in testing with End user.  • Designed the System based on the business requirements and prepared the data flow, divided data flow into modules, functions and interface  • Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with ExtJS.  • Have extensively used JQuery, CSS3 and HTML5 for the front end.  • Used Multithreading to improve the performance for processing of data feeds.  • Involved in designing Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Activity Diagram  • Designed, Developed and Deployed EJB Components on WebLogic10g.  • Used Stateless Session Beans (EJB) for implementing business logic.  • Wrote numerous Java classes using EJB, JSP and Servlets.  • Created and consume SOAP Web Services.  • Extensive experience in design and development of MQSeries applications using MQSeries for Java and MQSeries JMS APIs  • Involved in the various phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) like Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design and implementation of the project.  • Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers with Linux, Tomcat, MySQL, Apache, etc.  • Followed AGILE Methodology and SCRUM to deliver the product with cross-functional skills.  • Used Bootstrap along with Angular JS in creating the Application.  • Involved in writing Unix Shell Scripts.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, and JSON and AngularJS.  • Used JQuery plugins for Drag-and- Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms, integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management.  • Developed MAVEN scripts to build and deploy the application onto Application Server and ran UNIX shell scripts and implemented auto deployment process.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (JQuery, React JS and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain.  • Used LDAP and JAAS to maintain Web Services Security in the application.  • Developed client stubs to consume a web Services using axis.  • Used Struts framework to implement the MVC design pattern in the application.  • Used Custom tags and JSP Standard actions for developing JSP pages  • Developed contract first web services using Spring Webservices and used XMLBeans for Marshalling and UnMarshalling the request.  • Used HQL, Criteria queries to perform all the required CRUD operations against the Oracle DB  • Used Hibernate template to persist data and worked with Hibernate relationships  • Involved in the day to day interaction with the customers for data mapping and form integrations  • Involved in preparing SOAP requests for testing the API to the internal VZ backend  • Created the Webservice clients to consume the gateway WSDL and deployed on WebLogic10  • Implemented JUNIT testing framework to write and run automated testing.    Environment: Java/ Java EE 5, Eclipse3.4, Struts 2, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, JDK 1.5, JSP, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap, HTML, ExtJs, Hibernate 3.X, Shell Scripting, WebLogic10, XML,JIRA, React JS, AWS, JUnit, Oracle 10g, SOAP, SOAPUI, Spring Web Services, Git, UNIX. Sr. Java Developer MetLife - Tampa, FL November 2013 to August 2014 Description:  Risk Data Capture (RDC) aims for developing an automated means of gathering the data that Underwriter needs to renew a policy. It gathers information from internal legacy data sources and rules (analysis) are applied to each renewal account/policy. It provides a capability to store renewal data in database and provides browser based application to Underwriters to view the renewal data and enter comments and other details related to renewals that will be stored back to the persistent storage.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered & analyzed requirements from the customer and written requirements, technical and design specifications.  • Participate in business analysis requirements with the business analyst.  • Involved in the Development of Struts MVC Framework.  • Developed Controller for request, response paradism by Struts Controllers using Struts-MVC pattern.  • Configured the URL mappings and bean classes using Struts-web.xml.  • Developed applications using Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping files .hbm.xml file, hibernate query language  • Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  • Implementation of Spring Restful web services which produces JSON.  • Applied Multithreading techniques for creating high performance applications. Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance.  • Worked on AJAX implementation for retrieving the content and display it without reloading the existing page  • Implemented the application using the various J2EE design patterns like DAO, Singleton and Business Facade.  • Designed and developed the UI using spring view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JQuery.  • Used spring validator framework for client side and server side validation. Also implemented dynamic loading of JSPs using AJAX.  • Used AJAX in suggestive search and to display dialog boxes.  • Involved in Web Service development and implementation.  • Created UNIX shell scripting for periodic generation of reports.  • Hands on experience in deployment of J2EE applications on WebSphere Application Servers 6.0(WAS).  • Development of different application layers like ActionHandler, Facade and process objects.  • Written Test cases using JUnit framework to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.  • Mentoring developers regarding business knowledge and application framework knowledge.  • Developing business objects which contains the business logic and also interacts with database (DAO).  • Production support contact - to analyze, debug and investigate on problems reported by users  • Code reviews (standards, performance tuning, re factoring, reusability)  • Used Log4J to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • Written ANT build script for the application build and deployment.  • Worked with CVS Version control.  • Performed Unit testing.  • Used agile methodology for the software development process.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.5, RTC, Struds1.2, Hibernate, WebSphere Application Server (WAS)6.0, JDBC 2.0, SQL Serv Server 2005, Net Bean, Servlets 2.2, JSP 1.2, REST, Log4j, Shell scripting, Web Services, SOAP, JUnit, HTML, DHTML, CVS, XML, JavaScript, Apache Ant. Java Developer Cisco Systems January 2013 to November 2013 Description:  The system is used for order and trade reconciliation. The system could be configured to accept trade and order files from the clients or access database of client systems. At the end of the day the open order/trade quantities and their particular details would be matched with both the sides and verified for any discrepancies. After comparing two record lists, the reconciliation system generates a list of all non-matching records for client for further user action and modifications. This reconciliation system provides a web user interface to present the result and all the details for client.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating design documents for the project using Rational Rose tool, UML and J2EE design patterns.  • Designed and developed application based on Struts MVC framework.  • Employed Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator and Singleton design patterns for the above framework.  • Developed Struts Dispatch Action classes and DynaAction Forms using Struts framework.  • Configured the WebSphere8.0 application server and deployed the web components.  • Developed all J2EE components using Eclipse 3.6.  • Involved in developing the business logic using the session and entity beans and persistency layer classes with EJB3.0.  • Designed and developed the user interface using Struts View component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on XML using SAX and DOM parsers.  • ANT was used for the entire build process.  • Used XSL/XSLT for transforming XML documents.  • Experience with Angular JS, JQuery, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Perl, AJAX, Adobe Flex, JSON, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Tiles, Tag Libraries.  • Design patterns are extensively used to achieve clean separation of different layers. Used different patterns like Adapter, Singleton, Strategy, Factory, Abstract Factory, MVC, DAO and Service Locator, Facade.  • Developed the SOAP web services.  • Involved in the implementation of connection pooling techniques for JDBC to optimize database activities.  • Used CVS for version controlling and JUnit for unit testing.  • Involved in development of a generic Data access object (DAO) layer module for user accounts and sales reporting using JDBC to interface with database systems running on Oracle.  • Performed deployment, end user training for the above.    Environment:J2EE, JSP, Servlet2.4, XML, Struts 1.2, EJB3.0, SOAP, BEA WebSphere8.0, Eclipse 5.1, JDBC, MySql, JUnit, ANT, Rational Rose, Win XP,DAO pattern, SAX, DOM, XSL/XSLT,HTML,JAXP,CSS. Project Engineer Philips - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2010 to October 2012 Description:  It is a web enabled system for business process. The customer, agent or trader can place orders request for a quote or enter into contract, exchange information about the contract or request changes to the contract and track the order till it is shipped to their location. The total application helps in imposing the standards and strategies that are put forward in the actual world with the use of Electronic media which helps the user to buy goods online. The project has 3 modules. Customer, Orders, Items which makes user to interact easily while buying goods or checking order status and items status. Through the system, the internal users of sales and marketing division can create contracts, exchange information with the customer, finance and shipping agent.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams.  • Successfully Implemented Delta Prescreen Web service. The project was developed using Scrum and Agile methodologies.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using HTML, DHTML, CSS, and JSPs.  • Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.  • Worked on I frame, Spring/Struts Framework in implementing business logic to interact with the Hibernate for object relational mapping and other business processes of the system.  • Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form.  • Developed Action classes which are part of controller class, evaluates date form beans by invoking methods on BD's and then forwards to some other action or JSP.  • Rich User Interface is achieved within the Application with the usage of custom JavaScript functions and JQuery plugins.  • Designed Application flow and Developed UML diagrams for the application using Rational Rose.  • Interacted with DBA team to resolve Performance issues related slow Data load for services involving several complex SQL queries having slow response time.  • Used ANT Script to Build WAR and EAR files and deployed on Web sphere and Used Maven during the application deployment    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, Struts, MVC, Oracle, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, Web Sphere. Systems Engineer FORD Motors - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2008 to March 2010 Project: One Warranty Solution (OWS)  Description:  Project helps to claim payment information from different Countries by the Dealers. When dealer submit claims through mainframe application that data will be saved into Network Attachment Storage (NAS). These files stored in different format Every claim has number of claims, if submitted information is correct it will be processed and give the response success, if submitted data might have any duplicate data then claim will be rejected and send Exception message to the Dealer.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in Functional and Systems Requirements Modelling sessions to create System Requirements for the application.  • Involved in building GUI using JSF, JSP, JavaScript, Html and CSS.  • Used MVC architecture framework like Struts to implement user interfaces. Implemented validations and tiles for web pages using struts validation framework.  • Implemented User interface using Struts framework tag library JSP's and validation by using JavaScript.  • Technical design for the system to the MVC architecture, Front Controller, Business Delegate and Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns.  • Involved in System Testing, Functionality Testing, Unit Testing, Integration Testing, GUI Testing, Regression Testing, Load Testing, Smoke Testing and Security Testing.  • Actively Involved in EJB component development, deployment for the different application interfaces.  • Involved into write and modify the database stored procedures, functions and PL/SQL Scripts.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, Struts Framework, JSP, HTML, JDBC, JavaScript, CSS, Eclipse, Web Logic, Win CVS, ANT and Oracle. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (8 years), HTML (9 years), Java (9 years), JavaScript (9 years), Struts (9 years), Spring, Hibernate, WebLogic, Richface, Angular JS, Linux, APACHE CXF, JMS, Shell scripting, REST, JSP, JDK 1.5, SERVLET, MYSQL, JDBC, AWS, Groovy, Eclipse, MAVEN, Agile, JIRA, Web 2.0, SOA. (8 years) (7 years) Certifications/Licenses TS/SCI clearance Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming/Scripting Languages JAVA, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XML, SQL  J2EE Technologies Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, Richfaces, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, EJB, XML, Web Services, LDAP  Frame works Apache struts, Hibernate, spring, AJAX, WebObjects  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Web-logic Server, WebSphere  Tools / IDEs Eclipse, Netbeans  RDBMS / Database ORACLE 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server, DB2, MySQL  Web Development HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, AJAX  Methodologies OOAD using UML, Rational Rose, Agile/XP  Operating Systems Windows2000/XP/2003, UNIX, LINUX, DOS  Software Oracle, MS Office, Adobe Photoshop, Flash, JIRA  Others Ant, Maven, Log4J, JUnit, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, XSL