Job Seeker Kennett Square, PA Work Experience Wendell Murray Associates Inc - Kennett Square, PA 2003 to Present Kennett Square PA  2003-current  Java software development. Electronic medical records system consulting. Business advisory. Tax work. Active in the USA and in Italy Java developer Windsor Mill MD July 2018 to July 2019 Applications to capture, report on, remediate possible security violations into SSA systems  Public trust security clearance. Completed one year contract to make enhancements to two of the SSA's so-called cybersecurity applications. Full refactoring of the code in one application to increase speed of processing, as well as to make what was almost undecipherable code easy to read, follow and maintain. Due to the inflexibility of the development process followed by the SSA, unable to do the same refactoring for the second application in the time available. The second application, also web-browser-accessed, handles the complicated SSA process of granting resource access to software developers to all resources on the mainframe computing system. Goal of one application simple: process resource access logs produced by the SSA's mainframe computer, then parse, analyze, write the data to a SQL (DB2 RDMS) database through a batch application. Once the relevant data are available in the SQL database, a web interface application permits security officers for the many organizational units of the SSA to view the data and to take any appropriate actions. Technology used: WebSphere 8.5 application server, Struts 2, internally developed JSP tags, JSTL, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, custom JavaScript library, JQuery, myBatis for data store interaction for one application, JDBC for the other application. Batch processing uses bash scripts, run in a UNIX environment on the mainframe computer, then moved to a Linux computing environment, so the batch scripts required some revision. Required some knowledge of IBM mainframe design and Job Control Language scripts, as well as scripting with the Linux bash scripting interface. Conversion from a versioning control system called Integrity/MFS to git. Also conversion of code build and deployment to Maven from an Ant script. Java developer Gateway Medical Associates Inc October 2017 to July 2018 PatientOS development and implementation  More work with PatientOS, a free and open-source (F\OSS) Java-based electronic medical records system. See below. This is episodic work that I do when I am not working on other projects. Done mainly to maintain my knowledge technical knowledge of EMR systems and on-going developments in distributing electronically patient clinical data among all patient providers and insurers. Java developer Office of Disability Systems - Woodlawn, MD October 2015 to October 2017 Applications to improve automation of the processing of disability insurance claims  Enhancements to a set of related, Java-based application using EJB 3.0, Lucene (for indexing/retrieval), JavaServerFaces for user interface, MySQL RDBMS, JBoss AS, Eclipse IDE and related software Public Trust security clearance required. Work involved the SSA's disability insurance division and more specifically electronic medical record interaction with healthcare providers, whether hospital systems, facilities or individuals, who provide medical records data to support claims for those who may qualify for this SSA program. Goal is to speed up the decision on claims from months or longer to days. Some involvement with a machine learning project designed to create applications that can parse and analyze medical data of all sorts, including text of physicians notes that can be used to closely approximate the classification and charge code work currently performed by human medical coders. Java developer USA Department of Homeland Security - Alexandria, VA October 2013 to October 2015 New application for the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agency  Java-based application using EJB 3.0, Struts 2, Oracle RDBMS, Hibernate, Websphere AS, Eclipse IDE, JQuery and related software to meet specific information needs of agents of USA federal customs and border protection service. Public Trust security clearance. One of several Java software developers responsible for architecture, design and coding of the application. Java developer Gateway Medical Associates Inc October 2012 to October 2013 PatientOS development and implementation  Improvements to and work with PatientOS, a free and open-source (F\OSS) Java-based electronic medical records system. PatientOS runs under JBoss and uses the PostgreSQL relational database management system or alternatively the Amazon cloud for database storage. I use PostgreSQL running on a local network.    PatientOS is a distributed system, that uses JBoss as application server, Mirth, Hibernate and JDBC for database access, a web-based patient portal, fat (Swing interface) and thin (browser interface) client access to the server and connectors for exchanging XML and HL7 with external systems. Mirth is an interface "engine", which can handle a variety of messaging protocols, including HL7 and other types of messages.    The system was designed using concepts from OpenEHR, which is a specification for healthcare information systems that includes a reference model (domain classes), a service model (service classes) and an archetype model (archetypes are created to limit the domain classes for specific purposes). The Java architecture contains (1) data access layer, (2) business logic layer that contains classes for business rules, domain objects and service classes and (3) presentation layer that uses the service facade and MVC design patterns.    Among physicians practices that I have worked with regarding EMR systems is Gateway Medical Associates, Inc., which has more than 15 primary care and specialty offices in Chester County PA. PatientOS also evaluated at several other multi-office, specialty practices in Chester County. Gateway is on the forefront of physician practices which have implemented and used EMR technologies. Very well-managed, profitable practice that provides excellent service to patients.    Other recent projects involving use of MapReduce techniques, key-value database systems, Java Native Interface (JNI), C and C++ programming and other technologies all of which I have wanted to understand in greater depth. Java developer InsPro - Eddystone, PA May 2012 to September 2012 Claims application for insurance companies  Enhancements to an application for insurance claims management aimed primarily at healthcare insurers and life insurers. InsPro is a small (under 100 employees) software development company specializing in administrative software development for life and healthcare insurers. The claims application uses Spring dependency injection, Spring ORM (Hibernate) and JBDC helper classes and Spring MVC. The application design involves the use of hundreds of custom extensions of various Spring MVC controller classes which interact with corresponding service classes, data access objects (DAOs) and entity objects. The user interface is a custom web-based implementation that is written with a custom JavaScript-based framework. Otherwise the application uses JSP technology for interaction with the server-based application. The use of JSP includes dozens of custom tag classes which require additions and enhancement. RDBMS is Microsoft SQL Server 2008. Java developer Carpenter Technology - Reading, PA November 2011 to May 2012 Standard costing web application  Carpenter Technology is large producer of specialty steels. The project involved completion of a specific portion of a standard cost accounting, web-based application to replace a manual system based on spreadsheets. The cost accounting application itself handles cost accounting for the production of 400 steel products that are then inventoried for future sale. Technology used: Oracle's JDeveloper IDE and Oracle's Application Development Framework (ADF) Fusion technology. ADF provides a JavaServerFaces-implementation along with over 150 ADF Rich Faces user interface components, as the runtime framework. Application design more or less already set with much of the base application also already in place. Worked with another Java developer to help complete the application. This involved creation of .jspx web files for the view tier, related XML (.jsff file extension in ADF) webpage "fragments" that handle the view for regions within the .jspx webpages, creation of backing/managed beans, of business objects and other Java-based classes. Design used a façade/service/DAO pattern, rather than the data controls/data binding technology available in ADF. JPA persistence technology in the EclipseLink implementation. Relational database system Oracle 11g. Java developer Regulatory Data Corporation King of Prussia PA - King of Prussia, PA June 2011 to November 2011 Search/matching application  RDC is a small (under 40 employees) niche company that provides compliance and risk management services to financial services companies (large banks). It has developed proprietary software using Java and related software and tools to provide these services. Much of the processing involves searching a wide range of data sources, then parsing the data for addition to its databases, which are then used for a range of search and analysis tasks. Documentation, testing and refactoring of search, matching and analysis Java classes in three main applications, including consideration of expanded use of the Lucene search/matching API, the Solr server that extends usage of Lucene and the IBM Global Name Recognition (GNR) application, a proprietary search/matching system. Java developer VWR - Radnor, PA February 2011 to June 2011 Global web services application  Replacement of a global web application to a 10 year old Perl/CGI web application. Java-based, uses an e-commerce platform called ATG. Web services development. Integration of web application with new installation of SAP. Some specifics: Custom Java core API programming to create interfaces and classes following a specification document prepared 6 months earlier Design and coding of web services using SOAP web services API (using javax.jws, javax.xml.ws, javax.jws.soap APIs from Java 6.0) along with standard web service annotations to interact with clients and services on either side of the web application. ATG on the client side, a custom ERP now in use and SAP, the replacement ERP, on the service side Web service development interacting through the SAP JCO API to the SAP ERP backend application, so custom programming using the JCO API IDE used standard Eclipse with standard plug-ins for JBoss as application service, Maven pom.xml files for builds, JRebel for incremental builds, CVS plug-in for interacting with the remote CVS respository. Made many changes to existing application to refactor classes and class relationships which needed simplification or improvement Superb and effective collaboration with another contract developer working on the same application and with an excellent project manager from the client company who helped us obtain attention from other personnel and other resources which we needed Mostly left to myself and my collaborating developer to figure out what to do and how to go about it with very little input or direction from the person supervising e-commerce development activities. Data persistence to existing development and quality assurance Oracle databases including frequent calling of procedures with the Oracle database. Development of new tables within given Oracle databases to provide database persistence for new functionality added to the application. Minor additions/changes to a Spring ApplicationContext object used to tie components together. Additions/changes to the data-source xml document in JBoss to accommodate new data source connections within a connection pool Java developer Educational Testing Service - Ewing, NJ September 2010 to February 2011 Web application development  Project to develop a web application for payment of test raters that fits within a much larger application used by ETS to manage testing and test rating activities. Technology used included: JBoss Developer Studio 3.0.1, JBoss AS 6.0 application server, Seam, Java Server Faces, RichFaces, Subversion, Maven, Hibernate/JPA, Spring DI. Worked within a loose agile development environment. Developed an application from scratch using the rapid application development features of JBoss Developer Studio Database schema already created by database administrators, so used that as a basis for generating classes needed through utilities available for that purpose in Seam. Developed the user interface with RichFaces facelets (.xhtml rather than .jsp) technology including frequent use of XML elements that handle Ajax interaction with the server. Followed an example implementation that was adapted from the hotel reservation system example available in the Seam tutorials. Used JPA as the data persistence layer of the application to communication with other layers and with the Oracle database JBoss Developer Studio uses the Hibernate implementation of JPA, so JPA persistence objects act as wrappers around the underlying Hibernate API. Used JUnit4 for continuous testing through plug-in JBoss Developer Studio. Worked with almost no direction from anyone else on the project, so had to figure out most details for myself. Acquainted myself sufficiently with Seam and RichFaces while doing the development without experience with either, gaining a current high level of expertise in Seam and a good knowledge of RichFaces. Solidified my understanding of JSF design features and implementation techniques and gained a full understanding of the interaction between JSF and Seam and where Seam improves upon the JSF design (primarily in obviating the need for backing beans, but also in adding phase listeners, additional filter objects, additional context objects to maintain different scopes of state depending how long maintenance of state from one phase of action to another was needed).    Java development as independent Java developer  Below is a sample of Java-based development projects that I have done with my own direct clients before working on a contract basis on large enterprise-type projects. In addition to Java development work, I have done a range of business and technology-oriented consulting work, primarily related to selection and implementation of electronic medical records (EMR) systems in ambulatory (physicians practices) environments. I have also done a range of business type consulting. Java developer American Field Service Intercultural Programs - New York, NY 2010 to 2010 Survey/commentary website  Survey/weblog application for scheduling the reunion of participants in AFS for a specific year AFS the leading international student/cultural exchange organization.Offered for general use to AFS itself. Technology used: original prototype of application uses custom-designed MVC following Command design pattern, implemented within Tomcat application server. Later refactored with features including: other Java EE (EJB 3, JPA 2) JavaMail, CXF web service for interaction with remote applications, MySQL database server, Spring MVC, Spring application context, JBoss application server Java developer Pennsylvania Regional Extension Center - Kennett Square, PA 2010 to 2010 Health Information Exchange platform  Platform of exchanging clinical and demographic data for patients among medical service providers, patients, paying organizations and governmental agencies. Extends the Dossia HIE platform that in turn in build on Harvard Childrens Hospital F/OSS (free and open-source software) called Indivo. Web services use RESTful architecture (Restlet API). Still in initial stages, but technology to be used: Java core and Java EE-based system. MySQL. Google Web Toolkit (GWT) for web tier along with Wicket for MVC, Axis 1.4 for web services, EJB 3 (JPA for data persistence) Spring for application context. Java developer Project of Wendell Murray Associates Inc - West Chester, PA 2009 to 2009 Bidding on use of idle medical imaging equipment  Prototype for an automated, web-accessible service for patients who want to make bids on idle time available on imaging machines such as CAT (computerized axial tomography) scanners and MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) machines. Equipment is expensive to acquire, but relatively inexpensive to operate. Diagnostic imaging facilities price is based usually on average cost assuming a certain level of utilization of the machinery during the year and with reference to the relevant CPT (Current Procedure Terminology) code translated into a monetary value by Medicare or by a private insurer or as a self-pay charge. The average cost therefore is a function of the amortization period of the purchase/installation cost of the machine which is a big number in the million dollar plus range. The machines however are often idle, so pricing can be on an incremental cost basis which is quite low, essentially the cost of a technician for a short period of time and the cost of electricity and and expendables to run the equipment. In other words price able at say $100 rather than $1,100 or so with fully loaded costs. This application uses the Google GWT toolkit to create the JavaScript on the client side. Web services use RESTful architecture (JBoss RestEasy API). Technology EJB 3, Spring, Servlets, MySQL Axis 1.4 for web services, Wicket, JSP, Ajax, among other technologies. Logging Log4J Java developer Gateway Medical Associates Inc - Exton, PA 2008 to 2008 Health data warehousing  Created a data warehouse using Talend ETL (extract, transform, load) application for a large multi-office, multi-specialty physicians practice that integrated data from a variety of sources: demographic, billing, financial and patient clinical data. This is part of several related projects including the current project listed above for creating a Health Information Exchange (HIE) in the eastern Pennsylvania Regional Extension Center area and specific to the needs of the physicians practice to centralize all of its data. Experimented with Pentaho ETL but decided to use Talend for this project. Technology used: Java core APIs, Talend Data Integration application Java developer Pioneer Urgent Care - West Chester, PA 2008 to 2008 Web-based "portal" into eClinicalWorks EMR system  Web-accessible interface for patients and other outside parties to interact with an electronic medical records (EMR) application called eClinicalWorks. EMR systems record, manipulate clinical data. The application, called eClinicalWorks and produced by a company also called eClinicalWorks, is one of the leading commercial products on the market. Technology used: Java core APIs., Java EE (Servlets, JSP, JavaServer Faces, JSTL, EJB 3), CXF web services to outside systems, MySQL, Tomcat, HAPI API for HL7 messaging. Logging Apache Commons logging Java developer LE Design and Crafts - Devon, PA 2005 to 2005 Handbags and crafts website and other websites.  Refactoring in process. Google Checkout service to handle payments. Initally written with PHP and MySQL. Later refactored using Java and Struts as MVC, then refactored using JavaServer Faces API. Technology used: Java/ Java EE, using Servlets, Struts, MySQL ,JDBC for data access, Logging Apache Commons Logging PHP developer West Chester Anesthesia Associates - West Chester, PA 2004 to 2004 Scheduling/personnel management application  Contracted with a 30-person anesthesia practice that provides anesthesia services to the Chester County Hospital, a top-rated hospital serving Chester County PA and the surrounding area. The project developed is web-accessible application written in PHP. Before creating and implementing the application a nurse anesthetists spent close to 15 hours per week scheduling anesthesiologist and nurse anesthetists for the practice. The person used an ad hoc manual way of scheduling and communicating with her colleagues, expending a significant amount of time that could be much better spend providing anesthesia services to the hospital. Savings on the anesthetist's time amounted to at least $60,000 per year. Significant savings in time to the personnel scheduled for work who now may check the schedule, make changes and so at any time through the web interface. Gave the project to Intratechs, a software developer in West Chester PA to refactor and create the final PHP version.    Software development prior to 2002  Programming on mainframes at Andersen Consulting (now Accenture) in COBOL, including integrating new software with existing systems also written in COBOL. Complete applications including my own version of a relational database system using various versions of BASIC. Simple payroll system written in C in 1996 for handling pay to workers in a company that I owned and ran.    Some clients: eClinicalWorks, Meyer Design Associates, Gateway Medical Associates, Pioneer Urgent Care, Chester County Anesthesiology, Chester County Hospital, L'Università L. Bocconi Milan Italy, Studio Scotti/Modica Turin Italy, L'Università degli Studi di Bologna, Brandywine Assisted Living, Ospedale Koelliker Turin, Italy, Amsale, PatientOS President Pallet Recyclers of New York Inc - Saratoga Springs, NY 1992 to 2002 Founded and ran a small manufacturer of wooden pallets made from wood recovered from existing pallets. Saw an opportunity to start a business by underpricing and outperforming the dominant vendor. Sold business in 2002. Chief Operating Serotta Competition Bicycles - Saratoga Springs, NY 1990 to 1992 Financial Officer Co-ran with the founder, Ben Serotta, a leading manufacturer of top-end bike frames during a period of fast growth. Serotta had long been one of the leading innovators in frame design, in particular tube design. For over 30 years it built many of the bicycle frames used by USA, Olympic, world championship and professional racers. Hired to help manage growth after the company received a large capital infusion. Co-founder WSS Partners - Los Angeles, CA 1988 to 1989 Created business plans, raised financing for 2 post-production (editing) facility projects. Later sold interest in the project to the Industrial Light and Magic subsidiary of Lucasfilm, now a part of The Walt Disney Company. VP-Finance, Consumer Products Walt Disney Company - Burbank, CA 1986 to 1988 Consumer products encompassed all licensing, merchandising, music, publishing, educational and retailing activities of Disney outside of the theme parks. Operations were world-wide. Hired to organize the financial staff of individual divisions and non-U.S. offices. Helped expand the lines and volume of business working with operating managers and the head of business development. Director financing in treasury department Time Inc./HBO 1984 to 1986 Time Inc./HBO - New York, NY 1981 to 1986 Manager of Financial Planning Time Inc./HBO 1983 to 1984 Manager of Financial Planning Time Inc./HBO 1981 to 1983 Information systems integration and implementation Andersen Consulting - New York, NY 1979 to 1981 Education MBA in Finance/accounting/information systems Amos Tuck School BA University of Vermont Links http://wpmassociates.com