sr. Full Stack Java Developer sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - AMERICAN EXPRESS Sunrise, FL • Over 10 years of professional experience in software design and development with a strong Java, JEE back ground and UI Development.  • Experience of enterprise level application development with Java centric technologies in the domain of Banking and Insurance, Healthcare.  • Extensive experience working in a Test-Driven Development and Agile-Scrum Development.  • Experience in working in both Windows, Linux and UNIX platforms including programming and debugging skills in UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Good working knowledge of JEE best practice toolsets such as Ant, Maven 3.5.0, Bamboo, Urban Code.  • Employing Java Object/Relational bridge technologies such as Hibernate ORM 5.0.2, JPA, and spring.  • Developed applications using frameworks and API like Struts 4.2.0, Spring MVC.  • JAVA/J2EE development experience in server side and client-side programming.  • Extensive experience in Java/JEE programming - JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JMS.  • Experienced in Web Services approach for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experienced in web development using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Angular 4 and AJAX technologies.  • Developed applications based on Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using core design patterns (creational, structural, behavioral) and JEE design patterns (Data Access Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Façade etc.).  • Sound working knowledge of performance tuning in JAVA and JEE including hibernate tuning.  • Experience in using various Configuration Management tools like CVS, GIT and SVN.  • Experience in using ANT tool Maven to compile, package and deploy the components to the Application Servers.  • Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC and XML Beans.  • Expertise in developing and consuming Web services including different technologies and standards like DTD, XSD, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, WS-I and Apache Axis, JAX-RPC.  • Good knowledge in RESTful Web Services, VMware vSphere API.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, JBuilder, Rational Application Developer(RAD) for Java/JEE application development.  • Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows XP/7/8, AIX, and Sun Solaris.  • In-depth knowledge of PL/SQL with the experience in constructing the triggers, tables, functions, user defined data type, procedures etc.  • Proficiency in working with databases like Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, NoSQL.  • Experience in using testing Tools Junit, Selenium, and Cucumber/Gherkin.  • Expertise in database modeling and development using SQL, T-SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle and SQL Server environments.  • Exposure to Oracle, DB2, and MySQL databases in developing applications using SQL Scripts, Stored Procedures.  • Experience using an Integrated Development Environment like Eclipse, RAD 7.5/8.5 for code development.  • Extensive experience on support tools like Application Life Cycle Management to perform Unit testing and Application integration testing.  • Experience of configuration tool CVS, Clear Case and Tortoise SVN developing on Linux, Windows Operating Systems.  • Extensive experience in developing Web Services applications using REST Client, REST API, SOAP UI.  • Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills. Work Experience sr. Full Stack Java Developer AMERICAN EXPRESS - Sunrise, FL, US July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Followed agile methodology, interacted with the client, provide/take feedback on the features, suggest/ implement optimal solutions and tailored application to customer needs.  • Used java 1.8 Stream and Lambda expressions available as part of to store and process the data.  • Involved in designing user interface by using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and ReactJS.  • Designed and developed the system used for AWS Elastic Environments, including monitoring individual instance and managing individual components and SNS, SQS for asynchronous workflow.  • Used Docker to containerize the Services and APIs to run on AWS EC2 instances.  • Implemented Micro services Architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and SOAP.  • Implemented Micro services using Spring Batch, Spring Boot, and Spring Security and deployed on AWS.  • Used Spring IOC to make the code loosely coupled and Spring's Hibernate Support for transaction management.  • Implemented Complex Business Delegate layer using DAO's created and business logic.  • Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, Generics, and Collections whenever necessary.  • Implemented business layer using Core java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, spring annotations.  • Implemented Micro services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Micro services and enabled discovery using Netflix Eureka Server.  • Used Micro services architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and MQ and leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy micro services.  • Used Couch base as a database for one of the micro service which talks to database using nickel queries within spring framework.  • Developed SQL and PL/ SQL scripts for transfer of data between databases.  • Worked on creation of External Tables to read files from the database file systems.  • Worked on Data Extraction, Data Mapping, Data Conversion, and Data Loading process using UNIX Shell scripting, SQL, PL/SQL, and SQL Loader.  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed Junit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Used Maven building tool for creating EAR file to be deployed in application servers. It is also used for dependency management of code in application.  • Implemented Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI & CD) Process stack using Devops tools like Jenkins.  • Developed server-side scripts in shell to customize GIT and integrate it with tools like JIRA, and Jenkins.  • Configured log4j to enable/disable logging in application.  • Resolved bugs/defects in application by coordinated with team members of the project to assure a positive outcome.  • Involved in production support, resolving the production job failures, interacting with the operations support group for resuming the failed jobs.    Environment: Java1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJS, Bootstrap, AWS, Micro services, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, Ubuntu, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Cloud, Shell scripting, OAUTH2 XML, Oracle 12, Couch base, SQL, NOSQL, LINUX, RESTful, SNS, SQS, Docker, Kafka, Spring Tool Suite, Junit, Maven, Selenium, Jenkins, GIT, JIRA, Rally. Full Stack Java Developer Charles Schwab - Denver, Colorado, US April 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed application based on Micro services Oriented Architecture using Spring Boot and Angular 4.0, Node JS with Express JS, and MongoDB.  • Involved in development, design and implementation front end part of the widget based application using HTML5, CSS3-LESS, AJAX, Bootstrap 4.0.  • Experience with the new features of Angular 4.0 new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators, Routers.  • Highly used Angular 4.0 router to build Single Page Application for navigation through the different status and multiple modals.  • Implemented Micro service architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • The Component based architecture provided by the Angular 4.0 was used for creating and developing the Typescript components which are reusable and services for producing and consuming the Rest API's.  • Implemented Typescript for providing deep readability for tools through its optional static typing.  • Worked with Angular CLI and Typescript in Angular 4.0 to create Controllers and Angular components for the Web Pages.  • Worked with database export & import with Mongo DB to migrate data from the old system.  • Involved in developing RESTful web services using Node JS and Express JSframeworks.  • Node JS with Express JS is used in developing micro service components to attain Non-blocking event driven platform that interact with multiple data sources.  • Solid Understanding of RDBMS concepts and Extensive development experience using databases such as MySQL, NoSQL databases like Mongo DB.  • Used AWSElastic Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with NodeJS.  • Unstructured data was handled using Mongo DB and used Mongoose Connector for connecting to database.  • Well versed in writing SQL and PL/SQLstored procedures, functions and triggers. Configured and monitored numerous Mongo DB and NoSQLinstances.  • Used OAuth 2.0 protocol for authorization of server and application use Access Tokens for making API requests and implemented SiteMinder for Single Sign On.  • Worked with Express JS which respond to HTTP Requests and dynamically render HTML Pages based on passing arguments to templates.  • Utilized Swagger framework for design, documentation, testing and deployment of REST APIs in Spring Boot.  • Developed Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud with Netflix Eureka to create the discovery Server, service, discovery clients and integrated Apache Kafka and Zookeeper as message broker.  • Experience in writing different unit test cases using Jasmine and karma testing frameworks on Angular 4.0.  • Implemented the Spring Netflix Zuul API gateway and Eureka service registry for reverse proxy and Dynamic service discovery of API's, Ribbon for Load Balancing and Hystrix Circuit Breaker for Fault tolerance.  • Worked on the ELK (Elastic Search, Logstash, and Kibana) stack to facilitate information processing and sharing.  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology.    Environment: Spring Boot, Angular 4.0, Node JS with Express JS, MongoDB, HTML5, CSS3-LESS, AJAX, Bootstrap 4.0, Angular CLI, Typescript, RDBMS, SQL, PL/SQL,NOSQL,OAuth 2.0, Site Minder, Jasmine and karma, AGILE, NetflixZuul, Eureka, Apache Kafka and Zookeeper, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, REST APIs, ELK, SDLC, Agile. Java Developer AGL Resources - Naperville, IL, US May 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked with business analysts to gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications.  • Prepared technical artifacts including UML Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc., using Rational Rose.  • Involved in design and development of the application using MVC Model.  • Dynamic web pages are developed using JSP and Custom Tags.  • Involved in the development of controllers by using the Spring MVC framework.  • Configured spring to inject DAO objects into business layer and Hibernate to map POJOs with Oracle Database tables using XML configuration file.  • Used Spring AOP for logging and profiling for certain modules.  • Developed Customized Spring Multi Action controllers for handling similar operations and configured spring and Spring JDBC frameworks to develop full-fledged MVC and DB interaction application.  • Built Single page application (SPA) using Angular JS as per the requirement.  • Implemented various design patterns - Singleton, Business Delegate, Value Object and Spring DAO  • Developed the code for Asynchronous update to web page using JavaScript, RESTful and Ajax  • Provided support for other existing and ongoing projects  • Implemented Rest based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Spring MVC Rest controller to handle different data representations.  • Maintained relationship between objects using Spring IOC  • Followed Agile Scrum methodology.  • Handled final builds, deployments and management using MAVEN to customize EAR, WAR and JAR files and the application is deployed on JBoss server.  • Developed logging module-using Log4J to create log files for debugging and tracing purposes.  • Developed Junit test cases for testing the application.  • Worked closely with the testing team in creating new Test cases and also created the Use cases for the module before the testing phase.    Environment: Java6, JSP, AJAX, Angular JS Spring, Hibernate 3.0, STS, JBoss, XHTML, XML, SVN, SOAP, Spring MVC Rest Controller, Web Services (SOAP Axis), Junit, Log4J, PL/SQL. Full Stack Java Developer Assurant - Wayne, PA, US February 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes requirement-gathering, design, coding, testing.  • Worked on core AWS services such as Setting up a new server (EC2) instances/services in AWS, configuring security groups, and setting up Elastic IP's, auto-scaling and Cloud Formation.  • Performed code reviews and provide guidelines for best practices of software management, Coding Standards and Code Commenting for better understandability.  • Designed and developed product for delivery location monitoring system using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Cloud, Maven, JPA, Hibernate, Tomcat, RabbitMQ, MongoDB, Web Socket, and implemented server-side REST APIs.  • Developed user management screens using JSFframework, business components using spring framework and DAO classes using the Hibernate framework for persistence management and involved in integrating the frameworks for the project.  • Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using JSF, JSP's, Prime Faces, Ajax4JSF framework (Ajax), JavaScript and Backing Beans.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO, DTO, and MVC.  • Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework.  • Hibernate used as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Wrote Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Developed the presentation n-Tier using JSP, JavaScript, and HTML.  • Worked on advanced Hibernate associations with multiple levels of Caching, lazy loading.  • Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validations.  • Implemented Ajax using Ajax4JSF Framework and nested Taglibs API along with other standard Taglibs in the application, as a better approach for screen development and reusability of visual components in the JSP pages.  • Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized XML documents using Springframework.  • Consumed restful web services using ApacheHttp Client for the data coming from external systems.  • Involved in designing data schema and development of SOAP web services with Axis implementation and REST web services with JAX-RS.  • Consumed SOAP/ JAX-WS based web services using Springframework and used SOAP UI for testing these services.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop a Spring-based application with very less configuration.  • Developed web service client using Spring Framework and REST HTTP protocol to get customer credentials and information.  • Implemented Spring Boot Microservices to divide the application into various sub-modules.  • Used micro-services architecture with Spring-based services to integrate user libraries in the application.  • Used Sonar for maintaining the code quality and Junit code coverage.  • Created and Modified Jasper Reports and having good Knowledge of Jasper server.    Environment: JDK1.6, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, Spring, Spring MVC 4.1.5, Spring JDBC, EJB3.0, Jasper Reports Server, XML, Hibernate ORM 4.3.5, HTML5, AWS, Hibernate, Maven, Windows OS, Log4j, Junit, JIRA. Full Stack Java Developer USAA - Chennai, TAMIL NADU, IN March 2008 to January 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the architecture team for design and implementation of system.  • Working in a team of 10 members and involved in architecture, requirements gathering, analysis, detailed design, preparing class diagram, flow diagram etc.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP. Developed Web Services for Payment Transaction and Payment Release.  • Created WSDL and the SOAP envelope  • Generated Model layer of MVC using EJB  • Developed application using Spring MVC and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Wrote huge JavaScript to do client side validation like login, address, email, Tel No. validation.  • Improved performance for interactive components through use of AJAX.  • Developed Custom Tags to represent data in a desired unique table format and to implement paging logic.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access.  • Business logic is implemented using Spring Core and Hibernate.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  • Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation, and support of the System.  • Involved in initial project setup and guidelines.  • Implemented Multi-threading concepts.  • Developed the application using Core Java, J2EE and JSP's.  • Installation and deploying in Tomcat server  • Different types of testing via Unit, System, Integration testing etc. is carried out during the testing phase.    Environment: Java/ J2EE, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, spring, XML, EJB, Web Services, SOAP, Eclipse, Rational Rose, HTML, XPATH, XSLT, DOM and JDBC. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Perl, UML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JQuery  Java Frameworks Servlets (3.x), JDBC (4.x), JSTL Java Server Pages (JSP 2.x), JSF, JMS, JPA.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, AngularJS, AJAX, Backbone.js, JQuery, SOAP and Restful), Node.js.  Frameworks Struts (2.x.x), Spring (3.x/4.x), Hibernate (3.x/ 4.x), Apache Camel (2.x), Swing, Apache CXF, Apache Karaf.  Servers Tomcat (8.x/ 9.x), Web Logic (9.x), Web Sphere (6.x), Red Hat JBoss Fuse, Glassfish Server (4.x).  Databases Oracle 10g/11g/12c, MSSQL, MySQL (5/6), IBM DB2, MongoDB (3.x), Cassandra (3.x).  Tools Ant (1.x, Gradle (3.x), Maven (3.x), Log4j, Git (1.x/2.x), SVN (1.x), CVS (1.x.x)), Junit (4.x), Selenium (3.x/ 4.x) Mockito), Jenkins, Hudson and Bamboo.  IDE Eclipse Luna(M6), Mars(M7), Neon(RC3), IntelliJ IDEA(15.x), Net Beans(8.x), RAD(7.x)  Platforms Windows (7/ 8/10), Windows Server 2008/12, Ubuntu (15.04), Red Hat Enterprise Linux.