Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Amdocs, GA • 12 years of experience in Cross Platform (Web & Client-Server) application development and design using Object Oriented programming, Java/J2EE technologies.  • Hands on experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  • Experience in developing web-based applications like Banking, Financial, Investment, top-off, Reload, Refinance using JBoss application servers and Apache Tomcat web server.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB, XML and Web Services.  • Expertise in developing static/dynamic HTML pages, providing client side validations in Java Script and providing the interactive front end GUI using CSS, HTML, Angular 1.5 and Angular 6.  • Experience in using frameworks and tools like Spring MVC-II, Spring Prime Faces, and Hibernate.  • Experience in working with Oracle, SQL Server databases and writing complex SQL queries.  • Extensive Experience in using SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions.  • Good exposure to Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) built on Web services (WSDL) using  SOAP protocol.  • Expertise in XML and related technologies like parsers JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  • Good experience in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOAD) using different design methodologies/process frame works like SDLC, Agile and tools like Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Extensive experience in applying various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Factory, Session Façade, DAO, and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience in using Java IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans.  • Experience in working with Git, SVN, and VSS version control system.  • Good experience in using build tools like ANT, Maven and Jenkins.  • Experience in performing Sahi Tool, JUnit testing.  • Quick to learn and possess excellent communication, interpersonal & analytical skills.  • Experience in Tomcat, Jboss, Weblogic and Node Server.  • Working on Microservice like Kubernetes, Docker. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Amdocs, GA April 2015 to Present OMX (Order Management Express)    Order Management Express (OMX) is an order management platform used by AT&T to manage the order life cycle of IPFLEX, MIS and EVC orders for its enterprise customers. This manages the life cycle of the Order and provides orchestration to the orders. OMX will communicate with downstream Provisioning and Billing Systems to complete the order. Upon completion or failure the Order status is updated to Order Capture Express, which is an Order entry System.OMX will also provide functionalities to view the status of the Order across different systems. The milestone, Tasks and Activities can be viewed in OMX UI (User Interface) layer. It also provides manual intervention of users in order life cycle. The components of the OMX application include AFF (Order management), AVOS (workflows) APP ( JAVA/J2EE) and OMX UI modules. Developing Automate Tool 'Flow Free' that support remediate the error at any environment like PROD, UAT, etc. Flow Free Tool helps to generated reports based on scheduler, generating client based on wsdl, sending mail to recipient, capture auditing, read log data from Unix Box, Dashboard for reporting job, etc. Order Status Microservice will provide capability to maintain order status in a central place for different platforms involved in the lifecycle of order. This Microservice will collect events from different systems, process events and make them available to consumer who wish to know status of an order. OMX workflow publishes event to DMaaP feed, Order Status Microservice reads feed. Same with EFMS, GIOM, etc. Prepare AID (Application Interface documents) based on HLDs and discussions with other interfaces. Develop Class level design and prepare LLD Documents. Developing UI Using AngularJS, Angular 6, HTML5, CSS3, and JQuery.  Responsibility:  • Attend requirement gathering calls, HLD calls  • Prepare AID (Application Interface documents) based on HLDs and discussions with other interfaces.  • Develop Class level design and prepare LLD Documents  • Developing UI Using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, and JQuery.  • Creating REST Service to Connect UI for Request Client and response back to them.  • Develop the application code using Java/J2EE, AVOS workflows.  • Perform Unit testing of the developed Code.  • Deployment of application Code to Development Environment.  • To Work on Defect raised by Testing Team and close the defects.  • To provide support during site Testing.  • To provide Development support during production Deployments.  • To developing UI for configuring Quartz scheduler that generating reports, remediate error in Automated, Display status of remediation as Dashboard.    Environment: Java, JDK 7 & 8, Eclipse, Web logic, Servlet 3.0,Sring 4.0,SpringBoot,Microservice,Angular 6, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS 1.5, Chart JS, Spring MVC4.0 Rest Controller, JSP 2.1, Oracle 11g , XML Parser, SVN, Perforce, Maven 3.5, Log4J, Web service(SOAP and REST), AVOS, EPC. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Kentucky School Board Association November 2014 to April 2015 Superintendent Search    Capturing the applicant for superintendent search KSBA perform. KSBA do Service for district to find and hire superintendent. Applicant login into KSBA Portal application to look for job posted in the school districts and apply for the particular superintendent job by filling the Applicant information and answering all the question/Answer. Applicant can submit the application to multiple district at the same time. Applicant can make the changes to the application until the application deadline. Email notification will send to the administrator if the applicant make any change to the application.  Responsibility:  • Involved in Requirement Gathering.  • Involved in User interface design and develop new enhancement changes of the web based intranet application using Spring MVC Design Pattern.  • Designed and developed UI using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JQgrid, Ajax, Spring Form Tag, Jstl, Custom Tag Library, Client/Server validation using spring annotation, and Client validation using JQgrid.  • Implement Layered Architecture using Spring Annotation like Controller, Service, Component, and Repository.  • Created Superintendent personal information screen for capturing data.  • Created Application for New and Existing User according to the County.  • Used spring security validation for Authorization.  • Used Spring AOP, Spring IOC frameworks extensively during the development.  • Used Spring REST Service for navigate JSP to Spring Controller for request and response data's.  • Used JSON for passing data from JSP to Spring Controller.  • Designed and implemented JPA/Spring Data JPA (JpaRepositories) DAO Design Patterns.  • Written Stored Procedures, functions, Views and to implement the Data access Logic.    Environment: Java, JDK 7, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat 7.0, Spring MVC 3.0, Servlet 2.5, JSP 2.1, Sql Server 2012 , XML, JavaScript, SVN, Maven, Log4J, JQuery, JSTL, Web Service (REST). Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Gopro, CA June 2014 to October 2014 Skynet - Induction Framework    The induction framework will automate common tasks associated with loading data for Hadoop big data. The goal is to build a metadata driven system to induct and move data efficiently from multiple sources. Data source contains the handlers for every data source that framework will be connecting to pull or push data. The processor or the performer will get the data from the input location's system and populate it to the output location of the configured system, which again is driven by the data source handler configured for that system. Each process is associated to a data handler and its function.  Responsibility:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) in an agile approach.  • Developed the application front end using SpringMVC, JSTL, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX, CSS, HTML5 and Java Server Pages.  • Used Display tag library features extensively for pagination & sorting of data using HTML5.  • Used Spring IOC to manage dependencies.  • Created Data source and Data source Handler Properties to push or pull data.  • Created Process Group for defines a process within a process group. This is nothing but a logical task that will be performed and the task has the source and the target locations in the name of input and output and its associated system.  • Created Alert Screen that are required by the handler to perform the alert. Ex, the API key is the property  For Pager Duty. This property name will be added here and any system that would require to send notification via PAGERDUTY will have to provide the API key to be used by the handler to send out notifications.  • Created Data Handler and Data Handler Properties, This is generic handler for data  Example, there will be file handler to do file operations across systems like COPY, MOVE, DELETE, RENAME, UNZIP, ZIP, UNJAR, JAR, etc.  • Used LDAP to connect Active Directory for user Authentication.  • Used REST Web services for transferring data between Jsp to Spring Controller.  • Used Stash for version control and Maven as a build tool.  • Deployed the applications on Glassfish 3.1 server.    Environment: Java, JDK 7, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat 7.0, Spring MVC 3.0, Servlet 2.5, JSP 2.1, MYSQL, XML, JavaScript, HTML5, Stash, Maven, Log4J, JQuery, JSTL, Web Service (REST). Sr. Java/JEE Developer Integrity IT, KY November 2013 to April 2014 Focus Tool - Case Management Application    This application enables the Case Managers to create, store and maintain state required forms for State Supported Mental Health Management. Application uses Temporal Type data storage for point in time capable reporting. Created RIA Types screens and interactions to allow for seamless application for users in most areas of the application including, the System Maintenance, Patient Maintenance and Reporting.  Responsibility:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) in an agile approach.  • Developed the application front end using SpringMVC, JSTL, JQUERY, AJAX, CSS and Java Server Pages.  • Used Display tag library features extensively for pagination & sorting of data in most of UI pages.  • Designed and implemented Singleton, Hibernate DAO and Factory Design Patterns.  • Used Spring IOC to manage dependencies.  • Used Hibernate to store the persistence data into the SQL Server database and used Criteria API, HQL to access data from the database.  • Used REST Web services for transferring data between different applications.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit Test Cases and used Log4j for logging.  • Used SVN for version control and Maven as a build tool.  • Deployed the applications on Tomcat Application server.    Environment: Java, JDK 6 Java EE 6, Spring AOP, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat 7.0, Spring3.0, Hibernate 4.0, Spring MVC 3.0, Servlet 2.5, JSP 2.1, SQL, XML, JavaScript, HTML, JUnit, SVN, Maven, Log4J, JQuery, JSTL, Web Service (SOAP &REST). Lead/ Sr. Java developer Rapid Capital Funding (RCF), FL April 2013 to September 2013 Lead/Sr. Java developer Salem Associates, GA July 2007 to September 2013 LAPS (Lending Automated Processing System)  LAPS® (LENDING Automated Processing System) is a product developed that can be custom fitted to any bank/ credit union/ financial institution. The solutions revolve around improving your business process, reducing risk, getting closer to a total paperless office, making well-informed decisions, automating work flow, increasing time saving tactics. It is a truly integrated solution covering the full lending cycle from loan origination through loan application process, risk assessment, decision-making, and monitoring and management control of approved loans. Loan Processing, Risk Analysis including Rating Model, Appraisal, and Post Disbursal control. It enables Retail and commercial lending. Dynamic financials, a very effective module, customizes the Financial Formats. Various reports are drawn on the financial data submitted by the Customer for deciding about processing about the loan. Workflow setup helps the users organize the desk-to-desk process. There are various business rules supported by LAPS® that vary from bank to bank.    I was involved in the LAPS product development life cycle Design, development, Testing, Implementation and Migration for the following clients. Sr. Java Developer Federal Home Loan Bank July 2011 to March 2013 Sr. Java Developer SNAP Advances LLC October 2009 to June 2011 Sr. Java Developer AEGON - NL September 2007 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  Followed agile methodology with daily meetings to keep track of the progress and Issues pertaining to the projects.  • Developed the application front end using Servlet MVC II -Framework: developed JSP, BO, DAO and EJB Beans.  • Performed logging-using Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace application.  • Used JAXB API to bind XML schema to java classes.  • Created Pdf reports using Nitro Pro Tool.  • Directory Watcher to file upload and download for merchant payments.  • Developed EJB's for handling business logic and created Stateless Session Beans and DAO's for persistence data in the database.  • Developed web tier (user interface) by using JSP, Tag Libraries, Servlets, Java Script, HTML and XML  • Perform marshalling and un marshalling of an XML document using JAXB API  • Tested the application functionality with JUnit Test Cases.  • Used SVN for version control and ANT as a build tool.  • Designed graphical Reports using PDF Report formats  • Deployed the applications on Jboss Application server.  • Worked the applications on Tomcat Application server.    Involved in Rapid Capital Funding (RCF)  • Created Stored procedure and functions for generated Account Summary and Merchant Account Report for reload and refinance in Collection Module.  • Created Funding Calculator for selected classification, product, and factor rate  • Created Merchant Classification Reports and Merchant Attached Documents Screen.  • Created Quick Merchant Screen that used to create new Applications for Merchant.  • Created Navigation screen for navigate origination to Collection module.  • Created Suggestion Box using Ajax and Jsp Tag Libraries.    Involved in Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB)  • Developed the application front end using SpringJSF2.0frameworks.  • Used Spring AOP, Spring IOC frameworks extensively during the development.  • Designed and implemented Hibernate DAO Design Patterns.  • Involved Database Migration from Access Database to SqlServer Database.  • Created Application-context, Hibernate-config and Ehcache XML files.  • Created SOAP Web services using WSDL for Borrower Reports.    Involved in SNAP Advances LLC.  • Developed Equalizer Screen for selected the product, funded amount, factor rate, Initial  And residual commission.  • Created web service using Https for getting merchant credit scores.  • Developed Refinanced Applications for renewal the funded amount.  • Developed Top-Off Applications for renewal the funded amount.  • Created Performance Report, Active Cash Advance Portfolio Report, TimeLine Reports.    Involved in AEGON Investment/Insurance.  • Created Investment, collateral for new and existing borrower.  • Created SOAP using WSDL Web services for Collateral.  • Created Record Lock for Users in all JSP Page.  • Development of Pre payment Handling, Excess Payment Handling.  • Developed Audit trail Reports in Collection Module  • Created Deceased Borrower in Collection Module    Environment: Java, JDK1.6, J2EE (JSP, Servlets), EJB 2.0,XML,XSD,WSDL,Web sphere, Rational Rose, Jboss 4.0, Web Service(SOAP),Custom Tag Library, PL/SQL,XMLParser,JavaScript, Oracle 10g. Junior Java/J2ee Developer September 2005 to October 2007 Mserve provides total support and service for computer hardware and networking on contract basis or On-call basis. Mserve has two Module i) New Customer ii) Existing Customer. Create and Update Demographics Screen for Customer Details, Created an application number and payment details in application screen for every customer. Reports are generated using core java technologies using Jasper.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis and design  • Developed the application front end using Servlet MVC-I Framework: developed JSP, and Java Beans.  • Using Java JDBC driver 4 to access the database.  • Implemented different levels of logging and timely backups using Log4j  • Deployed the application in WebLogic application server.  • Performed Unit Testing.    Environment:Java1.4, J2EE (JSP), JavaScript, JDBC 2.0, SQL Server 2000, HTML, CSS, XML, NetBeans IDE, WebLogic, log4j. Education Bachelor of Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Annamalai University Skills Awt, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Servlet, Servlets, Struts, Application server, C#, C++, Design patterns, Gui, Html, Javascript, JEE, Java J2Ee, Rest, Angularjs, MVC Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages Java 1.4/5/6/7,8 C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, XML  J2EE Technologies Servlets 3.0/2.4, JSP 1.1/1.2/2.0, JDBC 2.0, JNDI, EJB 2.0,web services  Application Server/Web Server Web Logic 10.3, JBoss 4.2/5.1, WebSphere 5.0, Apache Tomcat 7/6.0/5.5/ 4.1, Node Server  Operating Systems Windows XP/2000, MAC  Database Oracle 11g/9i, SQL server 5/8/12, Ms.-Access  IDEs Eclipse3.4/3.5/3.6,Net Beans6.0  Frameworks Java/Servlet/JSP MVC-II, Spring 3.0, Spring MVC, JSF2.0  GUI HTML5, AWT, Swing, HTML 4.0.1, JavaScript 1.5, CSS3, Ajax and JQuery, and Angular 1/6  Design Patterns MVC, MVC2, Session Façade, Business Delegate, DAO, Singleton, Factory, Front Controller, service locator.  ORM Hibernate 4.0 , JPA 2.0  Others ASP.Net, C#, Struts