Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Prudential Financial Newark, NJ • Over 10+ Years of IT experience performing Analysis, Design and Development of Java, J2EE for Web and Enterprise based applications using Java SE, Java EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JPA and Web services technologies and leveraging Spring Core, Spring MVC, Hibernate Frameworks with deployment experience on IBM WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic and Tomcat, and TomEE Servers.  • Extensive experience in implementing various J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Session Façade, Data Access Objects (DAO), Factory, Singleton, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Applications.  • Contributed in designing and developing Enterprises Applications using Open Source technologies and frameworks in Java and running in SOA environment.  • Experience in Java technologies that includes JAVA 1.6/1.5, JSP, Servlets, RMI, JDBC, Hibernate, Web services (SOAP - Apache Axis2 1.5, RESTful), JAX-WS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and AJAX.  • Full-Stack Development with use of both back and front end technologies including Spring MVC, Hibernate.  • Experience packaging and continuous integration with Jenkins, Hudson, Maven 2, and Ant.  • Good experience in Query optimization and writing SQL Queries, PL/SQL Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Cursors.  • Experienced in multiple hardware platforms and programming languages such as Java, C, C++.  • Experienced in using Web/Application Servers like IBM WebSphere 7.0, Apache Tomcat 5.5 and JBoss, BEA WebLogic 8.1  • Strong RDBMS Skills using Oracle 8.x/10.x, Mongo DB, SQL Server, MYSQL  • Worked with Web Services using SOAP and WSDL technologies.  • Experience in using Linux, UNIX, Shell scripting.  • Good Knowledge in debugging and problem solving skills with excellent understanding of system development methodologies, Techniques and Tools.  • Expertise in client side designing and validations using AngularJS, JQuery, AJAX, and Java script.  • Expertise in developing the micro-services using Spring Boot.  • Good working knowledge on DOM scripting.  • Used Good working knowledge in version control tools like GitHub, CVS, SVN, Rational ClearCase and Tortoise SVN.  • Good Working experience in Unit Testing using JUnit and Version control using VSS and also JMock.  • Strong Experience in development and Implementation of Test plan and Test Cases.  • Experience in handling and accessing the rules engines using JSR-94 API  • Experience developing rich user interface web applications using JSF.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services.  • Experience in handling, troubleshooting and resolving production issues and production deployment.  • Responsible for assembling and deploying server-side J2EE components like JSP, Servlets, EJB, Web Services on Application Server.  • Good working knowledge of Apache Tika and also Lucene for advanced metadata searching in documents from web or cloud-based services.  • Good working knowledge of Amazon Web Services in developing applications which use cloud based services.  • Good experience in developing projects with RESTful web services.  • Good working knowledge of developing applications that require databases such as NoSQL and PostgreSQL.  • Experienced in using Google Web Toolkit(GWT) for development of rich web browser based applications.  • Experience reviewing business requirements, functional designs, business processes and system solutions in order to gain a deep functional understanding of the application.  • Experience with Message Oriented Model (MOM) style architecture with integrating applications with IBM MQ, ActiveMQ and JMS.  • Exceptional ability to quickly master new concepts and capable of working in-group as well as independently with excellent communication skills. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Prudential Financial - Newark, NJ May 2018 to Present Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, JSP, Apache JDBC, Apache Maven, Apache Derby, JBOSS Server, AngularJS, NetBeans IDE 8.0.2,Hibernate, Spring Security, Spring Batch, Spring MVC, Node-JS, JSTL, Java API, JMS Interface, Log4j, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, RESTful web service, MongoDB, JavaScript, IBM Data Stage, Bootstrap - Twitter, Red Hat, Chef, AWS, Git, WebSphere.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze the business requirements and provide the possible methodologies that could work for the progress of application.  • Contributed user interface design mock-ups and designs. Trained and mentored teammates.  • Collecting the Best Practices and documenting those and make sure that our team followed those. Participated in Code Reviews team members.  • Implemented the Spring Security to provide authentication and applied security through JQUERY and JSON.  • Developed the front end of the application using Advanced HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Applied JQUERY, custom CSS and JavaScript to deliver cutting edge user interfaces and make the application livelier.  • Generated new and edited existing design with CSS to accommodate new changes in design and logic.  • Knowledge on implementing directives and scope values using AngularJS for existing web page. Responsible for checking the cross browser compatibility.  • Used Bootstrap-Twitter to add front-end features for social communication in the application.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases using JQUERY, AJAX, Angular JS and JSON.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed angular controllers, services and used different modules for server communication.  • Used JMS system that implements the Message Listener interface for processing messages.  • Used Spring Batch to build the POJO-based development approach of the Spring Framework.  • Used Spring MVC to develop lightweight business component and Core Spring framework for Dependency injection.  • Integrated Spring- Hibernate Frameworks for ORM functionality in Spring Framework.  • Used Spring Framework for annotation driven transaction management.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards  • Used MongoDB to store dynamic schemas.  • Worked on Posting queue logic by implementing Message-Driven bean (MDB) using JMS and deployed on JBoss server.  • Worked on Apache JDBC programming for to and fro operations on Apache Derby Database.  • Deploying the application on to the JBOSS Server.  • Implemented the logic to connect to SMTP Routing system through User Interface Screen.  • Client interface with JMS provider through JMS Queue is implemented in point to point fashion.  • Implemented the Resource Bundles to back up the properties files.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for providing cloud-based services in the application.  • Used NetBeans IDE to develop the application.  • Used Maven repository to include all the jar files required for the JDBC Connections and JSP Tag libraries.  • Used Maven for building the application and used Git for version control.  • Log4j is used for logging Java applications for debugging and monitoring purposes. Sr. Java Developer Scholastic - New York, NY August 2015 to April 2018 Environment: Web Sphere 6.0, Java 1.7, JUnit, JSP 2.2, CSS, JavaScript, Node-JS, XML, Hibernate 3.0, Core Java, MongoDB, Eclipse 3.3, REST web services, Jenkins, Cent OS, CA Suites, Splunk and Introscope, AngularJS, Git, Apache Lucene.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Used AGILE methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  • Worked with the team in the development of Use-Case diagrams and Class diagrams for the business modules.  • Worked with aligned Business and IT teams to understand architecture, obtain application usage model data, data profiles, and test data.  • Involved in developing the Graphical User Interface using JavaScript, CSS and JSP.  • Worked using AngularJS for implementing front-end based code to interact with back-end.  • Involved in using MongoDB as the database for the application and connecting it with the back-end of the application.  • Used Node-JS for writing server-side scripting and server-side programs in the application.  • Usage of Spring application framework implementation to build the presentation tier.  • Involved O/R Mapping using Hibernate.  • Used Spring Framework for the application, Developed POJO Classes, Business logic.  • Hibernate mappings used to create DAOS mappings.  • Implemented MVC Architecture using Spring framework for the application.  • Used Spring Validation framework for Validations and Configured validator-rules.xml and validation.xml.  • Involved in installing and configuring Jenkins for application builds and deployment.  • Used Git for version control and source code repository maintenance.  • Used Eclipse 3.3 IDE for developing the application.  • Created Reference documents to help developers understand the Framework.  • Used Web Sphere for server to deploy the application.  • Understood XSD, DTD transforming using XSLT, writing SAX-DOM parsers for XML data.  • Worked with QA team for supporting testing and resolved defects.  • Involved in analysis of use case design and in Preparation of Unit Test Cases.  • Thoroughly analyzed the performance test results and provide recommendations and sign-off to aligned application areas and management.  • Responsible for Unit Testing with JUnit, integration testing of software and load testing using JUnit.  • Involved in developing stored procedures.  • Leverages a variety of tools and techniques to measure, profile, and optimize Performance in a service oriented, multi-tiered environment. Sr. Java/Applications Developer Humana - Louisville, KY October 2013 to August 2015 Environment: Eclipse, J2EE, EJB3.0, JDK 1.6, JDBC, JQuery, Log4j, JMS, Altovo XML Spy, SOAPUI Pro, Spring 3.5, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.5, WAS 7.5, JSTL, JSP, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node-JS, IBM Clear case, Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, XML), Apache Ant, REST web services, Apache CXF, Apache Mule ESB, JUnit 4, XML, JavaScript, Oracle 11g, Shell scripting, Google Web Toolkit(GWT), Apache Tika.    Responsibilities:  • Developed several pages using JSTL, HTML, JSP, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, CSS, Ajax.  • Developed fast and responsive front-end pages using Angular JS.  • Developed front-end applications using Google Web Toolkit (GWT).  • Developed DAO objects and Persistence logic for interacting with the database using Hibernate.  • Involved in Spring Core and Spring MVC setup as Enterprise Application designing.  • Responsible for implementing applications implemented using layered approach. Designed and developed the main Module to fit into MVC architecture leveraging Spring MVC.  • Developed Rest API using Node-JS using various modules in node like express, underscore, body-parser etc.  • Extensively used Java Collections leveraging List, Map and Set interfaces.  • Developed SOAP Web Services using Top-Down and Bottom-up approach.  • Spring JDBC template and Hibernate DAO support is used for performing Database Transactions.  • Consumed web services by generating Web Services Client wizard.  • PL/SQL queries and Spring JDBC module is developed for querying the database to get members.  • JAXB Marshalling/UnMarshalling is performed.  • Used Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit 3.8/4.0 writing automated test scripts for all the components using Agile methodologies.  • IBM ClearCase used for revision control for the application.  • Used Apache Ant for building the application.  • Refactoring code and Performance tuning the JVM and refactoring the logic.  • SOAP UI is used for Unit Testing the web services and Altovo XMLSpy for testing XSD's.  • JUnit is used to performing Java Unit testing.  • Log4J is used to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • Deploying, supporting, and troubleshooting java services on WebSphere and WebLogic Server.  • Participated in technical design review sessions to finalize on the design of application and prepared design documents using Class and Sequence Diagrams. Java/J2EE Developer Global payments - St. Louis, MO October 2012 to September 2013 Environment: JDK 1.6/1.5, J2EE, Servlets 2.1, JSP 2.0, EJB 3.0, Struts 2.0, Spring 3.0 , MyBatis, HTML, CSS, JavaScript 2.0, Ajax, JQuery, JSR-94 API, Apache Tomcat, JSF Framework, XML, Oracle 10g, Maven, SVN, Eclipse, UML 2.3, Axis2, SOA, REST Services, XFire, SoapUI 4.6.4, JUnit, JBoss4x/5x, IBM Web Sphere MQ.  Responsibilities:  • Used the Sprint based Scrum Agile methodology for the development of the Projects and closely worked with the Scrum Master, Product Owner, and Team Members.  • Involved in the Sprint Planning Meetings, Sprint Review Meetings, and Daily Standup Meetings.  • Worked on general interface framework for application layout.  • Designed and developed the custom web based applications using JSF, AJAX, HTML, JQuery, and JSP.  • Designed and developed screens in HTML, HTML 5.0, and JSP with client side validations using JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript and AJAX for Input validation and Event error Handling.  • Development using IOC, Dependency Injection using Spring framework.  • Configured WebSphere MQ queue connection factories & WebSphere MQ queue destinations.  • Extensively used Eclipse IDE as Application Development Environment for developing the custom applications using the J2EE Frameworks such as Struts 2.0, JSF, Spring 3.0 and J2EE Technologies such as Servlets, JSP, EJB 3.0 , and JNDI.  • Used the JSF framework to design the presentation layer.  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, JAX-RS and also consumed Web Services using Apache Axis2.  • Developed business tier using EJB by implementing various patterns.  • Responsible for defining MyBatis Mappings, SQL queries and in generating Data Access Objects.  • Developed server side scripts using JSP and JavaBeans.  • Wrote the SQL queries and stored procedures in Oracle 10g database environment and used SQL Developer for testing purpose.  • Used Apache Tomcat 6.x/5.x, to deploy the applications.  • Used SVN Repositories for version maintaining of the application source code.  • Automate build process through Maven build framework.  • Used JSR-94 API to access and manage the rules engines.  • Used JUnit Unit testing Framework to test the Applications.  • Provided Technical support for production environments resolving the issues, analyzing the defects, providing and implementing the solution defects. J2EE Developer WellCare Health Plans - Tampa, FL October 2010 to September 2012 Environment: JDK 1.5, J2EE, EJB, JPA, Apache CXF, Struts, JAXB, Web services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI), Eclipse IDE, Oracle 9i, JDBC Template, JUnit, Log4j, Tiles Framework, SVN, Docker, Apache Tomcat, MyBatis.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design & Implementation of JSP, Servlets and Web Development  • Involved in Java/J2EE Design and EJB, Struts/JSP using MVC architecture.  • Involved in developing JSP pages using Struts custom tags and Tiles Framework.  • Design and Implementation of Java Web-Services using SOAP to provide the Payments Settlement functionality comprising Apply Payments, Payments Summary & Detail, and Profile Summary.  • Used MyBatis framework for database mappings for the POJO classes.  • Implementing XML Parser (DOM/SAX) for integrating legacy system  • Implementation of XLS to XML converter for passing parameters to web-services  • Developed the WSDL/XSD using top-down approach and XML Namespaces  • Generated the stubs using JAXB  • Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using CXF.  • Used Docker for deploying the application.  • Tool used for building the application and gathering the dependencies required for the application.  • Used subversion(SVN) for version controlling and source code maintenance.  • Eclipse was used as an IDE for development with Apache tomcat as the server.  • Module and Unit Level Testing with JUnit and log4j.  • Daily maintenance and handling performance issues. Java Developer AGS Technologies - Pune, Maharashtra April 2009 to November 2010 Environment: Java, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JDBC, Oracle 10g, Struts1.2, JMS, Servlets, JSP, SOAP, XML, WSDL, JUnit, EJB2.0, CVS, Apache Ant, Apache Tomcat.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the QA team to understand the information that are part of the QA weekly report and also the desired layout.  • Involved with the development team to come with the design and implementation of the project.  • Developed modules to create, view, delete and search the weekly reports of the QA team using Java, JDBC. Implemented the User Interface using JSP, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Performed front-end validation using Java Script.  • Used EJBs (Session beans) to implement the business logic, JMS for communication for sending updates to various other applications and MDB for routing priority requests.  • Worked on creating JSPs, Form Beans and Action classes and configured in Struts-Config.xml.  • Used Design patterns such as Business delegate, Service locator, Model View Controller, Session façade, DAO and DTO.  • Involved in implementing the JMS ( Java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Designed and created the database tables in Oracle 10g using SQL/ PL-SQL.  • Developed Data Access layer using JDBC for connecting to database.  • Implemented logging using Log4J to log user understandable messages.  • Used CVS version control for maintaining source code.  • Worked with Apache Ant build tool for building the application.  • Developed Test Cases for Unit Testing using JUnit Test Cases.  • Involved in Code Reviews to check for efficiency and coding standards.  • Resolved issues and made changes as needed by the QA team. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Amazon web services, Api, C++, Design patterns, Docker Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java JDK1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7,1.8, Java Script, C, C++, ASP.NET, JSP, UML, WSDL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, SQL, Shell Scripting.  Java Technologies  Java, J2EE, JDBC, Hibernate, JSF, XML Parsers, JSP, Servlets, Portals, EJB, JMS, Java Swing, Struts, Spring Framework, Java Beans, Web Services, AJAX, JMock.    Web Technologies  Angular JS, Bootstrap, Tiles Framework, Java Mail, JSP, D3 charts Servlets, EJB, JavaScript, HTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, SOAP, Restful web services (API), log4j, JUnit, Google Web Toolkit (GWT), NodeJS.    Concepts UML, Design Patterns.  Database Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2, SQL Server, MS SQL, MS Access, PostgreSQL, NoSQL, MongoDB.  Tools Tortoise SVN,TOAD, JBuilder, JDeveloper, SVN, SQL Developer, Sub Version, soapUI, GitHub, Splunk.  Design Tools Rational rose(UML), Data Model, Microsoft Visio, Visual Paradigm.  Lifecycle Methodologies OOAD, Waterfall Model, Agile, Test Driven Development(TDD)  Defect Tracking Tools JIRA, Bugzero, Intercept.  Frameworks Spring, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring JDBC, Spring Security, Hibernate, Struts, EJB  IDE Eclipse, Net Beans.  Build Tools Maven, Jenkins, Docker, Apache Ant.  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web logic, WebSphere, Glassfish, TomEE.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, Messaging, SMTP.  Operating Systems Windows, Red Hat, CentOS, Debian, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX.  Cloud Services Amazon Web Services(AWS).