Scrum Member as Java Developer Scrum Member as <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Scrum Member as Java Developer - Cognizant Technology Solution Experience Summary    I have 3 years of hands on experience in Java Technology, working in Application Development Project. As a part of my assignments, I have been in member of scrum where my role is java developer. Work Experience Scrum Member as Java Developer Cognizant Technology Solution October 2017 to Present Period: October 2017 to till date.  Technical Environment: Spring boot 1.5.9, JPA, Maven, JUnit, Microsoft SQL, Jenkins, Git, Elastic Search, Apache Camel, Jest Client.    Description:  J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc., one of the largest transportation logistics companies in  North America, provides safe and reliable transportation services to a diverse group of customers throughout the continental United States, Canada and Mexico    Roles and Responsibilities  ? Member of Scrum team in a Agile environment with life - cycle of 15 days per Sprint, Closely working with testers and the product Owner.  ? Enhanced and Optimized logistics management services.  ? Actively involved in developing complex modules and common services.  ? Executing code quality analysis periodic bases and providing solutions to improve the quality  flaws.    Project #1 Customer 360.  Methodology: Waterfall Model Programmer Analyst Cognizant Technology Solution May 2016 to Present Relevant Project Experience: Developer January 2016 to September 2017 Technical Environment: Spring 4.0, Maven, Rest Web Service, Hibernate, GIT, Microsoft SQL.    Description:  Toyota Motor Sales Inc., one of the largest manufacturing company in the world.    Roles and Responsibilities  ? Developing and implementing Web applications using Java Technologies including Core Java, hibernate, Spring.  ? Involved in analysis, and design in development.  ? I have fixed many bugs.  ? Developed Rest API and debugged the application using Eclipse IDE  ? Develop new enhancements as per business requirements and tested with junits. Education BE Rugta College bhilai CSVTU university 2011 to 2015 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Windows7, Window8, Window10  Technologies  Spring framework, Spring boot, JPA, Hibernate, Microservices, JUnit, RESTful Webservices, Elastic Search, Apache Camel, Active MQ, Jest Client.    Programming Languages Java 1.7, java 1.8  Databases Microsoft SQL server 2005  Tools Eclipse IDE, Spring Tool Suite, GIT, Jenkins, VSTS, Kibana.