Java Backend Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Backend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Backend Developer (Please contact if you have remote role for me) Carolina, PR • Over 10+ years of experience in the fields of software engineering and Information technology using Java /J2EE technologies. Worked extensively on a variety of multi-tier and client/server enterprise application architectures.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Test Driven Development and Agile methodologies.  • JAVA/J2EE programmer, developing applications using Servlets, JSP, JSTL, EJB, Struts, spring, JSF  • Proficient with designing and developing high performance applications by leveraging Concurrent programming/Multi-Threading and Data Structures.  • Experience working with Core Java technologies like new multithreaded Concurrency, Generics, Collection, and JDK 6,7APIs.  • Strong experience with Struts, spring framework implementing modules: Spring MVC, Spring IoC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Data and Spring Boot.  • Extensive knowledge of J2EE architecture, Patterns, UML Design and development.  • Experience on Core JAVA technology including multithreading, JDBC, RMI, and network programming  • Experience in the functional usage and deployment of applications in WebLogic, WebSphere and Apache Tomcat Server.  • Extensive experience and actively involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Coding and Code Reviews, Unit and Integration Testing.  • Expertise in DB2 and extensively worked with Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server relational database management  • Exposure to application development using Java and J2ee technologies with expertise in Servlet,spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Good Understanding of Object-Oriented Programming concepts, Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture, UML and understanding of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experience with RDBMS such as Oracle and SQL Server for CRUD operations.  • Hands on experience in SOA and Web Services using Jersey.  • Knowledge in innovative and effective User Interface development with HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript.  • Experience in developing applications withSpring CORE, IOC, AOP, JDBCand REST.  • Experience in analyzing the performance issues at database level and the overall system  • Worked on wide variety of platforms like Unix and Windows operating systems  • Experienced in writing scripts to export and import data from the database  • Technical expertise includes knowledge of open sources framework. Experience in Web services and SOA.  • Hands on experience with using JUnit Test Cases for unit testing, Integration testing, functional testing, server- client-side testing and knowledge in other testing methodologies.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Backend Developer Word & Brown Insurance April 2016 to Present This project is an insurance marketing application for Insurance agents. This is a web-based application consisting of three  • Main modules: Query, Policy and Rate Quote. The Query module is the interface with the insurance agent to query the database and generate customizable reports. The Policy module concerns the various insurance sectors including Auto, Life and  • Fire insurance. The Rate Quote module provides rates and payment terms, funding and protection options and coverage details for the insurance policy.  Responsibilities:  • Created and Implemented Microservices or REST APIS using spring boot, REST, JSON.  • Used Spring JDBC in persistence layer that is capable of handling high volume transactions.  • Implemented the service layer using Spring with transaction and logging interceptors.  • Used Spring framework for middle tier and Spring-JDBC templates for data access.  • Developed SOAP/REST based Web Services using both SOAP/WSDL and REST.  • Responsible for developing java components using Spring, Spring JDBC, Spring Transaction Management.  • Tested SOAP web services using SOAP UI and REST services using POSTMAN.  • Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes.  • Developed DAO Layer by calling existing stored procedures.  • Used multithreading to improve performance in generating the reports in Java.  • Designed and developed SOAP Web Services Client program to consume existing SOAP web service using Axis  framework.  • Involved in System Analysis, Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business  requirements.  • Responsible for creation of design artifacts using Enterprise Architect.  • Reviewed business requirements and discuss with application architect about the design.  • Used Value/Transfer Object and Singleton, Data Access Object, Factory design pattern.  • Developed Batch process framework using executive service framework to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction.  • Used Spring Transaction Management extensively.  • Used Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Used STS for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  • Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  • Involved in the day to day sprint development activities and delivered per sprint timeline.  • Written unit test cases using JUnit and Integration test cases and integrated with Jenkin jobs.  • Coordinated with the onsite and offshore developer s w.r.t ongoing issues and follow up.    Environment: Java, Agile (SCRUM), REST API, Spring DI/IOC, Spring Boot, STS, Spring JDBC, XML, SOAP (AXIS) Web Services, Enterprise Architect, Web Services (SOAP and REST), SOAP UI, POSTMAN, Maven, Junit, Maven, Log4J, GIT, Oracle, UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer Wells Fargo bank September 2014 to March 2016 OLAF is web application where customer can enter the details like basic info, type of loan, collateral, documents upload and etc. Once customer submits the form system will send an email to lead then lead login to application and verifies the details and assigns case to associate, associate is person who interact with customer and can approve/reject the application.In addition, we have features like customer search, re-assign, and historical search and add/update case.  Notification is project to send alerts like Email notifications. It can be online or batch. Client can invoke either web service or can send details in excel through email. Application processes the request and sends notification based on input.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement, design & development phases and creating custom solutions to match the requirements.  • Developed code for consumption of various web services using RESTFULL technologies.  • Created and maintained the configuration of Spring Application Framework.  • Monitored SVN repository, code merging and integration activities.  • Worked on Autosys using CA Workload Automation tool.  • Deployed web applications on Tomcat server.  • Involved in design by preparing UML diagrams using Microsoft Visio Tool.  • Involved in design and development of Angular JS.  • Extensively involved in Unit testing and coordinated with testing team and fixing bugs at various stages of application development. Tracked defects using QC.  • Developed and debugged application using IntelliJ IDEA.  • Used server-side spring framework and Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping of the database structure created in Oracle.  • Worked in Transaction Management and Banking Applications.  • Used and executed various SQL Queries using Oracle SQL Developer Tool.  • Created SQL statements for effective retrieval and storage of data from the database.  • Involved in developing Integration Issues, System Testing Issues, User Acceptance Issues and Production Issues including JUnit.  • Proficient in rapid development of web and J2EE applications using Core Java, Spring, JavaScript, html, web services.  • Developed and enhanced existing Web applications by using Functional Specification Document (FSD) that promote effective information transfer between business systems.  • Valuable Team Player with mentor skills, ability to learn quickly and to correctly apply new tools and technology.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Web Services, Maven, REST, JavaScript, SQL, XML, JSON, XSLT, SVN, Oracle 11i, JUnit,tomcat andLinux. Java/J2EE Developer March 2005 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement, design & development phases and creating custom solutions to match the requirements.  • Designed User Interfaces using JSP, Servlets, Angular, CSS, XML and HTML.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Designed web screens for various modules using JSF, HTML, DHTML and CSS and used JavaScript client side validation.  • Design and implement web services using of REST Web services by using Jason formatting language.  • Used Apache camel, CXRF web services, Service Mix engine, Active MQetc. to build a custom ESB (Enterprise Service Bus)  • Implemented spring MVC architectural design pattern.  • Used Angular 2.0 to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Applications.  • Implementing Micro services to base on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC and Apache Kafka.  • Scalable data design for MongoDB and Redis, Caching in MongoDB With Redis Cache Using Spring Boot. Involved in writing SQL Queries, SQL Scripts and performing Database testing  • Developed code for consumption of various web services using RESTFULL technologies.  • Created and maintained the configuration of Spring Application Framework.  • Monitored SVN repository, code merging and integration activities.  • Worked on Autosys using CA Workload Automation tool.  • Deployed web applications on Tomcat server.  • Involved in design by preparing UML diagrams using Microsoft Visio Tool.  • Involved in design and development of Angular JS.  • Extensively involved in Unit testing and coordinated with testing team and fixing bugs at various stages of application development. Tracked defects using QC.  • Developed and debugged application using IntelliJ IDEA.  • Used server-side spring framework and Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping of the database structure created in Oracle.  • Worked in Transaction Management and Banking Applications.  • Used and executed various SQL Queries using Oracle SQL Developer Tool.  • Created SQL statements for effective retrieval and storage of data from the database.  • Involved in developing Integration Issues, System Testing Issues, User Acceptance Issues and Production Issues including JUnit.  • Proficient in rapid development of web and J2EE applications using Core Java, Spring, JavaScript, html, web services.  • Developed and enhanced existing Web applications by using Functional Specification Document (FSD) that promote effective information transfer between business systems.  • Valuable Team Player with mentor skills, ability to learn quickly and to correctly apply new tools and technology.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Web Services, Maven, REST, JavaScript, SQL, XML, JSON, XSLT, SVN, Oracle 11i, JUnit, tomcat and Linux. Education Master's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JMS, jQuery, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, MS PROJECT, OOA, OOA/OOD, SVN, VISIO, XML, DATABASE