UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Raytheon Ellicott City, MD Web based UI developer with over 14 years experience designing and developing single page applications in a variety of different technologies. I work closely with Systems Engineers, Usability Engineers, Test Engineers, and Service tier developers to produce functional, user friendly UI's. In-depth knowledge and experience writing applications that utilize REST API's, using both AJAX and JSON technologies. Before I started developing UI's I wrote stand-alone applications in C++ and Java for a variety of customers.    I work well independently and as part of a team and can quickly come up to speed on new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Raytheon - Annapolis Junction, MD September 2009 to Present • Design and develop UI's for various web based applications.  • Collaborate closely with system engineers and usability engineers for guidance on the functionality of the UI.  • Practice Agile software development, including daily scrums, for rapid prototype development and to be responsive to customer needs.  • Team with service tier to ensure data is correctly transmitted between front and back ends of the application.  • Extensive experience with JSON encoding/decoding to communicate with RESTful endpoints and web services.  • Deploy applications to Tomcat web servers.  • Web frameworks used varied over the years form Flex to Ext JS 4.x to Ember.  • Work on and maintain multiple projects simultaneously.  • IDE: Eclipse, Flex Builder, NetBeans, or Atom depending on which technology/platform being used. Develop on both Windows and Unix OS on local machines and Virtual Machines.  • Source control: Subversion and Git.  • Currently, I am developing a new application in Ext Js 4.2 while maintaining two applications that I previously wrote: one in Flex and one in Ember. UI Developer AT&T Government Solutions - Columbia, MD June 2004 to September 2009 • Designed and developed multiple UI's mostly using JSP's, struts, Servlets, and Applets.  • Collaborated with system engineers to establish application functionality and worked both independently and as part of a development team.  • Deployed applications using Tomcat web servers.  • Supported the service tier using Java and accessed Oracle databases as needed per development requirements. Java/C++ Developer Lockheed Martin - Landover, MD July 1995 to January 2002 • Involved in the full software lifecycle of software development.  • Designed, developed, and unit-tested object oriented C++ software in a UNIX environment on Sun workstations.  • Extensively used Rogue Wave Tools.h++ class library.  • Worked with system engineers to establish requirement and fellow developers to design the object oriented work flow.  • Participated in team code reviews to reinforce best-practices and share coding styles. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science UMBC - Catonsville, MD 1995 Skills Front End, Javascript, Front-End, Node, UI