Full stack Developer Full stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full stack Developer - Anagh technologies & Diversant Work Experience Full stack Developer Anagh technologies & Diversant May 2018 to Present iScad+ deals with documenting various meetings of United nations security council. Meetings are captured when they conducted or generating xmls and pdfs for the statements and decisions by the UN presidents or council members. This project also captures various statements, votes, decisions made by council members and other members of United Nations. This project maintains the details of various countries and memberships and presidencies of the united nations from 1946 (inception of United Nations) to the current. This website gives whole picture of all the meetings that were happened from 1946 . All the the current statements and decisions information uploaded in the format of xmls and pdfs. This application maintains the information related to is users and their permissions to various modules.    Technology: Python, Pandas, Numpy, Flask, Angular4, TypeScript, Bootstrap, ExpressJs, NodeJs, Ag-Grid, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, MongoDB, Cognito, ECS, EC2, Docker, Gitlab CI/CDdeployment  Tools: Windows, Gitlab, AWS, Visual Studio Code, Git Bash, Win Scp  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing Angular4 Front end application using Ag-Grid.  • Used Angular4 directives, services, components and routing information etc.  • Used TypeScript for developing the resuable components  • Used Ag-grid for displaying huge amounts of data  • In Ag-Grid used various features for Grouping, custom Filtering, custom sorting  • Implemented restful service calls using http get, put, post and delete using NodeJs and ExpressJs  • Worked on MongoDb for retrieving, adding, editing datta and created indexes and used regular expressions on MongoDb  • Fixed various defects after the development work  • Developed beautiful screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap frame works  • Used Angular Material for creating progress bar, tabs and expanding and collapsing results  • Used Bootstrap framework for displaying proper display of data using rows, cols  • Involved also in developing Restful web services using Python with Flask  • Developed features in Desktop application using Python.  • Transformed the data with Pandas and used NumPy  • Written unit test cases in Python and acceptance test cases for testing the functionality  • Performed Authentication and Authorization Using Cognito  • Built and deployed docker containers  • Used AWS EC2 for deploying front end and backend code  • Used AWS CodePieline, CodeCommit, CodeBuilt, ECS features  • Used AWS cognitio Authentication, Authorization and created users, defined previliges and checked users from the data from mongoDB  • Worked on Deploying code directly in AWS codeCommit from Gitlab by gitLab CI/CD  • Trained and monitored colleagues to perform and deliver results in Iscad  • Deliverd code quickly with less bugs  • Worked independently and took up responsibilities without any monitoring  • Worked hard to improve the product as much as possible  • Created User information and created access details for various modules and based on their permission level they can either view or edit or update the data in those modules    Project: Cirrus Full stack Developer Diverant - Singapore February 2017 to February 2018 Cirrus is a tool for regulatory reporting for the areas like Europe, USA, Singapore, HongKong, Japan etc. It processes various events for the Trade and report to DTCC for regulatory reporting. It implemented Mifid2 reporting. In Cirrus, there is a Good to Trade web application, which determines if the particular event for the trade is good to trade or not. It allows the agents to take actions if it's a good to trade by raising tasks.  Technology: Python, AngularJs, Angular4, TypeScript, Ui-Grid, Bootstrap, Flask, Java, J2EE, ReactJs, Redux, ExpressJs, NodeJs, Ag-Grid, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, MongoDB and Spring Boot  Environment: Spring Boot, Maven, Bit Bucket, Jira.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing Angular4 Front end application using Ui-Grid.  • Used Angular4 directives, services, components and routing information etc.  • Used TypeScript for developing the components  • Implemented restful service calls using Ajax in AngularJs  • Involved in developing Restful web services using Python with Flask  • Developed features in Desktop application using Python.  • Written unit test cases in Python and acceptance test cases for testing the functionality  • Fixed various defects after the development work  • Involved in developing ReactJs Front end application using Ag-Grid.  • Used Redux for state maintainance  • Implemented restful service calls using Ajax in ReactJs  • Used React Life cycle methods, Components and  • Performed various operations using nodeJs  • Developed beautiful screens using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap frame work  • Involved in developing Restful web services using Spring MVC  • Developed Micro services using Spring Boot.  • Created Prodducer and consumer programs using Kafka in Docker  • Created Topics, Partitions and replications using Kafka  • Used Mongoose to perform the operations of data in MongoDB  • Performed SELECT , DELETE, UPDATE operations on mongoDB  • Used ExpressJs to connect rest service calls like GET, POST, PUT and DELETE  • Used ExpressJs to return the results to the UI and displayed them    Project: Point Of Sale, NJ, USA Spring Boot Developer Matrix Resources August 2016 to February 2017 Description: Verizon Integration Platform which provides the Point Of Sale is a retail based web services platform. It deals with providing web services to different sites like MyVerizon, Target, Best Buy, Apple etc. These sites connect to verizon services to check inventory availability, buying new phones and their accessories like IPhone, Samsung etc and checking credit of customers, submitting multi lines, in store pick up.  Technology: Angular4, ExpressJs, MongoDB, NodeJs, Ui-Grid, Java, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Eureka, Ribbon  Environment: Eclipse, Maven  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed micro services using Spring Boot  • Used Eureka for the service discovery and Ribbon for Load balancing  • Developed Angular4 front end application to display the data from the services  • Used Angular4 directives, services, components and routing information etc  • Used TypeScript for developing the components  • Used Angular Ui-Grid to display the data  • Worked with Soap UI for testing rest web service  • Fixed various defects in inventory application  • Analyzed production and UAT logs for trouble shooting various defects related to point of Sale  • Created various SOAP and RESTful web services to Create Provisioning Orders, Submit Project Orders, Process Technical Orders and Cancel Orders using JAX-WS (SOAP), JAX-RS (REST), SOAP, XML, XSD, WSDL, JSON and JAXB.  • Used Mongoose to perform the operations of data in MongoDB  • Performed SELECT , DELETE, UPDATE operations on mongoDB  • Used ExpressJs to connect rest service calls like GET, POST, PUT and DELETE  • Used ExpressJs to return the results to the UI and displayed them    Project: SAM adaptor project, Pennington, NJ Full Stack developer Matrix Resources October 2015 to July 2016 Description: SAM adaptor project deals with checking the permissions of various users in the Bank of America projects. This project maintains various users' permissions and their entitlements in the central database. It sends various updates to the managers about the status of employee entitlements. It helps in security compliance.  Technology: Java, JDBC, SQL, AngularJs, ReactJs, Redux, NodeJs, Servlets, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript  Environment: Tomcat, Eclipse.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed AngularJs UI screen for the on boarding application  • Used Directives, Services, Factories and routing the calls when the User performs UI operations  • Used reactJs for developing UI to send the feeds to the Desired Location  • Used React Life cycle methods, Components, Rest calls in this process  • Used Redux for the state maintainiance.  • Involved in developing various JSP screens for users on boarding their applications  • Worked on connecting to SQL Server data base with JDBC  • Worked extensively on SQL Server Studio and written various SQL queries to check the status of the JDBC operations    Project: Fiber Inventory Management, Tampa, USA Full Stack Developer Aricent June 2015 to October 2015 Fiber Inventory Management application displays various site installations of Verizon in various locations in USA. It is similar to Google Maps. By using this application various Verizon teams can get the idea of the various details of the site like fiber wires, various inventory details, address of the site and number of people working in that place etc.  Technology: Java, Spring Core, Spring MVC, REST web services, Hibernate, Oracle, HTML, CSS, Java Script, AngularJs  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in fixing bugs in java code  • Developed AngularJs UI screen with Factories, Services and Routing Information etc  • Worked on developing SOAP web services for accessing Site View data to the other applications.  • Worked on fixing the issues in the JSP screens    Project: Ramp Sr. Java Developer Genpact, NJ - London March 2015 to June 2015 Ramp is Regulatory Reporting, analysis, planning and managing tool for managing various business reports. Investment banks have to report transactions for different periods and in different places like America, London, Japan, and China. They have to prepare regulatory reports to detail the transactions like stock purchase or selling, mergers, creation of different accounts.  Technology: Java  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating new DSAs for existing screen and created new screen.  • Involved also in fixing issues in existing Ramp Jira problems.  • Worked on Aqua Data studio to connect Db2 data base    Project: NYC HRA UI developer Research Foundation Of CUNY November 2013 to March 2015 NYC HRA has been storing the forms manually for many years. They came up with an idea of digitalizing the forms with the web technologies and creating editable pdf forms using ADOBE Acrobat. These forms have to be stored into the Sql Server database and customers can see the forms using the various applications.  Technology: Java Script, Ajax, VB Script, Python and Django  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Designed forms for NYC HRA using Java Script, VB Script, and VB.  • Developed a web application using Python and Django in school project while working in NYC HRA.  • Forms designed using Infopath and validations have been made for the forms.  • User entered information updated in Data base by using Sql Server Management Studio.  • Worked on Adobe Java script to create editable pdf forms  • Interacted with the HRA employees to know their problems and fixed the issues. Java Developer Diverant March 2013 to August 2013 Bank of America is implementing this project for providing customers - Agent interaction through VTM (Video Teller Machine). Customers no need to visit any Bank and they can get Payments, withdrawal, Transfer, Cash check, Advance, and Balance functions from ATM.  Technology: JAVA, GWT, Rest Web Services, JAXB, Hibernate, XML, XSD, Maven, Oracle 10G  Roles and Responsible  • Understood the new enhancements and writing the code in Payments and Transfer modules  • Fixed the defects in Payments and Transfer modules  • Worked with REST web services to access data for deposits, withdrawal applications  • Used GWT to convert standalone java application into java script based web application    Project: Genesis Forms Java Developer PNC Bank January 2012 to February 2013 Genesis Forms project is converting traditional XPRs of PNC bank to genesis forms by using WESB (Web Service Component Bus) technology for generating PDFS, PCLS and Fax. Migration of forms include for ATM, RMS, Quick Switch, Service and Loan transactions for PNC Bank.  Technology: WESB, Web Services and JAVA  Roles and Responsible  • Analyzed XPRs and developing the code for Genesis form  • Fixed bugs raised SIT and UAT  • Written Design documents for Services module  • Used Web Sphere Enterprise Service Bus to transfer the information between different web services    Project: Unified 3.0 Java Developer NokiaSiemensNetworks September 2010 to January 2012 Unified 3.0 is a component of Charging and Billing care project work. It combines both postpaid and prepaid capabilities. Customer can use both postpaid and prepaid options while he takes single connection. By this component customer can avail the benefits of both pre paid and post paid connections.  Telecom concepts used: OSS  Technologies Used: JAVA  Roles and Responsible:  • Developed postpaid MUCc by using Verizon Offer Manager tool  • Worked on MOC (Mobile Originating Call), MTC (Mobile Terminating Call), SMS and GPRS MUCs.  • Fixed bugs in Telecom billing module using Java  • Worked on Offer Manager Tool for configuring these Offline Mucs in OCS 3.0 Offlines Mucs support. Site Manager NORTEL, Canada June 2006 to September 2010 Role: Java Developer  Site Manager is a Nortel Craft GUI interface for several Nortel Networks Optical products (NE) and provides Fault, Configuration, Security and Performance management functionalities along with connection management facilities. The development of Site Manager is in Java and in Clearcase environment. A version of Site Manager supports the Optical Metro Edge (OME) product line.  Telecom Technology: Optical Multi Service Edge, Network Element  Technologies Used: JAVA, SWING  Environment: core Java, xml, python, Eclipse  Roles and Responsible:  • Module owner of Equipment and Facility Provisioning application  • Development prime of planned work products (FTS, HLD, DE, DD, CID etc.).  • Worked on CPL4.0, 100G Feature of OME 6500 Network elements  • Contributed to client side GUI development  • Prepared Unit testing and Unit test plan documents  • Coordianted with the offshore team while working in Onsite Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science City College Of New York December 2014 Masters in Computer Application in management Nagarjuna University June 2005