Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - WebDom St. Louis, MO • 9+ years of experience in design and development of enterprise applications with complete Software Development Life Cycle using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Strong development experience in J2EE technologies such as JSP, Servlets, Hibernates, EJB, JDBC, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, REST), JMS, JNDI, JSF and Java Mail.  • Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications with the EJB, Java, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JNDI, AJAX, JMS, ORM, JNDI, Web services, JDBC, JAXP, RMI, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Web Services, SOAP, JSON.  • Good Working experience in using different modules like Spring Core Container Module, Spring Application Context Module, Spring MVC Framework module, Spring AOP Module, Spring ORM, Spring Security etc in Spring Framework.  • Experience in using Eclipse, RAD 7.0,8.0, 9.0/WSAD,, JDeveloper and IntelliJ Idea IDEs.  • Designed and implemented application using JSP Spring MVC JNDI Spring IOC Spring Annotations Spring AOP Spring Transactions Hibernate 3.0 SQL ANT JMS Oracle and Oracle Web Logic Application server  • Developed web GUI involving HTML5, Angular JS, Java Script under MVC architecture.  • Experienced in a fast-paced Agile Development Environment including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  • Hands on Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud Iaas platform with features EC2, IAM, RDS, S3, Route 53, Elastic Beanstalk etc.  • Involved in Mule ESB for configuration and tuning. Deployed Mule applications through MMC and Managed the server deployments.  • Experience with MuleSoft ESB to develop web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Implemented various levels of application and services using Spring-Framework (2. 3), EJB3, Struts2 and ORM tools like Hibernate 3.0 for fast pace and efficient code generation.  • Proficient in Java/J2EE Design Patterns including singleton, Factory, Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), and Business Delegate. Well versed with core Java concepts like collections, multithreading, serialization, Java beans.  • Responsible for designing Presentation Tier (web pages) using the concepts such as Themes, Skins, HTML, XML, CSS, Java Script , EXT JS and JQuery using AJAX.  • Extensive experience in developing JEE based Web Services to expose useful functionality to web users through SOAP, describing them using WSDL, registering them using UDDI for easy availability to potential users and consuming using Axis2 and JAX-WS.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Angular.JS, PDFJS, and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Strong Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), ERD documentation, UML artifacts modeling with Rational Rose and Enterprise Architect. Applied the requirements engineering, analysis, and design disciplines of the RUP to J2EE projects.  • Experience in writing numerous test cases using JUnit framework with Mokito & Docker.  • Good working knowledge of persisting java objects using Hibernate that simplify data storage and retrieval to the underlying database.  • Worked on various XML technologies i.e., writing DTD, Schema, Namespaces, XSL, Xpath, Xlink, X Query, XHTML and SAX, DOM, JDOM parsers.  • Experience working with databases such as Oracle 8.x/9i/10g/11g, MS-SQL Server, MySQL and using PL/SQL to write stored procedures, functions and triggers for different Data Models.  • Experience in database related work primarily creating complex stored procedures, Views, Triggers, Functions, using PL/SQL.  • Hands-on experience with Reporting Tool Crystal Reports to create reports in various formats and tuning the performance.  • Experience in Configuration Management, setting up company Version policies, build schedule using Clear Case, SVN, CVS and Git.  • Experience with Building tools like ANT & MAVEN.  • Expertise working on Application servers and Web servers like WebLogic 8.x/9.x/10.x/12.x, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x and JBOSS.  • Extensive experience in software development methodologies like Agile & SCRUM.  • Commitment to achieving corporate goals. Able to establish priorities and adapt quickly to Changing needs.  • Excellent team player with leadership abilities. Strong analytical skills with excellent interpersonal and communication skills with analytical ability and understanding of Organizational functioning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer WebDom - Saint Petersburg, FL July 2017 to Present Description: ConnectYourCare is one of the largest providers of uniquely featured Consumer-Directed Healthcare (CDH) solutions, including, Health Savings Accounts (HAS's), Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRA's), Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA's), retirement health benefit accounts administration, COBRA and transit and commuter programs.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Agile (Scrum) Methodology that includes daily scrum meeting with team, sprint planning and estimating the tasks for the user stories.  • Used and implemented the application using Spring (MVC, Webflow, Spring Boot) modules and Hibernate.  • Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed of advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with the server.  • Worked on Product Enhancements and Production Support Tickets in Redmine.  • Experience on Atlassian tools like confluence and Jira.  • Worked on Pentest Security Issues mainly on fixing Cookies and OWASP tools.  • Involved in configuring various Jenkins plugins for SonarQube, TestNG, and Find Bug as part of build deployment pipeline.  • Involved in development of automation script for build, deployment related tasks using Jenkins, Docker and Chef.  • Involved in developing an internal tool framework for analyst, customer service representatives using spring boot.  • Involved in configuration of spring boot actuators, Dev Tools, Spring Data and Spring  • Involved in developing environment specific spring boot property files for various environments (Dev, QA, Staging and Prod).  • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements  Clarification Defects.  • Understanding business objectives and implementation of business logic.  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using HTML, JSP, JS, J-Query, CSS, LESS and SASS.  • Involved in the presentation tier design as well as services layer.  • Implemented Messaging Framework using rabbit MQ Series for receiving / sending XML format data.  • Developed Code for reading XML data using DOM parser.  • Involved in content management system using jackrabbit content repository.  • Involved in the development of the presentation tier using Spring MVC and Spring Web flow  • Used JSTL, and other in-house tag libraries.  • Involved in design and construction of EJB batch responsible for Email or text alert generation for sending authentication code.  • Written Packages, Procedure, Functions, and Triggers in PL/SQL.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using UML on Rational Rose  • Involved in design and development of email job to send the Multifactor authentication code over the SMTP server using Java Mail API.  • Involved in writing test cases for testing the Business components developed in spring, and Hibernate using Junit and TestNG framework.    Environment: JBoss EAP 5.2/7, EJB 3.0, Oracle 11g PL/SQL, Eclipse, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, J-Query, CSS, Spring Boot 1.5, Spring Data, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Servlets, Hibernate, struts tiles, Junit, tortoise Jira,Confluence,Redmine, Jenkins, SAML, jackrabbit content repository, Groovy, Design Patterns, UML, XML, XSD, DWR Sr Java/ J2EE Developer Comcast - Denver, CO May 2016 to June 2018 Description: Comcast corporation is an American global telecommunications conglomerate and is the largest broadcasting and cable television company. It is the largest home Internet Service Provider in the United States. This project develops an application which integrates with sales cloud and enables real-time data sharing. So, price, product and customer information are up to date.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in meetings with clients, management and project team during different SDLC stages like requirement gathering, high level design and implementation, functional testing, and deployment of application on servers.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software.  • Generating Scala and Java Classes from the respective APIs so that they can be incorporated in the overall application.  • Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework and handled the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Designed and Developed Web services to allow communication between applications based on RESTFUL Web service.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for other applications to communicate.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using AngularJS, EXTJS and JQUERY.  • Experienced with mobile apps, stream and Broadband services using Xfinity products.  • Developed web pages using EXT JS, Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  • Using SOAP UI to test the service call, by passing required parameters for the service..  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 9i/10g Database.  • Developed ANT scripts, and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Used Continuous delivery/Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for Version Control pf code for incremental development.  • Implemented Spring MVC Framework per client requirement. Used various components of spring such as Spring AOP for implementing cross cutting functionalities like Caching, transaction management and logging.  • Experienced working with JBOSS and Jersey for Advanced Java Web Services.  • Spring Controllers were used with Angular JS to route the control to desired Java services.  • Analysis and Design of various modules using SOA and J2EE stack.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection (IOC) to inject required services and struts.  • Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file.  • Implemented as well as exposed web services using Apache Axis.  • Construction as per the design documents prepared using Java, Servlet, JSP and Java Script using JSF framework. Unit testing the developed deliverables. Conducting code review for the team member's code.  • Worked on DWR in Java open Source to write the Websites code using AJAX.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate framework like HQL queries, Criteria, projections.  • Deployed applications using WebSphere Application Server and Used IDE RAD (Rational Application Developer).  • Carried out bug fixing by rigorous testing using JUnit test cases.  • Used JSON strings to transfer java object data to Angular JS and vice versa.  • JIRA was used for bug-tracking.  • Documented all stages of the project, generated documentation using Java API Documentation Generator ( Java doc).  • Provided support to deploy the application on production servers on UNIX environment.  • Automated testing process using shell scripting    Environment: Core Java, JDK 1.5, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Scala, MuleSoft ESB, Hibernate, Mulesoft, Apache Axis, AGILE/SCRUM Methodology, JavaScript, AngularJS , ReactJS, EXTJS, AWS, Devops, JQuery, Jersey, JMS, JSF1.2/2.0, JSON, XML, XSL, XSLT, WSDL, Log4J, JUnit, Jenkins, ANT, Maven, RAD, DWR, RESTful, SOAP web services, Maven, Oracle, JBoss, PL/SQL. Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer Valassis Communications - Livonia, MI June 2014 to December 2015 Description: Valassis communications was formerly a publicly trade corporation with subsidiaries that provide media and marketing services and one of the largest coupon distributers/processors in the world. Working on functionalities for the expansion of Products into the Production.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of the project.  • Involved in all stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) including proposal, process engineering, requirement analysis, design, development, testing, deployment and support.  • Designed and developed web-based software using Spring MVC Framework, and Spring Web Flow.  • Experience in implementing Spring modules like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Security.  • Wrote Java back end web services in RESTful framework using the jersey JAX-RS framework.  • Implemented Rest Services (JAX-RS) to interact with external systems. Involved in writing client code for invoking SOAP based Web Services.  • Used JSON as the response data format from the server.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOPS Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC.  • Developed GUI using JSP, HTML3, CSS3, XHTML and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Maintained CSS and HTML, XSL, XSLT, JAVA SCRIPT EXT JS 6.0, JSF, Angular JS, Bootstrap for designing Webpages.  • Achieved synchronization of multiple threads through Multithreading and Exception Handling.  • Implemented different types of spring controllers as per application requirements DAO and service layer components using Spring/Hibernate API and Spring/Hibernate annotations. Extensively used Hibernate QL.  • Implemented the UI using EXTJS 6.0 and graphs for stats using the EXTJS graphing components.  • Writing user console pages in lift along with the snippets in Scala. The product is responsible to give access to the user to all their credentials and privileges within the system.  • Experienced in the deployment of the ear and jars using Jenkins, ANT, Maven deploy tools and performing other configuration changes for setting up the application in the integration testing environment.  • Responsible for automation of build using CRUISE CONTROL and configuring the same and also have to configure to receive build success/failure email alerts.  • Designed and developed to provide different types of content using AWS.  • Experience working in installed application on AWS, EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Used AWS to deploy the project on EC2 instance.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP API's, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Involved in raising the Notifications to Oracle Users through Mailing Concept for intimating to start the next process using workflow.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Expertise in web development and related software Angular.js, Html5, Css3.  • Hands on experience in writing UNIX Shell scripting.  • Used DB2 as backend data base, Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the DB2 database.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology and 2 Week sprint planning to produce high Quality Software.  • Developed Maven Scripts for the build process and deployed in IBM WebSphere and Tomcat.  • Used shell scripts to maintain production and test UNIX servers.  • Used Tortoise SVN as version control across common source code used by developers and MAVEN as building tool.    Environment: JDK1.6, J2EE, Core Java Spring 3.0, Spring Security Scala, Mule ESB, Hibernate, Annotations, RAD 8.0,WSDL 5.1,Bootstrap, Agile, Servlets, JSP, AWS, Java script, EXTJS6.0, XML, HTML5, CSS3, SVN, JMS, JUnit, Jenkins, ANT, Maven JBOSS, Unix, Oracle 10g/11g, DB2, SQL, Angular Js, Web Services (SOAP, RESTful), Java/ J2EE Developer AOL - Herndon, VA October 2012 to December 2014 Description: Many agencies are using various ratings products (Comp-Raters) that help agents to bridge their quotes from a single UI to multiple insurance vendors and get their quotes. AOL is trying to integrate their system with different comp-raters and reaching many independent agencies.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of SDLC, Requirements gathering, design & Analysis, development, testing, deployment and bug fixing of an application.  • Design and development of modules involving Spring MVC, Web Services, JMS, JSTL.  • Designed Services front end view using Spring MVC and Spring Web flow, implemented business tier using Spring AOP and spring IOC.  • Implemented and used Web Services with the help of WSDL and SOAP.  • Parsed the XML based responses using JAXB Parser and validated XML against the schema generated by the court systems.  • Implemented DAO and Business layer with Hibernate, JMS, Groovy, XML, XSLT, XML schema and J2EE Patterns.  • Used Java Mail API for posting and processing mails.  • Used Spring AOP for logging and exception handling as a part of remediation strategy.  • Wrote JUnit Test cases for several classes which support the application.  • Developed CSS style Sheets and worked heavily.  • Deployed applications in Apache TOMCAT Server and participated in code reviews and also worked along with testing teams.  • Used Maven for building and deploying Application. Used SVN Version Control tool as repository.  • Involved in writing queries and stored procedures for My SQL, Oracle and SQL Server.  • Wrote PL/SQL to extract information from Oracle DB.  • Developed stored procedures, cursors and database Triggers and implemented scrollable Result sets.  • Followed Agile/Scrum Methodology, Conducted and attended Stand up meetings every day in the mornings.    Environment: Eclipse 3.4, JDK 1.6/1.7, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Java Mail, AJAX, Tomcat 6.0.18, BEA Web Logic 12, Groovy, Web Services, log4j, SVN, Oracle 10g, LDAP, My SQL, SQL Server, Agile/Scrum Methodology, Linux, UNIX. Java/ J2EE Developer Soft Tech Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2010 to September 2012 Description: Softech's flagship product offering Product Center PLM was created to enhance product lifecycle development by extending enterprise collaboration, increasing product quality improvements, and shortening time-to-market cycles.    Responsibilities:  • Designed front end pages using JSP, JQUERY, JSTL, JavaScript and AJAX calls to get the required data.  • Used XSLT to transform data from one Document into another.  • Developed the Hibernate mapping files and involved in writing Junit test cases and suits using Eclipse IDE.  • Developing Java (Swing/AWT) client to work like an Application and Applet using the server via RMI.  • Designed UI screens using JSP, Struts tags HTML. Used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Designed and developed user interface for public using asynchronous technologies using AJAX/POJO/Struts frameworks.  • Used AngularJS to decouple the client side of an application from server side and also to decouple DOM logic from application logic.  • Used Struts Framework in the application which is based on MVC2 design pattern.  • Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database. Developed the Hibernate mapping files using Eclipse IDE.  • Worked on EXT JS for Rich Web Application.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, WSDL, UDDI, and REST for customer information credit bureau.  • Developed aspect oriented logging module using Log4J for logging purposes.    Environment: JDK 1.5, Struts, JSP 2.2, Servlets 3.0, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XHTML, XSLT, JDBC, JMS, JSP, JSTL, EXTJS, JQUERY, AJAX, EJB, Spring 3.1, AngularJS, Hibernate, REST, WebLogic 11g, Oracle11g, Eclipse 3.7, LINUX, JUnit 3x, JSF, Maven, Log4J, SQL Developer, and Win SQL. Java Developer Maruti Suzuki India Limited June 2008 to August 2010 Description: This system is aimed at automating and standardizing the operation of dealers and distributors using Intranet. The manufacturer plans the production schedules and dispatches schedules depending on the stock levels at the dealers and distributors. GUI screens were developed using HTML. Java Script was used to validate the fields    Responsibilities  • Worked directly with user groups in analyzing and specifying business requirements for the design and development of project.  • Designed application with UML (Unified Modeling Language).  • Developed application based on SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).  • Developed complete Web tier of the application with struts framework.  • Developed Session Façade with Stateless Session bean.  • Actively involved in configuring the Application Server and deployed all the modules like Web modules and Business modules.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, JSP.  • Developed the Front-End JSP and HTML.  • Developed JSP's, Java Beans and Servlets to interact with Data Base.  • Extensively used JavaScript for client side validations.  • Used XML parsers to parse and fetch information from XML templates.  • Performed Unit Testing of all Modules.    Environment: J2EE, JSP, EJB, AJAX, JMS, XML, HTML, JDBC, JBUILDER, JavaScript, Maven,Oracle, Rational Rose, UML, Windows XP, Unix Scripting, Solaris, Clear Case and Clear Quest. Education Bachelor's Skills Java (9 years), JMS (9 years), MAVEN (9 years), Oracle (8 years), XML (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL:    Programming Languages Java, C++, C, UNIX Shell Scripting, PL/SQL  Core Java Java Collections, Multithreading, RMI, Annotations, Collection API and Generics, File Handling.  Enterprise Java JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.3, JDBC 3.0, Swing, RMI, JMS, Logging API  Design Patterns  Singleton, Business Delegate, Business interface, Observer, DAO, Model View Controller (MVC), Façade, Service Locater, Abstract Factory, and Data Transfer Object.    Mark-up/ Scripting Language AJAX, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, HTML 5.0, CSS, XML, XSLT.  XML Technologies XSL, XSLT, WSDL, SAX/DOM, XPath, DTD, Schema, XPath, XQuery, XSL-FO  Tools & Framework Struts 2.x/3.x, Spring3.x/2.0, Hibernate 3.x, Spring MVC, Web Services, Log4J, Apache Common Library, Junit, Ant, Maven  RDBMS ORACLE, DB2, Sybase, MYSQL, SQL SERVER Version/Source Control Systems: SVN (Subversion), CVS  IDE Eclipse 3.x, My Eclipse, Net Beans  Application/Web Servers IBM Web Sphere 7.0/6/1, Apache 2, Tomcat 6.x/5.x, Web logic Sever 12.1  O/S & Environment Windows 8.1/8/7/Vista/XP, UNIX, Linux.