Java Architect <span class="hl">Java</span> Architect Java Architect Dallas, TX 10+ years of experience with full life cycle (SDLC) of the software development process including requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, writing technical/system specifications, interface development and implementation of Client/Server, Distributed, Internet and E-Commerce. With the progressive journey as a developer got experience with different technologies like Java/J2EE, spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSP, PL/SQL. Now that's just a part of what you will look for as a developer. Got experienced with HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, Java Script, Ruby on rails, AJAX, API, Restful, UNIX, Shell, Script and Restful Web Sphere. As said experience is never enough so got expertise on writing Sub Queries, Cursors, Functions and performed data analysis using SQL, SQL Server Management Studio..  ? Experience in developing web based J2EE applications using Struts/Spring frameworks.  ? Extensive of server-side development experience using the technologies EJB, Web Services, XML, JAXB, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL Server, SQL, PL/SQL,TOAD.  ? Expert level skills developing web based applications using Core Java, Servlets, JSP,JSF, JavaBeans, EJB, Web Services, JDBC, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Angular JS, Angular 2, Node JS, Boot Strap, AJAX and JQuery.  ? Expertise in configuring WBI Adapters such as Jtext, JDBC, HTTP, Webservices, MQ and JMS.  ? Experience with Clear Case UCM concepts. Version control tools such as Rational ClearCase, Rational ClearCase Remote Client.  ? Created UX Designs, performed UI Development and contributed to the codebase  ? Worked on web templates and customized modules for various CMSs such as WordPress, Joomla applications.  ? Worked on Rational Application Developer, WebSphere Integration Developer, BEA WebLogic Workshop, Eclipse, and ILOG Rules Studio for Java.  ? Experience in multiple version control tools like GIT, CVS, and SVN.  ? Conversant with Web/application Servers- Weblogic, Tomcat 5.5/6.0.23.  ? Experience in using Agile and Extreme Programming methodologies.  ? Used Ajax based DOJO for faster front end.  ? Worked on multiple client projects using Ruby, Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, and AJAX.  ? Experience in implementing Web Service client using SOAP, WSDL, REST and XML standard using SOA.  ? Ability to perform at a high level, meet deadlines with quality delivery, adaptable to ever changing priorities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Architect Bank of America - Charlotte, NC January 2014 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Completed project using Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers and View Resolvers of Spring MVC framework utilizing spring concepts like DI Dependency Injection and AOP Aspect Oriented Programming for business logic.  ? Worked on modern development methodology Scrum and technologies like Java, J2EE, Web Services, XML, EJB, DWR (Direct Web Remoting), Adobe ColdFusion etc  ? Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  ? Implemented Spring Modules like IOC (Dependency Injection) and Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), Spring MVC and Spring ORM.  ? Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  ? Developed Form Beans/ JavaBeans, Spring Controller Classes and configured with the corresponding JSP pages in spring-config.xml file.  ? Used Java Swing based UI to enhance performance and support additional capacity for high-volume application.  ? Developed implementation code to consume core Java, J2EE, web services, used Eclipse for development.  ? Extensively used the J2EE design patterns like Session Façade, Business Object (BO), Service Locator, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton, Factory Developed web services components using XML, SOAP and Axis.  ? Built REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  ? Created web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in hibernate, Used the spring container for data source and to load the Hibernate specific classes  ? Created of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQUERY  ? Created the dynamic application prototype and implemented application UI utilizing Google Web Toolkit (GWT).  ? Developed the Web Services Client using SOAP, WSDL description to verify the credit history of the new customer.  ? Applied ILOG JRules on Loan Approvals; Developed barcode/label creation using Applet and JavaImaging; designed/Developed Swing UIs for attachment diagnosis.  ? Used JSP, AJAX, HTML, CSS and JavaScript libraries like Bootstrap and jQuery to develop the User Interface.  ? Used Angular JS and Node JS to implement rich functionality in various pages: form validation, CRUD, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced directives, authentication, server-side proxy, unit tests, cloud integration, slide pages and users switch. Write and maintain codes using technical specifications to update existing application.  ? Extensively involved in coding with AngularJS, jQuery UI and jQuery Mobile to add functionalities and effects like Accordion, Infinite Scroll bar, Slider bar, Draggle/Droppable, Resizable, Progress bar.  ? Used Apache tomcat as web server and Weblogic 10.3.6 as an application server to deploy various components of application.  ? Developed back-end messaging infrastructure for real-time web application in Javascript, jQuery, node.js, redis.  ? Involved in design of EJB components for Credit Rating and Deposit Collection Management module and design of JMS-Message Driven Beans  ? Wrote Hibernate HQL Queries to fetch data from the database.  ? Used NoSql Databases like Apache Cassandra , MongoDB.  ? Used Subversion (SVN) for software version control.  ? Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  ? Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain.  ? Developed custom web forms using PHP and JavaScript.  ? Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  ? Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  ? Used Mercurial with hgTortoise for source control.  ? Wrote Maven build scripts to compile Java classes and create jar, performed unit testing and package them into ear files.  ? Used Amazon Web Services(AWS) for hosting some of the client-side applications.  ? Used UNIX commands and Shell scripting for production maintenance activities of the servers for the organization.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Ibatish, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.JS, Bootstrap.JS, Backbone.JS, JavaScript, Oracle, PL/SQL, Cassandra, Hadoop, REST, Soap, Web Services, API, Restful, Eclipse, Weblogic, Git, Git Hub, Junit, Selenium, Agile, UML, JSP, JSTL, SERVLET, Gradel , MAVEN, XML, SQA, JQuery, Struts, JBoss, DOJO, Jasper, Apache Tomcat. Sr. Java Developer SEI Investments - Oaks, PA December 2011 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO Design and develop Servlets, JSPs,  ? Using spring integration with IBatis for persistence. All SQL map name spaces are configured in sqlmap-config file.  ? Implemented views using Struts tags, JSTL and Expression Language.  ? JavaBeans with dependency injection to implement JSF framework. Good working experience developing advanced Swing components.  ? Developed Scalable applications using Stateless session EJBs.  ? Implemented CSS3, DOM API, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  ? Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  ? Developed Code using Struts framework, based on the MVC design pattern.  ? Developed the presentation layer using Struts Tag Libraries.  ? Developed the application with iterative methodology, recapturing the existing code and writing a new code for most of the modules.  ? Created POC for Spring Batch for running batch jobs.  ? Worked on backend logic using Servlets, EJB, Hibernate and JDBC  ? Developed page specific elements, handlers, web beans, view helper classes, JSP pages & fragments by using design patterns and java standards.  ? Analyzed, designed, validated the business logic of the system and implemented the application.  ? Developed business services using EJB's and used SOAP API.  ? Translated functional requirements into technical design by gathering the user stories.  ? Developed order history and order status of all the Authorized agent's specific bonds  ? Developed dynamic pages for generating a report for displaying the existing business rules based on a search criteria to be reviewed by the CNA internally.  ? Developed Search Tool for the organization to display reports agent wise, month wise, weekly.  ? Developed the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  ? Developed servlets for generating reports in PDF format.  ? Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  ? Implemented logging using log4j.  ? Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on My SQL.  ? Written JQuery Validations for the User Front-ends.  ? Maintened of data in different Oracle Database and environments using TOAD.  ? Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  ? Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  ? Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  ? Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries.  ? Involved in writing CTG, JCICS classes to interact with Mainframe DB2.  ? Designed and developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2.  ? Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  ? Followed an Agile, Software Development methodology. Used NetBeans IDE.  ? Configuration and deployment of application on to JBoss application server.  ? Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX.  ? Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using Junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development.  ? Participated in converting the business requirements to software specifications using Rational UML  ? Was involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Good understanding of Oracle, SQL, Shell Script, JavaScript/JQuery, Log4j, ANT, Maven and Ajax concepts.  ? Used WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  ? Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  ? Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  ? Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  ? Implemented two Java portals. One is Crystal Report Engine and the other is Jasper Report Engine as plug-in to other web-applications depending on the user's preferences.  ? Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators.  ? Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  ? Layout and design the overall architecture and migration approaches using Oracle ADF.  ? Migration of Business process modeling, views from Oracle BPM to Lombardi  ? Reduced system downtime by 20% and increased on-line business opportunities / revenue by implementing content management system enhancements leveraging Web 2.0 technologies.  ? Expertise in working with IBM MQ Series and Websphere Message Broker on various platforms like Sun Solaris 8/9, AIX, SUSE Linux, and Windows NT/2000/2003/XP.  ? Hosted and configured applications in IIS, IBM Websphere, and Apache Tomcat under Windows and AIX platforms.  ? Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ANT script.  ? Involved in writing Unix Shell Script for performing automated tasks.  ? Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the ERP system using VB Script and Ruby scripts.  ? Configured Word Press publishing software for non-profit firm. Created weblog layout in HTML, CSS and PHP based on an original design according to client's branding needs.  ? Built custom websites for clients using CMS's (Drupal) by coding custom modules and themes, as well as utilizing e-commerce APIs for secure payment processing.  ? Developed an in house Bankruptcy Intake program in Classic ASP/ASP.NET. Program is inherited from Classic ASP Debt intake program. Used Visual Studio 2008 to develop this mix program of both Classic ASP and ASP.NET. Used vbscript, JavaScript, and added some new ASP.NET pages.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, JEE, Spring, IBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, DOJO, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, Coherence, Apache AXIS2, WSDL, NetBeans, JBoss, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water fall model, UML, JSP, SERVLET, ANT, XML, iText, EMC Documentum, Google Web Toolkit, JIRA, SWING, Cognos, Jasper Report, ILOG, Jrules, Oracle Application Development Framework, Oracle Business Process Management, Web2.0, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, UNIX, Ruby. Sr. Java Developer U.S. Bancorp - Raleigh, NC October 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented the Spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  ? Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  ? Expertise in developing enterprise applications using Struts Frameworks  ? Design and develop Servlets, JSPs, and JavaBeans with dependency injection to implement JSF framework, Good working experience developing advanced Swing components.  ? Converted the existing EJB session beans which call the host (Mainframe system) into POJO's.  ? Developed reusable custom directives using AngularJS using transclude, restrict, event handlers and templating.  ? Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  ? Developed presentation layer using XML, XSL, JavaScript, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Custom tags etc.  ? Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  ? Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) utilizing HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Node.js, DOM, jQuery, Angular Js, Hapi Js and Ajax that are W3C Web Standards and are program good.  ? Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone.js, Can.js, and JQuery  ? Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  ? Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQLs.  ? Developed a bulletin board module for supplier and vendor information portal. Application included forms to upload notification documents to the Supplier bulletin and maintenance of documents, complete with CRUD capabilities and email notifications.  ? Involved in writing and executing PL/SQL stored procedures and functions and triggers for Oracle to create a Database Management System.  ? Developed DAO API to manage the payment information using JDBC  ? Developed enhancements to MongoDB architecture to improve performance and scalability.  ? Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms.  ? Design and Developed using WebService using Apache CXF.  ? Designed and Developed WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  ? Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  ? Used Websphere Application Server for application deployment in the clustered UNIX environment.  ? Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), JIRA/ QualityCenter for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  ? Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  ? Extensive experience in developing applications using Java and related technologies using WATERFALL and AGILE SCRUM methodologies.  ? Involved in detail design developing use cases, use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and high level activity diagrams using UML from the requirements.  ? Developed Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams using Rational Rose  ? Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  ? Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  ? Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  ? Used Maven Script for building and deploying the application.  ? Was responsible for Developing XML Parsing logic using SAX/DOM Parsers  ? Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  ? Developed master JMS producer, master JMS consumer, and notification manager to implement existing interfaces and hide JMS details from existing (legacy) notification producers and consumers using J2SE DESIGN PATTERNS.  ? Configured Server for Oracle Database and Apache Tomcat  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  ? Extensive Development using Zend Framework by PHP in a LAMP environment.  Environment:    Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, EJB, Angular.JS, JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, Node.JS, Bootstrap.JS, Backbone.JS, JQuery, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, MongoDB, Apache CXF, Soap, WebServices, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, WSAD, SVN, Junit, UML, Class Diagram, JSP, JSTL, SERVLET, MAVEN, XML, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP. Java Developer AT&T SERVICES INC - Dallas, TX March 2008 to October 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Design and implementation for the concept for the frameworks using Struts, Spring and Hibernate Frameworks and assisting with development environment configuration.  ? Developed Java/J2EE code, business logic using Spring, Hibernate framework and OOP concepts, involved in Peer code reviews.  ? Developed the Frontend application with AngularJS.  ? Involved in complete software development life cycle management using UML (Unified Modeling Language) - Requirements gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detailed design, and Development.  ? Used Spring MVC framework & Integration for Server side programming.  ? Developed UI based on struts framework, using JSF, JSP, JSTL, Servlets and Back Bone JS DHTML with extensive java scripts to reduce Server hits, improving performance.  ? Developed Servlets and JSP to interact with EnterpriseJava Beans (EJB) containing all the Business Logic.  ? Used Hibernate as the persistence layer to interact with Oracle DB.  ? Wrote complex SQL, Stored Procedure, HSQL & Criteria queries and reviewed the same with peers.  ? Responsible to resolve design issues and develop strategies to make ongoing improvements that support system flexibility and performance.  ? JProfiler bridges the gap between a code profiler and a high-level JEE monitoring tool.  ? Responsible to approve "Test Cases" created by Testing Team. Provide technical support to testing team to fix any issues in Functional Testing.  ? Assess the technical feasibility of new technologies to enable integration into existing processes.  ? Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller to make calls to EJB as model.  ? Worked on JBOSS Application Server to deploy application.  ? Consumed and developed Restful Services with JAX-RS and Jersey.  ? Used Soap UI Pro for Testing Web services.  ? Used Apache Camel with URIs to work directly with any kind of Transport or messaging model such as HTTP, ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ and JMS.  ? Developed Stored Procedures, Functions and created database tables.  ? Used ClearCase for Source Control Management.  ? Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests.  Environment:  Spring, Hibernate, Jprofiler, Angular JS, DHTML, CSS, Servlets, UML, J2EE, JSP, JSF2.0, EJB, Struts Framework Taglibs, SQL, JavaScript, Oracle, JBoss, Websphere Application Server, Eclipse, JUnit, JMock, WSDL, Web services, XML, XSLT, XSD (Schema Designs), SOAP, RestFul Services, JSON, UNIX, UML, JNDI, JDBC, JMS. Java Developer Alcoa Inc - Rockdale, TX February 2006 to March 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for creating the look and feel of the public website.  ? Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviours.  ? Used Google analytics reports, optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS.  ? Used jQuery Selectors like tag (element) level, id level, class level selector.  ? Implemented Resizable popup window to show the temperature markers.  ? Implemented jQuery plugins for customization using jQuery standard annotation.  ? Performed Code tuning for jQuery, JavaScript.  ? Design and development of UI Screens.  ? Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects.  ? Validation of XHTML and CSS3, Cross-browser support.  ? Creation of static pages to be turned into JSP templates.  ? Creation of a prototype Store Locator using Google Maps, Mysql and PHP.  ? Removing validation errors from JSP files.  ? Site maintenance, defect resolution and creation of new page templates.  ? Developed the key modules Java, spring and Ibatis.  ? Extensive Application of HTML, XHTML, CSS for design and styling of web pages.  ? Implemented reusable services using Spring.  ? Involved in developing Database access components using Spring DAO integrated with Hibernate/JPA for accessing the data.  ? Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate. Leveraged the AOP features of spring framework to handle exceptions.  ? Implemented webservices using Rest API.  ? Implementation of AJAX, JSON, JQuery for create interactive Web Applications.  ? Involved in developing and modifying UNIX shell scripts using VI editor.  ? Implemented Ejb for maintaining the business logic.  ? Written complex SQL queries and stored procedures.    Environment:  Angular.js, JavaScript, JQuery UI, JQuery Mobile, JSON, Ajax, Bootstrap, HTML, DHTML, CSS3, Spring, Hibernate, Json, EJB, XHTML. Education Master of Science in Science and Engineering University of North Carolina Skills JAVA (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), JSP (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages & API  Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Struts,JSF,Spring,Hibernate,Ibatis,Mybatis,SQL, PL/SQL, POI, EJB, JMS, UNIX shell script, Log4j, JUnit, SAX, DOM, JAXB, XML,    UI HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ext-Js, Ajax, JQuery  DBMS Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, Sybase  Web Services XML/XSD/XSLT, SOAP, WSDL, Rest webservices  Development tools Eclipse, WSAD, RAD, TOAD, SQL Developer, Rational Rose  Version Control CVS, SVN, VSS, GIT,RTC, Rational Clear Case  Operating System Windows, UNIX, SOLARIS, LINUX