Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master Certified Scrum Master (CSM) with a background in Agile principles, project management, and programming. Servant-leader striving to help build software that is as structurally, semantically and aesthetically cohesive as it is intuitive for the user/customer. Work collaboratively to isolate problem domains and implement simple and repeatable solutions. Work Experience Scrum Master LPL Financial September 2018 to April 2019 Description:  Built the CI/CD Pipeline in order to initialize Automated Testing and Cloud Deployments    • Facilitate Agile Coaching through workshops and one on one coaching.  • Facilitate Daily standups, planning meetings, roadmap planning, retrospectives, etc.  • Escalate and remove all impediments.  • Maintain backlog and update all user stories.  • Generate metrics to team and upper management in order to maintain transparency.  • Protect and maintain scope. Scrum Master Brighthouse Financial - Charlotte, NC March 2018 to July 2018 Description:  Successfully helped the BI Team standup a brand new infrastructure and create Executive dashboards for the Marketing Organization.    • Continually reinforce the Agile principles and values for the delivery team members, stakeholders, and BHF associates.  • Help the team identify, raise, and resolve impediments.  • Facilitate and assist Agile Scrum or Kanban teams in ceremonies including standups, sprint planning, backlog grooming, retrospectives, and PI planning sessions.  • Provide situational coaching and support team members to optimize their use of Agile.  • Help teams enable built-in quality by executing practices such as DevOps, CDCI Pipeline, Integrated Test Strategies, and automation.  • Lead and participate in communities of practice - populated with both Brighthouse and vendor employees - that serve to both promote best practices and solicit input on how to continuous improve operations.  • Participate in Agile organizational design discussions, making suggestions on Agile operating models based on knowledge, experience, observation, and team input. Scrum Master Levvel - Charlotte, NC September 2017 to January 2018 Description:  I was brought on to Levvel to do consulting work. While with this company I trained new teams on Agile through workshops and continual coaching. I was responsible for helping teams build back end development for customer payment processing. This functionality allows customers to pay their vendors and automatically generate files.    • Coach and maintain Agile principles  • Use Rally to estimate project delivery  • Work with stakeholders to communicate business requirements  • Work with Product Owner to ensure that user stories meet DOR (Definition of Ready) and DOD (Definition of Done)  • Facilitate retrospectives, daily standup, and planning meetings Scrum Master Ally - Charlotte, NC September 2016 to September 2017 Description:  Ally bought Tradeking and I was the Scrum Master responsible for coaching the "Tradeking Advisor" team on developing and integrating the code with Ally .We were able to successfully merge our code with theirs and now customers can easily manage their accounts, view performance calculations/predictions, make withdrawals & deposits, SSO into their accounts and much more. I also worked with the "Market Data" team in maintaining our code that displays proper quote information from the NYSE. Both teams were fairly new and I was able to coach them both towards continuous improvement resulting in overall customer satisfaction.    • Facilitate Daily Standups, Retrospectives, and Sprint Planning meetings to remove impediments.  • Coordinate team events to build team collaboration.  • Improve team collaboration through individualized coaching.  • Ensure that Agile principles are being kept.  • Work with Product Owner to ensure that user stories meet the acceptance criteria of DOR (Definition of Ready) and DOD(Definition of Done).  • Use Jira to estimate project delivery.  • Foster self-organization and self-accountability amongst the team.  • Ensure cross-team and inter-team transparency and communication on scope, goals, milestones, risk, and critical issues.  • Conduct feedback sessions with business owners, project sponsors and team to ensure positive value and overall Scrum Master & Java Developer Georgia Technology Authority - Atlanta, GA March 2016 to September 2016 Description:  I was brought onto the Dealer Inquiry team to teach them Agile and improve the team. The biggest project I was involved in was creating new platform for our customer to receive vehicle information (VIN Numbers, Condition Reports, etc.) We were able to make drastic improvements in our project duration by implementing Agile methodologies.    • Taught and introduced Agile principles to my team which resulted in a faster delivery of projects.  • Improved team collaboration through an extensive team analysis which made a drastic improvement in team productivity.  • Improved customer collaboration which resulted in better communication of requirements.  • Improved team estimation which helped us effectively set realistic deadlines.  • Facilitated daily stand ups, sprint planning meetings, and retrospectives in order to remove impediments.  • Learned Java and sat with developers to understand/fix impediments. Scrum Master Manheim - Atlanta, GA March 2015 to February 2016 Description:  At Manheim we manage the nation's largest vehicle auction platform and register 7 million vehicles a year. Every day we worked to become more efficient in that process. The three teams I coached played a big part in a huge project called "gavel to gate." This was a three year project with a $100 million budget that we were able to maintain and made the customer experience quicker, easier, and more efficient.    • Facilitated daily stand ups, sprint planning meetings, and retrospectives for three different teams.  • Calculated team metrics through Version One to ensure that projects are on time and within budget.  • Assisted with company Agile training programs which resulted in better workflow for newer teams.  • Assisted with team outings to build team moral. This resulted in more trust amongst the team and better collaboration.  • Presented analysis findings both verbally and in written reports resulting in a better team understanding of Agile principles.  • Participated in special projects, external audits, evaluations and process improvements. Education Information Technology Training Riverside Military Academy - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to March 2015 college preparatory Riverside Military Academy Skills JIRA, RALLY, DEVOPS, OBJECT ORIENTED, OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING, Agile Scrum, Scrum, Scrum Master, CSM