Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Dow Jones Markets Atlanta, GA • SCJP (Sun Certified Java Programmer) around 9 years IT experience including Strong Architecture & Development experience using Java/J2EE and Web Technologies.  • 9+ years of experience in Design & Development of Enterprise Applications, Web Applications, and Web Services in Java/J2EE and related technologies.  • Extensive working experience with in Design, Development, and Implementation in the field of Web Applications development using HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, JSON, Restful web services and Responsive web designing.  • Expertise in using HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT, JAXP, JAXB, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, JSON, JSTL, Backbone JS, PHP, Express JS, YUI (yahoo UI) Ext JS, React JS, Node JS and AJAX meeting W3C standards.  • Developed Ext-JS components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Developed Single page application with using AngularJS with MVC FrameWork.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts - Collection Framework, Exception Handling, IO, Serialization, Multi-threading, Concurrency etc.  • Experience in working on various Frameworks like Spring, Struts, JSF, EJB and ORM Technologies like Hibernate, and IBatis, which implements JPA.  • Good knowledge of Spring Core, spring batch, Spring security, spring boot, spring MVC and spring's integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.  • Experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Web Services design development and deployment using WSDL, REST, UDDI, JAXP, JAXB, SAX, DOM, XSLT, Apache AXIS, SOAP Web Services.  • Experience in deploying, configuring and administering application servers such as IBMWebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, JAX-WS, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat.  • Expertise in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, Controller, MVC (Model View Controller), Session Facade, Service locator, DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Factory and Abstract Factory, Decorator, Observer, Adapter and Strategy.  • Worked on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC and SPRING DAO, JDBC Templates, Transactions, Security, AOP, MVC, ORM etc.  • Used persistence frameworks, Hibernate ORM, JPA to map POJOs to a relational database.  • Strong working experience on Hibernate. Used Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Hibernate Caching.  • Proficient in using Object Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD) principles, UML and Rational Rose and Object Oriented Design Patterns in building high performance applications.  • Experience in using JSP and Servlets to create web interfaces and integrating apache tools like Kafka.  • Worked on (JMS) MQ's like IBMMQ and Active MQ.  • Good knowledge with Grunt task runner and installed latest version of libraries with Bower based on running in the NodeJS environment.  • Solid experience on API development using node JS, express JS and Mongoose.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Hands on experience with various Applications servers and Web servers (IBM Web Sphere Application Server, WebLogic, JBoss, and Tomcat)  • Well experience in Design and Development of database systems using RDBMS concepts including Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL and experience in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Stored procedures, prepared statements and triggers.  • Hands on experience using Drools Framework.  • Performed DevOps for Linux, Mac and Windows platforms.  • Proven knowledge in one or more NoSQL Document Store databases such as MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Skilled in using automated functional testing tools like Selenium and test driven development using Junit and debug tools like log4j.  • Used Selenium WebDriver and TestNG to run parallel testing by creating Groups, and categorizing test cases.  • Execution of automated test scripts using Load Runner, Jmeter to test the performance and SOAP UI is the web service testing tool for API Testing.  • Experience in Web Application Development, SOA, Client-Server based Enterprise Applications, System Analysis, Technical Design, B2B Implementation, Performance Tuning and Testing.  • Developed and maintained automation framework using Ruby and Selenium WebDriver.  • Experience in writing Build Scripts using Shell Scripts, ANT, MAVEN and using CI (Continuation Integration) tools like Continuum, Jenkins and Hudson.  • Expertise in writing JUnit test cases using Junit Frameworks like Mockito and JMock.  • Strong knowledge on working with Jasmin-Karma, Protractor for client side unit testing and Experience on working client side build tools like NPM, Grunt, Gulp, and Bower.  • Extensive experience in working on projects with Waterfall and Agile methodologies such as Test Driven Development (TDD) and SCRUM.  • Extensively used Maven and ANT as build script for application build and deployment, Junitand log4j for unit testing and logging and Client side java script Unit testing tools such as Jasmine along with karma, coffee, Jest, mocha, chai scripts.  • Accomplished with creating Test Plans, defining Test Cases, reviewing and maintaining Test Scripts, interacting with team members in fixing errors and executing User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Unit, System Integrated Test and Customer Test.  • Possess strong communication and Interpersonal skills. Can quickly master and work on new concepts and applications with minimal supervision. Attention to detail, thoroughness, tenacity and an investigative drive to discover the underlying causes of technical problems. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Dow Jones Markets September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Development of a split billing system - core java, collections, spring, hibernate, MySQL  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio and UML.  • Developed the application using Java/J2EE standards and guidelines.  • Developed the UI Screens using JSP, JavaScript and HTML and did the client-side validation with the JavaScript.  • Implemented scripting with Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  • Experience in working in Git repository.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Extensively used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Implemented Singleton, MVC, Front Controller, Intercepting Filter, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects design patterns.  • Created RESTful webserivces in pushing data to downstream systems  • Used Hibernate to deal with large databases the organization has implemented data access tier using Spring DAO.  • Write and modify database stored procedures, triggers, functions, and pl/sql Scripts.  • Data from UI layer sent through JMS to Middle layer and from there using MDB message retrieves Messages and will be sent to MQSeries.  • Used Spring IOC (Inversion of Control) to remove the object dependencies across the application.  • Used Maven application and deployed on WebLogic Application Server  • Integrated process into build system which auto-generates REST API documentation from source code  • Developed all the User Interfaces using JSP and spring MVC  • Implemented Data Access Layer Using Hibernate.  • Handled SSL Handshake security to REST Web Services.  • Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool  • Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF  • Followed Spring MVC Framework for the development of the project.  • Used Oracle10g database tool to build, edit, and format database queries, as well as eliminate performance issues in the code.  • Used Oracle10g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures. Tested, debugged and implemented the application using JUnit for unit testing.  • Unit Testing Java code using jUnit and Integrating with Jenkins.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software.  • Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript and Bootstrap, connecting to a RESTful server on a different domain    Environment: java, Eclipse, BEA Web Logic, Git, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, JSP, Jenkins, JavaScript, HTML, JSTL, Bootstrap, Hibernate, XML, AJAX, ANT, UML, Log4j, Oracle, JMS, REST, Web Services, Microsoft Visio, MQSeries, Windows XP, JUnit. Sr Java Developer Freddie Mac Mortgage March 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:    • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  • Description The project is aimed to develop an extranet site for vendors to encourage easy access to check various parts and their inventory levels and determine the restocking options in the factory with cutting edge technologies.  • Responsibilities:  • Worked with business teams on requirements analysis building use cases and estimations. Generating high level and low level design documentation.  • Developed Java/J2EE code, business logic using Spring, Hibernate framework and OOP concepts, involved in Peer code reviews.  • Created WSDL & Generated data objects using WSDL, Java, Spring, JAX-WS, Axis, apache CXF and developed mapping code for several Web Services interfaces for various profile management endpoints.  • Developed Java multi threaded batch offline bulk upload tool, web applications using Spring, Servlets and UI layer using JSPs, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Angular JS.  • Worked on implementation of new & complex implementations, critical/quick deliveries.  • Developed and build Ant scripts, Maven for packaging the application code.  • Developed database scripts and procedures using PL/SQL.  • Deployed code on Tomcat web application server.  • Validated requirement deliverables, unit testing using SOAP UI, set up & executed system endurance, performance tests using JMeter.  • Set up build automation & deployment to DEV, QA, PRD servers using TeamCity continuous integration platform. Built Regression suits using SOAP UI for automated regression test on CI platform.  • Coordinated with Architects and Security teams on defining SOAP, RESTful web services architecture and generating/managing artifacts documentation Confluence.  • Performed use case analysis and design SOAP, REST APIs on social integration of web and native mobile applications implementing oAuth (Ping Federate)  • Creating/Managing release plan, sprint deliveries, responsible for version control (SVN) and configuration of the project, keeping track of project activities - Sprint execution, planning in JIRA.  • Coordinated with cross functional teams on resolving integrations issues, bug fixes, RCAs, RFCs.  • Worked in Agile model, Conducting Daily Scrum/Stand ups, Backlog Grooming, Sprint Planning Sprint Review,  • Sprint Retrospective Meeting, supporting Product owner in refining and grooming product backlog.  • Lead development team, Motivating team and helping them work in self organized manner.  • Acted as Liaison Between Product Owner and Development Team, resolving impediments in order to achieve Sprint Goals.  • Worked as SME and SPOC for the project within Adidas CRM area.  • Managing knowledge sharing & resolved problems on critical issues in live system.  • Master Data management, Data schemas, web forms configuration, workflow /campaign maintenance and set up using Adobe Campaign (formerly Neolane)    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Core Java, JSP, HTML, XML, CSS, Javascript, Subversion (SVN), SVN, Oracle PL/SQL, Jms, WSDL, SOAP, XML, JAX-WS, Restful, JSON, Tomcat, Eclipse, SQL Developer, Toad For Oracle, MS Visio, JIRA, Confluence, Maven, Ant, Beyond Compare, Team City (CI), Junit, SOAP UI, Apache Jmeter, Unix.. J2EE Developer Best Buy March 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework.  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using Agile Methodology (Scrum)  • Design and Development of Objects using Object Oriented Design in Java.  • Coordinate with all the teams for functional requirements and ensure compliance to all architecture standards.  • Developed and implemented software models for software systems and analyze all business requirements for processes.  • Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, sorting, validating using Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Front-end development using HTML, CSS, JSP and client-side validations performed using JavaScript.  • Used several spring modules like Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring AOP, Spring Batch.  • Developed the User Interface using JSP/HTML and used CSS for style setting of the Web Pages  • Designed and Developed End to End customer self service module using annotation-based Spring MVC, Hibernate.  • Develop the changes using JSTL, jQuery, JCP, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Web services.  • JavaScript and AngularJS in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team. Used JSTL, Custom Tags, HTML/DHTML in JSP's.  • As part of the requirement, designed and developed Representational state transfer (REST) based services and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based services.  • Involved in Units integration, bug fixing and User acceptance testing with test cases.  • Deployment of application in Tomcat server and good experience in resolving issues in the production server.  • Used JUnit to unit test the modules; Log4j along with Splunk for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Used DOM parsing methodology for serializing and parsing the XML request and response.  • Configured JPA to use Hibernate as ORM tool with JTA enabled.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, optimized volumes and EC2 instances.  • Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in JBOSS Application Server.  • Used Git for version control tasks.  • Implemented Maven to create JAR, WAR, EAR & dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto the Web Logic Application Server using Jenkins.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, I/O, Multi-Threading and Collections.  • Used Spring, Hibernate module as Object Relational mapping tool for back end operations over SQL database.  • Used Design patterns such as Business Object (BO), Service locator and Session façade, Model View Controller, DAO and DTO.  • Automating, configuring and deploying instances on AWS cloud environment and Data centers.  • Defined XML documents for input and output sources of Web Services. Created schema documents for XML validation and developed XML schemas.  • Used RabbitMQ for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information    Environment: Java, Spring MVC Framework, Business delegate, Service locator, Model View Controller, Session facade, DAO, JSP, Gradle, Jenkins Web Services (REST, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-WS, AWS, Apache CXF), JMS, MDB, MQ Series, POJOs, Log4j, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, XML/XSLT, AJAX, JSON, JUnit, JMS, JIRA CSS, Tomcat, TILES, JNDI, Jasper, JIRA, SVN. Java Developer Cincinnati, OH November 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session facade, Value object and DAO design patterns.  • Used Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator Design Pattern into Action Classes.  • Used Struts tag libraries in the JSP pages.  • Developed a controller Servlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes.  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic and JSP.  • Design, develop and implement Customer Requirements using J2EE, Java, Java Server Pages (JSPs) and XML.  • Involved in development of presentation layer using JSPs and Servlets with Development tool Eclipse IDE.  • Worked with MVC Architecture integrating Hibernate and Spring frameworks.  • Mailing system using java mail API to notify the staff when a customer submitted a policy.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping (ORM) in the persistence layer using hibernate frame work in conjunction with spring functionality.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using spring core module.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection (DI)  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in Spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC)  • Used HQL and SQL for fetching and storing data in databases.  • Used Web Services - WSDL and SOAP for getting required information from third party  • Implemented Web Services with Apache Axis  • Designed and Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in Oracle to cater the needs for the entire application. Developed complex SQL queries for extracting data from the database.  • Used Apache Ant for the build process.    Environments: Java, JDK, Servlets, Hibernate, JPA, spring, Ajax, Oracle, Eclipse, Apache Ant, Web Services (SOAP, RESTful), Apache Axis, WebSphere, Taglibs, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML Sr. Software Engineer C SPIRE Wireless November 2011 to October 2013 Project Description: The C Spire project "ActivePro" was aimed at delivering a web-based portal that can be used in retail stores across the country to sell products and services. The application provides activation and customer maintenance services. It is used at the retail location and customer care centers for the purpose of increase time available for the customer interaction and call reduction. It is a portal system to the legacy retail system and "one-stop-shop" customer account lending page, which provide all the important information associates with the customer account.    Responsibilities:  • Used the light weight container of the SpringMVC Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC)  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases such as Requirement Analysis, Design and Implementation of the project.  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection.  • Implemented and deployed several EJB (Session and Entity)  • The front end of the project is designed on MVC architecture using struts, Tiles frameworks.  • Involved in Configuring tiles-def.xml, web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the strut framework.  • Used LOG4J for error logging at the development box and used ANT for building the deployable EAR/WAR components.  • Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • EJB's were running under the hood of WebSphere container/server.  • Implemented Back office loan services and web applications using Session Façade, Service Locator, Data Access Objects, Business Delegate, MVC, Front Controller and Data Transfer Object design patterns.  • Created DB2 SQL Procedures, Functions & Stored Procedures, Nested Tables, Cursors, DB2 Packages, Reports &SQL Functions for Reports.  • Developed the application using RAD model.  • Worked with VSS Version control in order to create virtual library of computer files.    Environments: Java, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Struts, Spring, Html, XML, CSS, Log4j, Ant, Web services, RAD, IBM WebSphere server, IBM DB2, VSS. Software Engineer Qwest Telecommunications May 2009 to October 2011 Project Description: Consulting plus application is an ordering application for customer representatives who deals with wireline, broadband and DirecTV ordering. Consulting Plus application has calls to several external systems to fetch ordering details and validate details provided by the customer. Consulting plus used by 4000 representatives and process 60000 orders daily.    Responsibilities  • Analyzed the requirements and enhanced the application which improved maintainability, extensibility and performance.  • Interacting with business analysts, developers, testers and other stakeholders to develop and support web application.  • Creating Low-level and High-level designs based on IT requirements.  • Involved in database design, creating entity relationship diagrams, SQL queries, developing stored procedures.  • Developed Web pages with HTML, Java Script and CSS.  • Utilized Java/J2EE, Web services for developing different components.  • Developed and consumed SOAP, Tibco bus services to interface with external applications.  • Created unit tests using JUnit frame works and performed unit testing.  • Provided support during QA, UAT testing and Production deployments.  • Worked on Production Incident and Problem tickets, resolved them as per SLA.  • Have done troubleshooting of production issues and provided code fixes.  • Performed code reviews to ensure coding standards followed during development    Environments: JAVA, JSP, SERVLETS, EJB, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, LOG4J, XML, DOM, EDITPLUS, MULE, JBOSS. Education Masters in Computer Science and Engineering Wayne State University Skills HTML (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), WEB SERVICES (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Java Enterprise Edition (J2EE)  Web Technologies JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, HTML, CSS, Spring, Struts, Spring Boot, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring (IOC and AOP), Hibernate, MDBs, Session Beans, Javascript, AJAX, DOJO, ExtJs, Java Mail, HTML, CSS, DTD, SCHEMA, XML, SAX, DOM.  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAXB, JAX-WS, Apache Axis  Databases Oracle and MySQL  Distributed/ Middleware JMS ( Java Messaging Service), Jenkins, AntHillPro Client  Tools/Software Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, Net Beans, SQL, TOAD, SQL Developer, Clear case, Subversion, JUnit, UML, ORM  Application/Web Server Apache Tomcat, Jboss, Websphere and WebLogic.  Operating Systems UNIX, Suse Linux, Windows  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS (HTTP+SSL), TELNET, FTP.  Other Tools & Design Patterns ANT, MVC, Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Transfer Object, Singleton, Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern.