Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - American Red Cross, Rockville - MD Atlanta, GA Having 9+ years of professional experience in developing web based, SOA based and client/server applications in multi-platform environments with Java/J2EE technologies, Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Strong exposure to Software methodologies like Agile (SCRUM), Waterfall and Test-Driven Development(TDD)  • Well versed with converting business requirements into technical solutions and rapidly delivering in a competitive time frame with effective architecture and design which brings enormous value to business  • Experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML5, DHTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL  • Expertise in J2EE Technology-Spring, JPA, Hibernate, Struts, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, JSF, JTA, JMS  • Experience in design and development of robust and highly scalable web service platforms and API's based on REST and SOAP for e-commerce applications using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC technologies and Jersey frameworks  • Experience in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like spring, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch and Spring MVC  • Experience with design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, DAO and MVC  • Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parserslike SAX, DOM  • Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics  • Expertise in back-end/server side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java 0Messaging Service (JMS), Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI)  • Expertise in developing data models using Hibernate Object relational mapping (ORM) frame work andused Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level  • Expertise in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, Mongo DB and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages  • Having experience with Cloud Computing environment like Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access).  • Developed the Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) as a gateway between the business tier and UI to make the business tier separate from UI  • Experience on different IDEs such as IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, RAD and deployment using Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, Web Sphere, Glassfish, Camel and JBOSS  • Experienced in building Webservices for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experience with Selenium, JUnit, Mockito, Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  • Proficient in writing ANT and Maven for builds and deployments to different environments  • Experience on UNIX/LINUX Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server  • Experience in using code repository tools - Tortoise SVN, GitHub, and Visual Source Safe  • Strong communication and analytical skills and a demonstrated ability to handle multiple tasks as well as work independently or in a team Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer American Red Cross, Rockville - MD May 2016 to Present Description:The work, primarily based in Performing code reviews, balances customer and businessneeds with available resources, to design, develop, test, and deliver againsttimelines. Contribute to architecture and code design, code reviews, regressiontesting, documentation, and QA to ensure top-quality software.  Responsibilities:  • IDE, Apache Tomcat Server Involved in design and development phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Involved in designing UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams usingRational Rose.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards  • Developed front-end screens with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP  • Developed the custom data grids upon JQUERY framework to deliver the business data.  • Created, optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Developed JavaScript library for rendering domain-specific layout XML to the web  • Developed AJAX based UI framework by utilizing JQUERY library.  • Designed, developed, tested and deployed mobile applications using Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse  • Used the Python programming language along with the other programming languages.  • Installed the applications on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSF, JSP Tag libraries, Ajax, Struts Tag libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Implemented pages look and feel and Ajax calls using jQuery features.  • Extensively developed the API's to provide the interaction while developing the GUI.  • Extensively used Spring MVC 4.0 Framework, EJB, Open JPA, Java script, JSP, Ajax, WebLogic and Oracle.  • For single page applications extensively used the Node JS server framework  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 11g database andused the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Developed large-scale, real-time, live blogging server and UI compatible forNode.jsApplication.  • Developed Junit test cases and for all the developed modules.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Extensively used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Hands on experience on Hibernate query language for searching dynamically.  • Used Spring 3 Framework for Dependency injection and integrated it with the Struts Framework and Hibernate.  Environment: Oracle WebLogic Server 11gR1,Eclipse IDE, PORTAL, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.3, Ajax, Struts 2, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 3.0, JMS 1.1, API, MongoDB, Cassandra, TDD, Facelets, PostGre, Scala, Node.JS, AWS (Dynamo DB, EC2, S3, RedShift, Kinesis, Lambda), XML Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, Bootstrap, JAXB, Log4J, JUnit, ANT, JavaScript, ES2015 (ES6 / ES7), jQuery, HTML5, CMS, XSLT, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Rational Rose, Windows XP. Java/J2EE Developer Verizon - Irving, TX July 2014 to April 2016 Description:My Verizon is an End User application which enables to perform all self-service functionalities. It is a fastest, easiest way to manage your wireless service, online and on-the-go, 24/7.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project with Agile Methodology from analysis and design to testing, debugging and deployment.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and another dependent object declaration.  • Developed user interface using BOOTSTRAP UI and Angular Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • AngularJS was used to parse the JSON file using the REST web services.  • Inserted Dependency Injection between components using Spring (IOC) concept.  • Implemented Asynchronous messaging between System Integration components using JMS [Spring JMS Template].  • Developed various Java beans for performance of business processes and effectively involved in Impact analysis.  • Developed Web Service client interface with files for invoking the methods using REST and SOAP.  • Extensively used Web Services -- WSDL and SOAP for getting the credit card information of third party.  • Developed Restful web services for the Downstream Systems.  • Responsible for Setting up Web Services project using WSDL in SOAPUI and provided setup help to other team members.  • Extensively worked on SOA and web services to get the data and configured JMS queues on server.  • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  • Followed SOA Design and Architecture to Develop REST Web Service, generated and consume the services.  • Used Maven for the project dependencies.  • Handled SSL Handshake security to REST Web Services.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins and views for multiple databases, Oracle 10g.  • Involved in JUnit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Developed logging aspects using Spring AOP.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  • Implemented Log4J 1.2 for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appenders.  • Prepared technical reports & documentation manuals during the program development.  • Used GitHub for version control.  Environment: JDK 1.6, Angular JS, Bootstrap UI, Spring 4.1, Hibernate, JPA (EJB), XML, XML Schemas, XSLT, JMS, Oracle 10g, Toad, Maven, Log4j, Web Services, JAXB, JBOSS Application Server, GitHub, Eclipse 4.5. Java/J2EE Developer Progressive Insurance - Cleveland, OH January 2012 to June 2014 Description: Progressive Insurance Company is well known for providing insurance and financial services in the United States. One of the Web Application CIQ involves the design and development of a Web based internet application to provide online insurance services. The web application provides functionalities such as Internet Insurance Quote for Customers and Agents. The customer can access complete account information, policy information, and receive instant auto insurance quote and report a claim. Developed from scratch therefore involved in Design and Development of the web application until deployment and production support.  Responsibilities:  • Experienced in working on DevOps/Agile operations process and tools area (Code review, unit test automation, Build & Release automation, Environment, Service, Incident and Change Management)  • Designed and developed UI screens with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, Angular JS, Node JS to provide interactive screens to display data  • Designed and implemented the User interface using JSF, jQuery.  • Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry  • Fundamental mastery of AWS clouds computing platform and its dimensions of scalability  • Involved in complete application stack in AWS EC2, S3  • Designed Java Components and integrated using Spring framework with Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  • Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Axis  • Created web services using Spring @Rest Controller to return JSON to the frontend  • Extensive use of HTML5 with AngularJS, JSTL, JSP and jQuery for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for  • Developed Custom Tag Libraries for the use in web pages by using JSTL packages for the development of the Web Pages  • JSF ( Java Server Faces) was used for to simplify development integration of user interfaces and the operation on the values they (UI) hold  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from SQL Server  • Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS (MQ series) for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Implemented service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS  • XSLT to transform the XML files to the presentation layer for the enrich design  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins  • along with UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs  • Development carried out under Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Used Glassfish as application server for some of the web applications.  • Worked closely with Software Developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Used MAVEN to define the dependencies and build the application and used JUnit for suite execution and Assertions  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management  • Created & Maintained Automation Selenium Automation Scripts for the Scrum Stories  • Used Selenium Web Driver to run test cases in multiple browsers and Platforms  • Log4J was used to monitor the error logs and used GIT as a Version Control system  Environment: Core Java, Multithreading, Agile Methodology, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, Angular JS, JSTL, jQuery, AJAX, AWS EC2, S3, Micro Services, Hibernate, Spring, RESTful API, SOA, JAX-RS, JSON, Hibernate, SQL Server, SQL, JMS, Oracle, CRUD, CI, CD, JIRA, DevOps, Jenkins, MAVEN, JUnit, UNIX, Eclipse, Glassfish, Selenium, IBM Web Sphere, Log4J, GIT Java/J2EE Developer Austin Mutual Insurance Company - Minneapolis, MN May 2010 to December 2011 Description: AMIC Web based tool helps Austin Mutual Agents to complete New Auto Policy, Home Policy, Mobile Home Policy, and Endorsements online. The application helps agents gather information of the Driver, Vehicle and other Coverage and insurance details and then send it through the application to validate against the POINT insurance system. Agents can do a Quick Quote and can provide users a summary of the estimate of coverage and cost of the policy. This is a complete Insurance Policy tool online for agents.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Extensively worked on Servlets, JSPs, Struts and Tiles, JavaScript, Angular, Ajax, Expression language, JSTL, JSP custom tags.  • Worked in Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate.  • Created XML Web Services for transferring data between different applications.  • Utilized Apache CXF web service stack for developing web services and SOAP UI and XML-SPY for testing web services.  • Created custom, use of modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • Used SAX and DOM parsers to parse xml data and worked on XPATH to parse XML documents.  • Worked on Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Utilized Java Message Service (JMS 1.1) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of information such as loan status report.  • Used RAD Programming Techniques to develop and execute applications and to manage end to end tactical solutions to meet business applications.  • Utilized JSON scripting language for transmitting data over connection.  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue and generated emails to be sent to the customers.  • Used JBoss Application Server 4.0 as application server for build and deployment.  • Worked on relational database design and writing SQL queries, stored procedures, views, functions, triggers, cursors with Oracle.  • Unit tested using JUnit, Easy Mock Testing Framework for performance enhancement.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Participated in SCRUM software development process as part of agile software development methodology.  Environment: My Eclipse8.6.1, Java 5, UML, struts 1.2.4, Hibernate 3.0, Springs 2.5 JSP 2.0, XML Web Services, CXF 2.2.4, Angular JS, JNDI, Java Script, Servlet 2.3, JUnit, Apache Maven, GIT. Java Developer HSBC, NewYork January 2008 to April 2010 Description: HSBC is one of the leading global banks. It provides Wealth Management Services (WM) to its clients across the globe using CEFS (Corporate Employee Financial Service) application. This application receives the stock compensation related data from the clients, processes the data and stores it in the database.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support in WATER FALL methodology  • User interface coding and styling using JavaScript, CSS and HTML  • Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and performed action mapping using Struts  • Involved in Documentation and Use case design using UML modeling include development of Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, and Use Case Transaction diagrams.  • Implemented asynchronous functionalities like e-mail notification using JMS  • Implemented Multithreading to achieve consistent concurrency in the application  • Implemented various Java/J2EE design patterns like front controller, MVC, singleton  • Used connection pooling for optimization using JDBC interface  • Created SQL Queries using Joins, Unions, Nested Selects and Aggregate Functions  • Experience using and maintaining database using Oracle  • Deployed on Apache Tomcat Server  • Developed test cases using JUNIT, and followed test first development.  • Written and debugged the ANT scripts for building the entire web application.  • Code repository management using SVN  • Used WebLogic for application deployment and Log 4J used for Logging/debugging  • Involved in code reviews, debugging and testing  Environment: Core Java, Water fall, Struts, Servlets, HTML, CSS, XML, JMS, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE, Oracle, SQL, JDBC, JBOSS, JUNIT, ANT, Apache Tomcat Server, JUNIT, Eclipse ANT, SVN, Log 4J. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (10+ years), Java (10+ years), JMS (10+ years), Junit (10+ years), Oracle. (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages C, C++, Java, J2EE, PL/SQL.  Platforms Windows, Linux and Unix.  Tools and Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, JSF, JUnit, SOAP UI, JReport, Rational Rose    J2SE/J2EE Technologies  Java, J2EE, RMI, Sockets, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Java Beans, JSTL, JSF, Jakarta Struts, EJB, Spring, Hibernate, JTA, JNDI, JPA JMS, Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI and RESTFUL), Groovy/Grails.    Web Technologies HTML, DHTML CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSF, AJAX, BackboneJS, NodeJS, JSON Restful.  XML Technologies XML, XSL, DOM, SAX, DTD, XQuery, XSD and XSLT.  Cloud Services -  Amazon Web Services    EC2, Auto-Scaling in launching EC2 instances, Elastic Load Balancer, Elastic Beanstalk, S3, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, SNS.    Databases Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, MS SQL, IBM DB2, MongoDB, NoSQL.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Glassfish, Web logic Application server, JBOSS.  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Vagrant, Docker and Jenkins  IDE / Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite(STS), RAD.  Testing Tools/ Others Selenium, JUnit, Mockito, Soap UI, Log4j and JIRA  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS and GIT    Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Test Driven Development