Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Hobby Lobby(HobbyLobby.com) Seattle, WA ? More than 9 Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  ? Worked on Core Java and its libraries in creating the java/J2EE web application's business Logic.  ? Used the various Complex data structures in collections Framework in Java/J2EE for building the Business Logic.  ? Increased visibility and user experience of distributed resource manager using AWS, Erlang and AJAX to create an asynchronous web portal for the distributed resource manager.  ? Good understanding of Apache Tomcat, Oracle WebLogic, IBM WebSphere Application Server, GlassFish, Jboss in areas of development, deployment, configuration setting, and deployment descriptors.  ? Experience with AWS instances spanning across Dev, Test, Pre-Production and Cloud Automation through Open Source DevOps tools like Chef, Jenkins & Docker  ? Implemented JAVA/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, Template, MVC, Singleton.  ? Increased visibility and user experience of distributed resource manager using AWS, Erlang and AJAX to create an asynchronous web portal for the distributed resource manager.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture. Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, DataFeeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  ? Designed and configured the AWS Secure Notification Service (SNS) and Secure Email Service (SES) architecture of the solution and working with a client.  ? Migrated Infrastructure to Aws Cloud and transferred on-premises data to Aws RDS with DATA EXPORT IMPORT(DEI job)  ? Implemented Java and J2EE Design Pattern such as Command, State, Template, Composite, Strategy and Observer.  ? Well versed in managing source code repositories like SVN, Git, GitHub, bit bucket.  ? Developed functional and unit testing framework like Test Driven Development in different modules using JUNIT, Solved several key issues by improving code as well as business processes and integrated with ANT build Tool.  ? Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins Continuous Integration tool on Linux machines along with adding/updating plugins such as GIT, Maven, MDB and Puppet.  ? Experienced in consuming data from RESTful Web Services using JSON, and used Postman for testing the Web Services.  ? Expertise in implementing Apache camel and Apache Active MQ Web Services.  ? Experience in using jQuery, AJAX, JSON and DOM scripting to create user interactive web applications like alerts or prompt boxes and autocomplete form validations.    Core Tech Skills  ? Java, AWS, Application servers, XML, JMS, MDB, JPA (Hibernate), servlets, applets, JSP, Test Driven Development, Wildfly, Docker, Apache Camel, Apache ActiveMQ, JSON, SOAP, REST services, Maven, Ant.    Additional tech skills  ? Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, Eclipse, Flex, RSA, NetBeans, Windows, Linux , Unix. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Hobby Lobby(HobbyLobby.com) March 2016 to Present Accountabilities:  ? Worked on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Design, development and testing of web application and integration projects using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE, Multi-threading, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, Web Services (REST/SOAP)  ? Developed applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Java Server Faces, EJB, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, MVC Architecture, Web Services, AJAX, RMI, UML, HTML, Java Beans, JavaScript and DHTML.  ? Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  ? Used Spring Cloud AWS Core, Spring Cloud AWS Context, and Spring Cloud AWS Messaging.  ? Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  ? Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  ? Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  ? Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  ? Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  ? Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  ? Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views  ? Worked on PL/SQL packages which will be invoked from SOA layer to insert the data into SLA tables  ? Used JMS to asynchronously exchange messages between the Glassfish Application Server and other applications  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database  ? Deployed the EAR, JAR, WAR applications on multiple WebLogic Server Instances and JBoss servers.  ? Maintained and optimized Wildfly Application Server by adding modules and adjusting settings in the configuration file.  ? Make pluggable UI microservice for each platform which should solve the monolithic problem of seed generation and create Docker image and deploy them into kubernates using Angular.js 2.0.  ? Used Git and GitHub for integration and source control.  ? Designed Continuous Integration pipeline using tools like Cruise Control, Jenkins, Build Forge, Bamboo and Hudson.  ? SVN administration like give access for branches and SVN repositories.  ? Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application.  ? Used Maven as build tool on java projects for the deployment of build artifacts on the source code.  ? Developed Web Services using RESTful to retrieve data for client side.  ? Worked on the development and maintenance of SOAP based webservices hosted for a non-PLM application.  ? Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  ? Using Apache ActiveMQ JMS for processing asynchronous requests  ? Implemented a Crew Management System using Apache Camel and Java for leading Southeast Asian airlines  ? AWS Cloud management and Puppet automation.  ? Wrote automated tests (TDD & BDD) with RSpec and Cucumber  ? Implemented multi-threaded synchronization processes using JMSqueues for consumption requests.  ? Developed, tested, and debugged applications, applets and servlets using Eclipse and NetBean IDE  ? Writing complex native query using JDBC template and JPA native query  ? Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from IBM MQ Series using JMS.  ? Developed Message Handler Adapter, which converts the data objects into XML message and invoke an enterprise service and vice-versa using JAVA, JMS and MQ Series.  ? Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and REST protocols.  ? Installing and configuring nagios check_postgresql.pl plugins for Monitoring PostgreSQL instances effectively.  ? Designing and Developing of Oracle Stored Packages, Procedures and Triggers in a Production support environment for Global Facts System (gFACTS).  ? Optimized queries and did performance tuning using various SQL Server tools such as SQL Profiler, SQL Performance Monitor, Execution Plans and Index Tuning.  ? Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic.  ? Created high level and low level design documents for integrations in Oracle SOA Suite.  ? Performed JBoss server administration tasks like configuring both horizontal and vertical cluster environment, deploying applications, configuring JMS servers and JDBC data sources  ? Implemented AWS High-Availability using AWS Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), which performed a balance across instances in multiple Availability Zones.  ? Used IntelliJ IDEA IDE to work on Java code along with GitHub for version control and gradle for the build tool.  ? Used various plug-ins to extend the base functionality of Hudson/Jenkins to deploy, integrate tests and display reports.  ? Used SVN for versioning and concurrent access to the project files.  ? Wrote ANT build scripts to compile Java classes and create jar, performed unit testing and package them into ear files.    Background Skills: Java, AWS, SQL Server, Oracle, PostgreSQL, XML, JMS, MDB, JPA (Hibernate), servlets, applets, JSP, Test Driven Development, Wildfly, Docker, Apache Camel, Apache ActiveMQ, JSON, SOAP, REST services Sr. Java Developer Comcast Corporation September 2014 to February 2016 Accountabilities:  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  ? Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle RDBMS  ? Create new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc / struts, or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's  ? Setup required infrastructure in Aws and created pipelines in DEV, TEST, STAGING and PRODUCTION  ? Deployed this application which uses J2EE architecture model and Struts Framework first on Weblogic and helped in migrating to JBoss Application server.  ? Designed entire framework to support Test Driven Development(TDD) by making use of Dependency Injection through unity framework and developed a generic repository; Used 'Test-NG' for backend test cases and 'Jasmine' for Angular 2 test cases.  ? Tested all applications based on TDD best practices using Jasmine, Jest, and Karma.  ? Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  ? Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, Spring, JSF frameworks and SOAP/REST web services, Web Sphere Integration Developer (WID) Tool to develop WPS components.  ? Built Enterprise Java Beans with Point-to-Point messaging functionality and MQ series as JMS provider.  ? Used Java Messaging Services JMS (HornetQ) and WebSphere MQ for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report  ? Managed adoption and phased implementation and use of Java-based business objects, Java applets and servlets, Enterprise Java Beans, Java server page, and ASP.NET technologies SBU-wide.  ? Used JPA and Hibernate annotations for defining object relational metadata.  ? Involved in designing and implementing persistence layer using JPA with Hibernate following the Generic Data Access pattern.  ? Setup required infrastructure in Aws and created pipelines in DEV, TEST, STAGING and PRODUCTION  ? Exposed the data access operations as CRUD service by wrapping the JPA layer around by a webservice, which is also invoked as a native call by a secured MDB  ? Developed a mdb, Wildfly and jboss ESB based processing engine to process the transactions  ? leveraged the use of Java Messaging artifacts using JMS (MQ Series) for sending out automated notification emails to respective users of the application.  ? Developed webservices using SOAP, WSDL , XML and Apache Axis  ? Responsible for configuring, integrating, and maintaining all Development, QA, Staging and Production PostgreSQL databases within the organization.  ? Responsible for all backup, recovery, and upgrading of all of the PostgreSQL and MySql databases.  ? Using Oracle Webcenter Portal, Oracle Webcenter Content, ADF & SOA Stack to build a rich enterprise web application with workflows.  ? Converted legacy HL7 System to Oracle SOA Suite for Healthcare Integration to securely exchange HL7 and HIPAA standard documents.  ? Created SQL Server Jobs and Schedules for automated and timely execution of Daily, Weekly and Monthly processes.  ? Created SQL Server Agent Alerts to monitor the SQL Server Events and SQL Server Performance Alerts and notify the Administrators of the critical situations.  ? Designed and implemented four Agile Scrum teams for product development.  ? Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  ? Developed Python scripts to take backup of EBS volumes using AWS Lambda and CloudWatch  ? Wrote Terraform scripts to improve the infrastructure in AWS  ? Developed a prototype Java Servlet that calls OpenEdge processes using JSONRPC  ? Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), Docker for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  ? Used WSAD WebSphere Studio Application Devloper for writing code for JSP, Servlets, and Struts.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL, Docker and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  ? OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities.  ? Implemented a Crew Management System using Apache Camel and Java for leading Southeast Asian airlines  ? Apache ActiveMQ was most widely used conduit in Decentralized Work flow solution for internal components communication.  ? Managed JFrog Artifactory on AWS, single copy of any binary is ever stored on this file system  ? Lead, Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite  ? Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  ? Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  ? Developed SQL queries with PHP Doctrine and Propel to create, retrieve and update data and programming SQL sentences based on CRUD.  ? Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  ? Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  Background Skills: Java, AWS, MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, PostgreSQL, XML, JMS, MDB, JPA (Hibernate), servlets, applets, JSP, Test Driven Development, Wildfly, Docker, Apache Camel, Apache ActiveMQ, JSON, SOAP, REST services, Maven, Ant, SVN, GitHub, Hudson Sr. Java Developer Alcoa Inc September 2012 to August 2014 Accountabilities:  ? Used JSF messages for handling the error messages for the applications  ? Preparation of the framework classes for communication between portal to EJB and Hibernate  ? Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, JQuery, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  ? Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  ? Worked on multiple projects based on Oracle ADF framework and Oracle WebCenter  ? Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  ? Used J2EE based App Servers like Jboss WebSphere Weblogic and Web servers like Apache Tomcat  ? Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  ? Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  ? Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat  ? Created packages for Transforming and Loading of Data from Sybase, Oracle to MS SQL Server by using SQL Server Integration Services  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSF, Marionette.js, Swing/AWT, JSON, Java Script and HTML5, Bootstrap and Backbone.js, Flex, ASP and Extjs.  ? Used JDBC, JavaScript, Servlet, and JDBC and used SQL Server for backend. Interaction with business users to gather requirements.  ? Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  ? Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML.  ? Design of the process flow in Oracle BPM and jBPM to evaluate the difference between the behavior of different BPM tools  ? Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  ? Rewrote code for enabling download as .pdf with new iText library for Java  ? Worked with Rational ClearCase to provide sophisticated version control, workspace management and parallel development support. Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Wrote complex sql statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  ? Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  ? Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  ? Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe  ? Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  ? Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems.    Background Skills: Java, J2EE, Spring, Struts, JSF, JSP, EJB, DOJO, JQuery, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript, GWT, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, Tomcat, WSDL, JBoss, Netbeans, Jasper report, Unix, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, JRules, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, Web 2.0, Linux, IBM MQ Series, Ruby, Z, ASP, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS VB    CVS Java Developer DML and DQL March 2010 to August 2012 Accountabilities:  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  ? Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  ? Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  ? Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  ? Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  ? Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  ? Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  ? Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  ? Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  ? Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  ? Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  ? Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Background Skills: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, JavaScript, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis , tcpmon, Ant, WinCVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix. Software Developer Lucent Technologies April 2008 to February 2010 Accountabilities:  ? Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  ? Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  ? Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  ? Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  ? Generic Tree Navigation control).  ? Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  ? Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  ? Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  ? Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  ? Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  ? Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  ? Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  ? Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  ? Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  ? Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  ? Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  ? Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  ? Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  ? Development of GUI using AWT  ? Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  ? Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  ? Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.    Background Skills: J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix. Education Bachelor's Skills Java, Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Hibernate