Java/J2EE Developer and Application Maintenance <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Application Maintenance Java/J2EE Developer and Application Maintenance - Infosys Ltd.UT Salt Lake City, UT ? Over 13 yrs. of IT experience in application design, development and leading the projects using Java/J2EE, XML, SOA technologies  ? Possess excellent communication skills with good analytical and technical ability.  ? Expertise in design and development of multi-tier web-based applications using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, Struts, EJB, Spring IOC and MVC and JDBC following the J2EE design patterns  ? Experience in XML, Web services, SOAP Webservices, XSL, XSD, WSDL and JAX-RS technologies  ? Experience in Job Schedulers such as Autosys and Spring batch.  ? Have work experience in ETL tool such as Informatica.  ? Worked on Scripting languages such as Unix, Perl scripts.  ? Experience in web application design using open source MVC, SPRING and STRUTS Frameworks.  ? Ability to work with Hibernate and JPA APIs in integration with SPRING framework  ? Excellent working experience in Databases like My SQL Server, Sybase  ? Strong experience in using Integrated Development Environments - Net Beans, Eclipse, STS  ? Experienced in leading J2EE Application servers Jboss, Web Sphere, WebLogic and Tomcat.  ? Experience in client-side Technologies such as HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Experience in developing applications using property Banking frameworks.  ? Experience in various methodologies like Waterfall and Agile.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and involved in client interactions for scoping, effort estimates and status reporting.  ? Have in detailed design with n tier enterprise application with J2EE design patterns like IOC (inversion of control), AOP, MVC, Front Controller, Factory and Singleton.  ? Worked with JUnit, Ant, Maven and Log4j for testing, building and logging information.  ? Strong experience working with Sybase, SQL Server, DB2 and MS Access Databases.  ? Have knowledge of application deployment in windows, UNIX, Linux environments.  ? Experience on version controlling tools like CVS, SVN, Perforce.  ? Have Knowledge on design patterns. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer and Application Maintenance Infosys - Salt Lake City, UT September 2016 to Present Employer: Infosys Ltd   Client Name: Goldman Sachs, SLC , UT  Project: Client Onboarding and Account Opening Application.    Description: This application is a pure Java multi-tier application which has many forms for account opening, client onboarding information. The workflow of this application is to capture the client information needed to open the account, generate the PDF documents and send them electronically to the client to get the client authorization and store them in the Repository. The live updates are captured through the JMS, Obj message queues and published to downstream applications. There are services built for various Client Communication letters, statements and confirms and consolidated reporting group statements. We use spring batch and AutoSys job schedulers to load many feed files and send the feed files downstream.    Solution Environment: Spring IOC & Spring boot 3.x, Spring JPA, Maven, JUNIT, Eclipse, Tomcat Server 7.1, JSP, CSS, HTML, Jenkins, Agile SCRUM methodology, Oracle DB, JSPs, JavaScript, Restful web services, Log 4j, Sybase, Hibernate, JSON.    Responsibilities  • Used spring for bean management across layers and for loading database configuration and Spring JPA to interact with Sybase server databases.  • Bug fixing & Project Fix of various Web Services reported by the testing teams in the application during the integration.  • Integrate various Web Service projects with various back ends.  • Used JPA to store persistence data to DB.  • Write Sybase store procedure, triggers and scripts to execute queries in DB.  • Used Maven for Build Scripts documents for entire project.  • Developed restful web services for application development.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using spring MVC framework.  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, HTML JSP Tag libraries and Spring Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Perform release coordination with teams across geographical locations.  • Involved in requirement gathering and clarification on the business requirements.  • Perform defect coordination with both Development & Testing Team.  • Able to multi-task, triage issues, react well to changes, work independently in a fast-paced agile environment.  • Worked on Vendor products such as IBM Content manager a repository for storing PDF documents, Kofax Scanning tools, etc.  • Have groomed junior folks within the team by giving KT, assigned task and provided help wherever needed.  • Have worked in database server version upgrades, BCP planning and execution of data servers. Unix/Perl/ Java 7 / ETL Informatica developer Infosys - Salt Lake City, UT August 2013 to September 2016 Client Name: Goldman Sachs, UT.   Role: Unix/Perl/ Java 7 / ETL Informatica developer  Project: Reporting Database    Description: This system in bank is used to generate and send multiple reports for internal and external vendors based on the deformalized data stored in this database. It calculates the daily market value for the products present on every account. The periodic snapshots are taking on hourly, daily, weekly and monthly basis and stored in snapshotted database.     Solution Environment:  Standalone Java programs, Unix, Perl scripts, Autosys job schedulers, Informatica tool. Sybase Store Procedures and triggers, XML, XSD.  Responsibilities  ·       Involved in setting up new feeds for new vendors and decommission feeds using a proprietary framework.  ·       Setting up the encryption/ decryption process on new feed files.  ·       Building the validation framework for validating the incoming feeds.  ·       Extracting data for feed files using the ETL informatica tool.  ·       Involving in configuring a java based automated tools for extracting huge database reports as per the user requirements.  ·       Managing the data consisting by validating the data from the upstream using the reconciliation tool reconciliation tool.  ·       Autosys job schedulers to extract and load the data periodically. Java/J2EE Developer Goldman Sachs, UT January 2009 to September 2013 Employer: Infosys Ltd   Client Name: Bank of America.                                        Role:  Java/J2EE Developer  Project: Liquid Rates Vantage and Chartist    Description: The live rates for various instruments traded in financial markets are displayed in the portal. The rates or prices for each instrument keeps changing for few seconds in screens. The user also have an ability to click on each instrument and plot a chart for requested timeline to analysis how the instrument has performed historically.    Solution Environment:   Java 7.0, A proprietary framework built on Struts 1.2, Liferay Portlets, Net Chart API’s, SOAP Web services, SQL Server 2008, Store procedures and triggers, JSP Pages, WebLogic server, HTML , JDBC connection.    Responsibilities  ·       Developed charts integrating with Net Chart API for new financial instruments.   ·       Developed content to display information new financial instruments.  ·       Used SAOP web services to fetch data between charting systems.  ·       Created JSP pages, involved in writing JavaScript and jQuery code for the front end.  ·       Perform defect coordination with both Development & Testing Team.  . Able to multi-task, triage issues, react well to changes, work independently in a fast-paced agile environment.  ·       Writing Junit test cases and bug fixes, manual unit testing on the screens developed.  ·       Provided system support, release coordination for the project.  ·       Involved in high level and detail design for the new requirements. Java/J2EE Developer Goldman Sachs, UT November 2006 to December 2008 Employer: Infosys Ltd   Client Name: Bank of America                                                                                                                            Role:   Java/J2EE Developer  Project: CRET. Credit Report Estimation Tool    Description: This is an application which is used by the underwriter to approve and decline credit on a respective client. Every page will have a button on the top right corner render the page into an XSL report.    Solution Environment: XML , XSL , Java 7.0 , JDBC.    Responsibilities  ·       Involved in generating new reports by rendering the data into XSL reports using the XML.  ·       Involved in developing few JSP pages and writing front end validation using JavaScript’s. Education Bachelor of Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Anna University - India July 2002 to May 2006 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Html, Jenkins, Json, Perl, Svn, Xml, Xsl Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Java/J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, JDBC, EJB  J2EE Frameworks: Apache Struts2.x/1.x, Spring Boot, Spring JPA, Hibernate 3.x, Log4J, Junit.  Web Technologies: XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, CSS, Java Script, HTML, AJAX, jQuery.  Application Servers: IBM WebSphere, Web Logic, Jboss, Tomcat.  Programming Languages: Core Java, Unix, Perl Scripts.  Database: SQL Server, MySQL, Sybase  IDE: Eclipse 3.x, NetBeans, Spring STS.  Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux  Source Control: CVS, SVN, Perforce.  Methodologies: Waterfall model, agile methodology.  Others: ANT, Maven, Basic Linux commands, Jenkins.  Web services: SOAP WS, Restful WS, JaxB, JSON, WSDL.