Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - FreddieMac McLean, VA • Extensive experience in n-tier applications for J2EE platform using Java, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Struts, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Tiles, JSTL, Tag Libraries, ORM using Hibernate, Web Services, JNDI, JNI, JMS, XML, XSLT.  • Good understanding on open source frameworks like SPRING 4.2 (core, IOC, jdbc, ORM, MVC, Transaction, Security, AOP modules), Hibernate 3.5, JSF 2.0, Angular JS and React JS.  • Experienced in developing Event Driven Applications using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Expert in working with core java, collections and Multithreading  • Experience developing SOA based applications using RESTful and SOAP web services.  • Experience in spring framework (Spring Core, Spring IOC, Dependency Injection (DI), Spring DAO, Spring JDBC, Spring Security, Spring Transaction, Spring AOP, Spring ORM) server-side component architecture for simplified development of distributed, transactional, secure and portable application based on Java Technology.  • Experienced in working with Angular JS in developing MVC apps. Developed Angular JS Controllers, Services, Filters and Directives for various modules in the application.  • Extensive experience in web development using JSP's, HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX technologies.  • Good Experience in working with XML related technologies like XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC and XML Beans.  • Experience in working with batch jobs like Spring Batch, Autosys and Quartz.  • Expertise in J2EE design patterns like Singleton, MVC, Session, Façade, Factory, Business Delegate and DAO for building J2EE applications.  • Experience in ORM Library with Hibernate for mapping Object-Oriented domain model with Relational Database.  • Experience in working with Agile development methodologies including Extreme Programming, Agile and SCRUM. Also worked with Waterfall Methodolgy.  • Experience in writing and executing unit test cases using JUnit, Mockito and TestNG Frameworks.  • Experience in working with JMS, IBM MQ Series, Rabbit MQ and Websphere MQ Integrator.  • Extensive experience writing complex queries, Stored procedures, triggers on Oracle , MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MongoDB & DB2 databases.  • Experience in working with build tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle and Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment tools like Jenkins and Bamboo.  • Experience in working with version control systems like Git, SVN, CVS and Clearcase.  • Experience in working with project management tools like JIRA, Pivotal Tracker, Trello, Confluence and defect tracking tools like Bugzilla, HP Quality Center. Also used PUTTY and WinSCP to look into different environments.  • Experience in using Database IDE tools like Oracle SQL Developer, TOAD, Squirrel, SQL Workbench, Mongoose.  • Experience in deploying the applications using IBM WebSphere Application Server, JBOSS Application Server, Web logic Application Server and Tomcat Web server.  • Highly motivated self-starter with Excellent Communication, Presentation and Problem-Solving Skills and able to work under minimal supervision delivering high quality software in time. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer FreddieMac - McLean, VA November 2017 to Present FreddieMac is one of the leading Secondary Mortgage Client. This project involved the development and maintaining of a website. It has all the features expected of a secondary mortgage client. This project addresses the core security gateway for internal and external customers.    Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively in business analysis interacting with their business groups, gathering user requirements and creating functional specifications and design documents.  • Developed the application using with Java technologies like JSP, Servlets, Java Beansf, Multithreading, JMS and XML.  • Implemented development specifications for External Authentication Interface (EAI). Used Spring MVC to develop entire project and spring security to provide authentication and authorization for entire project.  • Processed XML data to marshal/unmarshal using JAX-B.  • Used HTML5, CSS, and java script, JQuery, Bootstrap JS and Angular JS to create front-end interactive design pages.  • Recommend and develop strategy for integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Security and Spring Boot.  • Created RFP (Request for Proposal) microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Worked with Node.js in developing responsive web applications.  • Oversee and develop Notification Service microservice to use across the enterprise.  • Utilized Camel to integrate microservices with other microservices and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges.  • Utilized J2EE patterns such as DAO pattern, Singleton, MVC pattern.  • Worked with NoSQL Cassandra to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details for Ethernet provisioning and customer order tracking.  • Ran ad-hoc queries against Cassandra using CQL scripts.  • Used JMS to create a listener, which runs on application server to receive the feed.  • Used REST (JAX-RS) along with Jersey framework and SOAP (JAX-WS) to produce and consume a web service.  • Used Eclipse IDE and deployed the application on WebSphere Server.  • Apache Maven is used as Build tool to automate the build process for the entire application and used Jenkins for continuous integration and deployment.  • Used Junit for Unit Testing and Log4J for logging.  • Used Hibernate to connect to Oracle 12a database.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JMS, XML, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Security, IBM Tivoli Suite, JAX-B, Microservices, Cassandra, Camel, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, DAO, Singleton, MVC pattern, REST, SOAP, Jersey, Hibernate, Eclipse, Git, Websphere, maven, Junit, RabbitMQ, Jenkins, Mock Object, Tomcat, Oracle 12a. Sr. Java Developer Ameriprise Financial - Minneapolis, MN October 2015 to November 2017 Ameriprise Financial is an American diversified financial services company. It engages in business through its subsidiaries, providing financial planning, products and services, including wealth management, asset management, insurance, annuities and estate planning. The DMU project is about generating reports and clearing payments to its advisors according to their sales.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analyzing, preparing technical design specification documents as per the Requirements, Architecture, Development and Maintenance of high traffic application built in Java/J2EE.  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java.  • Involved in development, performance testing & defects fixing.  • Organized daily Agile meetings to interact with the development team.  • Expertise in understanding and preparation of WSDL, XSLT and XML schemas definitions.  • Designed the project using Business Delegate, Singleton, Service Locator and DAO Patterns.  • Involved in making the necessary changes for the entire work flow from Action classes to the back-end database in Placement & Quote Creation module.  • Implemented Hibernate (ORM Mapping tool) framework to interact with the database to update, retrieve, insert and delete values effectively.  • In the Front end of the application designed and implemented a publishing framework and reusable UI component library based on Angular JS and jQuery.  • Developed web-layer using Spring MVC Framework with JSP, CSS3, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Developed Custom framework implemented with Spring Framework for integrating the flow of the application with minimal dependency.  • Configured LDAP server to be used with Spring Security to provide authentication for internal application.  • Micro services were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features.  • The RESTful web services have been used to retrieve and update the data, which is populated in view using Angular JS model.  • Developed Messaging framework for Asynchronous messaging service using JMS and MQ-series.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s  • Developed Restful web services using JERSEY to send/receive data to/from various systems.  • Performed Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit and Mockito.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, AWS, Spring Boot, Spring 4.0, Tiles, SOA, Hibernate 4.0, JNI, JMS 2.0, JNDI, JTA, XML, JSON, JAXB, JAX-RS, SOAP, WSDL, JUnit, Log4J, Maven, JSP, JSF, MongoDB , Servlets, Jenkins, Eclipse, Git, Micro Services, Design Patterns, Agile, WebSphere 7.0. Java/J2EE Developer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA August 2013 to September 2015 Delta Airlines is a one of the major American airline company. This project Third-Party Reservation is a web-based application used by the customer service agents which deals with the reservations of the passengers online. The Third-Party Reservation application enables the customer service agents to make, modify and update the reservations to their passengers.    Responsibilities:  • Used Agile(SCRUM) methodologies for Software Development.  • Implemented the application using Struts2 Framework which is based on Model View Controller design pattern.  • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP2.0 code. Designed UI screens using JSP 2.0, Ajax and HTML. Used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Actively involved in designing and implementing Value Object, Service Locator, MVC and DAO design patterns.  • Developed and used JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages.  • Used Java Message Service for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as Order submission that consumed the messages from the Java message queue and generated emails to be sent to the customers.  • Designed and developed Stateless Session driven beans (EJB 3)  • Used jQuery as a Java Script library.  • Used Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the business logic tier (Business object) and the persistent storage tier (data source).  • Implemented Session EJB's at a middle tier level to house the business logic.  • Used RESTful Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using Jersey Framework.  • Developed stored procedures and complex packages extensively using PL/SQL and shell programs.  • Used DB2 as database and developed complex SQL queries.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Maven to build the application and deployed on Tomcat 7.0.  • Used HP Quality Center for Defect Reporting and Tracking  • Prepared Low Level Design, High level Design, Unit test Results documents.    Environment: JDK 1.6, J2EE, Agile Development Process, Struts, EJB 3.0, Web Services (JAX-WS, Axis 2) Hibernate, Angular JS, RSA, JMS, JSP, Servlets, SQL Server 2012, HTML, XML, SOAP, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD), ANT, Log4J, XML, XSLT, XSD, jQuery, JavaScript, Ext JS, Bamboo, JUnit, SVN, Tomcat Web Server. Java/J2EE Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC October 2011 to July 2013 The project Quotes is designed primarily to meet the organization's requirements for loans that are classified as business loans as per the Bank's policy. The Application is a J2EE based system for automating the entire loan and credit processing workflow. It covers the lifecycle of a loan application, from the point of application creation through credit evaluation, approval, and commitment letter generation. Upon approval, the legal documentation aspects, post-closing activities and interface with legacy systems for account creation and collateral creation are performed.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the risk workflow system.  • Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support.  • Applied OOAD principle for the analysis and design of the system.  • Implemented XML Schema as part of XQuery query language  • Applied J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Objects (DAO) and Adapter during the development of components.  • Used RAD for the Development, Testing and Debugging of the application.  • Used JBOSS Application Server to deploy the build.  • Developed front-end screens using Struts, JSP, HTML, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON and CSS.  • Used J2EE for the development of business layer services.  • Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and performed action mapping using Struts.  • Performed data validation in Struts Form beans and Action Classes.  • Developed POJO based programming model using spring framework.  • Used IOC (Inversion of Control) Pattern and Dependency Injection of Spring framework for wiring and managing business objects.  • Used Web Services to connect to mainframe for the validation of the data.  • Axis2 WS engine has been used to convert WSDL to Java objects.  • SOAP has been used as a protocol to send request and response in the form of XML messages.  • Developed publisher, Subscriber model to send reminders about customer balances using JMS with MQ Series provider.  • WSDL has been used to expose the Web Services.  • JDBC framework has been used to connect the application with the Database.  • Used SAX Parser to parse the xml files.  • Log4j framework has been used for logging debug, info & error data.  • Used Hibernate framework for Entity Relational Mapping.  • Used Mongoose to access the NoSQL db like MongoDB database server.  • SQL Developer was used as a database client.  • Extensively worked on Windows and UNIX operating systems.    Environment: Unix, RAD7.0, J2EE, Struts 2.0, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, JBOSS, Gradle, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, Backbone JS, CSS, JQuery, JSON, SOAP, WSDL, XML, XSLT, JAXP, SQL, UML, Eclipse, PL/SQL, Shell Programming, JMS, MQ Series, Eclipse, MongoDB, Log4j, Junit, Mockito, CVS, Spring Security, SSO. Java/J2EE Developer Genesis Software Solutions March 2010 to September 2011 Enrollment System Redesign, ESR is an online application process for the Veterans enrolment for health care. The veteran may apply for enrollment in person at a VHA health care facility, by mail, or by completing an on-line application.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, migration, restructuring, support and maintenance of various modules with in the project.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Used Hibernate to persist data in a bi temporal form in database.  • Followed the Agile methodology.  • Used Core- Java, Multi-Threading & Java Concurrency techniques in order to Source the data from Up-Streams and to persist in our Sybase-IQ Databases and make the data available for the reporting teams to use.  • Front end web layout using HTML 5, CSS and JSP with java script frameworks like JQuery for reporting architecture.  • Prepared and executed the test cases using JUnit, Mockito.  • Implemented Maven Script to create jar, war files and deploy them to the unix box.  • Used spring framework to achieve loose coupling between the layers thus moving towards Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) exposed through RESTful.  • ETL approach is to extract the files, load them to work tables, staging tables and final IQ databases.  • Implemented RESTful web services to communicate with components of other Sourcing systems within the firm and to provide data to the reporting team.  • Designed and implemented customized exception handling to handle the exceptions in the application.  • Batch Processing using Autosys.  • Worked with SQL queries and PL/SQL and actively involved in the production support.  • Involved in production support and fixing issues based on a ROTA.  • Upgraded JBoss Drools version to 6.3.0. Final in various modules of application.    Environment: JDK 1.6, UML, Spring 3.0, Eclipse, PostgreSQL, JDBC, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, DOM, DHTML, REST, JUnit, SVN, Log4j, Sybase IQ, Aqua Data Studio, Autosys, UNIX, Maven, Agile Scrum, Jenkins, Hudson, JIRA, Confluence, JSP's, HTML, Sonar, Reporting tools, Agile, BRMS, Drools. Software Developer Krest Technologies January 2009 to February 2010 The project Front Office Management is aimed at assisting the front office employees to maintain and manage the daily inflow of course enquiries in the training division. Using this package user can store the student information details viz. the course enquired for, the fee paid and dues, the follow up dates etc.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using MVC-1 Architecture using JSP, Servlet and EJB.  • Participated in client requirement gathering.  • Involved in developing Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using UML.  • Preparation of the Low-Level Design document that includes program specification and unit test plan.  • Developed HTML and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Developed JSPs to implement the business logic and use java beans to retrieve the data.  • Involved in Coding of Enterprise Java Beans, which implements business rules, and business logic.  • Involved in developing the Java classes and JavaBeans.  • Involved in Creation of tables in MySQL database.  • Extensively used Net beans for writing code.  • Involved in Unit and Integration Testing.  • Used CVS for source code version control.  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.    Environment: Core Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP's, Servlet, EJB, Java Beans, MySQL v5.2 CE, Squirrel, JUnit, CVS, Apache Tomcat Web Server v6.0, NetBeans. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (6 years), Design Patterns (6 years), Eclipse (6 years), J2EE (9 years), Java (10+ years), java script (8 years), JAX (5 years), JMS (7 years), JQuery (9 years), JSP (10+ years), Junit (10+ years), Maven (7 years), Model View Controller (6 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (6 years), MVC (6 years), SOAP (7 years), Testing (8 years), web services (7 years), XML. (9 years), XSLT (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java/J2EE (Servlets, JSP, EJB,.), C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL  Scripting JavaScript, Shell, Groovy, Grails, Python, Pearl, PHP, Ruby, Dojo, JQuery, Yahoo UI(YUI), Selenium, AJAX  MVC Frameworks Struts, Spring MVC, JSF, Angular JS, React JS  Frameworks Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Core, Spring AOP, EJB 3.0, Hibernate, JPA, J2EE, Maven  Design Patterns Singleton, DTO, DAO, Business delegate, Service Facade, Factory Pattern  Build Tools Jenkins, Maven, Gradle, Bamboo, ANT  Messaging JMS MQ, IBM MQ, Rabbit MQ, Mule ESB  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, Axis-2, JAX -WS, JAX -RPC, JAX-RS, RESTEasy, SAX/DOM parsers, Jersey, CXF, JAXP, XML, XSD, XPath, Xquery, XSLT  Databases DB2, SQL Server, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL, NoSQL, Mongo DB  Application Servers  IIS, JBOSS, IBM WebSphere Application Server 6.0/6.1, TM Server, Sun Java Application Server 9.x. (Glassfish), WebLogic Application Server & Tomcat webserver, WPS 6.2    IDEs Eclipse 3.0, RAD 6.0/7.0, Rational modeling tool (IBM RSM), Spring tool Set (STS), NetBeans 6.0  Version Control SVN, CVS, GIT, Clear Case  Tools  Toad, SQL Connector, Log Analyzer, Log4j, Slf4J, LogBack, T-Leaf, JTest, JProbe suite 5.1 (Memory Debugger, profiler), Squirrel SQL Client    Testing tools JUnit, Mockito, Load Runner, Selenium, Agitar    Technologies HTML5, XHTML, JSP, CSS3, Bootstrap, XSLT, LDAP  Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows