Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - WellsFargo Maryland City, MD 10+ Years of experience in development of web based applications in various domains by using Java, J2EE technologies such as Java Spring, EJB 3.0, Jakarta Struts, Java Beans, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, JPA, HTML, CSS, Angular JS, Java Script, Hibernate, DHTML, XML and Windows.    • Participation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding and testing with J-Unit and good experience with software development methodologies like agile and waterfall.  • Good Experience in working with Model View Controller(MVC) Architecure based applications using frameworks like Spring with various Java/J2EE design patterns.  • Proficient in programming by using the IDE's such My Eclipse 8.x, Eclipse 4.4, RAD 6/7 and Visual Studio Code.  • Expertise in implementing different design patterns such as singleton, session façade, DAO, DTO, Factory and Business delegate.  • Good exposure to BEA Web Logic, Tomcat, JBOSS, WebSphere and having good work experience in RDMBS such as Oracle 9i, 10g, MySQL, and SQL server.  • Experience in client web technologies using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS.  • Good knowledge in latest versions of AngularJS such as Angular2 and Angular.  • Developed JUnit test cases to test the business logic.  • Developed web-services for different functionalities in the application in SOAP and REST API architectures.  • Functional domain knowledge in Insurance and Banking systems.  • Good knowledge in ORM Technologies like Hibernate mapping and JPA configuration.  • Strong interpersonal skills, ability to interact with team members and good communication and presentation skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer WellsFargo - Columbia, MD July 2018 to March 2019 Project Name: Corporate Trust Services    CTSLink is Corporate Trust Services which involves document, data publishing, file upload and retrieval, file upload and data entry for Mortgage Services for business partners and wells fargo.There are Registration Module, File upload, Reports Module.  I was involved in registration and file upload module. In Registration module creating SAML Request for input data entered by user at registration and file uploads verifying file types, file extensions, file content and virus scan based on WCAG 2.0.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in enhancements of file scanning using Semantic Scan Engine 7.2, used Tika parser to validate the files.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Tiles framework, JSP and HTML.  • Involved in the creation of SAML Assertion request creation for registration module.  • Involved in the Apache configurations of setting response headers to mitigate security threats like clickjacking, cross-site scripting etc.  • Unit test cases using Junit test classes.  • Used Maven for build application.  Environment: Java, Spring 5, Tiles Framework, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, XML, CSS, Log4J, Maven, WebLogic Application server, Apache Web Servers, Firewalls, F5 Servers, Eclipse, Oracle10G, PL/SQL, Git, HP ALM, JIRA issue tracker, Windows operating systems. Java Developer Allstate - Northbrook, IL September 2013 to July 2018 Project Name:Alliance Application    This project involves the maintenance of Alliance application and Alliance Endorsement Application. The application is to get online quotes and purchase for auto and property insurance in different states of US. It involves both commercial and personal insurance. It is a complete online e transaction application involving customers, agents and call center through direct or mutual interaction. Alliance is a group of web-based applications include commercial Auto Quote, Auto New Business (ANB) and Property New Business (PNB), Web Services such as Get Quote, Save Quote, Get Policy Data, Get Billing Data, and Get Claims Data  Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements and analysis meetings with business analyst and end users.  • Designed and developed the application based on MVC framework  • Testing the functionalities in terms of requests and responses for the front-end JSON files.  • Designed and developed configuration wizard using Spring MVC, used Spring WebFlow to create business rule based flow mechanism, used Spring Framework for DI/IOC and ORM components like JPA to support the Hibernate tool.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Angular JS and HTML.  • Built different modules, controllers, templates, custom filters and directives in Angular JS.  • Used Maven for build application.  • Used Native Queries and Criteria Queries annotations in hibernate for access and updating data.  • Used RESTful Webservices with spring to get Quote data, save Quote and to get Policy Data.  Environment: Java, SpringMVC, Spring IOC, Angular JS, HTML, JavaScript, XML, CSS, Log4J, Maven, Web Sphere, Eclipse, Oracle10G, PL/SQL, DB2, ClearCase, Windows operating systems. Java Developer ABSA Bank - ZA May 2012 to August 2013 Project Name: AFS Keystone    Absa Bank Limited (Absa Bank), with preference shares listed on the JSE Limited, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Barclays Africa Group, offers a range of retail, business, corporate and investment banking, and wealth management products and services primarily in South Africa and Origins of the Absa Brand.    Project Description: Absa Financial Services (AFS) Key stone is to provide a single view for the Absa Online customer with regards to their banking and non-Banking (Insurance) needs.  The following Features and functions have been included in the Absa Online Banking Environment in the AFS key stone.  Apply for a policy  • Obtain quote  • Purchase a policy  • Capture future debit order details  View existing policy within secure environment  • Submit claim notification (FNOL)  • Increase / Endorse cover  • View payment history  • View correspondence, Reinstate policy    This project is developed using JAVA, EJB 3.0, Java Script, XSL, XML, CSS and WSDL.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development and support of project  • Involved with lead in design, development for complete project.  • Developed Views using XSL and services using EJB 3.0.  • Used Web Sphere for deploying application.  Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, XSL, WSDL, EJB 3.0, DB2, Web Sphere, RAD, ClearCase, SOAP UI, Log4j, Windows operating systems. Java Developer FutureGenerali Insurance - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2011 to January 2012 Project Name: Channel Management System    Project Description: This is an automated workflow for Registration, policy administration and KPI management. This System allows insurance companies to configure registering entities, movements for those entities and processing the Performance of agents and employees  Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of Screens for Registration Module  • Unit Testing of Screens.  • Developed Views and Business layers using Spring MVC pattern and also used spring dependency Injection to inject values to variables.  • Used Jsp, JavaScript to develop views    Environment: Java Springs, Hibernate, JSP, JavaScript, SQL Server, JBoss and Tortoise SVN. Java Developer AXA Life Insurance, HongKong June 2010 to January 2011 Project Name:MicroSys    Project Description: This is an automated workflow for new business, policy administration and claims handling. The system allows insurance companies to launch new products which require configuring new business processes and business rules. MicroSys captures new proposals resulting in the creation of a policy, after verification of proposals by insurance company personnel. The system keeps track of the premium payment by policy holders and has add-on functionalities to deal with cooling off. Claims processing functionality in the system helps insurers to track a claim from the time it is made through to the final settlement.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of Screens for Registration Module  • Unit Testing of Screens.  • Developed Views and Business layers using Spring MVC pattern and also used spring dependency Injection to inject values to variables.  • Used Jsp, JavaScript to develop views  Environment: Java Springs, Hibernate, JSP, JavaScript, Oracle, JBoss and Tortoise SVN. Java Developer Cascade Microtech - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2007 to April 2010 Project Name: Customized ERP Systems    Project Description: The application is a fully fledged ERP that integrates the following modules Sales, Purchase Inventory, Production and accounts. The whole system maintains Suppliers, Customers and production floor. User can send Indent, PO's and Invoice directly through the system.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis and designing.  • Involved in preparing various documents like low-level design documents, test cases.  • Involved in coding various java components and jsp's.  • Involved in code reviews (peer reviews) and unit testing.    Environment: JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, Java, Java Beans, HTML, MYSQL Server, Web logic 8.1. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU) - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills DB2 (6 years), HTML. (9 years), Java (10+ years), SQL (6 years), XML (7 years), Spring, Hibernate, Rest, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Core Java, Angular, JEE, MVC, Angularjs, JSP, Javascript Additional Information Technical Proficiencies:    JAVA/J2EE Technologies: Core JAVA, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Web Services and EJB.  Frame Works: Java Spring, Struts, Tiles  Web/ Application Servers: Web Logic 12.1, Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere and JBoss.  Web&Scripting Technologies: Angular JS, HTML, XML, XSL, Java Script.  ORM: Hibernate, JPA  Databases: Oracle, DB2, MySQL, MS Access and SQL server.  IDE and Tools: Eclipse, RAD, MyEclipse, Firebug, Visual Studio Code, Maven, Log4j, SLF4j.    Operating Systems: Windows 95/98/2000/NT/XP/Vista/7/10, MS-DOS.  Methodologies: OOAD, Waterfall.