Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - MassMutual Life Insurance Company Springfield, MA -  • Strong Experience working with Apex classes, Triggers, Test Methods and Application Design and Development on Multitenant Force.com platform.  • Experience developing Custom UI with AJAX functionality using Visualforce Pages, Controllers and Controller Extensions and Experience working on data model, SOQL, SOSL and Governor Limits.  • Proficiency working with standard business objects and developed Custom Objects and Visual force pages using Apex and Visual Force Programming on Force.com Platform  • Experience in SFDC development using Apex classes and Triggers, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, SOQL and SOSL.  • Integration using web sphere cast Iron and Informatica cloud for data migration in to the cloud.  • Strong Implementation and Integration experience using custom objects, Triggers, workflows/workflow rules, approvals, S-Controls, Visual Force Pages, and Apex Classes.  • Experienced in integration of salesforce.com with external applications by using Web Services API, Metadata API, SOAP, REST and IBM web sphere and Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, WSDL, and SOAP.  • Worked on the designing of custom objects, custom fields, role based page layouts, custom Tabs, custom reports, report folders, report extractions to various formats, design of Visual Force Pages, and various other components as per the client and application requirements  • Experience working across various SFDC implementations covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Expertise in Salesforce Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Reports, Dashboards, Actions, Tasks and Events.  • Involved in gathering high level business requirements, functional specifications and preparing use cases.  • Experience in working on Lightning Components to build custom user interfaces without code and also Created Visuaforce pages that uses the Lightning Components and Worked in developing various Lightning components, events and its applications and also Worked with Salesforce1 sandbox simulator to run and test the Lightning Applications  • Worked on Validation Rules, Workflow, E-mail services and Approval Processes using customization & Apex and Managed and Configured Outlook to Salesforce, chatter, Salesforce Mobile.  • Experience working with Deployment Tools like Force.com IDE based on salesforce.com Sandbox environments and Experience working with Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in, Data Loader and Web Services API.  • Experience in Synchronization, Data-Modeling, Data Extraction, Transformation, DataLoading, Scheduling, Monitoring, and Reporting in a cloud scenario.  • Thorough knowledge in the Security and Sharing model which is used to finely control the user's access to different data.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using Import Wizard and Data Loader Utility.  • Responsible for all the activities related to configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files into salesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data  • Possess good knowledge in Unit Testing, Test Coverage, and Code Review and Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Scrum Methodologies.  • Good understanding of CRM business process like Campaign Management, Lead Management, Account Management and Case Management.  • Experience in Database Programming and Development using MS SQL Server, Oracle, MS Access and good experience in SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers, Views, Cursors, Functions and Stored Procedures. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer MassMutual Life Insurance Company - Springfield, MA December 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Customized Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns and Cases.  • Customized several Validation Rules, tasks, Workflow rules, Triggers, Apex classes to achieve the complex business functionality.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application using the Eclipse IDE.  • Developed VisualForce Pages, VisualForce Custom Controllers Components, Advanced Search Functionality, Custom Objects, Analytic Snapshots, Tabs, Tags and Components.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Used Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.  • Profile based permissions on fields and objects are enforced.  • Load/Manage the data using Apex Data Loader.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects. Also created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic.  • Implemented Configuration, Customization and Development with Salesforce.com on Service Cloud and Sales Cloud.  • Integrated the SOAP and Rest based Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.com  • Performed Data Migration from legacy system to Force.com with knowledge of Data Mapping.  • Defined documentation review cycles for the project and assign review tasks to the project team. Follow-up with reviews to see them through to completion.  • Involved in distribution of tickets among teams and within the team.  • Used Force.com IDE Plug-in for Development and deployment changes/application on production  • Configured and Maintained the Sandbox Environment for easy collaboration of Development.  • Experienced in Unit Testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project and also was involved in the Integration Testing  • Developed and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboards.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Workflow and Approvals, Visual force, Reports, Custom Objects, Tabs, Email Services Apex, Data Loader, Force.com, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, Triggers, Security Controls, API. Salesforce Developer Fidelity Investment - Westlake, TX May 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Standard Objects like Accounts, Contacts, Reports and dashboards.  • Worked with Custom Objects like shipping vendor, companies and created record types according to the requirement.  • Refactored apex code by following best practices and optimized triggers for better performance.  • Wrote bulk triggers for processing bulk data in SFDC. Wrote test classes to ensure over 90% code coverage and assertions to test the business functionality.  • Used VSS for version control and source code management.  • Extensive experience in data migration and integration using Data Loader.  • Experience in working in integration of salesforce.com with external applications by using Web Services API, Metadata API, SOAP, REST and IBM web sphere.  • Experience in Integration using web sphere cast Iron and Informatica cloud for data migration in to the cloud.  • Designed VF pages and included the live agent generated code to invoke live chat requests to the available live agent users in Service Cloud  • Incorporated different Page Layouts based on the record type selected.  • Effectively used GitHub for Source Code Management along with other developers on team.  • Used Picklists, Dependent Pick lists, Record Types to enforce data quality.  • Experience in Working with Creation of APEX Classes and Triggers for implementing the Complex Business Logic that involves multiple Objects.  • Developed various Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes on hourly basis.  • Developed Apex triggers for avoiding duplication of Leads from various resources.  • Implemented a direct interface from its Web site, so that when a customer files a report, it automatically turns into a support case in Salesforce.  • Experience in Creating Lightning Components Tabs and Visualforce Tabs and also Used SLDS and Bootstrap for the design of those components  • Experienced in creating the Lightning components and Lightning Applications.  • Worked on Data Loader to insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com subjects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Worked on Field level Security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Experience in generating PDF's with Salesforce data using Visual Force Pages.  • Worked effectively to ensure that the data is protected and is made available to the authorized users by customizing the user Roles, Role hierarchies, Profiles and Sharing settings.  • Worked with Dynamic Apex to access S Objects and Field information, execute dynamic SOQL, SOSL queries.  • Designed and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Implement complex business logic using Apex and Visual Force.  • Used apex scheduler to schedule the batch class as a part of data cleansing process.  • Implemented custom Account Merge by creating complex visual force pages to allow business users to enter accounts and choose related object records to merge.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Created and deployed Several Standard and Custom Reports using salesforce.com platform.  • Experience on creating applications using Salesforce i.e SFA applications based on Apex Language and leveraging Force.com Platform -- world's first commercial Software as a Service (SAAS) application running in Cloud Computing  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code management to the deployment instance after testing.  • Packaged and Deployed customizations from Sandbox to other environments using Force.com IDE.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Workflow and Approvals, Visual force, Reports, Custom Objects, Tabs, Email Services, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Components and Controller, Eclipse IDE Plugin, Data Loader. Salesforce Developer Ford Motor Company - Detroit, MI July 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Strong technical background helps in discussions with the team about feasibility and best way of leveraging Saleforce.com standard features to effectively serve the purpose of the requirement.  • Prototyping and discussion with the users to get to an agreement on the functionality, layout and aesthetics of the software. Creating and leveraging Record Types for Layouts.  • Communicating and adhering to deadlines proposed to the client by building strong help ticket monitoring system.  • Building complex reports by making use of the latest Salesforce features like Cross-Object filters, Buckets and Joined Reports.  • Make use of Reports and Dashboards to provide custom export privileges to users.  • Created Custom Visualforce Components and attributes to override look and feel of standard VisualForce components.  • Integration using web sphere cast Iron and Informatica cloud for data migration in to the cloud.  • Responsible for unit & integration of various system modules. Prepared unit & integration test scripts and executed them.  • Expertise in Service Cloud Console with exposure to CTI adapters and Mobile Application Integrations.  • Design, develop and deploy Apex classes, controller classes and Apex triggers for various needs of the application.  • Experience with Adobe Flash, Service Cloud, Sales Cloud and Chatter.  • Implement complex business logic using Apex and Visual Force.  • Used apex scheduler to schedule the batch class as a part of data cleansing process.  • Implemented custom Account Merge by creating complex visual force pages to allow business users to enter accounts and choose related object records to merge.  • Developed batch classes to accomplish complex business requirement and mass update contact data.  • Understanding and analyzing the Roles and Territory Hierarchies in the organization for setting up groups to control access privileges in Salesforce.  • Created and managed profiles, roles, permissions, page layouts, validation rules, workflows, approval processes, lead assignment rules.  • Integrated Apex with External services by making callouts that used SOAP, REST and WSDL.  • Used Organization security, Network-based security and Session security to implement platform security.  • Data loading using Data loader, Import Wizard.  • By implementing Jitter bit we tackled the most complex integration challenges between Salesforce.com, ERP, financial and HR systems in record time using out-of-the-box system connections and drag-and-drop mapping functionality.  • Worked with Apex Scheduler to invoke Apex classes at regular intervals    Environment: Saleforce.com Sales, Sales cloud, service cloud, Force.com, Excel, Data Loader, CRM Fusion Demand tools, Dupe Blocker, Workflows, Approvals, Reports, AppExchange, WSDL, Eclipse IDE. Salesforce Developer United Components Inc - Maryville, IL February 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, Sharing rules and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional need  i.e. Sweep & Match, Custom Member Search, and Data Synchronization by web services integration.  • Created various Standard and Custom Reports / Dashboards (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce.com as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles.  • Provided post-implementation support to assist end users in creating reports, dashboards and certain Administration tasks including creating and maintaining user profiles and privileges.  • Implemented Web to Case, Email to Case functionalities to provide a better customer support to the customers.  • Single-Sign On (SSO) integration Implement Single-Sign On (SSO) for browser based logins to Salesforce.  • Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access among different users.  • Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleansing activities while transferring the data from the external system into salesforce.com using Apex Data Loader 20.0.  • Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment, created packages and moved it between Sandboxes and Production environments to place final implementations.  • Worked on doing making minor enhancements to SFDC application required by business users from time to time.    Environment: Java 4, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.0, XML, PHP 4.0, MySQL 4.0, Tomcat 4.0 Application Server, Apache HTTP Server Salesforce Developer JPMorgan Chase - Houston, TX October 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Opportunities  • Developed several Triggers, Apex classes and Visual force pages as part of the application development  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish many-to-many relationship among objects.  • Created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Experienced in the use of Data Loader and scheduling timely data backup operations using Apex scheduler  • Implemented Escalation rules, Automatic case generation and their escalation to call center representative, and generated email alerts for quick issue resolution.  • Configured federated login to ensure that single sign on in implemented across the company  • Enabled Salesforce connections between partner sales force orgs and the client's org.  • Good knowledge in Creating Formula Fields, Validation Rules, Workflow and approvals for the Flexibility and functionality of force platform application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects  • Used Salesforce Chatter to provide real time notifications of changes in accounts, leads and opportunities to help sales and service teams to be more efficient    • Performed Data Migration from legacy system to Force.com with knowledge of Data Mapping and also Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visualforce, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Java Developer Bayer Pharmaceutical - Whippany, NJ December 2009 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Experience in designing and developing multi-threaded MorganXchange server based on J2EE architecture and worked on Alert Processor and Scheduler components and also Designed and developed an application to monitor alerts and messages generated by MorganXchange using TIBCO/Hawk.  • Involved in designed and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, JavaScript and JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  • Developed and deployed various Entity EJBs and session EJBs.  • Developed the messaging adapters to be used with TIBCO/RV for communication between different components and done various IVR and system integrations with MorganXchange platform  • Involved in analysis and design phases of Software Development Cycle (SDLC/Waterfall Life)  • Developed the application using Eclipse as the IDE and used standard features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation and version control (CVS)  • Involved in Object Oriented Analysis and design using UML and create activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, class diagrams and use case diagrams for various use cases using Rational Rose.  • Implemented the controller using J2EE (Servlets) and hands on experience in Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Involved in the integration of spring for implementing Dependency Injection (DI/IOC)  • Mainly focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Used different types of controllers like simple form Controller, Abstract Controller and Controller interface and also Used Different types of View resolvers like Internal View Resource resolver, Resource Bundle View resolver and XML view resolver.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI and Used JDBC to access Oracle database and implemented connection pooling.  • Involved in coding for presentation layer using JSF framework, JSPs, Java Script, XML/XSLT.  • Developed and deployed EJB components (business tier) into the WebSphere Application Server (WAS)  • Experience in application design and development with a comprehensive knowledge of Java and J2EE and Involved in testing the application during the system and integration test phases    Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, J2EE, XML, XSL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Oracle 9i, MVC, SDK, Struts, XML, SOAP, JDBC, EJB, Tibco, Servlets 2.0, Apache HTTP Server. Java Developer Byrraju Foundation - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2008 to November 2009 Responsibilities:  • Developed web components using Servlets, JSPs, Tag libraries, XML, XSL, Tiles framework, Struts, and UML.  • Created SQL queries and Stored Procedures for CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations on database.  • Used Eclipse as an IDE and Apache Tomcat as an Application Server.    • Testing and debugging the project for proper functionality and documenting modules  • Used Ajax in one of the modules to do asynchronous changes to the pages.  • Worked with Struts front-end utilizing the Struts tiles framework and Struts Validation Framework to implement the GUI interface.  • Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript.  • Involved in writing the Stateless Session Beans.  • Developed application code using Core Java and J2EE (Servlets, XML) in Eclipse tool.  • Used JNDI realms to authenticate users in a web application.  • Solely responsible for writing the automation tool in java for manipulating the dates and Used JSTL in struts based JSPs.  • Developed front-end form validations using JavaScript and Used VSS for version control management.  • Developed Session and Entity Beans to implement business functionality.  • Used Application Assembly Tool for generating War and Ear files and for deployment to the Application servers.  • Involved in writing unit test scripts to check the functionality of the middle tier and aid in debugging phases and Worked on XML conversions and validations.  • All java components are ported into Web Logic Application server running on Linux.  • Also ported on Windows NT/IIS server with Servlet Exec 3.1 as JSP Engine.  Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, J2EE, XML, XSL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Oracle 9i, MVC, SDK, Struts, XML, SOAP, JDBC, EJB, Tibco, Servlets 2.0, Apache HTTP Server. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE (7 years), APEX (6 years), DATABASE (6 years), LOADER (6 years), SALESFORCE.COM (6 years), Salesforce.com platform, Workflow and Approvals, Visual force, Reports, Custom Objects, Tabs, Email Services Apex, Data Loader, Force.com, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, Triggers, Security Controls, AP (7 years) Additional Information SKILLS    ECLIPSE (7 years), APEX (6 years), DATABASE (6 years), LOADER (6 years), SALESFORCE.COM (6  years), SQL server, Oracle 10g,11g , DB2 (8 years), HTML, XML, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Servlets (8 years), Apex, C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL (8 years), Apex Data Loader, Jitter bit (8 years), Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Change sets (8 years), Force.com IDE, Excel Connector, Salesforce to Salesforce, Sales Cloud Force.com Migration Tool, Eclipse (8 years), Validation Rules, AppExchange, Record Types, Mobile, Web service Integration, Custom Visualforce Pages. (8 years), Workflows, Approvals, EmailTemplates, Web Services, Formulas (8 years), Apex, Visual Force, SOQL, SOSL, Custom Objects, SControls, Apex Triggers (8 years)