Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - PepsiCo, NY PepsiCo,&nbsp;NY • Sun Certified Java Programmer around 9+ years IT experience including Strong Development experience using Java/J2EE and Web Technologies.   • Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design and Coding, Application Implementation.   • Experience in providing User Interface and User Experience Design and development with most usable enterprise wide applications.  • Good knowledge in Unified Modeling Tools (UML) concepts and extensively worked in designing Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence and Object Diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.   • Hands on experience in Front-End technologies like Angular JS, React JS, Node JS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS4, LESS, SASS, Bootstrap, Jquery, AJAX used for Responsive web page designing.  • In-depth knowledge in creating classes, interfaces, methods, components and modules in Angular JS application using Typescript.  • Good knowledge in using of testing tools such as Jasmine and Karma for productive JavaScript testing.  • Proficiency in deploying back end applications using J2SE/J2EE, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring JMS, Spring JDBC Template, Spring Hibernate Template, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Hibernate.  • Hands on experience in developing several Micro-Services using spring boot, jersey, swagger to communicate through HTTP protocol for implementing SOA approach and web services.  • Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD, Net Beans, Clear Case and VSS.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL.   • Experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including Spring, Hibernate, IBatis, JDBC, a Struts, EJB, Servlets.  • Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.   • Adept in Product prototyping, mockups, demos and Web browser compatibility issues.  • Experience in developing various UI widgets using jQuery, worked with jQuery library.   • Hands on experience in XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, Xquery, Xpath and DTD.  • Experience with an in-depth level of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, RDS, SES, ELB, EMR, ECS, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, Red Shift, Lambda, SNS, Dynamo DB, Kinesis.  • Good exposure on using IDE'S like Eclipse, Sublime Text, IntelliJ and Net Beans.  • Strong Knowledge in CI/CD system with Jenkins on Kubernates container environment, utilizing Kubernates and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  • Experience with Tomcat, WebLogic Server, JBoss, Apache HTTP Server and IBM WebSphere.   • Strong experience in databases like Oracle 11g, MYSQL, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, DB2, NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.   • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages besides writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Rapid SQL on MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle.  • Good Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JMS ( Java Messaging Service), IBM Web sphere MQ Series.   • Hands on experience in writing ANT, Maven build scripts, providing logging facility using Log4j.  • Strong working experience with Version Control Systems like CVS, SVN (SubVersion), GIT, GitHub, Clear case.  • Expertise in testing with JUnit using tools like JMeter, Mockito, Easy Mock, Web Services testing using Selenium IDE, and Selenium RC Server, Selenium Grid/Web Driver Testing.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer PepsiCo, NY January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working in various Software Development Methodologies like Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM and TDD.  • Created a Single Page Application using Angular JS with Angular UI Router to implement nested views.  • Developed custom service and factories based on client's demand which extends the core Angular JS.  • Implemented a complete User Interface for the client web application using Angular JS.  • Software is built as a web app on Node Js with Backbone Js, Angular Js CSS3 is compiled with LESS and HTML.  • Designed and implemented the web application in Node Js, HTML from initial concept development to beta launch.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Involved in Dynamic form generation, Auto completion of forms, and user-validation functionalities using AJAX.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot.  • Implemented various services using Micro services architecture in which the services work dependently.  • Used Micro services architecture with Spring Boot, Spring JPA based services interacting through the powerful messaging tools such as REST, Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Deployed Spring Boot based Micro services, Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console  • Implemented cross-cutting concerns like business transactions, security, logging, and monitoring mechanism using Spring AOP.  • Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring MVC framework and O/R mapping tool Hibernate 4.0 for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  • Worked on Java/J2EE framework APIs include Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Implemented on JavaScript based frameworks like React Native and Ionic/Cordova for frontend.  • Developed Atlassian products using Bitbucket, Jira, Trello and SourceTree for Issue tracking, Code review and release management.  • Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for many applications utilizing the AWS and ELK (Elastic search, Kibana, Log stash) stack focusing on high availability and fault tolerance that is produced by Apache Spark cluster.  • Implemented VMs availability sets using Azure portal to provide resiliency for IaaS based solution and scale sets using Azure Resource Manager to manage network traffic.  • Performed application deployment and data migration on AWS Redshift and Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Configured the Docker Containers and creating Dockers files for different environments.  • Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets , HTML5  • Applications developed in Eclipse IDE with Java7, Google Web Toolkit, Hibernate, CSS, JBoss, HTML5 & Oracle DB.  • Implemented in handling Protractor, for performing end-to-end test framework for Angular applications.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used Rest, WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Involved in using web services -WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party Configured Hibernate with Spring.  • Use of open-source technologies are used extensively to provide leading-edge solutions - Eclipse, Maven, REST, SOAP, RabbitMQ Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, using MS SQL Server.  • Developed Ruby on Rails web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis  • Developed DAO API to manage the payment information using JDBC  • Developed on Complete Cassandra architecture with in detail understanding of read, write and delete processes. Expert in benchmarking and load testing.  • Used to Github, version control by using Firebug tracking for finding errors.  • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.  • Used Subversion for version control and log4j for logging errors.  • Using JUnit test in Eclipse, developed Unit test cases and test suite, Curl was also implemented to test.  Environment: Java7, Agile, Scrum, Angular Js, Backbone Js, CSS3, Node Js, HTML5, Micro services, Spring Boot, Spring JPA, REST, Apache Kafka, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Hibernate 4.0, IBatis, JavaScript, JQuery, Bitbucket, Jira, Amazon Web Services, IaaS, Azure, Docker, React JS, JSON, Dojo, XML, PHP, Laravel, Ionic, AJAX, Bootstrap, Web Services, SOAP, REST, SOAP, RabbitMQ, SQL, PL/SQL, MS-Sql, JDBC, Maven, SVN Log4J, JUnit, Eclipse. Java/J2EE Developer Phillips - Alpharetta, GA September 2016 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on High level and low-level system design, planning, estimation, and implementation.  • Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  • Designing the flow of the project using Water Fall Model.  • Implemented second level cache and query level cache in Hibernate using EHcache plug-in.  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML.  • Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle RDBMS  • Create new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components under J2EE Environment.  • With the IBatis implementation, all the queries were separated away from the code and moved to the XML files. Used Spring IBatis XML configuration files to call the queries.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Implemented Coherence Cache which can be used with Spring Annotations.  • Written Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  • Developed Web Services using WSDL and XML.  • Automate test cases using the built in framework in Selenium Web Driver using Netbeans IDE  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Creating S3 buckets and also managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 buckets and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations  • Migrated data from legacy system (text based files, Excel spreadsheets, and Access) to SQL Server databases using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Optimized UML design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Service Locator and Business Delegate  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Worked with PostgreSQL and search based data storage  • Integrated Jenkins with various DevOps tools includes Nexus, Sonar Qube, Puppetetc  • Designed and implemented Subversion metadata including elements, labels, attributes, triggers and hyperlinks.  • Managed code with unit tests and GitHub.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JSON, XML, Spring ORM, Hibernate, Maven/Ant, Spring MVC, JSP, Servlets, Spring, iBatis, JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO, JQuery, EXTJS, JavaScript, Web services, Selenium, Netbeans, JBoss, Web Logic, MySQL, Amazon Services, TOAD, SQL, Ajax, SQL Server, DB2, UML, JSP, PostgreSQL, Jenkins, DevOps tools, SVN, GitHub. Sr Java Developer Delta Dental - Okemos, MI June 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Agile and scrum process is used for tracking and developing the application.  • Designed and Developed JavaScript framework which is wrapper on top of JQUERY frame work and AJAX based UI framework for UI Configuration widgets.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Developed hundreds of features in an agile environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed applications using object oriented concepts.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, Test Driven Development (TDD) and pair based programming.  • Designed the front end of the application using Rails, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using ActiveRecords  • Designed the RESTful API endpoints, and creating a regression test framework.  • Added functionality that ingested data from a SOAP web service.  • Provide validations and scope for many models in the database and created many associations within those models  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Administered Git and Subversion repositories for an enterprise code off.  Environment: Agile, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Ruby on Rails, JRuby, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, JSON, RESTful API, SOAP Web services, XML. Java Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA April 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Works with cross-function team, using agile practices, writes, debugs and delivers code.  • Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations.  • Responsible to write the different service classes and utility API which will be used across the frame work.  • Used Axis to implementing Web Services for integration of different systems.  • Developed Web services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications.  • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework, Worked on Spring/Hibernate Applications.  • Used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience.  • Created test framework on Selenium and executed Web testing in Chrome, IE and Mozilla through Web driver.  • Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface.  • Used XPath 1.0 for selecting nodes and XQuery to extract and manipulate data from XML documents.  • Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for GIT.  • Used Log4j for the logging the output to the files.    Environment: Java, Javascript, JQuery, API, Web services, XML, WSDL, and SOAP, MVC, Struts, Hibernate, Ajax, Selenium, XSLT, XPath, JNDI, XQuery, GIT, Log4J. Java Full Stack developer Prudential - Columbus, OH May 2011 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Analyzes current information technology environments to identify and assess critical capabilities and recommend solutions.  • Developed applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Java Server Faces, Struts, Hibernate, Oracle, MVC Architecture.  • Used Struts validator frame work to automatically validate user input.  • Created tile definitions, struts-configure files, validation files and resource bundle.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework.  • Develop, implement, and maintain an synchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience  • Created/mappings and implemented persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Used J2EE design patterns like DAO, Value Object, Service Locator, MVC and Business Delegate.  • Developed/Customized Java Server Pages (JSP) for Customer User Interface (UI)  • Developed web tier using Struts tag libraries, CSS, HTML, XML, JSP, Servlet.  • Maintained the business standards and the requirements in EJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  • Used CVS tool for Version control.  • Used web services in production analysis.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Java Server Faces, Struts, Hibernate, Oracle, MVC, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, CSS, HTML, XML, EJB, Web Logic, CVS. Java Developer Nike - Beaverton, OR September 2010 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on complete life cycle of software development, which included new requirement gathering, redesigning and implementing the business specific functionalities, development, testing.  • Involved in the requirements review, design, development, Unit testing and Bug fixing of the system and used Agile Development methodology.  • Built commercial applications with ES6, Web pack /Gulp, Swagger, and SPAs like React and Angular.  • Developed AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto scaling for EC2 instances and involved in the automated provisioning of AWS cloud environment using Jenkins and chef.  • Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, RDS, ELB, Auto-Scaling, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elastic search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like watch and Cloud Front for promoting code in various environments.  • Developed Complex- Browsing Apps by using GWT frame work.  • Used Hibernate to achieve Data persistency.  • Setup the Continuous Integration (CI) process and Continuous Deployment (CD) jobs in Jenkins brew master instance, which reduces the time for the deployment of micro services.  • Created tables and worked on My SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures functions and packages for complex Inserts and updates in the database. And used Stored Procedures in the application.  • Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.  • Performed unit and performance testing activities as per automated framework and practices.  • Prepared Junit and Test NG test cases and executed as part of auto build process from Jenkins Jobs.  • Worked with Version control tool like GIT.  • Used Gradle as a build tool to build the scripts.  • Used Log4J2 as a logging tool.  Environment: Java, Agile, Amazon Web Services, ES6, Swagger, EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, AMI, IAM, Elastic Search, VPC, Cloud Front, GWT, Hibernate, Jenkins, MySQL, JUnit, GIT, Gradle, Apache Tomcat, Log4J2. Full stack Java Developer Independent Health - Buffalo, NY February 2009 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Well versed with complete Life Cycle Development process that includes requirement analysis, design, implementation, testing, maintenance and followed Agile methodology.  • Agile and scrum process is used for tracking and developing the application.  • Was involved in UI development, and Developed presentation layer using JSP2.3, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, JSTL Taglibs.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in grails and JavaScript using frameworks like Angular JS.  • Used Angular JS controllers for two-way data binding between product components and data objects.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by angular 4/Angular2.  • Used Angular JS directives that allow the developer to specify custom and reusable HTML elements and attribute that define data bindings and the behavior of presentation components.  • Used Java features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections, multithreading and for effective sorting mechanisms and streams to store and process the data.  • Developed single page application with Angular JS, Node.js,.  • Involved in design phase and assisting to develop admin UI services like manage users, roles, messages, etc., using Spring MVC and Spring security.  • Used Spring boot for single sign on page application to access more quickly.  • Worked with vices architecture using Spring Boot to modularized code and implemented Rest API's using Spring Rest  • Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Implemented Spring Security for Web Socket and Feign Clients.  • Developed/Design the application using WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL5, and PHP) architecture using Laravel Framework Developed web applications using MVC frameworks like ZEND, Code Igniter, CakePHP.  • Developed for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular.JS, Jasmine, Karma, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, RESTFUL API Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and JSON.  • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in Web Sphere server  • Used Web Services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data between two interfaces.  • Developed application code using Eclipse-Galaxo IDE and configured with Maven and JBoss  • Worked with AWS Cloud platform and its features, which include IAM, EC2, S3, AMI, EBS, CLI, Cloud Watch, SNS, and RDS.  • Implemented the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Development work is also done to the legacy system using WSAD IDE. The modified application is deployed on websphere using ANT and javascripts for use by interface project.  • Create Jenkins pipeline jobs for Puppet release process for module deployment, using Kanban agile methodology for Puppet development.  • Worked with Behavior Driven Development (BDD) using Cucumber, Capybara and gherkin plugin.  • Designed and implemented the web application in Ruby on Rails, Node.js, HTML5 and JQuery from initial concept development to beta launch.  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application  • Worked in PostgreSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Implemented with data modeling for Relational Databases which includes MySQL, and SQLite.  • Developed on Document store databases using MongoDB and Cache store services like Redis.  • Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations.  • Developed Angular-JS unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Led development using J2EE creating web enabled invoicing system for multiple location service company in NetBeans environment using Git-Hub version control.  • Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs and SVN for version control.  • Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations.  Environment: Java 8,Agile, JSP2.3, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, JSTL, Angular Js, Angular2, Angular4, React JS, Node Js, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Micro services, HTML, CSS, XML, PHP, JIRA, AWS Services, Hibernate, Jasmine, Karma, Laravel, Ionic, Bootstrap, RESTful API's, SOAP, REST, Web Services, Eclipse, Websphere, Jenkins, Docker, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Cucumber, gherkin, MySQL, SQLite, MongoDB, NoSQL, Cassandra, Github, Log4J, SVN, Junit. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, JBOSS, JMS, TOMCAT, WEB LOGIC, Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, Java, J2Ee Additional Information Methodologies UML, Agile, Waterfall.  Web Technologies HTML5.2, DHTML4.2, CSS3, XHTML  Build Tools ANT, Maven  XML XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, Xquery, Xpath and DTD  Web/Application Servers Web Sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  Web Services SOAP, REST, RESTful, WSDL, UDDI, JMS  Cloud Technologies AWS, EC2, RedShift, AWS Cloud, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic, Lambda, Cloud Watch, AMI, CLI, SNS.  BDD Tools Cucumber, gherkins  Databases MySQL, Oracle 11g, SQL Server, NoSQL(MongoDB, Cassandra, PostgreSQL), DB2.  CI/CD Tools Jenkins, Docker.  IDE's Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, TOAD.  Source Control/Bug tracking GITHUB, SVN, CVS, Git, Clearcase, Jira, BugZilla, Log4J,SLF4J.  Testing Tools JUnit, JMeter, Mockito, Selenium.