Senior Java developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior Java developer - BNSF Railway Company • Professional with 11+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing and testing of software systems in Java, J2EE and Internet technologies.  • Strong Knowledge on Application Development using Software Development Life Cycle SDLC using various methodologies like Waterfall, Agile/Scrum.  • Expertise in Agile project management methodologies  • Expertise in working with various J2EE technologies including Hibernate, Struts MVC Framework, Servlets, JMS, JDBC, AJAX, WEB SERVICES, Portlets (JSR 286), MAVEN and GRADLE.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework such as Spring MVC, AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring JPA and Spring Batch.  • Strong hands - on experience with Spring Boot.  • Extensive experience in developing Microservices using Spring Boot, Netflix OSS (Zuul, Eureka, Ribbon, Hystrix) and followed test driven development.  • Expertise in JUNIT testing using Mockito and Power Mockito, integration testing and SOAP UI testing.  • Experienced in developing web applications using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Experience in using build/deploy tools such as Jenkins and OpenShift for Continuous Integration & Deployment for Microservices.  • Experience in using Apache Kafka to create producer / consumer apps.  • Experience in implementing Java EE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Good experience in developing Web Services SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL.  • Experience in Core Java, collections, Servlets and JDBC.  • Experience in Configuring and deploying applications on WebSphere server.  • Extensive experience working with application monitoring tools - Splunk and Dynatrace.  • Extensive experience in application development using IDE's like Eclipse, RAD and IntelliJ.  • Good knowledge of writing small to complex queries on PL/SQL.  • Good knowledge of writing stored procedure, Views, Functions and Triggers.  • Good understanding of ITIL V3 lifecycles and processes.  • Excellent team player with good analytical, strategic planning and interpersonal and communication skills. Highly motivated, enthusiastic and self-starter. Adaptable and can quickly grasp new technology and tools. Work Experience Senior Java developer BNSF Railway Company - Fort Worth, TX October 2018 to Present Collaborates with leaders, business analysts, project managers, IT architects, technical leads and other developers to understand needs and develop solutions according to business requirements.  • Define technical designs that address the requirements and participate in high-level code reviews.  • Bi-weekly sprints using agile development methodologies.  • Develop Micro-Services/REST APIs using Spring boot, Spring Data JPA, MongoDB Mongo Repository.  • Created producer / consumer apps using apache Kafka.  • Rest services templates are generated using swagger specifications.  • Using TDD strategy and implement it using JUnit, TestNG, Jacoco, and Power Mockito.  • Implemented Netflix Eureka service registry and Zuul proxy as the API gateway.  • Implemented Hysterix a Fault Tolerance system for Distributed Systems.  • Used spring config server for centralized configuration.  • Using Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous delivery.  • Created Splunk alert to monitor the application.  • Mentored junior developer by providing Knowledge Transfer through technical guidance and reviewing the code.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Spring Cloud, Netflix OSS components (Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix) IntelliJ, Eclipse, DB2, MongoDB, Apache Kafka, XSD, SQL Developer, TOAD, DBeaver, Splunk. Senior Java developer New Hampshire State - Concord, NH April 2016 to September 2018 • Managed the NH Unemployment Insurance System (NHUIS) Enhancement, Maintenance and Support project.  • Responsible for daily maintenance and support of NH's UI Benefits Maintenance System, a complex 24/7 application involving JAVA, WebSphere, Oracle 12c technology for the online application with Oracle 12c as the batch application.  • Enhance the Java component of the New Hampshire Unemployment Insurance System (NHUIS) from older Java servlet, Struts, and HTML technologies to more robust and contemporary Spring and Hibernate technologies to help New Hampshire Employment Security (NHES) achieve efficiency gains, reduce costs, and at the same time improve service delivery to the Citizens of State of New Hampshire.  • Written SQL queries PL SQL Stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursors, sequences, and indexes, which are going to be invoked by Batch processes.  • Performed CI/CD using Jenkins.  • Ensure proper delivery of the applications to production and monitor and support the applications.  • Created Web service using SOAP/Restful integration with New Hampshire Job System.  • Created the Help section of the application using RoboHelp.    Environment: J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSP, HTML, Eclipse, RAD 7.5, JSP, AJAX, Oracle, Harvest, SQL Developer, and TOAD. Technology Analyst -- Java/J2EE CareFirst - Owings Mills, MD July 2013 to March 2016 • Involved in analysis, design, coding, testing and deployment phases for J2EE based web-applications  • Worked in onshore - offshore model.  • Involved in Creating and accessing Web Services data using WSDL, SOAP, REST protocols.  • Leading a team of 18+ including onsite and offshore for development and production support related activities.  • SDLC Development experience on Portals ( JAVA/J2EE), Middleware (SOA Platforms) & backend (Oracle, DB2)  • Created multiple pages and portlets and deployed in Portal WebSphere  • Involved in writing the business logic using web services.  • Involved in System, Integration and User Acceptance Testing.  • Performed Code Review using Crucible.  • Identifies trends and potential Problem sources (by reviewing Incident and Problem analysis)  • Assists with the updating of SOPs, work instructions, checklists and various other documents under Quality management, Problem Management and document control.  • Maintains inventory of problems under analysis and their current progress and status.    Environment: J2EE, Spring MVC, JSON, JQuery, Portlets (286 JSR), JSP, HTML, RAD 7.5, JSP, XML, Schema-XSD, AJAX, Java Web Services, TIBCO, SOA, SQL Developer, TOAD J2EE Developer Infosys Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2008 to June 2013 Implemented Struts framework Action Controller classes for dispatching request to appropriate classes.  • Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Involved in writing services to write core logic for business processes.  • Involved in writing database queries, stored procedures, functions etc.  • Used Java J2EE design patterns.  • Involved in writing JDBC code to get data base connectivity.  • Implemented server-side validations and developed model classes.  • Used code version controlling using SVN.  • Involved in the Database structuring and Tables creation needed for the project.  • Coordinating with onsite team for clear understanding of domain methodologies and the business requirements along with raising issues in the Issue Tracker and getting resolution for the same.  • Involved in designing UI, development & unit and system testing of the application based on the defined change request or defect use case specifications.  • Deploy the application on to the server and support the UAT defects.  • Involved in Level 5 company assessment followed the process.    Environment: J2EE, Struts 1.1, Spring MVC, JSP, HTML, JDBC, JQuery, TOAD, and Eclipse3.0. Skills J2EE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), JSP (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  # Skills Technology  1 Operating System: Windows NT, Windows 2000/XP  2  Languages Known:    Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Data, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Netflix OSS components (Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix), Spring Batch, Hibernate, JSP, Java Beans, Struts1.1, JDBC, Portlets (286 JSR)    3 Database Worked On: Oracle 8i, Oracle 9i, Oracle 12c, DB2, SQL, MongoDB  4 Internet: JQuery, Java Scripts, HTML, CSS, 508 Compliance.  5 IDE Used: IntelliJ, Eclipse3.1/3.2/4, RAD 7  6 Defect Tracking Tools: VersionOne, JIRA  7 Application / Web Servers Used: Apache Tomcat 7, IBM Web Sphere 5.0, Web sphere Portal server, tcServer  8 Source Control: Bitbucket, GIT, Harvest, SVN, VSS, CVS  9 Microsoft: MS-Excel Macros, Word Templates