Sr. FullStack Java Developer Sr. FullStack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. FullStack Java Developer - Credit Suisse Raleigh, NC ? Around 8 Years of experience in designing and developing enterprise level multi-tier and Single-page web Applications in UN agency, Banking and Retail domains.  ? Experience in utilizing open-source frameworks such as AngularJS, NodeJS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF and Jquery.  ? Experience in consuming RESTful services using Angular $http, $resource and jQuery to exchange (request / responses) infor-mation with databases such as Oracle and MySQL.  ? Experience in developing web applications using Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Spring, Struts, JSF, Hibernate, Web Services and XML.  ? xpertise in SOA, Web Services (CXF, XML Beans), Apache Camel and XML technologies (XSLT, Xpath).  ? roven software development experience using different methodologies - Agile, Waterfall and TDD.  ? Experienced in MEAN stack development (MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular.JS & Node.JS).  ? ands-on experience in relational databases like Oracle 11g, MySQL, MS SQL Server using SQL, PL/SQL programming and NoSQL database Mongo DB.  ? Strong experience in deploying J2EE components on JBOSS, ApacheTomcat, BEA WebLogic, and IBM WebSphere application servers.  ? Thorough knowledge of Web technologies: XML, WML, SAX/DOM Parser, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  ? Strong experience on various Java Design Patterns such as Session Façade, DAO, DTO, Delegate, Front Controller, Factory, Busi-ness Object, Prototype and Singleton.  ? Proficient in integration of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) with existing applications and using services provided in distributed appli-cations through Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS).  ? Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, IBM Rational Application Developer, WebSphere Integration Developer and NetBeans.  ? Test Driven Programmer with thorough knowledge in Unit testing with JUnit, Mockito and using SoapUI, Postman for Web Ser-vice testing, performance testing with JMeter and automated testing with Test Driven Development (TDD) in Extreme Program-ming model.  ? Strong QA Automation experience with Selenium Webdriver, Jbehive and Cucumber.  ? Expert in coding using core java concepts like multithreading, collections, serialization, synchronization, exception handling and database connections.  ? Experienced in writing complex Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views and triggers with major databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  ? Experienced in database GUI/IDE Tools using TOAD, DB Visualizer and MySQL Client.  ? Strong experience working with version control software like TFS, CVS, ClearCase, Apache SubVersion, GIT and build tools ANT, Maven, Gradle and Jenkins.  ? Good working experience in operating systems like UNIX, Solaris and Windows.  ? Skilled and experienced in co-coordinating efforts among multiple teams (on-site and off-shore and third parties).  ? Experience in handling/executing projects using Agile methodologies (SCRUM) along with Test Driven Development techniques.  ? Expertise in object modeling and Object Oriented design methodologies (UML). Experience in creating UML diagrams like Class, Object, Use Case, State and Activity diagrams.  ? Strong analytical, interpersonal and communications skills. Demonstrated track record of analyzing situations, implementing in a fast paced environment.  ? Excellent written and presentation skills, Created reports, technical / functional specifications for stake holder reviews to gain approvals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. FullStack Java Developer Credit Suisse - Raleigh, NC August 2016 to Present Project Description: Credit Suisse Group is a leading financial services company, advising clients in all aspects of finance, across the globe and around the clock. The Bank has headquarters in Zurich, Switzerland it has operations in over 50 countries. The Bank seek to follow a balanced approach to wealth management, aiming to capitalize on both the large pool of wealth within mature markets as well as the significant growth in wealth in Asia Pacific and other emerging markets, while also serving key developed markets with an emphasis on Switzerland. Our project includes detecting fraud and phishing. Developing the webpage that allows user to authenticate and validating is focused in the project.    Responsibilities:  * Developed the single page application following Agile Scrum, participated in daily standups, sprint reviews, Kickoffs and used Jira for project management.  * Designed and Developed UI for Portfolio Review Dashboard application using AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, LESS, JavaScript and JQuery  * Utilized AngularJS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models).  * Created Custom Directives in AngularJS, making use of Modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement.  * Created Gulp scripts for various tasks and used Node-JS for managing application UI Dependencies.  * Portfolio review dashboard is a single page application meant for Stakeholders and Business users for faster and easier access to critical information for data-driven decision-making.  * Data is represented using Highcharts - speedometer, Heat map and spider web.  * Developed unit test cases using Mocha and Karma as unit test runner for various application modules.  * Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using angular UI router.  * Developed a Java based ETL tool which extracts data from sources like IBM Cognos (xml) & MySQL and dumps data in the target tables in MySQL database.  * ETL jar is configured to run on daily and monthly basis this job is configured in Cron tab.  * Developed Restful services using Spring and Jersey integration and involved in creating Jersey filters, interceptors and exception mappers.  * Developed business service layer and data access layer using Spring and Mongo-db (Spring Mongo- Template)  * Designed and developed various server side components like service handlers for service layer  * Involved in making Spring and Hibernate enhancements to existing applications.  * Created Logging aspects for auditing and logging purposes using Spring AOP and implemented security for the application using Spring Security.  * Created REST clients to consume data from other partner applications and involved in creating POC's using MEAN stack and enhancing existing REST API's developed using Node-JS, Express-JS and Mongo-db.  * Developed Apache Camel endpoints and used producer template to route messages to JMS queues.  * Involved in creating Message enrichers and customizing REST responses using Camel Freemarker templates.  * Developed Batch jobs using Spring Batch to read flat files and load the data into Oracle database and scheduled using Spring Quartz Scheduling.  * Used Spring LDAP for user security credentials authentication and for validating the User roles.  * Coded Gradle build scripts to build and deploy the application on WebSphere.  * Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins, AWS: CodeDeploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.  * Used Junit and Mockito framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  * Participated in code review and mentoring sessions and used GIT as version control and GITBash for GIT interactions.  * Used MySQL as backend database using Windows OS, Involved in development of Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  * Deployed the application on a JBoss server on a UNIX platform.    Environment: Agile, Core Java 1.7, Spring, Angular-JS, HTML 5, Node-JS, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JIRA, MySQL, Mongo-db, JUnit, Mockito, Hibernate, Log4j, JERSEY REST, GIT, Eclipse, NetBeans, Toad, IBM Cognos, JMS, Apache Camel, JBoss, SonarQube, Jenkins, Highcharts, Gradle, AWS, Unix. Sr. FullStack Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC October 2014 to July 2016 Project Description: Bank of America work Bench is a portfolio management dashboard designed for institutional clients, investment managers and consultants who are part of Private Wealth Management Group of Bank of America. It provides access to their portfolio investment anywhere, anytime and helps monitor their investment by generating graphs and custom reports for various categories (Equity, Debt, Asset allocation by sector). It also shows user with very informative dashboard, which can be used by Investment managers to add/update/delete portfolio.    Responsibilities:  * Worked on Agile Rally dev for define user stories, tasks and defects.  * Developed Transaction tracking application for profit centers using Spring MVC, Angular-JS, Angular-UI, Html, Bootstrap, CSS, Javascript and Jquery.  * Utilized Angular.JS UI-bootstrap components like time picker, directives, model pop-ups, ng-grid, router, progress bar, ng-Idle, ng-Upload. Implemented flexible routing and nested using Angular.JS-ui-router.  * Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a Responsive Webpage across different screen-sizes.  * Developed user stories using Core Java and spring and consumed Rest web services exposed from the profit center.  * Worked on SOAP UI for testing request/response client internal/external web service and outbound internal/ external web services.  * Developed Apache Camel routes and defined JMS endpoints for message processing and routing.  * Used Jackson for converting json to domain object and domain to json vice versa.  * Worked on Web Logic 12c for deployed interface modules and used Oracle 11g for persist the data getting from external system (Amdocs).  * Used JUnit framework for unit testing of client inbound and outbound web services and Log4j 1.2 to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  * Worked on Crucible is a web-based application for managing code reviews.  * Configured Hibernate's second level cache using EHCache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data  * Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  * Used JAX-RPC Web Services using JERSEY REST to process the application for the customer  * Developed Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using REST, such as Loan Applications, to transfer data from Branch Server to Head Office Server, then used SAX and DOM XML1.1 parsers for data retrieval.  * Used SVN for version control and used eclipse as the IDE for developing the application.  * Analyzed code coverage report from Jenkins to improve code coverage and configured multiple plugins in deploying applications.  * Used oracle as backend database using Windows OS, Involved in development of PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  * Used Maven for create the project archetype and build the interface modules for create war and ear files.  * Managed the development team at offshore and provided necessary information and artifacts.  * Supported Testing Teams and involved in defect meetings.  * Involved in system design, development, testing, debugging and took part in creating documentation.  * Deployed the application on a Web Logic server on a UNIX platform.    Environment: Agile, Core Java 1.8, Spring 3.2, Spring MVC, Jenkins, Angular-JS 1.3, Angular-UI, HTML 5, Bootstrap 3.3, CSS, Javascript, Jquery 1.8, SOAP UI, Apache Camel, JIRA, JMS, Jackson, Web Logic 12c, Oracle 11g, JUnit, Log4j 1.2, Crucible, EHCache, JERSEY REST, SVN, eclipse, Maven 3.1, Unix. Java/J2EE Developer Fidelity Investments - McLean, VA April 2013 to October 2014 Project Description: Involved in the software development and design. UNDERWRITING is online data analysis system that allows investor to analyze risks and uncertainties related to a given customer to determine if it is technically feasible and economically reasonable foundation for making investments. The portal provides various products offered by Fidelity Investments, it lets users to browse the catalog, check on various interest rate options and durations and provide a quote like document.    Responsibilities:  * Responsible for gathering requirements from the client business unit by participating in design discussions and implementation feasibility analysis with business analysts at all levels.  * Involved in Object Oriented Design/Analysis and constructing UML Sequence diagrams and Class Diagrams with Microsoft Visio/Rational Rose.  * Worked on SOA to develop RESTful Web service to generate and consume services from different modules. Implemented MVC Framework to make single page applications SPAs for responsive services.  * Developed the application using JSF Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view and JQuery validation framework for front end validations.  * Developed the web application using JSF Framework involving features like Expression Language, action listeners, custom components, etc. Created conditional logics in pages using JSF tags and JSTL.  * Used MVC frameworks like Spring MVC along with JSF and Rich faces. Involved in developing front end screens using JSF, JSTL, JQuery, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript. Also, involved in adding the Internationalization to the existing application.  * Developed JSF managed beans and backing beans and configured JSF navigation in faces-config.xml of JSF MVC framework. Constructed JSF Portal Framework at Presentation Tier and Faces Servlet acts as the Front Controller.  * Experienced in using Twitter Bootstrap Framework responsive design. Developed UI screens and client side scripts incorporating Servlets, JSP, JavaScript and XML DOM parser.  * Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage Hibernate Resources and consistent exception hierarchy. Integrated Spring DAO for data access using with Hibernate and Spring Validation Framework for Server side validation.  * Used Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Security modules to integrate with MySQL database to implement persistence layer in Hibernate.  * Developed Business components using core java concepts like Interfaces, Polymorphism, Collections, Serialization etc. Used multithreading concepts to overcome errors in the process of concurrent quote transactions. Deployed the application in clustered environments for load balancing and Server failover conditions.  * Designed stored procedures, triggers and functions in MySQL and DB2 for business critical requirements. Created E-R graphs and relationships among different database and creation tables with low coupling.  * Developed generic database Connection Pooling with WebLogic Admin server using Spring, SQL query optimization.  * Developed POJO Classes, *.hbm files for Hibernate ORM in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work in conjunction with Spring AOP functionality.  * Developed objects using JMS API for asynchronous communication and used JMS-MQ bridge as provider to send messages in a secure, reliable and asynchronous method.  * Involved in performing Unit and Integration testing (JUnit). Strictly followed TDD using Agile methodologies.  * Used Apache JMeter for load testing and log4J for debugging with various levels. Used Subversion for version control across common source code used by developers and deployed the applications on WebLogic Application Server. Utilized Gradle for continuous integration.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, JSF, JSTL, Servlets, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Security, MySQL, SQL, MySQL, DB2, WebLogic Application Server, JMS, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, SOAP, UML, SVN, JUnit, Log4J, Gradle, TDD, JMeter. Java/J2EE Developer Fannie Mae - McLean, VA January 2011 to April 2013 Project Description: Uniform Loan Delivery Datasets (ULDD) systems. ULDD allows lenders to deliver loans to Fannie Mae for securitization and/or cash through a single interface while allowing the lenders to import, manually add loans, run edits and validate the data in addition to accessing reports.    Responsibilities:  * Used OOAD for building applications. Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating use Cases and Class Diagrams.  * Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, usecases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  * Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern and developed front end using Spring MVC framework, business components using Spring.  * Developed Spring MVC validators to perform server side business object validations.  * Implemented Tiles based framework to present the layouts to the user and has and developed UI using view tags (HTML), JSP, Javascript, CSS.  * Implemented Generic DAO using Spring JDBC to handle database operations on Similarly Constructed Tables.  * Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Spring Tag libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  * Developed RESTful API with Spring Framework for benchmarking purposes.  * Implemented Spring framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  * Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC to build an application from scratch using Spring XML configurations, annotations. Wrote controllers to handle incoming requests and send output to the UI Configured.  * Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles, Interceptors, and Validations provided by Spring framework.  * Wrote authentication and authorization classes and manage it in the front controller for all the users according to their entitlements using Spring security.  * Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Spring.  * Developed SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier.  * Worked Gradle build scripts to compile Java classes and create jar, performed unit testing and package them into ear files and SVN as version control.  * Involved in setting up Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous builds by polling the repositories.  * Developed unit test cases for the data access layer and business components using Junit and EasyMock.  * Design and development of JAXB components for transfer objects and Prepared EJB deployment descriptors using XML.  * Used JAXP (DOM, XSLT), XSD for XML data generation and presentation and Wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.    Environment: Java/J2SE 1.5, JSP, Servlets, JAXB, XSLT, DOM, XML, Spring 3.0, Web Services, JNDI, J2EE, RSA, JBoss6.0, Rational Rose, Spring, CVS, XML, Log4J, Oracle9i, gradle, Junit, Jenkins, Junit, Rational Rose, JavaScript, DHTML. Associate Software Developer Butler America August 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  * Involved in complete SDLC management - Requirements gathering, Design, Analysis, Development and Testing  * Developed UML diagrams to develop use cases for University's Financial Services web application.  * Implementing the Struts 1.3 framework for Model View Controller (MVC) pattern.  * Used Struts framework along with JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript to construct dynamic web pages.  * Performed validation for client side as well as server side with the help of Struts Validation Frame Work.  * Involved in the implementation of Stateless session beans(EJB) for business logic layer and Entity beans for persistence.  * Supported existing applications developed using Spring MVC, AOP framework.  * Used JPA mapping techniques such as One to One, Many to One and Many to Many mappings to represent relation between various entities in the project.  * Configured and used JBoss application server for creating Datasource and enabling JNDI for beans and database lookups.  * Deployed components on JBoss and Web Sphere application server.  * Worked Oracle database to create databases of student and faculty login information and their desired areas of study.  * Worked on Eclipse as IDE tools to build up applications.  * Developed codes for ActionServlet, RequestProcessor and Action classes by extending Struts package.  * Used EJB 3.0 Message Drive Beans to initiate daily process.  * Executed quality and assurance testing in developed application, reduced performance errors on average by 95%.  * Resolved Blackboard problem tickets and made 100% follow ups maximizing the customer satisfaction.  * Installed SSL certificates on the developed application.  * Provided weekly status reports to the manager with the latest information of all ongoing activities.  * Followed the Java coding standards for scalability, reusability and ease of maintenance.  * Created XML Schema, XML template and XSL. Developed Web Services Application using SOAP and WS- Security.    Environment: Java 1.5, TDD, Struts 1.3, EJB 3.0, Jquery, JSP, HTML, CSS, Servlets, SOAP, WS-Security, JMS, MQ, Eclipse, SVN, Ajax, JNDI, JBoss, Selenium WebDriver, Junit. Education Bachelor's of Engineering in Engineering SRM University Skills CSS (8 years), DATABASE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JUNIT (8 years), ASP, MySQL, PHP, Git, Android, Agile, Core Java 1.7, Spring, Angular-JS, HTML 5, Node-JS, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JIRA, MySQL, Mongo-db, JUnit, Mockito, Hibernate, Log4j, JERSEY REST, GIT, Eclipse, NetBeans, Toad, IBM Cognos, JMS, Apache Camel, JBoss, SonarQube, Jenkins, Highcharts, Gradle, AWS, Unix (8 years), React, Node, Python, Angularjs, Angular, Jquery, AWS, Nodejs, C#, NET Additional Information SKILLS    CSS (8 years), database. (8 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), Junit (8 years)    Technical Summary:  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Applets, Multi- threading, Java Networking  Programming Languages Java C++, C, SQL, PL/SQL  Application/Web Servers: Oracle/BEA Weblogic 8.1/9.1, IBM Websphere JBoss, Tomcat tracking, Jenkins.  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x/ 2.x, Hibernate 3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0,iBatis,Flex UI Frameworks JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap.  IDEs Eclipse 3.x, IBM WSAD, IBM RAD 7.x/6/x, IntelliJ, Dream viewer  Web technologies JSP,JavaScript,Json,jQuery,AJAX,XML,XSLT, HTML/XHTML/DHTML/HTML5, CSS/ CSS3, Flash, ActionScript 3.0  Design Tools Adobe PhotoShop, Adobe After Effect,Dreamweaver  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, REST,SOAP UI  XML Tools JAXB, Apache Axis, AltovaXMLSpy    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, OOAD, SDLC Modeling Tools UML, Rational Rose, Visio  Testing technologies/tools JUnit, JMeter, HtmlUnit Database Servers Oracle DB2, SQL Server MySQL Version Control CVS,SVN, Rational clearcase, git  Build Tools ANT, Maven  Metadata / Reporting Tools Jakarta POI-HSSF Platforms Windows UNIX, Windows 7