Java Developer and Automation Engineer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Automation Engineer Java Developer and Automation Engineer New York, NY Work Experience Java Developer and Automation Engineer Virtusa October 2008 to Present Project OFX and Aggregators  Role Java Developer & Automation Engineer  Duration 3 yrs  Domain Banking  Technology Java & QA Automation  Project Description  OFX and Aggregators are middleware applications between chase and third party apps like Quicken,Mint,Yodlee,Plaid etc. The main aim this application is to handle the requests from third party apps and share the chase the data based on the input. During this process application will maintain the token based authentication and map the chase data to the standard IFS banking standards.    Roles &Responsibilities  Develop the Rest/Micro Services to process the requests from third party apps.  Implemented Multithreading concepts to handle the multiple tasks effectively.  Design and develop utility classes using java's Collection framework to provide better flexibility and avoid reuse of code.  Develop the JUNIT using the mocking frameworks.  Develop the BDD Automation frame works to test the API Services.  Developed the Schedule jobs using the UNIX shell scripts.  Used JIRA to maintain the requirements/functions.  Used CLOVER tool to maintain the test code coverage of the application.  Worked with the SONAR tool to maintain the code quality of the application.  Worked on Jenkins/Jules jobs for the Continuous Integration builds.  Work with client directly for production issues.  Have good experience in Release Management and production deployments.  Worked on the high severity production issues and provided the solutions within the time.    Experience Prior to Virtusa  Project Myriad  Role Java Developer & Automation Engineer  Duration 2.5 yrs  Domain Banking  Technology Java & QA Automation  Project Description  Myriad is the Trade and Risk Process application for the Credit Suisse. It has multiple components to analyze and map the trade & risk data to the banking standards. This application will apply L1, L2 checks on the upstream trade data and also it generates the reports to the downstream systems once everything is verified as per the standards.    Roles &Responsibilities  Developed the applications using Spring frame works.  Implemented the Java multithreading concepts to handle the multiple tasks effectively.  Developed Test cases using JUNIT, Mocking and Cucumber frameworks to perform unit testing.  Developed the JMS integration using Spring.  Implemented Spring IOC for reducing the tight coupling between object.  Developed the SQL and PL/SQL scripts.  Developed the Schedule jobs using the UNIX shell scripts.  Developed the Perl scripts to expose the application data reports to the user.  Worked on HP Quality Center to manage the defects and issues.  Worked on SVN to manage the versions and Merge the code.  Worked on Team city for the Continuous Integration builds.  Used Maven build tool to build different JAR files and to print the server info.  Worked on JIRA to maintain the requirements/functions tracking with estimated hours.  Used CLOVER tool to maintain the test code coverage of the application.  We have used SONAR tool to maintain the code quality of the application.  Implementing the CRs.  Worked with client directly for production issues.  Involved in the reviews of Unit test cases, documents and also code review.    Project Rational Focal Point  Role Java Developer  Duration 5.4 yrs  Domain Telecom  Technology Java  Project Description  IBM Rational Focal Point is a configurable, web-based decision support platform for requirements management, product management and project portfolio management. Focal Point reduces the chaos of managing information in e-mails, documents and spreadsheets by providing a collaborative environment for centralizing requirements, products and project data.    Roles &Responsibilities  Involved in application development, testing and deployments.  Implemented the change requests, Involved in code reviews.  Worked directly with the client to assist on production issues.  Worked on the IBM Rational applications like Rational Focal Point, Rational Focal Hub.  Worked on the IBM Rational Requistepro.  Worked on integration with the other IBM Rational tools like MARS (Project lifecycle management tool).  Implemented JAVA/J2EE standards, MVC2 architecture using Struts Framework to develop the application.  Developed the applications using JSP, Java Script and Servlets.  Used JDBC frameworks to integrate the java application with the Database.  Used Log4j for writing the logs including errors, warnings, info.  Worked on tomcat server to deploy the applications.  Used HP Quality Center to manage the defects and issues.  Used SVN to manage the versions and Merge the code.  Used Maven build tool to build different WAR files.  Worked on SQL and PL/SQL scripts to interact with the Database.  Created the re-usable UNIX scripts to monitor the server logs.  Used the Citrix application to connect the remote servers.  Used the Nexus repository to maintain the developed jars. Education Bachelors of Technology in Electronics and Communications Engineering in ECE JNTU Skills Algorithm, Api, Software engineering, Coding, Cucumber, Design patterns, Git, Html, Jenkins, Json, Object-oriented, Perl, Real time, Subversion, Svn, Xml, Eclipse, J2ee, Jar, Java, Spring, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Javascript, JSP Additional Information Core Competencies  • QA Architect (BDD and QA Automation)  • Rest, Soap and Micro Services  • Agile methodology-Sprint planning, Scrum management, Spring reviews, Story decompositions, tacking and monitoring  • Agile techniques like: User Stories, Continuous Integration, TDD, Continuous Integration, Automated Testing    • Java,J2ee,Spring,JMS  • Oracle and Cassandra  • Unix, Shell and Perl  • Deployments in GAIA Cloud    • Java,j2ee  • Tools for Test Automation Soap UI,PostMan,RestClient,JMETER.  • Sql,Pl/Sql,Cassandra  • GIT/BitBucket,SVN    • Struts,SpringCore,Spring JMS,Spring Boot,Spring JDBC,Spring MVC  • Unix,Shell,Perl Script  • Junit and Mocking frameworks  • HPQC,JIRA,HPSM,Sonar,Clover,Nexus    • REST,SOAP,MicroServices  • Cucumber, Selenium, API Automation,Protracto,Apache POI,RestAssured  • HTML,XML,JSON  • CI/CD Tools Jenkins,Jules and TeamCity    Tools and Technologies    Project Responsibilities at Virtusa    • Involved in requirement gathering meetings and produced extensive analysis of the Use Cases.  • Conduct defect triage meetings to ensure quality of deliverables and solicit periodic client feedback for continuous improvement  • Mentoring and coaching team members and competency building within the team to deliver projects successfully, and developing personal development plans for mentees by counseling and guiding  • Designed the algorithm and codes and also have used design patterns and Object-Oriented Design methodology.  • Involved in code reviews and knowledge transfer sessions to help the team in technical growth.  • Participate in Architectural review sessions, participate in design review sessions, Suggest alternative technical solutions to meet client requirements more efficiently, and/or with greater reusability, and/or longer life.  • Identify system deficiencies and suggest/implement effective solutions, also Identify reusable code required for our code library and ensures the high quality creation of the code  • Worked on Agile (Scrum) methodology.  • Worked on JAVA Core coding to provide the Multithreading and Collections framework.  • Extensively worked with Web Services using SOAP,REST and Micro Services development.  • Developed the web service clients using different frameworks like Apache CXF, Jersey client to test/consume the SOAP and REST services.  • Worked on the SOAP UI tool to test the SOAP based web services.  • Worked on the XML development and parsing using JAXB, DOM and STAX.  • Worked on the JSON objects creation and parsing.  • Worked on Apache POI framework to read/write the Excel data.  • Developed the virtual web services using LISA tool to minimize the third party dependency during the web services testing.  • Used YAML to store the application properties.  • Developed the JUNIT test cases using different types of mocking frame works.  • Increased performance, extensibility, manageability and testability of the code.  • Developed the applications using different types of mocking and BDD frameworks to test the real time applications extensively.  • Developed the PL/SQL Stored procedures, Functions, Triggers and Complex SQL's.  • Developed the SQL and PL/SQL scripts.  • Developed the Schedule jobs using the UNIX shell scripts.  • Used JIRA to maintain the requirements/functions.  • Used CLOVER tool to maintain the test code coverage of the application.  • Worked with the SONAR tool to maintain the code quality of the application.  • Worked on Jenkins jobs for the Continuous Integration builds.  • Worked on HP Quality Center to manage the defects and issues.  • Used Maven build tool to build different JAR files and to print the server info.  • Experienced in branching, tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like GIT, Subversion (SVN) on Linux and windows platforms.  • Have good experience in Release Management and production deployments.  • Worked on the high severity production issues and provided the solutions within the time.  • Worked on IDE like Eclipse and Net Beans for debugging and using java coding standards from the beginning of development.    Organizational Responsibilities    • Mentor and coach for new QA Automation members  • Developed the reusable test frame works and utilities to support the API and UI Automation projects.  • Contribute to the development of the Software Engineering competency