Java/Web service Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/Web service <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/Web service Developer - JPMorgan Chase&Co Wilmington, DE • 8 years of experience in design, development and implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, technologies. Having good experience in the Information Technology Industry and also healthy participation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding.  • Extensive experience in developing the Strong Skills in Object Oriented Programming Concepts OOPS with OOP methodologies.  • Thorough working knowledge in application development using Java, J2EE, Applets, Swing, EJB, JSP, JavaScript, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, JSF( Java Server Faces), Struts, Hibernate, Spring(including web flow), CSS, CSS3, XML, XSL/XSLT, Angular JS, AJAX, JQuery.  • Proficient in Web Services design and implementation with SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experience in using Struts 2.x, spring and Hibernate 3.x framework (MVC) for various Web based application development.  • Expertise in developing GUI based application with Java Applets and Swings.  • Experience in working with application development environments using BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere Application Server (WAS6), and Apache Tomcat.  • Proficient in Object-Oriented, Design, Development (OOAD) and integration of complex enterprise and web based applications using IDEs like JBuilder, Eclipse, RAD and NetBeans.  • Expertise in Design Patterns including Data Access Object, Session Façade, Business Delegate, MVC, and Singleton.  • Strong experience with JUnit Framework in performing unit testing in applications.  • Excellent in databases like IBM DB2/UDB, SQL Server, Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i.  • Used Maven scripts to build and deploy the J2EE applications.  • Worked on Log4J package for logging purposes and CVS, SubVersion for the version control.  • Good knowledge of using PERL on Operating Systems and core Java, Java database connectivity API of JDBC, Java Beans.  • Experience in working on different operating systems like Window XP/2003/2000/, UNIX.  • Strong Experience on JSON and basic knowledge in Automation Testing (RFT).  • Strong experience in UNIX and Shell scripting.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit integration and deployment of applications on done using tools such as ANT and Maven and debugging through log4j  • Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSD, XPath, XSLT, DTD and parsers like DOM and SAX.  • Expertise in designing and coding stored procedures, functions, triggers, packages using SQL and PL/SQL with tuning concepts.  • Experience in Pair Programming, Test Driven Development, Waterfall model and agile methodologies like SCRUM and KANBAN.  • Good documentation skills on both functional and business requirements.  • Highly self-motivated with strong analytical, communication and problem solving skills, excellent team player and ability to deliver under critical situations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/Web service Developer JPMorgan Chase&Co - Wilmington, DE January 2015 to Present Description: As a part of Business Middleware Applications, our project is focused to complete standard credit card processes end to end named as "SINGLE LENDING DESKTOP". Our main goal is to migrate whole project from old legacy technology stack to newly in built framework named Fusion Framework within JPMC BMW to make easier for all the teams to make their services flexible to use other Fusion services. Our Lending operations are currently dependent on minimum 3 Core Systems to complete standard credit processes. This allows for business flexibility in maintaining controlled environment while allowing for changes to occur based on business need. Eliminates High Risk Review manual controls .As a flow of these module we interact with 7 different external clients' and 6 back end services where we communicate with backend through web services calls (SOAP and REST), MQ calls, Data power. As part of our service we have different databases, each of them has their own crucial roles like authentication and authorization through DB2 DB, saving details/transactions, if a call is unable to get response from back end and to retry later with certain time gap through Oracle DB.    Responsibilities:  • Experience in developing and consuming Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, REST, HTTP, and UDDI.  • Experience in developing GUI screens using HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Struts, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, Flex and Web2.0 JQuery, AJAX.  • Strong experience working with Java, J2EE, spring, Hibernate, Web Services and SOA components, Log4j, Mockito, JUnits.  • Used Maven tool to build, overlay and deploy the code.  • Wrote backend scripts that performed maintenance tasks on the contract data using JDBC.  • Designed and coded JAXB API to interact with third party application for asynchronous loading and parsing of JMS XML messages.  • Implemented JAX-WS Web Services using SOAP protocol to expose a method to the clients  • Experience in using the Object Relational Mapping tool Hibernate and SQL Mapping framework tool MyBatis, strong in using XML mappings and Java Objects.  • Maintained and monitored production system alerts and provided triage support for priority one and two system outage.  • Hands-on experience on SVN and GIT  • Used Mingle for event management For SCRUM daily stand-ups and task progression.  • Participated in Agile - daily Scrum methodology 14 days sprint for development process.  • Participated in build/deployment schedules.  • Used Log 4j and Slf 4J tools for logging purposes.  • Remotely debugged remote debugging the application to resolve environment specific issues. Java developer American Tower Corporation - Boston, MA February 2014 to December 2014 Description: American Tower (NYSE: AMT) is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of wireless and broadcast communication real estate. Our global portfolio includes approximately 97,000 owned or managed sites and is experiencing steady growth. In addition to leasing space on towers, we provide customized collocation solutions through our in-building systems, outdoor distributed antenna systems and other right-of-way options, managed rooftops and services that speed network deployment.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes requirement gathering, design, coding, testing.  • Implemented agile methodology throughout the project development lifecycles.  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of backend components using J2EE technologies such as springs 3 and Spring JDBC.  • Extensive use of Teamforge, for maintaining the design and other project related documents, status of the assigned tasks.  • Designed and developed Business Services using Spring Framework (Dependency Injection) and DAO Design Patterns, SOA.  • Developed Project Specific Java API's for the new requirements with Effective usage of Data Structures, Algorithms and Core Java, OOPS concepts.  • Developing customer facing software for managing advertisements within games using node.js, JavaScript / Jquery, handlebars.js, require.js, high charts, and html  • Developed web service for web store components using RESTful API.  • Used XML, XSD and JSON messages for Data transfer. Used JAXB API and DOM for XML parsing messages.  • Developed application Specific thread safe XML APIs, XML DocumentBuilder and parser utils, validators using java DOM Parser which is used among the components.  • Implemented Business logic in the middle-tier using Java classes, Java beans.  • Created and modified Complex SQL Commands.  • Database designing and tables, master data creation in the database.  • Analyzing the execution plan and choosing the optimized query for the DB operation using SQL Developer, Teradata, and DBeaver.  • Setup framework for all current and future front-end projects to use Node.js.  • Designed and developed an enterprise common logging around slf4j with a centralized log support (used logger info, error and debug, trace levels).  • Developed test cases using JUNIT4, and used SVN for maintaining repository for the project.  • Used Soap UI for Dev to Dev testing.  • Used Sonar for maintaining the code quality and JUnit code coverage.  • Manage API in REST.  • Used, Angular JS, Ext.JS and Node.JS  Environment: JDK1.7, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, Spring, Spring JDBC, IBM Informix, Dbeaver, API Development.SQL Assitant, Node.Js, XML, XSD, Eclipse, AJAX, DOM, JSON, Tomcat Application Server, SVN, Maven, Windows OS, Log4j, Junit, JMockit, Jboss. Java/J2EE Developer IAC Publishing Labs March 2013 to January 2014 Description: IAC Publishing, a new digital media operating entity bringing together a collection of the web's most trusted brands to create a single digital publisher with a reach of more than 100 million monthly US users.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture. UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, interaction diagrams (sequence and collaboration) and activity diagrams were used.  • Worked in an agile work environment with Content Management system for workflow management and content versioning.  • Designed and developed Application based on Struts Framework using MVC design pattern.  • Designing, Development, JUnit testing and Integration of many components of the applications from end-to-end, i.e. Front-end (View) to JSF Controllers and configurations to Data Model and JPA mappings as well as generating entities.  • Involved in designing user screens and validations using HTML 5, jQuery and JSF as per user requirements  • Created an internal browser based text editor using html, CSS, JavaScript, Node.Js  • Used Spring Dependency Injection properties to provide loose-coupling between layers.  • Implemented the Web Service client for the login authentication, credit reports and applicant information using JAX-WS 2.0 and Apache Axis 2.  • Used Web services (SOAP, Rest) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Used Hibernate 3.5 object relational data mapping framework to persist and retrieve the data from Oracle and MySQL databases.  • Used GIT as Versioning tool.  • Setup framework for all current and future front-end projects to use backbone.js.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework.  Environment: JDK 1.6, JEE 1.6, Agile Development Process, Struts 2.0, Spring 3.0, Web Services (JAX-WS, Axis 2) Hibernate 3.5, RSA, JMS, JSP, Servlets , AJAX, WebSphere 7.1, Apache Tomcat , Oracle and MySQL Databases, Windows XP, HTML, XML, SOAP, ANT 1.6, Log4J, XML, XSLT, XSD, jQuery, JavaScript, JUnit , SVN. Java/J2EE Developer Medica - Minnetonka, MN March 2011 to February 2013 Description: Medica is writing server side web services for their different health care products. Customer will choose different health care benefits out of the plan options available. The services will enable them to manage health insurance products, features, benefits and benefit values and attributes. Client interacts through web interface with web services written at back end to fetch data from database and select their plan benefits    Responsibilities:  • Worked on AGILE methodology.  • Designed use cases, sequence and class diagrams, activities, states, objects and components.  • Used UML (MS Visio) for software design.  • Developing presentation layer with JSPs, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, ANGULARJS, Spring Form tags, JSTL Tags etc.  • Design and develop XML processing components for dynamic menus on the application  • Developing the application using Spring MVC Architecture with Hibernate as ORM framework.  • Developed SQL queries for retrieving data used to generate the reports.  • Developed Stored Procedures and Triggers on Oracle Database.  • Used AJAX and JQuery for developing asynchronous web applications on client side.  • Used Spring MVC, Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution technique, to map data representation from MVC model and Oracle Relational Data Model with a SQL-based schema.  • Created SOAP Web Services using WSDL, XML and SOAP for transferring data.  • Writing complex SQL queries for demanding complex business logic.  • Developing Web services using Restful and SOAP frameworks.  • Worked with Quality Assurance team in tracking and fixing bugs.  • Used Log4j for logging purposes.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all use cases and executed them.  • Took various initiatives to optimize existing applications for better performance and efficiency  • Used Log4j for application logging and debugging.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Servlets, JSP 2.5, JUNIT 4.1, Spring 2.5.6/3.0, Spring ORM Spring Form tags JSTL, Hibernate 3.0, Oracle11g, Apache, SOA, Eclipse IDE 3.7, Log4J, Ajax, SOAP, PL/SQL, HTML 5, CSS, JQuery, JSON, ANGULARJS. Java/J2EE/Struts Developer ELCOT - IN March 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology.  • Developed the application using with Spring web Flow.  • Developed business login using Core java concepts.  • Used Design Patterns like value object, session facade and Factory  • Used LDAP for authorization and authentication in EJB's.  • Parsing incoming message using JAXP and storing in the database  • Developed controller objects using Servlets for Account Setup  • Extensive involvement in the programming using C++ on UNIX base  • Created Action Form and Action classes  • Used various tags HTML, Bean and Logic  • Configured Spring-Servlet for controlling the flow.  • Developed the service layer using JSP, Spring, XML, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript  • Implemented various XML technologies, XSL style sheets.  • Mapping of SQL databases and objects in java using iBATIS  • Developed the project using Rational Application Developer (RAD) 6.0.  • Deployed the application and tested on WebSphere Application Servers.  • Wrote SQL Queries and integrated SQL Queries into DAO  • Involved in the preparation of use case, sequence diagrams, class diagrams  • Created activity diagrams, class diagrams using Rational Rose and test cases using JUnit.  Environment: J2EE, EJB, Servlets, Spring, JDBC, JSP, RAD, Websphere, XML, HTML, C++, Design Patterns, Java Script, ANT, JUnit, JMS, DHTML, iBATIS, Rational Rose, UNIX, Windows, SQL Server. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics JNTU Skills HTML (8 years), J2EE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), XML (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages Core Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, UML, C/C++  Web Technologies  JSON, JSP, Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, JSTL, JMS, JPA, EJB, Web Services, SOAP, REST,WSDL, JAX-RS, JSX-WS, HTML, HTML4, HTML 5, CSS, CSS 3, DHTML, Java Beans, JavaScript, Dojo, Angular JS, AJAX,JSON.    XML Technologies. XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, AXIS, Castor, XML Beans and JAXB  Web/App. Servers Apache Tomcat 4.0/5.0/6.0, Web Logic 8.1/9.1, Web sphere 7.0, Web Sphere Application Server 8.0 & RAD 8.5, JBoss. IIS.  IDEs Eclipse, Net Beans, Red Hat Developer Studio, WSAD, IBM RSA development IDE.  Tools TOAD, XmlSpy, Ant, PL/SQL Developer, JUnit, JMock, I Report  Operating systems Windows, UNIX, Linux, Sun Solaris.  Databases Oracle 8 / 9i / 10g/11, HSQL, Oracle 8 / 9i / 10g/11g, HSQL, DB2, PL/SQL, My Sql, MS SQL Server 7.0, Sybase, MS-Access.  Design Patterns MVC, Singleton, Visitor, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, DTO,DAO, Factory Pattern etc  Frameworks  Struts, Spring (Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Context, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, and Spring with Hibernate), Hibernate, mybatis, Log4j.    Version Control CM Synergy, Rational Clear Case, Rational Clear Quest, CVS, VSS, SVN.