Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Parexel Billerica, MA • 8 years of experience in full life cycle software development including requirement analysis, design, and implementation and testing with emphasis on Object Oriented, J2EE and Client Server technologies.  • Experience in using various design patterns, UML, Rational Rose, and industry best practices such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), MVP (Model-View-Presenter), Singleton.  • Experiences in development and implementation of ORM framework like Hibernate and integrating with Spring.  • Hands on experience in developing the UI using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Angular Js.  • Good Experience in writing Stored Procedures, Functions, DDL and DML SQL queries.  • Experience in Build Automation tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle.  • Extensive experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD, WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer), IntelliJ.  • Good experience and Knowledge in building GUIs with GWT (Google Web Toolkit) and JavaFX.  • Good Experience in Web-Development technologies like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, JNDI, JQuery.  • Experience in working on XML related technologies like XML, XSLT, XPATH, XSL, DTD, DOM and XML Spy tool.  • Experience in developing Web Services using XML over HTTP(s), SOAP, WSDL, RESTFul protocols.  • Experience in developing UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose and MS Visio tool.  • Worked on different platforms like Windows 2003 Server, Windows 2000 Professional, Windows XP, Windows 98/2000, UNIX and LINUX.  • Hands on experience with version control systems like CVS (Concurrent Version Systems), SVN (Apache Subversion), CLEARCASE and GITHub for providing the common platform for all the developers.  • Experience in continuous integration using Jenkins, Bamboo for timely builds, code coverage, running test.  • Having hands on experience in deploying web and JEE enterprise applications on Apache Tomcat, Web logic, JBoss and IBM Web sphere application servers.  • Excellent understanding & hands on in Hibernate, Hibernate Query Language (HQL), Transactions, Exceptions, Java Message Service (JMS), Java Transaction API (JTA),MQ.  • Followed Waterfall and Agile/Scrum methodology of software development which satisfies the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.  • Closely worked with Release Management Team in doing builds and deploying code into various environments like DEV/QA/SIT/UAT/Prod.  • Good knowledge in migrating monolithic legacy applications to a Microservice Architecture.  • Good knowledge in Migrating data from datacenter to AWS.  • Good knowledge in Amazon Web Services( Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon RDS, AWS Identity and access management, Amazon CloudWatch, Amazon EBS and Amazon CloudFront).  • Good knowledge in migrating java older versions to Java latest version1.8 and fixing the issues during build and run.  • A resourceful team player with good inter-personal skills, effective problem - solving and decision-making skills, looking for a satisfying career in a fair working environment with opportunities for growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Parexel - Billerica, MA July 2016 to Present Parexel is a biopharmaceutical company. This is an internal web based application developed to maintain the information related to the studies conducted by various users in the organization. This application allows users to add, update and delete the information related to their study. The administration module takes care of adding modifying and deleting users and approves their study. By analyzing this data business user can develop a custom formal risk assessment and comprehensive data review plan for each study.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Full Life Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases.  • Developed entire application web-based client implementing MVC Architecture using Spring Framework  • Created Custom Directives, Filters, Services and Modules with the help of Angular Js.  • Consumed Restful web services in the User Interface using JSON.  • Developed user interface using HTML, Spring Tags, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  • Implemented Client side validations using Angular JS Custom Form Validation and server side validations using Data Annotation.  • Created and maintained mapping files, persisting classes and transaction control in Hibernate to access the database.  • Implemented Business Logic of the system using Core- Java API.  • Used SQL Queries in Java code to do select/update/delete depending upon the business requirement.  • Used Gradle as a build tool automating the building, testing, publishing and deployment loading all the dependencies from the nexus artifact repository.  • Worked in JIRA tool for tracking the different issues which are raised by the QA team.  • Involved in development of Oracle tables, stored procedures, and functions.  • Performed building and deployment of WAR, JAR files on the test, stage, and production systems in Oracle Web Logic application server.  • Involved in developing Unit Test cases and testing the Application using soap-ui.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.    Environment:: Java1.7, JSP, Spring (MVC and Core)3.0, JSON, Servlets, Web Services(RESTful), Web Logic Application server, Angular Js2.0, Spring JDBC Template, Tomcat Server 7.0, , Gradle 1.11, TOAD, SQL Developer, JUnit, JIRA6.0, XML, JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX, UML, Maven, Oracle 12g, Eclipse, Hibernate3.0. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer State Street Corporation - Boston, MA December 2015 to June 2016 State Street is a leading financial services provider serving some of the world's most sophisticated institutions offering a flexible suite of services that spans the investment spectrum, including investment management, research and trading, and investment servicing. Exchange Traded Funds (ETF) allows investor to purchase a share representing an interest in a portfolio that track a specific index.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of application using SCRUM/AGILE methodology.  • Developed a cloud based application using Java, GWT and CDT Framework.  • Developed presentation layer using GWT widgets and event handlers.  • Worked with MVP as Model and View Presenter in creating GUI.  • Implemented Data Access Objects (DAO pattern) using JDBC & PL/SQL.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration (CI) development for nightly build.  • Used Git as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that have to communicate with a server.  • Developed unit tests using JUnit and Mockito.  • Implemented the core java, data structures and collections concepts.  • Extensively used loggers for info, debug and error purpose.  • Used CVS version control and ANT build tool.  • Deployed the application in Amazon Web Services using Amazon EC2 container services and AWS admin console.  • Used Cloud services for project deployment.  • Used Google injections for MVP pattern.    Environment: Java 1.7, Oracle 12g, , GWT MVP 2.7 JUnit, Mockito framework, Easy Mock, CVS, Log4j, eclipse, Apache Ant 1.9.7, Log4j, JDBC, Git 1.9.3, Google Guice, AWS. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Quill - Lincolnshire, IL November 2014 to December 2015 Quill is an e-tailer company, which provides customers to buy various products such as office supplies, electronics. Customer notification web application provides customers to buy products online, request for shipment or store pick up. This application allows Customers to track their shipment status, confirmation and reminders.  Responsibilities:  • Developed dashboard using JSP, JS, JSTL, JQuery, Ajax, HTML and CSS3.  • Worked with spring MVC as model and view controller in creating dashboard.  • Used MyBatis in data access layer and performed CRUD operations.  • Involved in generating emails using JavaMail for sending emails to customers and also used JMS for message communication.  • Consumed RESTful web services API for validating the JSON according to the requirement.  • Worked on XPATH for creating JSON from XML.  • Worked on IBM, Rabbit MQ's and DB Q for sending JSON messages through channel.  • Performed Unit testing with the help of JUNIT.  • Extensively worked with XML schema, XSL/XSLT, XML to navigate in XML documents, and DOM4J to process and parse XML files.  • Used multithreaded environment to run the processes asynchronously using different future calls to access the data.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using UI frameworks Angular JS and WebPages using HTML and JSP's for user interaction.  • Developed unit test cases using Mockito framework for testing accuracy of code and logging is done using SLF4j + Log4j.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous processing of alerts.  • Extensively worked on Java server side programming using Servlets, and JSP.  • Developed mail alert mechanism for alerting the users when their selection criteria are met.  • Developed entire application web-based client implementing MVC Architecture using Spring Frame work.  • Used JProfiler to identify the memory leaks in the application.  • Extensively used loggers for info, debug and error purpose.  • Used SVN version control and Maven build tool.  • Developed Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Used Tomcat server for project deployment.  • Followed agile methodology throughout the project.  • Developed several shell Scripts to automate file transfers.    Environment: Java 1.7, MySQL 5.6, Maven 3.2.5, Mockito framework, Tomcat 8, Spring MVC 4.0,3, Jersey 1.8, Restful API, Junit 3.8.1, Java Mail API 1.5.2, Log4j, eclipse, SVN, XML schema, XSL/XSLT, XML, Rabbit MQ and DB Q, JProfiler. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Travelers Insurance - Hartford, CT July 2013 to September 2014 Travelers Insurance offers services to business customers and consumers. The Auto Insurance Application project involves the design and development of a Web based internet application to provide online insurance services. The web application provides functionalities such as policy management, profile management and claim reporting. The customer can access complete account information, policy information, receive instant auto insurance quote and report a claim Description.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared user requirements document and functional requirements document for different modules.  • Designed, implemented and deployed J2EE web application using Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Used JAX-WS (SOAP) for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services using SOA with CXF framework.  • Involved in coding Session-beans and Entity-beans to implement the business logic.  • Used AJAX for asynchronous data transfer (HTTP requests) between the browser and the web server.  • Developed dynamic UI by using JSP, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax calls, Angular JS and Ext Js.  • Created Custom Directives, Filters, Services and Modules with the help of Angular Js.  • Implemented Client side validations using Angular JS Custom Form Validation and server side validations using Data Annotation.  • Used SAX and DOM for parsing XML documents retrieved from different data sources.  • Prepared SQL script for database creation and migrating existing data to the higher version of application.  • Installed and configured required software's for application development (Eclipse IDE, oracle database, Web Sphere, Tomcat, plugin's for eclipse, required framework jars.  • Developed different Java Beans and helper classes to support Server Side programs.  • Written test cases for unit testing using JUnit testing Framework.  • Used Jenkins with the methodologies like CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment).  • Implemented pre authentication and data base security using spring security.  • Implemented dozer bean mapping for mapping the domain objects.  • Involved in development of backend code for email notifications to admin users with multi excel sheet using the xml.  • Developed web applications using Rational Application Developer (RAD) and deployed it in web sphere application server5.1  • Developing build files for the project using ANT build tool.  • Used XSL/XSLT for transforming and displaying reports.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts 1.3, Dojo, RAD, XML, Ant, SQL , CVS, PVCS, Java Swings, Angular JS, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, MVC, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX, Oracle10g, Web Sphere, Toad, XSL/XSLT, UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer Plymouth Meeting, PA May 2011 to June 2013 Description: This Project is initially tasked with reducing complexity, terminating inefficiencies, generating operational efficiencies with enhanced automation and improving speed to market. The Workflow is a sub-project of this program tasked with implementing a technology-based solution for improving operational efficiencies in the enrollment processing.    Responsibilities:  • Employed Scrum concepts of Agile Development Methodology for software development.  • Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications.  • Developed asynchronous, rich user interface with AJAX to get user information from the server.  • Implemented web designed interfaces web interfaces using HTML, JSP, AJAX, Java script, and CSS  • Designed, implemented and deployed J2EE web application using Spring MVC and Spring IOC (Invention Of Control).  • Developed client-side application that navigated intelligence data web sites issued user defined queries and accomplished result set retrieval. Programmatically applied HTTP (headers, cookies) constructs to accomplish site navigation.  • Designed, implemented and deployed J2EE web application using Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Configured and implemented the persistence layer with Spring Data.  • Used spring framework to the DAO and Bean objects, auto wiring the components.  • Experience in applying patches and plug-ins for Jboss Application Server.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using UI frameworks Angular JS and WebPages using HTML and JSP's for user interaction.  • Implemented the core java, data structures, multithreading and collections concepts.  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily Stand up meetings and weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  • Worked on triggers and stored procedures on SQL database.  • Used JQuery and JSF validation framework for front end validations.  • Developed different SOAP services and Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and Oracle JDeveloper  • Involved in deploying and testing the application using JBoss application server.    Environment: Java1.5/J2EE, LCDS, My Eclipse 6.0.1, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, Subversion (SVN), Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Developer, Spring, SOA, DOJO, JBoss, Hibernate 3.2, jQuery, JSP, Servlets, log4j, Ant, Web Services, AJAX, JavaBeans, Struts, Framework, RESTful, JMS, SOAP, Angular JS, JSF. Java Developer ICICI Bank - IN March 2009 to April 2011 Project: Secured financial portal    Description: The Objective of new system is to enable ICICI private banking group PBG to strengthen their existing client and attract new client. The PBG System will enable the ICICI Private Banker and Client to create a tailored website, which will reflect each client s unique relationship with PBG. The functional requirements of the PBG Internet site is to deliver account information, news, marketing information, ICICI research and information about ICICI products/Services.  Responsibilities:  • Designed use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase using Rational Rose.  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application: Requirement gathering, Design Analysis and Code development.  • Implemented Struts framework based on the Model View Controller design paradigm.  • Implemented the core java, data structures, multithreading and collections concepts.  • Designed the application by implementing Struts based on MVC Architecture, simple Java Beans as a Model, JSP UI Components as View and ActionServlet as a Controller  • Used JDBC for data access from Oracle tables.  • Developed the GUI using JSP, Servlets, HTML and JavaScript  • Created and implemented PL/SQL queries, views stored procedures and triggers.  • Used Log4J logging framework to write Log messages with various levels.  • Deployed web components, presentation components and business components in Web Logic Application Server.  • Worked on triggers and stored procedures on Oracle database.  • Implemented Servlets to handle HTTP requests for on-line requests, credit card payments, registration and bug tracking  • Worked on Eclipse IDE to write the code and integrate the application.  • Used SOAP UI to test the web service API calls.  • Creating GUI using JSP, java Script and jQuery.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, Servlets, JSP 2.5, Struts, Log4J, JavaScript, JUnit 4.1, CVS, Rational Rose (UML), Oracle10g, Web Logic Server 10.0, Eclipse IDE, Ant, XMLs/XSD, Jax-ws(SOAP) web services, SAX, jQuery. Jr. Java Developer Transys info solutions - IN September 2008 to March 2009 This project is involved in creating a web application for internal purposes. The main goal of this is to track the Reporting of the software developers and capture the metrics there by and analyze the same for the future Requirements as part of quality function.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Developed front end screens using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript for developing the UI screens  • Developed Servlets for maintaining server side business logic.  • Implemented Business Logic of the system using Core- Java API  • Developed the GUI using Struts Framework, JSP, Servlets, HTML and JavaScript  • Involved in developing & designing DAO's, which has procedures written being invoked at the time of recording data to database.  • Used JDBC to communicate from java to database.  • Developed application using Eclipse 3.1 IDE on Windows environment.  • Created and implemented PL/SQL queries, views stored procedures and triggers.  • Written database queries for DAO classes.  • Involving in complete support of the application for regular change requests and enhancements  • Supporting application in QA, UAT and addressing bugs as reported.  • CVS is used for version control and used Junit for Unit testing.  • Deployed application on Tomcat 5.0.  • Developed the credit check module using Servlets, JSP & Core Java components in Web logic Application Server.  • Created and implemented PL/SQL queries, views stored procedures and triggers.    Environment: Java, JSP, J2EE, SQL, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle, CVS, Windows, Eclipse, PL/SQL, JUnit, DAO, EJB, Tomcat, JDBC, QA, UAT. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), SQL (8 years), SERVLETS (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Java, SQL, PL/SQL  Web Technologies Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, JSON, JSF, JSON-parsing, JSON-DTD, Schema Modeling, AWS.  XML Technologies. XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, AXIS, Castor, XML Beans and JAXB.  • Object-Oriented modeling • UML, Rational Development Suite, Microsoft Visio.  IDEs Eclipse, NetBeans, Red Hat Developer Studio, WSAD.  Databases SQL Server 2005, 2008, Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, MySQL 4.1, 5.0, NoSQL, Mongo DB.  Tools Toad for Oracle, Putty, Single Sign On, Beyond Compare, JUnit, SQL Developer, GWT.  J2EE MVC Frameworks Spring 2.5, 3.0, JSF 1.2  Scripting Languages HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, DHTML, XML, JQuery, Bootstrap  Servers Weblogic 8.1/9.1/10.3, Web Sphere 7.0/8.0, JBoss 4.0/5.0, Apache Tomcat 6.0/7.0, Jetty Server  O/R Mapping Technologies Hibernate, JPA  Methodology / Design Pattern OOAD, UML, DAO, Singleton Pattern, Front Controller, Factory Pattern  Build and Log Tools Build (ANT, MAVEN, Gradle), Logging(log4j)  Testing JUnit 4.1, Mockito, Easy Mock, Power Mock  Version Control CM Synergy, Rational Clear Case, CVS, VSS, SVN, Git.