Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer Columbus, OH ? 10+ Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  ? Proficiency in Java, J2EE and the latest frameworks like JSF, Oracle ADF components.  ? Extensive experience in developing various web based applications using Hibernate and Spring frameworks.  ? Experience with WEB 2.0 technologies like DWR, Ajax and CSS.  ? Strong interpersonal and communication skills with an ability to lead a team and keep them motivated.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) Programming.  ? Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  ? Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  ? Experience in design and development of JUNIT test cases, load balancing and failovers with cache servers and application servers.  ? Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  ? Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  ? Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP and WSDL.  ? Good at Documenting and User requirements and System Specifications.  ? Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.  ? Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds.    CORE TECH SKILLS  ? Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Ibatis, CouchDB, NoSQL, Struts, Maven, AWS, TDD, JUnit, Serverless, SOAP, OOP, Azure, Microservices, Docker, REST, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SAML, JIRA, GitHub, JQuery, OpenID, WSFed, Gradle, Angular.js, Jenkins, Chef, Visual Studio, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, OAuth, backbone.js, JDBC, C, C++. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer GE Health care - Chicago, IL May 2016 to Present Accountabilities:  ? Developed new features in website using Java/J2EE and enhance existing features.  ? Worked on Java 8 features including Lambda Expressions, Stream API, Base64 Encode/Decode, Collectors and others.  ? Developed the system for the subsidiary Wrangler using Java 8, JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate 4.3, Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular-UI etc  ? Developed Web based and Server side applications using Java 8.  ? Created SOAP WSDL and Java code using Java WSDL using RAD reverse engineer tool.  ? Developed code to maintain Java applications using Eclipse IDE.  ? Involved in converting database objects to Java objects conversion with the help of Ibatis persistence framework.  ? Application development using Java/J2EE Technologies which include Servlets, Spring, Web Services (SOAP and RESTFUL)  ? Developed the application using agile methodology and used Scrum method of project management.  ? Implemented Spring Modules like IOC (Dependency Injection) and Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP).  ? Responsible for the oracle schema design, generating various POJO objects and generating their corresponding Hibernate mappings (.hbm) files. Also used Hibernate named queries, criteria language and Hql.  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components for cost module with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Developed Web services using Apache CXF and exposed WSDL for Flex client to consume.  ? Developed user specific Highlights (dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM, JSP.  ? Implemented Micro-services using Pivotal Cloud Foundry platform build upon Spring Boot Services.  ? Used spring boot framework to create properties for various environments and use yamls for configuration.  ? Used micro service architecture with Spring Boot-based services interacting of REST and Kafka.  ? Worked on configuration of development environment using Spring Boot 2.0.0 with Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Security, Primefaces.  ? Wrote Restful web services to communicate with Mongo DB and performed CRUD operations on Mongo DB using restful web services.  ? Used Spring MVC while implementing RESTful web services for Lucene search.  ? Implemented Node.JS at server side to provide REST API to client-side backbone application.  ? Built a custom Node/Gulp development process for use in our team's development projects.  ? Used Node for dependencies and express.js for writing api.  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS3 Framework, Node.JS, Ext.JS, React.JS, Angular.JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  ? Created internal diagnostic tools using Golang and AngularJS in order to assist with customer issues. Golang and Java were used as a backend REST service while AngularJS was used for the user interface.  ? Worked on Single page applications using ANGULAR JS, NODE JS, GULP, WEBPACK(ES6).  ? Design UI scripting using typescript in Angular 2.  ? Created Reactive forms using Angular 5 for greater form control and validation.  ? Built Angular 5 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2/4.  ? Developed the web applications using Angular.js and Node.js.  ? Created Directives, Services, Filters using Angular JS with Typescript.  ? Implemented Web Services (WSDLs) using JAX-WS and also implemented REST services by Golang with microservices architecture.  ? Developed responsive web product features using React JS, SASS, on GoLang with REST.  ? Built enterprise wide DNS historical data trending analysis tools in Go (Golang), Languages  ? with REST API for user quieries as microservice  ? Worked on Linux based systems administration skills in a Cloud Computing and Virtualized environment for AWS and experience in implementing new and migration of AWS systems.  ? Implemented AWS solutions using DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  ? Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as Power Shell and BASH.  ? Used Spring Jdbc, SQL at persistence layer (DAO).  ? Developed HQL/PL/SQL procedure for login module and registration module.  ? Built web-based maintenance application to maintain complex specification documents. Used JQuery, Wicket, and iBatis against a MySQL database.  ? Created new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  ? Worked on stored procedures, triggers, cursors, DB scheduler, PL/SQL, MySQL and SQL queries  ? Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework to implement the REST APIs involved  ? Implemented JSF framework in the application which is based on MVC design architecture.  ? Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose  ? Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Worked extensively in Agile Development process and Jira.  ? Developed Agile processes using Groovy, JUnit to use continuous integration.  ? Worked through an agile development cycle for swift implementation of technical requirements.  ? Involved in adding AJAX, JavaScript components to some of the jsp pages wherever needed.  ? Setup Github and use of Git bash for code submission in Github repository.  ? Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services.  ? Worked on implementation of EAI, B2B integration, EDI and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) applications  using technologies J2EE, XML, DB2, RedHat Linux.  ? Developed JUnit test cases to validate the REST services.  ? Used frameworks like Karma and Jasmine for implementing TDD and BDD in our projects.  ? Used Jenkins and pipelines to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  ? Worked on implementing microservices on Kubernetes Cluster.  ? Designed kubernetes cluster using AWS-Kops (EKS), and configuring and deployed the Kubernetes dashboard to access the cluster via its web based user interface.  ? Built real-time data streaming platform using a micro services architecture  ? Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  ? Implemented CRUD functions using JSP, Spring MVC Hibernate and Oracle  ? Architected communication between different programming platforms using SOAP, XML-RPC and web services.  ? Design & Development of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS and JSP  ? Develop and execute unit test cases using Junit.  ? Wrote extensive HTML, CSS (2/3) and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using IntelliJ IDEA.  ? Used ClearCase for version control.  ? Worked on continuous integration and automated deployment and management using Jenkins, Puppet, Chef, Maven, Ant, Docker, or comparable tools.  ? Involved heavily in setting up the CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Maven, Jfrog, Bitbucket, CHEF, ClearCase and AWS.  ? Used MAVEN for building the application and deployed on Weblogic Application Server.  ? Involved in tracking the production issues and fixing the issues.    Background Skills: Java, Spring, Hibernate, AWS, Java script, Oracle, Git, Weblogic, Sql, PL/SQL, MySQL, Toad, JSF, Junit, Maven, Node.js, Micro services, Kubernetes, Angular.js, Golang, SOA, SOAP, XML, REST, Eclipse, HTML, CSS. Sr. Java Developer JP MORGAN - New York, NY September 2014 to April 2016 Accountabilities:  ? Develop Object Relational (O/R) mapping using Hibernate. Develop Data Access Object (DAO) persistence layer using Hibernate.  ? Implemented CRUD operations for persistence of Fund and Stop payment Components using Java, Spring MVC and Hibernate with JPA.  ? Develop code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC)  ? Develop UML models like class diagrams, sequence diagrams and other design phase documentation.  ? Developed HQL queries for Hibernate  ? Involved in Front end development using Adobe Flex.  ? Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC.  ? Used Hibernate filters to limit the results of a query according to the current need.  ? Create web service component using SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware that take care of ACH transactions & wire transfers services.  ? Used the Adobe Flex to provide the rich application to the client.  ? Deployed application using Apache Tomcat.  ? Deployed cloud stacks using AWS CloudFormation, Optimized volumes and EC2 instances & created multi AZ VPC instances.  ? Experience on developing web services like REST, RESTFUL API'S, SOAP with the help of WSDL and JAX-WS, MongoDB and AWS.  ? Integrated Spring with Hibernate and made as Spring bean using Hibernate Template and used Apache CXF for developing SOAP & RESTful web services  ? Developed server-side services using Java, spring, Web Services (Restful, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RPC), SOA (Service oriented architecture).  ? Enhanced and created new Jasper Reports according to the requirements.  ? Implemented a prototype to integrate PDF documents into a web application using iText PDF library  ? Used AJAX, Java script, CSS , jQuery and GWT to create interactive user interface.  ? Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  ? Used Spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and JSF.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, DOJO, JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL) and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Involved in developing and modifying the credit card, consumer loan business rules in ILog JRules.  ? Developed layout of Web Pages using Tiles and CSS.  ? Involved in developing real time interfaces using JMS API and Spring framework.  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like Angular.JS, jQuery, Node.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI.  ? Developed web applications using Node.js, Express.js and MVC.  ? Completed build & deployment workflow using Gulp, Node.js, & npm.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as, backbone.js, Node.js Angular.JS and Bootstrap.js  ? Created Jenkins on top of Kubernetes in team environment to remove dependencies on other teams.  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, AngularJS,Wire-framing, HTML.  ? Developed the reusable components like custom directives in Angular.JS.  ? Used Angular.js grid to create the grid views for this application.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSON, Angular.js, and REST Services  ? Developed PL/SQL procedures for Stop payment module and written complex sql queries.  ? Developed and executed Unit Test cases using JUnit framework by supporting TDD (Test Driven Development).  ? Participated in a Scrum team and Agile Practices including Test-Driven. Development (TDD), Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) and pair programming.  ? Incorporated agile methodology and SCRUM techniques to manage requirements and enhance the application.  ? Tested the application under Scrum (Agile) Methodology.  ? Involved in Agile Methodology (Scrum) that includes daily scrum with team and followed Test Driven Environment following OOD.  ? Building a Command line tool to interact with RESTful API using in Golang.  ? Used Go Programming Language (GoLang) and Scala in the development of the application.  ? Used GOLANG to log the different host system event and alert information to Cassandra database.  ? Used GoLang to create backend servers.  ? Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  ? Developed User Interfaces using JSP, and HTML.  ? Worked on container management tool Docker  ? Designing responsive User Interface (UI) Layouts for dynamic web pages using ASP.NET MVC 5.0, WebAPI, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  ? Re-engineered legacy subsystems using a Microservices based architecture hosted in the AWS cloud  ? Used Micro-services to ensure the scalability of application on cloud infrastructure.  ? Performed application development using tools like Intellij, JUNIT, and Maven for building application.  ? Developed system services SOA for use by all web applications utilizing WCF services and the ASP.NET provider model.  ? Developed uninterrupted delivery process for the dev teams with applications that are based on Java and Maven.  ? Developed Contract List to pull all the contracts which returned a JSON  ? Configured faces-config.xml and applicationcontext.xml for JSF and Spring AOP Integration.  ? Wrote stored procedures using PL/SQL for data retrieval from different tables.    Background Skills: Java, JEE, Spring, Hibernate, AWS, AJAX, Agile, SQL, WebServices, SOAP, WSDL, LDAP, Subversion (SVN), Golang, JDBC,REST, Micro Services, Kubernetes, Angular.js, Node.js, Maven, JavaScript, HTML, UNIX, SOA Junit. Sr. Java Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA December 2011 to August 2014 Accountabilities:  ? Deployed this application which uses J2EE architecture model and Struts Framework first on Weblogic and helped in migrating to JBoss Application server.  ? Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  ? Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, Spring, JSF frameworks and SOAP/REST web services, Web Sphere Integration Developer (WID) Tool to develop WPS components.  ? Development of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), MVC, Spring with Hibernate, AJAX for search panel, Java Swing & AWT for desktop app.  ? Used JSF messages for handling the error messages for the applications  ? Preparation of the framework classes for communication between portal to EJB and Hibernate  ? Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  ? Design and program enterprise java beans for the development of large enterprise applications.  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database.  ? Integrated Hibernate for data persistence by developing persistent classes through java & J2EE.  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, JQuery, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  ? Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator.  ? Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  ? Worked on multiple projects based on Oracle ADF framework and Oracle WebCenter  ? Implemented CSS, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  ? Used J2EE based App Servers like Jboss WebSphere Weblogic and Web servers like Apache Tomcat  ? Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  ? Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  ? Used J2EE & Java design patterns Service Locator, Object Factory and Singleton patterns extensively.  ? Created packages for Transforming and Loading of Data from Sybase, Oracle to MS SQL Server by using SQL Server Integration Services  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSF, Marionette.js, Swing/AWT, JSON, Java Script and HTML, Bootstrap and Backbone.js, Flex, ASP and Extjs.  ? Used JDBC, JavaScript, Servlet, and JDBC and used SQL Server for backend. Interaction with business users to gather requirements.  ? Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  ? Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML.  ? Design of the process flow in Oracle BPM and jBPM to evaluate the difference between the behavior of different BPM tools  ? Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  ? Rewrote code for enabling download as .pdf with new iText library for Java.  ? Worked with Rational ClearCase to provide sophisticated version control, workspace management and parallel development support. Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Wrote complex sql statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  ? Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  ? Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  ? Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe  ? Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  ? Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems.  ? Developed code usinf C, C++ for secure transaction.    Background Skills: Java, J2EE, Spring, Struts, JSF, JSP, EJB, DOJO, JQuery, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript, GWT, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, Tomcat, WSDL, JBoss, Netbeans, Jasper report, Unix, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model,Jira. Java Developer Pfizer - New York, NY October 2009 to November 2011 Accountabilities:  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  ? Implemented Java and J2EE Design Pattern such as Command, State, Template, Composite, Strategy and Observer  ? Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  ? Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  ? Worked on Core Java and its libraries in creating the java/J2EE web application's business Logic.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  ? Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  ? Implemented Java/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, Template, MVC, Singleton.  ? Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  ? Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  ? Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  ? Used the various Complex data structures in collections Framework in Java/J2EE for building the Business Logic.  ? Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  ? Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  ? Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  ? Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  ? Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Background Skills: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, JavaScript, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis , tcpmon, Ant, WinCVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix. Software Developer Sprint Corporation - Overland Park, KS June 2008 to September 2009 Accountabilities:  ? Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  ? Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  ? Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  ? Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  ? Generic Tree Navigation control).  ? Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  ? Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  ? Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  ? Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  ? Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  ? Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  ? Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  ? Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  ? Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  ? Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  ? Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  ? Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  ? Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  ? Development of GUI using AWT  ? Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  ? Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  ? Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.    Background Skills: J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix. Education Bachelor's Skills DB2 (7 years), oracle (7 years), SQL (10+ years), UNIX (7 years), Web Sphere (6 years), Java (10+ years), spring (8 years), hibernate (8 years), microservices (5 years), amazon web services (5 years), Restful (6 years), java 8 (3 years) Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  ? Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, Eclipse, Flex, RSA, NetBeans, Windows, Linux , Unix.