Sr Java/J2EE Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java/J2EE Developer - Aetna Blue Bell, PA • A diligent software professional with 7+ years of rich experience working in Client/Server technologies and projects in Health Care, Banking, Insurance and retail domain.  • Experience in Hibernate as ORM (Object Relational Mapping) frameworks in persistence layer of web applications.  • Expertise in front-end/presentation tier development using Struts 1.2 frameworks with Struts Tiles, Struts Validator, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JSTL, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Good understanding of design patterns such as Model View Controller (MVC), Singleton, Decorator, DAO, DTO, Factory method, Front Controller in the development of Multi-tier Enterprise Application.  • Expertise in designing and developing web based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, JMS, JDBC, JNDI, Java Beans, EJB's, XML.  • Strong IT experience in Software Analysis, Object Oriented Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object Oriented Applications and Web based Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE on UNIX and Windows platforms.  • Hands-on experience with various Application Servers and Web Servers (Web Logic, JBoss and Tomcat) with wide variety of development tools like IBM WSAD/ RAD, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experience with XML related technologies such as XML, XSLT, Schema, XPath and JAXB.  • Proficient in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  • Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schema, writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, functions, triggers, SQL queries.  • Proficient in Shell Scripting and Perl Scripting.  • Experience with unit testing using Junit and knowledge of ANT and Log4j tools.  • Experience in Developing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based J2EE applications that conform to SOA standards.  • Experience in DB2, Oracle, SQL Server 2000and MSACCESS databases.  • Experienced with IBM WebSphere Application Server, Bea WebLogic application servers, JBoss and Apache Tomcat Application Server.  • Experience in using CVS and SVN for version control, JUnit for unit testing, Testingtest case creation and execution, Log4j for logging with different levels.  • Experience in ANT and Maven for project build.  • Experience in SOAP and REST for creating Web Services.  • Experience with software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, scrum and involved in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Excellent communicational skills and strong interpersonal skills, including the ability to coordinate and motivate team members. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java/J2EE Developer Aetna - Blue Bell, PA January 2017 to Present Description: The Claims, Origination, & Guarantee System (COGS), provides the user interfaces and back-end processing necessary to provide claim/medical services estimates with in network and out of network providers. It leverages existing mainframe applications exposed as web services in SOA. Automation of many processes allows task to be completed more efficiently, in some cases with no manual intervention.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in deriving at class diagrams and sequence diagrams during the design phase of the project using UML, involved in discussions with the client to discuss and understand various components of the requirement and to implement the same.  • Implemented JSP corresponding to the controller where in the data was propagated into it from the model and view object from the controller.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Spring Application Framework.  • Extensively written JQuery for responsive event handling.  • Used technologies like Java 1.6, JEE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSON, CSS3, JQuery, Ajax, ANT, SQL, PL/SQL back end as Oracle via SQL Developer with Tomcat.  • Used SVN version controls to main using Tortoise SVN tool.  • Used XML, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP Web Services for communicating data between different applications  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL on Oracle database.  • Extensively used Log4j to log regular debug and exception statements and Junit for testing.    Environment:  Java, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, SOAP, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, JQuery, Oracle, SVN, Eclipse, ANT, Apache Tomcat, Ajax, SVN, JSON, JUnit, SOA, SQL, PL/SQL, JAX-WS, DOJO, Log4j, SrJava/J2EEDeveloper SEI Investments - Oaks, PA November 2015 to December 2016 Project: Investment Management Solutions    Description:  SEI is a global provider of investment processing, investment management, and investment operations solutions. SEI provides products and services to corporations, financial institutions, financial advisors, and ultra-high-wealth individuals. Through its subsidiaries and partnerships in which the company has a significant interest, SEI manages or administer mutual fund and pooled or separately managed assets, including assets under management and client assets under administration.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, technical design and implementation of the Share IT 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 Release. Ensured successful Go Live for Share IT 1.0 and 2.0  • Implemented the frontend and developed UI screens as per wireframes provided by business using Java Script, JQuery, Angular JS and backend layer using Spring framework, Hibernate and XML. IDE used is Eclipse.  • Used Spring MVC architecture with Hibernate to implement DAO code and also used RESTfulWeb Services with XML parsing to interact with other modules.  • Used the spring container for data source and to load the Hibernate specific classes.  • Hibernate frame work is used in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to Oracle database.  • Implemented RESTful web services by using JAX-RS.  • Configured Java objects with back end database tables using ORMin Hibernate.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework to achieve data binding between HTML and JavaScript objects.  • Created and Designed XML schemas and transformed the XML to XSLT style sheet.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object and Singleton  • Created PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions for the DAO layer by studying the required business objects and validating them using Oracle data base.  • Used OOP concepts as inheritance, multithreading and collection.  • Used Multithreading to run multiple threads concurrently to improve the performance.  • Used Concurrency to enable a program to achieve high performance and throughput by utilizing the untapped capabilities of underlying operating system and machine hardware.  • Used IBM WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • Designed and implemented XML schemas, XQuery APIs, Java APIs, business logic, and XHTML/XML/JavaScript.  • Thoroughly Unit tested the application by writing test cases for different scenarios using JUnit.  • Used Jira to track bugs, prioritize and discuss team's work in full context.  • Apache Maven tool has been used for the build and deploy the application.  • Monitored the Error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems  • Involved in Production support after Go Live of Share IT 1.0 and 2.0, fixed defects and updated in defect tracker HP-ALM, constantly provided training and knowledge transfer to the user.  Environment:  Java 8, Spring, Hibernate, RESTful, Ajax, Oracle, Servlets, XML, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, PL/SQL, JSON, IBM WebSphere Application Server, Maven, HTML, CSS, JUnit, Eclipse, Jira, Log4j, and Scrum. SrJava/ J2EE Developer State Farm - Bloomington, IL January 2014 to October 2015 Description:  State Farm is an insurance company, provides insurances many different domains like auto, fire and life. As part of Fire team worked on a project called Homeowners quote/purchase. Home owners quote/purchase is a project which provides functionality to customers to get a quote for their home. Also, helps to buy insurance online or contact an agent.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developedWeb site and Web based application and database for clients.  • Involved in analysis, design and development and testing phases of the application development using Scrum Agile methodology.  • Involved in consuming, producing SOAP based web services using JAX-WS.  • Maven and Jenkins used for the automatic build process.  • Used Struts module for integration with Hibernate for persistence layer.  • Implemented Struts custom exceptions, which it reduces the development time to handle the exceptions.  • Developed screens using AngularJS, Dojo, CSS3 and Html5.  • Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS and Bootstrap with MySQL database.  • UsingAngularJS, HTML5, CSS3 all HTML and DHTML is accomplished through AngularJS directives.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows, Orchestrations, Transformations usingMULE ESB.  • Used MULE ESB to do the traffic routing between multiple systems and mapping of the data.  • Developed server side utilities using J2EE technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Marklogic.  • Maven and Jenkins used for the automatic build process.  • Developed various OraclePL/SQLprogramming with stored procedures, packages, functions, triggers and other advance technologies.  • Utilized JavaScript and JQuery to improve overall design and UI of campaign websites.  • Used JAXB API to bind XML Schema to Java classes.  • Created a build environment for Java using Jenkins, Git, and Maven.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Web Services (JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL), JSP, Java Script, AJAX, AngularJS, node.js, JQuery, JavaScript, Servlets, JSF, JDBC, Dojo, SVN, MarkLogic, MULE ESB, STS, Maven, Jenkins, Log4j, JUnit 4, HTML5.0, DHTML, CSS, JSON, PL/SQL. Java Developer Mayo Clinic - Minneapolis, MN January 2012 to December 2013 Mayo provides cloud - based, healthcare technology solutions that help consumers & businesses connect, communicate and engage with health plans in an undemanding and informed manner when acquiring health insurance.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing, enhancing and testing of the web methods flow services and java services.  • Developed web tier by using servlets JSP, Custom tag Libraries, Tiles, JavaScript, XHTML, XSLT and XML.  • Used web services for interaction between various components and created RESTful envelopes.  • Used Apache CXF, WSDL, and XML for creating RESTful web service.  • Developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB, and MQ series.  • Responsible for writing test cases for entire project, also responsible for doing black box testing using Scala.  • Created a Front - end application using JSPs, JSF, Swing, ExtJS 3.0, GWT for registering a new patient and configured it to connect to database using hibernate.  • Developed different JSP pages (GUI) &client side user validations using JavaScript DOJO.  • Developed EJB component to implement business logic using session and Message Bean.  • Integrated activate catalog to get parts using JMS.  • Tested the API responses for the WCS changes deployed on continuous basis, validate the Green Box response data and MongoDB data.  • Used Dojo for the client side development and validations.  • Developed and configured tables including sequences, Functions, Procedures, joins and Table constraints using Oracle Database 10g, JDBC.  • Synchronized the create, update and delete of records of all divisions between legacy database DB2 v10 and NO SQL (Cassandra 1.2.8)  • Writing and Optimizing MySQL Queries and connect queries to PHP  • Ant build tool configuration for automation of building processes for all types of environments - Test, QA, and Production and Junit for testing.  • Involved in designing the data stage job to implement ILOG JRules Component.  • Used SVN as a version-controlling tool for managing the module developments.  Environment:  Java, JDBC, JSF, RESTful, Hibernate 3.0, Core Java, Selenium, GWT, DOJO, NO SQL, Cassandra 1.2.8, Eclipse, PL/SQL, Ant, Apache Tomcat, MQSeries, Junit, JMS, JSP, MQ series, XML, JavaScript, Servlets, J2EE, Maven, ILOG, JRules, JIRA. Java Developer Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2010 to November 2011 Description:  Target offers an online platform where millions of items are traded each week. Integrated Merchant Debit Card allows the user to access the application online and make their payment online. Whenever a user wants to make a payment we can go through this process. The application is developed with three tier architecture, first tier is built with HTML and servlets on the middle tier handle the user requests by connecting to database and by invoking methods on the remote objects. Enterprise Java Beans are used for data storage and retrieval from the legacy database and for tax calculations.  Responsibilities:  • Used Rational Clear case as the configuration management tool and Eclipse as an IDE for application development with AWS  • Developed common rest services for Save, Edit, View, Delete and Reference Data Services using document DFC APIs and JSON objects.  • Responsible for generating a result tree using XSLT  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript and Implemented validation using JavaScript.  • Used Log4j for logging, JUnit for Unit Testing, CVS for configuration management  • Responsible for configuring WAS to access Database by setting Data Source  • Used XML, XSLT, and XML Schema for parsing and transforming the XML documents received from the external applications  • Involved in configuration, deployment into the Apache Server  • Responsible for implementing the business logic involved in checkout process given by Target  Environment:  Java/J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AWS, Servlets, XML, XSLT, JUnit, Eclipse, Oracle, JSON, Apache Geronimo Server, Agile Methodology and Log4j. Jr. Java Developer Honeywell - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to July 2010 Description:  Custom Business Application This project has been designed and developed to process online payment updates. This project consists of different module such as online User Registration, Update User Information, Submit payment online, payment, process payment and delivery notice of payment.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements, Analysis, Design, Development and testing of the entire Application.  • Involved in all phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).  • Created UML diagrams like class diagrams and activity diagrams using the Rational Rose.  • Participated in the design and development of application using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer using AJAX for RUI (Rich User Interface).  • JSON is used in conjunction with JavaScript for making HTTP requests. JQuery is used for validation.  • Developed the presentation tier of the application using Strutsframework and MVC design pattern.  • Designed and developed DAO's for accessing the POJO's and updating the DB tables using the POJO's, Java Collections, and Synchronization etc.  • Used Hibernate object relation mappings (ORM) for the database operations on MySQL.  • Spring is used to integrate Struts and Hibernate. Implemented interceptors for Spring and Hibernate.  • Developed Web Services using SOA, SOAP, WSDLand JAX-WS, JAX-RPC programming models.  • Used Ant as build tool for building and deploying it into Weblogic Server.  • Developed and executed unit tests and test suites for product components using Junit.  Environment: Sr Java/J2EE Developer CVS and Oracle March 2002 to May 2002 x, Hibernate 3.0, MySQL, Eclipse, WebSphere Application Server, JBOSS, JSON, AJAX, JQuery, SOAP, WSDL, Ant, JavaScript, CSS, Log4J, Junit, HTML, PL/SQL, POJO, CVS and Oracle. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (8 years), JUNIT (8 years), DATABASE (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), XML (7 years), Java, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, SOAP, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, JQuery, Oracle, SVN, Eclipse, ANT, Apache Tomcat, Ajax, SVN, JSON,JUnit, SOA, SQL, PL/SQL, JAX-WS, DOJO, Log4j, J2Ee, Java J2Ee, Rest, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS:    Languages Java 1.5/1.6/1.7, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, Java Script, JQuery, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, PHP, JSTL, C, C++, Perl, XML. Node.JS, AngularJS  Java Technologies EJB, JSP, Servlets, RMI, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, MQ Series, JNDI, Java Beans, Web Services (SOAP, UDDI, WSDL), XML, XSLT, XSD, DTD, DOM, SAX, JAXP  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, Batch, Persistence  Methodologies Rational Unified Process (RUP), Agile (SCRUM & XP)  Web Servers IBM WebSphere, BEA WebLogic, JBOSS App Server, Tomcat  IDE Tools / Version Control  Rational Rose, Rational Clear Case, Rational Clear Quest, Eclipse IDE, Rational Application Developer (WSAD,RAD 6/7), JUnit, CVS, ANT, Maven    Database Oracle, RDBMS, DB2, MS-Access.  Operating Systems Windows 2008/XP/Vista/7, UNIX/LINUX  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, SOAP, Restful, WSDL, UDDI.