Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - Hitachi Dallas, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java Developer Hitachi - San Jose, CA February 2017 to Present Worked on development of Warranty and Customer Complaints management system  Responsibilities:  • Created GUI interface and Web pages using HTML5 and CSS3 and Javascript  • Used Spring 4.0 MVC framework  • JavaScript, AJAX, was used for the client side validations.  • Used Web Services (Restful) to exchange information.  • Used Hibernate framework for back end development and spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Involved in QA testing and debugging the application.  • Used Maven to compile and generate EAR, WAR, and JAR files.  • Created custom Exception classes to display appropriate error messages to users.  • Used TestNG for white box testing of application. Created test conditions/test data.  • Used Log4j for logging Errors and publishing logging information to various preferred destinations.  • Used Jenkins for continuous deployment.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring 4.0, HTML, Hibernate, JBoss AS 7.1, UML, WebServices, PL/SQL, TestNG, Jenkins, Unix, GIT Java Developer Silicon Valley Bank - Santa Clara, CA October 2015 to February 2017 Description: Worked on development business Loans processing application  • Participated in various stages of the project life cycle like design, implementation, testing and deployment of the application.  • Worked in Agile environment for software development.  • Created GUI using HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Used Spring 4.0 MVC framework.  • Developed testing tools for PHP and Java applications  • Developed and tested RESTful Webservices.  • Implemented business logic using Stored procedures.  • Developed Hibernate DAO using Spring JDBC Template, worked on Hibernate for ORM and connection management.  • Implemented Persistence layer by incorporating Hibernate ORM to interact with the Oracle database.  • Wrote SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures and modifications to existing database structure.  • Developed Scripts for UNIX platform deployment.  • Used Maven for compilation and building JAR and WAR files.  • Used JUnit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules.  • Used JENKINS for CI and deployment.  • Expert in debugging the issues and resolving the production/test issues.  • Involved in 24X7 production support and maintaining the application after production.  Environment: Java, J2EE, AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML, Hibernate, Webservices, Spring 3.0, Ajax, Oracle, AWS EC2, PL/SQL, WebLogic Application Server 8.1, XML. UML, JUnit, Maven, JENKINS, Unix Java Developer First Republic - San Francisco, CA June 2015 to October 2015 Description: Worked on Testing of Retail banking application.    Responsibilities:  • Created Test Plan, Test cases, test conditions and test Data.  • Performed Automated testing using Selenium Web Driver.  • Designing, implementing and executing test cases for SOAP/REST API's.  • Designed and developed Automation Framework (Hybrid, Keyword-driven) using Selenium Web Driver.  • Implemented Selenium Grid to run Regression Tests on multiple platforms and browsers in parallel.  • Used Selenium Grid to execute test cases on multiple machines.  • Exported Test Case Scripts ( Java- Selenium RC) in Eclipse IDE and modified the Selenium scripts and executed.  • Implemented test automation scripts for mobile testing using Appium for Android and iOS applications.  • Developed automation scripts for Mobile Native applications on iOS and Android platforms using Appium and Java.  • Working with escalations team for hot patches and service packs for customer escalations requiring high priority attention.  • Worked closely with developers, business analysts, technical documentation teams and offshore teams to resolve some of the possible bugs or enhancements within the product.  • Involved in testing web services using SOAP UI Pro tool to test the web services return expected values from two different databases.  • Configured Jenkins jobs to run various tests as scheduled jobs on QA environment.  • Involved in performing UI, functional, stress, regression and sanity testing of the web-based application.  • Managed test artifacts like Test Cases, Results, and Defects using HP Quality Center.  Environment: Java JDK 1.7, Unix, TestNG, Selenium WebDriver/IDE, Appium, SOAP UI, Rest API Client,  JIRA, SOAP UI, MySQL, Eclipse IDE, Unix Shell Scripts. Java Programmer Fidelity Investments - Boston, MA February 2014 to May 2015 Description: Fidelity Corporate Actions Solutions is a trusted source for global corporate actions data and workflow tools that streamline activities across the lifecycle of an event and give clients the confidence they need to effectively process this time-sensitive information. We are a Fidelity Investments company and focus on quality, service excellence, and continual investment to meet the evolving needs of the clients we serve around the globe. We are also a service provider to many business units within Fidelity.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements Analysis, planning and Use case study of the application.  • Involved in the development of screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, JSP and Struts tags.  • nvolved in injecting dependencies into code using concepts like IOC of Spring Framework  • Involved in design and implementing Batch process using Spring Boot and Spring Batch framework.  • Developed POJO based programming model using Hibernate.  • Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using ORM tool Hibernate.  • Transaction Management using the Hibernate.  • Involved in design and implementing Database tables.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Packages, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, and Functions.  • Used GIT has source repository.  • Involved in Writing and reviewing unit test cases using JUnit.  • Used Web Sphere Application Server v8.5.    Environment: JDK1.7, Spring 4.x, Hibernate 3.x, Oracle 12G, web Sphere 8.5, GIT and JIRA, Spring Batch and Spring Boot 1.5. Java Programmer [C2C Contract] State Street Bank - Boston, MA June 2012 to January 2014 Description: Fund ConnectSM is a global online trading tool for the subscription and redemption of shares or cash in third party money market and investment funds. Fund Connect provides direct access to multiple fund providers, both onshore and offshore, through a single interface that is available through Global Link's private network and the Internet. This technology automates the fund investment process, providing a direct link between investors and fund companies while reducing errors associated with manual trade entry.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements Analysis, planning and Use case study of the application.  • Developed Database models using Hibernate.  • Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using ORM tool Hibernate.  • Transaction Management using the Hibernate.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Packages, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, and Functions.  • Involved in Writing and reviewing unit test cases using JUnit.  • Used Perforce as a version control system.  • Used spring framework for wiring and managing businss objects.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using concepts like IOC of Spring Framework.  • Used Oracle 11G as a Database.  • Used IBM Web Sphere as application Server.    Environment: JDK1.6, Spring 3.x, Hibernate 3.x, Oracle 11G, web Sphere 8.5, Perforce and JIRA. Java Programmer [C2C Contract] Boston, MA January 2010 to May 2012 Description: Private Information must be secured against disclosure to unauthorized Individuals at all times whether being generated, viewed, stored, transmitted and/or processed. For HIPPA, patient right to know, who viewed their personal information.    • Understanding functional specifications, designing and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using concepts like IOC of Spring Framework  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Packages, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, and Functions.  • Used Apache Tomcat as Web Server for this application.  • Involved in check in, check out and preparing branches, tags using CVS.  • Involved in writing web services classes using Restful Services.  • Developed POJO based programming model using Hibernate.  • Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using ORM tool Hibernate.  • Transaction Management using the Hibernate.  • Involved in writing configuration files [XML].  • Involved Production Support for this project.    Environment: JDK1.5, Apache CXF, Spring 2.x, Hibernate 3.x, MS Server 2008, Apache Tomcat 6.x. Java Programmer [C2C Contract] Altisource - Boston, MA January 2007 to December 2009 Reporting borrower payment history and status information to credit bureaus (also known as Consumer Reporting Agencies, or CRAs).  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements Analysis, planning and Use case study of the application.  • Involved in the development of screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP and Struts tags.  • EnvironmentPrepared the technical design for the system that adheres to the MVC architecture using Struts.  • EnvironmentDesigned and implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j API.  • EnvironmentImplemented Struts Action classes for business logic and form bean classes for validation by using Struts framework.  • EnvironmentUsed spring framework for wiring and managing business objects.  • EnvironmentInvolved in injecting dependencies into code using concepts like IOC of Spring Framework  • EnvironmentDeveloped POJO based programming model using spring.  • EnvironmentInvolved in creating, configuring and using Some Singleton classes according to requirements.  • EnvironmentInvolved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using ORM tool Hibernate.  • EnvironmentTransaction Management using the Hibernate configurations  • EnvironmentResponsible for development of configuration, mapping and Java beans for Persistent layer (Object and Relational Mapping) using Hibernate.    Environment: Java1.6, JQuery, Java Script, Hibernate 3.x, JSP1.2, JSTL, XML, HTML, Jobs Application Server, Eclipse5.0, UNIX Shell Script, SVN and JIRA. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (10+ years), HIBERNATE (10+ years), SPRING (10+ years), PL/SQL (8 years), SQL (8 years), Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Rest, Javascript, Angular Additional Information Technical Skills:    Java Technologies: JDK (1.7), Spring 4.0, Hibernate, JDBC 2.0, Maven, AJAX, XML, (DTD, Schema, DOM, SAX), Web services (WSDL, Rest, SOAP), HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  Frameworks: Spring 4.0, Hibernate 3.0  Languages: Java, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, HTML, DHTML, and UML.  Database: MYSQL, SQL Server 2  Software/Tools JENKINS, Maven, Selenium, TestNG, Postman  Servers: Apache Tomcat 5.5, JBoss 7.0,  IDE: Eclipse, IntelliJ  Version Control: CVS, Git,  Script /OS: JavaScript, Jenkins, Maven, Shell, Linux, UNIX, Windows.