Sr J2EE Developer Sr J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr J2EE Developer - State Of PA, PA Los Angeles, CA ? 10 years of significant, progressive experience in developing multi-tier Web based Client Server application.  ? Involved in Various Stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables.  ? Expertise working on object oriented design development and relational database management  ? Experience in designing frontend applications using Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON and various other Frameworks.  ? Expertise in using J2EE Frameworks like JDBC, Jakarta Struts, EJB's, JMS, spring, Spring, Hibernate and WEB SERVICES.  ? Expertise in using different modules of spring like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM.  ? Experience with XML and related standards and technologies like Web Services, SOAP, WSDD, WSDL, JSTL, JMS, HTML, DHTML, XSTL, CSS, Ajax, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Extensive experience with Enterprise Java Beans (EJB's) - Session, Entity and Message Driven Beans.  ? Customization, Development, Testing and Deployment of applications using various application servers like BEA Web Logic, WebSphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat Servers.  ? Good knowledge in advanced Java language concepts like Multithreading and Serialization used in distributed systems.  ? Experienced in Oracle, DB2 and SQL Server including SQL/PLSQL, Stored Procedures.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML and Rational Rose.  ? Hands on experience in using different types of build tools like MAVEN and ANT.  ? Good experience on version management tools Clear Case, CVS and SVN.  ? Experienced in creating Class diagrams, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams and flow charts using Rational Rose and Visio.  ? Experience in Software Quality Assurance testing life cycle & experience in Functional Testing, Unit Testing, System Testing and Operational Testing.  ? Good understanding of distributed systems, middleware technologies and n-tier architecture.  ? Highly motivated, detail oriented, has ability to work independently and as a part of the team with Excellent Technical, Analytical and Communication skills, created various documentations for applications and shared a good rapport with the client/management and other team members. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr J2EE Developer State Of PA, PA January 2018 to Present Project: UCMS Tax & Audit  UCMS is a web portal used by State of PA to register and maintain employer's data for Tax and Audit activities.  Implemented new features and modules to enhance user experience and performance in struts, hibernate integrated framework.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Various Stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project.  ? Involved in requirement gathering, analyzing functional requirements, design, sequences for the new enhancements, Integration, Deployment, and testing.  ? Scrupulously followed Agile methodology throughout the project, involved in Scrum meetings with the team members on day to day basis for the update on project status using tfs software.  ? Developed Web Services to integrate UCMS and MTW applications.  ? Implemented server side and client side pagination for the UCMS application.  ? Worked on various assignments includes First contact survey, Test Management, Web Service, CSV File Upload, Roster Reporting, Quality control, Professional Development, Metadata, Media, Testlet, Test Development, Task Specification portlets, Basic setup tables.  ? Implemented CSS/UX across the UCMS application. Worked closely with MTW team to integrate CSS/UX for portal.  ? Extensively worked on the application enhancements using Spring, Jquery, JSP, JS, Ajax, Json.  ? Provided SQL scripts for querying Oracle database.  ? Deployed SQL Scripts for SQL Server in Production environments.  ? Used Maven scripts to build the application and deploy it on Application Server based on various environments.  ? Using TFS version control tools to manage source repository.  ? Worked with QA team to create and execute Unit, System and User Acceptance Plan and test case scenarios  ? Participated in DEV Move, QA Move, Code Integration, System Testing, UAT, PROD Move.  ? Implemented Code Formatter for the project.  ? Defined Coding standards and various quality processes in the project.  ? Regular meetings with the Staff for updates/modifications in business and development process.  ? Responsible for Supporting/Maintaining production environment including tracking Real-time issues and resolving them for the Content Builder Application.    Environment: SCRUM, Java 1.8, J2SE, J2EE 2.0, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, JSP, JQuery, Ajax, Json, Spring portlets, Struts, ORM, SQL Scripts, Oracle , SQL Server, MS outlook, Shell Scripting, Unix, Linux, Ant, Maven, Log4j, Agile Methodology, TFS Agile scaling software, WebSphere Application Server, IBM RAD, Windows 10. Sr J2EE Developer FedEX April 2017 to December 2017 Project: Sales Play Book  Sales Play book is a website which involves in creating/managing projects for Sales Project. Mainly developed on GWT framework, implemented functionality to improve performance of the site/web application.  TRIP/VCOM: TRIP/Vcom is an application which calculates the TRIP Miles between Origin and Destination of the route. Developed of Restful Web Services.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Various Stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project.  ? Involved in requirement gathering, analyzing functional requirements, design, sequences for the new enhancements, Integration, Deployment, and testing.  ? Scrupulously followed Agile methodology throughout the project, involved in Scrum meetings with the team members on day to day basis.  ? Implemented server side and client side pagination for the Sales Play Book application.  ? Implemented CSS/UX across the application.  ? Used Spring Cloud tools to build some patterns in distributed systems.  ? Extensively worked on the application enhancements using GWT, JQuery, JSP, JS, Ajax, JSon.  ? Provided SQL scripts for querying Oracle database.  ? Used Ant/Maven scripts to build the application and deploy it on Application Server based on various environments.  ? Used SQL Server for production environments.  ? Using SVN version control tools to manage source repository.  ? Worked with QA team to create and execute Unit, System and User Acceptance Plan and test case scenarios  ? Participated in DEV Move, QA Move, Code Integration, System Testing, UAT, PROD Move.  ? Implemented Code Formatter for the project.  ? Defined Coding standards and various quality processes in the project.  ? Regular meetings with the Staff for updates/modifications in business and development process.  ? Responsible for Supporting/Maintaining production environment including tracking Real-time issues and resolving them for the Sales Play Book Application.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2SE, J2EE 2.0, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, JSP, JQuery, Ajax, Json, GWT, MS outlook, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix, Linux, Ant, Maven, Log4j, Agile Methodology, WebLogic Server Eclipse IDE, Windows 7. Lead JAVA/J2EE Developer Scripps Networks Interactive Inc - Knoxville, TN January 2016 to April 2017 Project: Food Network - ITK Services & Core Project Migration Remote/Work-from-home  Description: Scripps Networks Interactive is an American Life Style media company develops content for television, Internet, Satellite and radio. Worked with "Search Team" focusing mainly on Food Network Brand to develop ITK Services and migrate the recipe search modules to core project.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects.  ? Working collaboratively with Software System Engineers, Product owner, Quality Analyst and Project Manager on planning and implementation of new features and enhancements.  ? Gathering requirements and thorough analysis of the existing systems to understand the current system  functionality and propose new recommendations to improve the business process and contribute to successful delivery of the Project.  ? Following Kanban methodology during development of the project and oversee the software development in Sprints by attending weekly stand-ups & recording information/meeting minutes on Jira Tool.  ? Design and Develop application enhancements and fix defects using Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot,  Web Services, JAX-RS.  ? Developed Junit Test cases to test the services.  ? Developed web services for ITK Services and ITK Recipe Search.  ? Implemented Micro Services to enhance the cohesion and decrease the coupling.  ? Used Shell Scripting for developing unix scripts for Deployments & GIT.  ? Developed Deployment scripts for Jenkins Build.  ? Used Micro Services to allow individual service to emerge through continuous refactoring.  ? Developed Web Services and created End Points for Watch iOS & Android Apps for Video (HGTV, DIY,  TRAV, FOOD, COOK) brands.  ? Developed Maven Build Scripts and Web Services for all ITK Modules to migrate from FOOD Services to Core Project.  ? Using JIRA tool to create/track defects.  ? Using JIRA management tool to estimate/track/organize the deliverables of the project.  ? Configure and deploy the application using Jenkins.  ? Used Bit bucket, source Tree to manage code in GIT repository.  ? Used web logic server to deploy applications.  ? Created Documentation for all the ITK Services related developments across the process.    Environment: Eclipse RCP, Java, J2EE, Maven, MYSQL, SOA, Web Services, Micro Services, AWS, SOAP, Spring, Spring Boot , ORM, SOLR, HTML, CSS3, SQL Server, Shell Scripting, JIRA, Bit Bucket, Source Tree, GIT, Jenkins Build Tool, Web Logic Server, Windows 7 Enterprise. Sr. J2EE Developer Hilton Worldwide Inc - Memphis, TN July 2015 to December 2015 Project: Smart Key/TMTP Projects  Description: Hilton Worldwide is an American global hospitality company that manages and franchises a broad portfolio of hotels and resorts. Developed Web Services to call Micro services server and get Analytics in Data Analytics Server for Performance testing of legacy applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects.  ? Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine.  ? Development of SOA components using WSDL, SOAP, XML, and XSD etc.  ? Implemented spring - MVC Design Pattern in the application.  ? Used Spring cloud to implement intelligent routing for micro services.  ? Used JNDI for naming and directory services.  ? Implemented Micro Services to communicate with light weight mechanisms like HTTP resource API.  ? Used Springs JDBC and DAO layers to offer abstraction for the business from the database related code (CRUD).  ? Used Spring AOP module to handle transaction management services for objects in any Spring-based application.  ? Customized the Data Access Module using DAO patterns, to handle the entire transaction with the database.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  ? Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions, monitored error logs and fixed the problems.  ? Used Agile-methodology in Development.  ? Coding followed Test-driven development.  ? Used Shell Scripting for developing unix scripts for GIT.  ? Involved in peer code reviewing.  ? Used SOAP UI to test the web services and mock response for unit testing web services.  ? Used JIRA tool to create/track defects.  ? Used JIRA management tool to estimate/track/organize the deliverables of the project.  ? Used Confluence, Bit bucket to manage source repository.  ? Provided architectural input on new and existing solutions.  ? Used weblogic server to deploy applications.  ? Written technical specifications, program documentation, and unit test plans for all work performed.    Environment: Maven, MYSQL, SOA, Web Services, Micro Services, SOAP, Spring, Spring Boot, Shell Scripting, XML/HTTP, Servlets, REST, HTML, CSS3, ORM, DB2, Oracle, SQL Server, JDBC, JIRA, Web Logic Server, Confluence, Bit bucket, Stash, Eclipse RCP. Sr Java/J2EE Developer First Tennessee Bank - Memphis, TN November 2014 to June 2015 Project: Trust Atlantic Bank Conversion/Migration  Description: First Tennessee Bank is a $3Billion financial organization a subsidiary of First Horizon National Corp.  Worked on recently acquired (TAB) migration/Conversion project collaborating heavily with multiple teams across the Nation coordinating with both organizations. Worked on to develop a tool for aiding our business analysts in pre-sanitizing large amounts of translated data, in order to facilitate migrating data from one system to another. Worked with our development team to pick up on the problem domain and iterate through several designs, collaborating heavily with a couple of managers.    Responsibilities:  ? Working collaboratively with Architects, System Engineering, Business Analysts, Quality Assurance, Design Analysts and Project Management on the planning and implementation of new features and enhancements, working with external business clients and other internal organizations/Teams.  ? Gathering requirements and thorough analysis of the existing systems to understand the current system functionality and propose new recommendations to improve the business process and contribute to successful delivery of the Project.  ? Working on all phases of software development life cycle including design, Development, implementation and testing, Integration, Dress Rehearsal Phase 1 & 2, Production/Live.  ? Providing technical expertise to project team covering application design, database design, performance tuning activities and involved in creating the technical/Business Reports.  ? Evaluate user request for new or modified functionality, to determine feasibility, cost and time required, compatibility with current system.  ? Write Business Requirement and functional specification documents, Document new processes and procedures.  ? Following agile methodology during development of the project and oversee the software development in Sprints by attending daily stand-ups & recording information/meeting minutes on Jira Tool.  ? Design and Develop a tool called ImportyMan using Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Web Services, JAX WS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI.  ? Implemented Micro Services to use technology agnostic protocols.  ? Writing PL/SQL queries based on required report generation for business & technical reviews.  ? Using Pentaho tool to map data from raw text files to Tables (Data Migration)  ? Developing SQL queries to process data in Oracle Database systems on DEV/QA/Prod Environments.  ? Using JIRA tool to create/track defects.  ? Using JIRA management tool to estimate/track/organize the deliverables of the project.  ? Configure and deploy the application on Web Sphere application server and involved in writing the build scripts using maven.  ? Using SVN client and views for SVN code repository.  ? Using SharePoint tool for collaboration/communication/decision making among the team.  ? Participate in code reviews, troubleshooting, bug fixing, preparing test environments, execute User acceptance testing and providing production support.  ? Performance tuning of the customized programs during development and post implementation phase.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2SE, J2EE 2.0, HTML, DHTML, Pentaho Tool, Map Reduce, Micro Services, JavaScript, CSS3, JSP, Spring, Spring Boot, ORM, JDBC, Oracle, IBM DB2, SQL Queries, Shell Scripting, Ant, Maven, Log4j, Agile Methodology, Jira, Web Sphere Application Server, Tomcat Server, Eclipse IDE, Windows 7. Sr Java/J2EE Developer Siemens HealthCare Inc - Malvern, PA November 2013 to October 2014 Project: e-Prescribing Infrastructure  Responsibilities:    ? Work collaboratively with Architects, System Engineering, Quality Assurance, Design Analysts and Project Management on the planning and implementation of new features and enhancements, working with external business clients and other internal organizations.    ? Gathering requirements and thorough analysis of the existing systems to understand the current system functionality and propose new recommendations to improve the business process and contribute to successful delivery of the Project.  ? Working on all phases of software development life cycle including design, Development, implementation and testing.  ? Providing technical expertise to project team covering application design, database design, performance tuning activities and involved in creating the technical.  ? Evaluate user request for new or modified functionality, to determine feasibility, cost and time required, compatibility with current system.  ? Write Business Requirement and functional specification documents, Document new processes and procedures.  ? Following Kan ban methodology during development of the project and oversee the software development in Sprints by attending daily stand-ups.  ? Design and Develop server side components using Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Web Services, JAX WS, Web services, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and EJB.  ? Involved in the process of marshalling and un-marshalling using JAXB.  ? Implement Persistence layer using JPA, Hibernate and writing PL/SQL queries based on Hibernate criteria API.  ? Using FitNesse automation testing tool to perform acceptance testing.  ? Developing SQL queries to process data in DB2 Database systems.  ? Using CharmNT Web-Client tool to create/track defects.  ? Using Version One Agile Project management tool to estimate/track/organize the deliverables of the project.  ? Configure and deploy the application on Web Sphere application server and involved in writing the build scripts using maven.  ? Using clear case client and views for clear case code repository.  ? Using SharePoint tool for collaboration/communication/decision making among the team.  ? Participate in code reviews, troubleshooting, bug fixing, preparing test environments, execute User acceptance testing and providing production support.  ? Performance tuning of the customized programs during development and post implementation phase.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2SE, J2EE 2.0, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, JSP, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA,ORM, IBM DB2, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Ant, Maven, Log4j, AWS SDK, KanBan Methodology, Version One Agile scaling software, Web Sphere Application Server, Eclipse IDE, Windows 7. Sr Java/J2EE Developer University of Kansas - Lawrence, KS November 2012 to October 2013 University of Kansas is a development center for Education Training and Evaluation (CETE), funded by federal Government. Worked on Various tasks to add value to one of the core products of CETE - Content Builder Module.  Project: Common Components  The Priority of this task is to design/develop a Uniform Database by sorting common fields across various tables to Map data through multiple applications in Content Builder.  Project: Restify Service Module (learning Maps)  The ideology behind this initiative is to implement a Restful Web Service to retrieve common component id's from content builder Module which can be used by Learning Maps.  Project: Server Side Pagination  The Main initiative of implementing this process is to resolve the performance issue on content Builder application.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Various Stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project.  ? Involved in requirement gathering, analyzing functional requirements, design, sequences for the new enhancements, Integration, Deployment, and testing.  ? Scrupulously followed Agile methodology throughout the project, involved in Scrum meetings with the team members on day to day basis for the update on project status using Rally software.  ? Developed Web Services using NodeJS to integrate Content Builder and learning Maps applications.  ? Implemented server side and client side pagination for the content builder application.  ? Worked on various assignments includes First contact survey, PNP, Test Management, KSDE Web Service, CSV File Upload, Roster Reporting, Node Response Report, Monitor Session, Performance/Progress reports, Quality control, Professional Development, Rubric Scoring, Metadata, Media, Testlet, Task, Test Development, Task Specification portlets, Basic setup tables, CK Editor.  ? Implemented CSS/UX across the EP application. Worked closely with Brockton team to integrate CSS/UX for Educator portal.  ? Used Spring Cloud tools to build some patterns in distributed systems.  ? Extensively worked on the application enhancements using Spring, Jquery, JSP, JS, Ajax, Json, MyBatis.  ? Deployed Spring portlets on Liferay portal.  ? Provided SQL scripts for querying Postgres SQL database.  ? Using Postgres (PG Admin) tool for querying the Database.  ? Used Ant/Maven scripts to build the application and deploy it on Application Server based on various environments.  ? Using SVN version control tools to manage source repository.  ? Worked with QA team to create and execute Unit, System and User Acceptance Plan and test case scenarios  ? Participated in DEV Move, QA Move, Code Integration, System Testing, UAT, PROD Move.  ? Implemented Code Formatter for the project.  ? Defined Coding standards and various quality processes in the project.  ? Regular meetings with the Staff for updates/modifications in business and development process.  ? Responsible for Supporting/Maintaining production environment including tracking Real-time issues and resolving them for the Content Builder Application.    Environment: SCRUM, Java 1.6, J2SE, J2EE 2.0, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, JSP, JQuery, Ajax, Json, Spring portlets, Spring, My Batis, ORM, Postgre SQL, PGAdmin, MS outlook, Shell Scripting, Unix, Linux, Ant, Maven, Log4j, Agile Methodology, Rally Agile scaling software, LifeRay Portal server, Tomcat Server, Eclipse IDE, Windows 7. Sr Java/J2EE Developer Mercury Insurance Group - Oklahoma City, OK January 2012 to October 2012 Project: SOA architecture for MBP application  Mercury Insurance Group is an Automobile and property insurance company. Mechanical Breakdown Protection (MBP) is a Web based application for extended coverage automobile insurance quoting. The main initiative of the project is building point of sale web services in SOA architecture for MBP application which will be consumed by external users as well as by our current MBP Web applications.  Project: MBP Quarterly Password Reset  The Priority of this project is to define property files in the system which gives access for user to reset password on quarterly basis.  Project: MBP WEB Nightly Data Update.  MBP WEB Nightly Data Update is an automated data update process. The main initiative of the project is to develop a java process and SQL Stored Procedures to perform regular update process for moving current data in AS400 servers to SQL Server Database every day at 3:00 AM for customer/user accessibility to most current information.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Various Stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project.  ? Involved in requirement gathering, analyzing functional requirements, design, develop, sequences for the new enhancements, Integration, Deployment and testing.  ? Implemented Web services for SOA Architecture.  ? Used Java and Web Services to validate the Migration Functions.  ? Deployment of Web services, JSP, Servlets and server side components in Web Sphere Application server.  ? Implemented functionality using java process to perform daily nightly data update from AS400 server to SQL Server Database.  ? Developed SQL Stored Procedures for overriding the existing data with the most current data available in AS400 to the SQL Database tables.  ? Defined properties to map ear files in the Web Sphere Application Server.  ? Working on an application using SQL Server backend Database.  ? Provided SQL scripts for querying SQL database.  ? Using DB Visualizer tool for querying the Database.  ? Used Ant/Maven scripts to build the application and deploy it on Application Server based on various environments.  ? Used Spring Cloud to implement micro proxies for the services.  ? Using Clear Case version control tools to manage source repository.  ? Participated in DEV Move, QA Move, Code Integration, System Testing, UAT, PROD Move.  ? Responsible for Quarterly MBP Password Reset Maintenance Job.  ? Implemented Code Formatter for the project.  ? Defined Coding standards and various quality processes in the project.  ? Regular meetings with the Staff for updates/modifications in business and development process.  ? Support testing (Functional, Performance, Access controls), application deployment and maintenance.  ? Responsible for Supporting/Maintaining production environment including tracking Real-time issues and resolving them for the MBP Application. Sr Java/J2EE Developer Cisco Systems Inc - Research Triangle Park, NC July 2010 to December 2011 Environment: Java 1.6, J2SE, J2EE 2.0, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, XSLT, ESB, Spring MVC, Spring Cloud, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI), JAX-RS, JDBC, SQL Server 2008, DB Visualizer, AS400, Web Sphere 7.0, Shell Scripting, Unix, Linux, Rational Clear Case 7, AWS SDK, Ant, Maven, Log4j, Agile Methodology, IBM RAD 7.0, Windows 7.  Cisco Systems Inc, RTP, NC Jul '10 - Dec'11  Role: Sr Java/J2EE Developer  Project: Acquisition Bug Validation Tool  Acquisition Bug Validation Tool is an application used for leveraging web services to exercise the cdets rules engine and determine if translated bugs are in a valid format to be accepted by CDETS. The primary objective of the project is to develop a tool/app for validating the webex application data to ensure it follows the Cisco Standards.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Various Stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project.  ? Responsible for complete development of application independently.  ? Involved in requirement gathering, analyzing functional requirements, design, develop, sequences for the new enhancements, Integration, Deployment and testing.  ? Determine the Workflow and develop application based on that.  ? Working on unix and linux development environments.  ? Designed and developed User Interface of application modules using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax.  ? Implemented Representational state transfer (REST) Web services for distributed systems.  ? Developed web service components with JAX-RS from WSDL files for invoking the methods using SOAP.  ? Used Java and Web services to validate the Migration Functions.  ? Implemented java process using data structures to map database fields to web service names.  ? Deployment of Web services, JSP, Servlets and server side components in Apache Tomcat server.  ? Developed Logic to generate Executable Jar file which uses config property files.  ? Used log4j to Spool/store XML response O/P message into a LOG file.  ? Working on an application using Oracle 10g backend Database.  ? Provided SQL scripts for querying Oracle database.  ? Using Toad tool for querying the Database.  ? Used Ant scripts to build the application and deploy it on Application Server.  ? Hands on experience working on shell Scripting in both Unix and Linux development boxes.  ? Developed batch files to execute the application in CLI (Command Line Interface).  ? Using CVS version control tools to manage source repository.  ? Participated in Code Integration and System Testing.  ? Implemented Code Formatter for the project.  ? Regular meetings with the Staff for updates/modifications in business and development process.  ? Configured the working model application in various executable environments like local system executable, Eclipse development environment, unix / linux servers etc, in multiple Pc's on different operating systems giving portable feature's for user testing.  ? Support testing (Functional, Performance, Access controls), application deployment and maintenance.  ? Responsible for Supporting/monitoring production environment including tracking Real-time issues and resolving them.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2SE, J2EE 2.0, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, Ajax, Restful Web Services, JAX-RS, WSDL, SOAP, JDBC, Oracle10g, SQL, Toad, Apache Tomcat Server, Shell Scripting, Unix, Linux, CVS, Ant, Log4j, Eclipse RCP, Windows OS. Sr J2EE Developer Department of Corrections, State of MO August 2009 to June 2010 Project: Discipline  Discipline module is a web based application within corrections serves to regulate the Conduct of the Offenders and document incidents that lead to individual disciplinary actions. The purpose of this project is to implement the Missouri Corrections Integrated System (MOCIS) Discipline Module to confirm and include the Missouri Department of Corrections business needs and processes.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Various Stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project using the AGILE Software Development Methodology with Iconix Design Process.  ? Participated in Scrum meetings.  ? Analyzing functional requirements, sequences for the new enhancements, Integration, Deployment and testing.  ? Determine the Workflow and develop system based on that.  ? Developing applications as per the MOCIS Standards.  ? Used log4j for logging, monitoring errors and exceptions all across the application.  ? Designed and developed User Interface of application modules using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery and JSON.  ? Used Struts MVC architecture for the application development.  ? Implemented controller classes using Struts API and configured struts action classes using XML configuration files.  ? Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  ? Used Hibernate ORM module as an Object Relational mapping tool for back end operations over DB2 database.  ? Provided Hibernate configuration file and mapping files, also involved in the integration of Struts with Hibernate libraries.  ? Developed Object Convertors to convert Data Objects to Value Objects and vice versa.  ? Provided SQL scripts and HQL for querying DB2 database.  ? Using iSeries Navigator and DBVisualizer tools for querying the Database.  ? Using CVS version control tools to manage source repository.  ? Configured and deployed the application on JBoss Server for development environment & Web Sphere Application Server for Test Environment.  ? Used iReports to develop and generate Jasper Reports.  ? Developed the Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams.  ? Participated in Code Integration and System Testing.  ? Working with QA team in User Acceptance Testing and execution support.  ? Implemented Code Formatter and Check Style for the whole project to meet the MOCIS Standards.  ? Participated in meetings with DBA and Team Lead to sort out designing ERD for the Module.  ? Regular meetings with the State Staff for updates and modifications in business and design process.  ? Extensively used design patterns like Singleton, Value Object, Service Delegator and Data Access Object.  ? Designed long-term, robust, reliable and adaptive technical architectures and constituted a technical gateway between the State Managers, Analysts and Developers.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2SE, J2EE 2.0, Struts 1.2/2.0, Spring 2.5 framework, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, JSON, JDBC, IBM DB2, iSeries Navigator, AWS SDK, DbVisualizer 7.1.5 & 6.5.9, Websphere Application Server, JBoss Server 4.0.5, iReports 3.0 - Jasper Reporting, CVS, Ant, Eclipse 3.6, WSAD 5.x, Windows OS. Sr J2EE Developer FedEX WTC August 2008 to July 2009 Project: CHEERS / XOPCO Pricing  Cheers-XOPCO Pricing is a module which involves with the revenue fusion pricing system for Fedex Express, Freight and Ground services. Developed a standalone application to subscribe JMS Messages, JDBC module to interface with Database and a MIIGClientBase to invoke Mainframe transactions.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved working in Various Stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Implemented Agile Methodology in the Development Process.  ? Analyzing functional requirements, sequences for the new enhancements, Integration, Deployment and testing.  ? Determine Workflow and develop system based on that.  ? Involved working in Object Oriented Design Development.  ? Involved in design and implementation of Asynchronous messaging using JMS.  ? Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by publishing messages in the Message queue.  ? Developed a Spring JMS subscriber to receive messages from JMS queues.  ? Developed a Spring JDBC module to interface with DB2 database.  ? Developed XML Validation and Transformation modules.  ? Implemented parsing the xml messages and retrieve the node values when data gets pushed to PPS as JMS messages.  ? Developed XPath Expression to get the Node Values of the transaction.  ? Developed a JAVA process for XML to Fixed Record conversion.  ? Developed a JAVA process to invoke (MainFrame) MIIG transactions for the FedEx Integrated MIIGClientBase.  ? Working on a standalone application using DB2 as backend Database.  ? Performed unit testing using JUnit 4.0 framework for testing all developed Modules.  ? Used log4j for logging monitoring errors and exceptions all across the application.  ? Using SVN version control tools to manage source repository.  ? Configured and deployed the application on WebSphere Application Server.  ? Developed the Use Cases, Activity, Sequence, and Class diagrams.  ? Participated in Code Integration and Unit Testing.  ? Involved working with QA team in system testing and execution support.  ? Leading a team of technical people and assisting them for the development.  ? Regular meeting with the users about the change in requirements and solutions.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2SE, J2EE 2.0, Spring 2.5 framework, JMS, JNDI, XML, XSD, XSLT, XPATH, LDAP, JDBC, IBM DB2, Oracle 10g, Mainframe Client (MIIG), ESB, JUnit, WebSphere Application Server, SVN, Maven, Eclipse 3.6, Windows OS. Education Bachelor's Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, C++, C, UML  Java/J2EE Technologies:  J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSTL, JDBC, JavaBeans, Python, Struts, MVC, Hibernate, Spring, RMI, ANT, MAVEN, Log4j, XML, JAXP, DOM, JNDI, JMS, JSF, Prime Faces, JMX, JUNIT, Web services, Applets, Multithreading, JTA, Custom Tags    Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, Java Script, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, SWT, DOJO, XML, Web Services (SOAP, JAX WS, JAX-RS, WSDL), SharePoint Services.  Frameworks and IDE's  Struts 2.0/1.2, Spring 2.5/2.1/2.0, Hibernate 3.x, JPA, AJAX, Spring Core, Spring ORM, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Ruby-on-Rails, Eclipse 3.6/3.4/3.1/3.0, My Eclipse 7.1/6.5.1, RAD 7.0/6.0, WSAD 5.0, NetBeans 6.7/6.0    Web/Application Servers Web Logic 10.3.2/9.2/8.1, IBM WebSphere 7.0/6.1/5.1, Apache Tomcat 5.x/4.x, JBOSS 4.x and IIS 7.0/6.0.  Database Environments Oracle 10g/9i/8i, SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, IBM DB2, PL/SQL, My SQL, Sybase, TOAD, JDBC, ODBC, MS-Access.  Internet Protocols: FTP, HTTP, HTTPS, IMAP, SSL, SSH, SOAP, TCP/IP, POP3, SMTP.  Operating Systems: Windows 2008/2003/2000/NT/98, UNIX, LINUX, SUSI and SUN OS.  Web Service Technologies: SOAP, XSD, Apache Axis, WSDL and UDDI.  Version Control Tools: Rational Clear Case, Visual Source Safe, Rational clear quest, CVS, SVN, SOS.  Build Script: ANT, shell scripts, batch scripts.  IDE's  WebLogic Workshop, IBM WebSphere Studio Application Developer WSAD 5.1, RAD, JBuilder, AWS SDK, Rational Clear Quest, QUIX-PCT and TOAD.    Tools & Messaging System JUnit 3.8.1, Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio 2003, Log4j, ColdFusion, WINRUNNER, JAX-WS, Java Mail 1.3/1.2, JMS 1.1, MQ Series.  Patterns MVC, Core J2EE design patterns (MVC, business delegate, service locator, session façade, DAO, DTO, Singleton, etc).  Methodologies Rational Unified Process (RUP), Agile, V Model, Waterfall, OOAD, AOP, SOA, TTD, SDLC, Iterative, XP (Extreme Programming).