Java UI/Angular JS Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> UI/Angular JS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java UI/Angular JS Developer - Bank of America East Brunswick, NJ • Over 9+ years of experience on Java/J2EE Technologies in Financial and Banking Domains, Web Development, Software development and client/Server Implementation.  • Expertise in Web Front End Technologies Spring 4.0, JavaScript, Java Server JQuery, Ajax AngularJS 2.0, HTML, CSS.  • Performed Angular JS 1.5 & 2, HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular Bootstrap, Grunt, Protractor, Selenium, Karma, Jasmine coding to deliver a user friendly and powerful UI to interact.  • Strong working experience in Design, Development of several Web-based Applications using open source frameworks such as Struts and Spring.  • Proficient in design and development of J2EE technologies and API's include JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, EJB, IBM MQ, SOAP web services, design patterns.  • Working experience on open source Frameworks such as Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, Groovy on Grails.  • Experience in developing web application using AngularJS 2.  • Experience in developing the front end/web applications using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JSF, JSTL, AJAX, DOJO, JQuery, JSON, Angular 1.x/2/,Bootstrap, NodeJS.  • Developed mobile friendly, responsive applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS and AngularJS.2, TypeScript.  • Good working knowledge on unit testing using JUnit, Mock tests, Test Driven Development (TDD),  • Involved in producing & consuming SOAP and RESTful web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, AXIS, and Apache CXF.  • Experience in developing using HTML5, CSS, AJAX, Object oriented JavaScript, JQuery, XML, AngularJS 2.0, React.js and AngularJS templating.  • Extensively used various internet technologies like JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, HTML, CSS and XML.  • Involved in system design and development using Collections and Multi-threading for the action classes.  • Extensively worked on Hibernate Cache, Query, Criteria, and Transactions and used Hibernate Relational mappings.  • Experience in Creating and Updating Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes to keep up the SQL Server Performance.  • Assist in design and development of large-scale perl applications and Created perl scripts using DBI/DBD for data extraction.  • Strong knowledge and experience with multiple JavaScript Libraries and frameworks, especially jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS 2.  • Strong hands on development and configuraion experience with software provisioning tools like Chef, Puppet.  • Proficient in SQL programming. RDBMS experience includes MySQL.  • Expertise in using and design patterns such as Model-View-Control (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), Factory Pattern, Service Located Factory, Singleton & Business Delegate.  • Experienced in Cloud automation using AWS Cloud Formation templates.  • Performed data analysis and data profiling using SQL on various sources systems including SQL Server 2012.  • Supported deadlock issues, best practices in structuring SQL Queries and debugged unexpected SQL results.  • Experience in Cloud Technologies such as Amazon web services (AWS) environment with Microservices in help between servers communicate and knowledge about Docker.  • Deploying the applications to App Servers using Ant, Maven and Shell Scripts for creating Build Scripts.  • Experience in using version of AngularJS 2.0.  • Hands on experience in JAX-WS, JAX-RS, SOAP Web services, REST Service, XML, XSD, WSDL.  • Experienced with JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Knowledge in Cloud Foundry.  • Excellent communication skills, ability to work as a team or individually, ability to learn new technologies quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java UI/Angular JS Developer Bank of America - Jersey City, NJ May 2017 to Present Integrate new functionalities to modify existing banking software application which maintained Customer/Account relationship, Loan Account profile, Transaction and Account Management and Funds Transfer functions. Customer can perform operations on all their account types. The customer by selecting each account can pay bills for respective account and transfer funds from one account to another account.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, and CSS2/3 based on the W3C standards.  • Used Unix Commands for manipulating the data in deployment phase.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and also interacting with Database Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Actively used DHTML, JavaScript, J query and AJAX, CSS for frontend development. On the backend it was Java (JSP) and Oracle.  • Involved in building flexible UI, more user interactive and user-friendly web pages, reusable classes, functions using ASP.NET, C#, AJAX and JavaScript for client side validation.  • Developing application design guidance and consultation, utilizing a thorough understanding of applicable technology, tools and existing designs.  • Created AngularJS Controller which Isolate scopes perform operations in UI.  • Used D3.JS for data visualization in this application.  • Accessed functions in web server using Restful web-services.  • Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Used Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Knowledge in Apache Spark integration (Spark SQL, Spark Streaming)  • Worked with a team which includes Tech Leads, Business Analysts, System Analysts and Testers using Agile (Scrum) methodologies.  • Used Hibernate mappings, relationships between tables and entity classes to access and update information in the database.  • Responsible for UI designing for iOS and solved issues when encountered in iOS application.  • Used Swift for developing the application in iOS.  • Used Struts Validation Framework for dynamic validation of the user input forms.  • Improved Auto Quote application by designing and developing it using Eclipse, HTML, JSF, Servlets and Java Script.  • Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle 9i RDBMS.  • Designed and developed UI with AJAX, HTML, XHTML, DHTML and java script for more interactive web pages.  • Hibernate Query Language (HQL) was used to perform various queries in the database.  • Configured JDBC and LDAP security in the application server. Developed LDAP server configuration file to enable encryption support for password storage.  • Responsible for implementing the transaction management in the application by applying Spring AOP methodology.  • Developed the data grids using ng-table and Kendo-grid.  • Wrote build and deployed scripts using Unix Shell and ANT scripts and involved in performance analysis of the application and fixed problems/suggest solutions.  • JUnit was used for unit testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Using AngularJS, I created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture using Struts framework.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility and implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc.  • Involved in development of rich user interface components using JSON, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery and HTML5.  • Used JavaScript for adding little functionality to the existing application (calendar, tooltips, hiding elements, etc.  • Closely associated with Cassandra DBA in implementing Cassandra data model in application environment to ensure solution is not affecting existing business as usual  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, requireJS, Java Script and Node.js.  • Used JDBC for Manipulating data in the database.  • Used APIs design pattern for data access through service calls and also used spring framework in the application.  • Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Used Unix Commands for system logging like Syslog facilities and syslog priorities.  • Implemented various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collections API, Generics, and Enhanced for Loop Inheritance and Polymorphism.  • Managed code with unit tests and GitHub.  • Used Web services - WSDL and Restful to access the data stored in regional databases  • Used Eclipse 3.0 as IDE, Maven as the build tool and Clear Case for the version control.  • Worked on SQL queries with Oracle SQL developer to select/insert/update/joins etc. for test/development purpose in local environment.  • Deployed Application on WebSphere Application Server v7.0.  Environment: Eclipse IDE, Angular JS, D3.JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSP, Sublime Text 2, Backbone.js, JQuery, JavaScript, React JS, JSON, Log4j, Jasper, Message queues, Unix/Linux Dreamweaver, Cassandra , Photoshop, GitHub, JAXP 1.2, Restful web-services, Node.js, JDBC, Grunt, JSTL, Illustrator, Gulp, Bower, karma, JUnit, JIRA, Jasmine, ASP.NET, iOS, Jenkins, Spring framework, JSP, JBOSS Drools, Hibernate 3.3, Rabbit-MQ, HTML4/5, CSS3, moment, LESS. Full Stack Developer Minneapolis, MN November 2015 to May 2017 This is a HR Application that is used enterprise wide by Target employees to self-manage their Target Benefits. This application offers live, real-time access to employee's personal information in a confidential setting. It also provides convenient functions to update address information, view paycheck stubs, change direct deposit information, review total compensation, identify emergency contacts and change federal W4 with holdings. This application acts like a bridge between User interface and the 3 different HR backend systems    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Created the Controllers using Controller Actions, Action Results, Views, presenters and View Models using MVC.  • Develop and maintain web application using VB.NET including ASP.Net, MVC, C# .Net and Web services under Visual Studio 2015 environment.  • Implemented CRUD functionality with Entity framework in ASP.NET MVC and implemented sorting, filtering and paging with Entity framework in MVC.  • Responsible for developing the reusable Components on UI(Views) by developing the Partial Views, View starts, and reusable components for implementing the business rules with C# and OOPS Concepts.  • Written code for developing Single Page Applications (SPA) used several inbuilt JavaScript language core directives expressions and modules, Created modern front-end template frameworks forJavaScript using JQuery like custom directives, decorations and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Frameworks Angular And ReactJS  • Developed the independent Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) services and defined Service Contracts for specific functionality in project search module.  • Utilized ADO.Net Entity Framework technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ.  • Implemented web Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server and developed form validation with AngularJS valid, and data validation.  • Implemented Security in Web Applications using Azure and Deployed Web Applications to Azure.  • Created WCF Services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to Client Application and required data in the form JSON format, parsing the data using objects and arrays.  • Built WCF clients to make synchronous calls to Web Services over SOAP and HTTP.  • Developed Windows services to store SQL Server data in to Cloud base data warehousing by usingMicrosoft Azure  • Responsible for the overall layout design that meet cross-device compatibility using Bootstrap, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Migrating the source code and work items for different assets of TFS like build definitions and test plans to VSTS  • Integrated applications with back-end databases using SQL Server, Used ADO.Net extensively to interact with SQL and written stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursors for calling from one package to another package.  • Worked on SQL queries and optimization techniques to improve the Performance of the application and crystal reports using SSRS.  • Implemented WEB API Services for CRUD operations with HTTP verbs GET, POST, PUT and DELETE and used Postman to test the service.  • Implemented Unit Testing, Integration Testing and involved in Regression testing if needed.  • Used GitHub as the version control to achieve a good communication between the teammates to write better code, code review for pull requests.  • Utilized the TFS source control to keep track of new and past versions of code written in the application.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015/2017, ASP.Net MVC, WCF, WPF, REST, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Microsoft Azure, Unit, GIT, Oracle, SQL Server 2012/2014, SSRS. JAVA / J2EE Developer Bank of America April 2014 to October 2015 The bank offers financial products and services for corporate and institutional clients along with private and business clients. Designed, developed and deployed MVC application which used Entity Framework, AngularJS etc.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed web interfaces and business logic using JSF, Spring, JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, Spring Hibernate, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, and XML Technologies.  • Used Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.  • Used Springs Hibernate and DAO layers to offer abstraction for the business from the database related code (CRUD).  • Designed and developed software applications using Java, Multithreading, Servlet, AngularJS, Bootstrap 3, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, JSF, Ajax, JQuery,  • Design and Development of modules involving Spring MVC, Web Services, JMS, JSTL.  • Hibernate frame work is used in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Developed International Error Correction Screens using custom front end forms using XML, XSLT, Angular JS 1.5 and JQuery.  • Implemented Logging framework using Log4J.  • Used SVN as the version controlling system, Maven to build applications and Eclipse as the IDE for application development.  • Developed the RESTful web services to provide user a way to run the job and generate daily status report.  Environment: JDK 1.8, Eclipse, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (REST & SOAP), Maven, SQL, SVN, Junit, Log4j, JMS, DB2, Servlets HTML, AJAX, JQuery, Log4J, XML. JAVA / J2EE Developer State farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL March 2013 to March 2014 Worked in the development of web based application where customers can access the complete account information view the status of insurance claims, profile and policies. Customer has the online renewals and payment uploads.    Responsibilities:  • Spring Framework which is based on MVC Design Pattern was used to develop this application.  • Designed and developed the front end using JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, jQuery.  • Used Java JSP for form handling, session storage and process request for the dynamically generated web pages.  • Developed client request validations and processing using Spring Validation.  • Used JDBC for data retrieval from the database using Spring DAO.  • Use of Multi-Threading and collection framework including List, Map etc.  • Developed and Deployed the Application on Eclipse IDE and Tomcat, JBoss Application and Web Servers.  • Involved in monitoring the SQL Server Performance issues using third party tools like Diagnostic Manager and Performance Analysis.  • Wrote complex SQL queries including inline queries and sub queries for faster data retrieval from multiple tables.  • Loaded the data into database tables using SQL loader from text and excel files.  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and developed DTDs, XSD schemas for XML.  • Installed and configured Eclipse and Maven for development.  • Created unit test packages using JUnit.  Environment: Java, JDBC, PL/SQL, Spring Application Framework, Spring AOP, Tomcat, Maven, jQuery, JavaScript, tag libraries, XML, XSD, Agile Methodology, Unix, Windows, Web Services, Eclipse, Use cases, UML. Java Developer ICICI BANK - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2011 to February 2013 The Loan Monitoring System is intended to deliver a system to support credit management for the bank. The system is used for accepting loan forms, generating reports and tracking the status of loans.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using Struts Model View Controller (MVC) design Pattern.  • Designing the Graphical User Interfaces using HTML, JSP and JSF.  • MYSQL is used to store the data.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations and validation framework for server side validations.  • Involved in configuring web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the Struts framework.  • Extensively used HTML, JavaScript and AJAX for client side development and validations.  • Hibernate frame work is used in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP. Developed Web Services for Payment Transaction and Payment Release.  • Wrote test cases in Junit for unit testing of classes and implemented the logging using log4j.  • Involved in deploying the application in test environment using Tomcat.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP/HTML, XML, JQuery, AJAX, Hibernate, JBoss, DB2 RDBMS, ANT, Tomcat Server, Log4J. Java Developer Meta business solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2009 to January 2011 Meta EMR Meets the key needs of healthcare organizations in an EMR: improve clinical processes and workflow, demonstrate higher levels of care, share medical records among healthcare professionals, and access medical records from any location.    Responsibilities:  • Development of module end to end from JSP conversion from HTML to Data access layer.  • Prepared the SQL Queries.  • Developed JSPs and Servlets to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side. Extensively used JSP standard tag libraries and Struts Tag libraries.  • Application developed using Eclipse IDE.  • Wrote SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, and Packages to meet the business requirements  • Extensively used HTML, JavaScript and AJAX for client side development and validations.  • Used Spring IOC as Dependency Injection.  • Developed client request validations and processing using Spring Validation.  Environment: Struts, spring, Hibernate, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Eclipse, Tomcat, and MYSQL. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT (9 years), JAVA (7 years), JSP (7 years), jQuery (7 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages C, Java, Linux shell scripting, R, Python, XML, SQL, HTML5 and CSS.  Java/J2EE Technologies J2EE, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, log4j, Hibernate, Spring, Web Services (SOAP and REST), Swing, Struts.  Framework tools  Hibernate, Spring (MVC/AOP/IOC/Batch/Spring Templates), Maven, Ant, Struts, Junit, Jasmine, Protractor, Mockito, Angular2 JSF/Primefaces and Jasper Reports.    Web Servers WebLogic, Jboss, Tomcat, Glassfish, and WebSphere.  Databases MSSQL, MYSQL, and Oracle, MS-Access, DB2, SQL Server.  Software Development Methodology Agile and Extreme Programming.  Design Tools and IDE's NetBeans, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Maven, STS, IReports and Rational Rose.  Web Designing HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, AngularJs, JavaScript, AJAX.  Spring Modules: Boot, Security, Schedule, and Data.  Automated Continues Build and Deploy Tool: Jenkins.  Automated Job Control System: Autosys.  Code Management: GIT, Tortoise SVN.  Project Management Tools: VersionOne and Jira.