Sr. FULL STACK JAVA DEVELOPER Sr. FULL STACK <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Sr. FULL STACK JAVA DEVELOPER - CINCOM SYSTEM Cincinnati, OH • Over 12+ years of comprehensive experience in the Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of enterprise applications with web technologies and distributed technologies.  • Experience in building single page applications(SPA) using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2  • Experience in J2EE technology stack like JSP, Servlet, JMS, JAXP, JAX-RPC, JTA, Java Mail, JNDI, RMI, JDBC and Web Services.  • Experience building Single Page Application (SPA) with Angular and React.  • Good experience in data processing  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, XML and XSL/XSLT and AJAX.  • Expertise in developing applications using Spring Framework, Inversion of Control and Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, and ORM Technology like Hibernate.  • Experience in writing the ANT Scripts and UNIX Scripts for building and deploying the working enterprise application.  • Experience using ES 6 for creating applications using React JS and Angular2.  • Experience with versioning tools like Clear-case, SVN and CVS.  • Extensive experience in designing, developing and implementing Model View Controller using, Spring and Hibernate framework.  • Skilled in leading frameworks as React JS to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution.  • Good knowledge of database connectivity JDBC for databases like Oracle, SQL Server and DB2.  • Experience with Cloud Computing environment like Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Docker Containers.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development.  • Hands-on experience with design patterns like Dependency injection, Singleton, Domain Object, DAO, Session Facade, Intercepting filters, Factory pattern, Service Locator, Front Controller, Command pattern, MVC.  • Expertise in developing Internet/Intranet Applications with SOA, Web Services SOAP, and RESTful.  • Hands on experience on major components of Hadoop Ecosystem like Hive, HDP, HBase, Pig and Sqoop, Impala, Oozie, Zookeeper, MapReduce.  • Experience with messaging systems like Kafka, Kafka event sourcing, ActiveMQ and RabbitMQ.  • Experienced in working with Jenkins, Bitbucket for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD).  • Experience in application build tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle and Jenkins/Hudson for continuous integration. Work Experience Sr. FULL STACK JAVA DEVELOPER CINCOM SYSTEM - Cincinnati, OH March 2019 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and Maintenance phases with TDD approach.  • Designed and developed the UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Node JS, and Backbone.js, Ext JS, AJAX, and JSON.  • Used Bootstrap for responsive design which allows users to access it from any device.  • The presentation layer used Spring MVC to implement the MVC architecture design and facilitates user interface designed by the use of JSP's and tag libraries.  • Worked on Media Queries as a complement to the Grid System of UI Bootstrap to facilitate the implementation of the responsiveness  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js accommodate these advanced and fast technologies. Enhanced User Interface based on Adobe Flex.  • Developed entire user interface using various Ext JS components like Form panels, Tab panels, Viewport, and Editable grids.  • Involved in CQ5/AEM related design and framework development using templates, components widgets, CQ5 bundles, JCR/Sling API, configuring Cloud Services, publish and author set-up.  • Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and developed HTML templates with various Angular directives such as ng-app, ng-controller, ng-repeat, ng-fang-show, ng-hiding-change, ng-blur etc.  • Used various Angular UI Bootstrap components such as calendars, masks, uploaders, sliders, alerts, modal dialogs etc. For developing the UI.  • Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.  • Developed reporting dashboards, which processes large amount data that are stored in Elastic Search and My SQL platforms and generates reports and displays in dashboards.  • Identified and created indexes, mappings and data in Elastic search and used Elastic Search REST API's both single and multi-document API's. API's like Index, Multi Get, Bulk etc.  • Developed and implemented Swing, spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework for the application.  • Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with the server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Used spring JDBC Template to do CRUD operations with Database.  • Developed modules in the application using the Microservices architecture style.  • Involved in building and deploying scripts using Maven3.3 to generate WAR, EAR and JAR files.  • Developed Applications using Rule Engines, Drools 4. X and ILOG with corresponding to validate the business User Roles.  • Wrote AngularJS services to consume Restful web service to load data.  • Used SVN for version control and source repository, Used Fisheye for Code Review and JIRA for reporting Bugs.  • Worked on Column Filters of Data table using jQuery and ReactJS.  • Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services and used MongoDB (NoSQL) for database services.  • Used ActiveMQ messaging to set up communication between applications in ESB. And flows are created for JAX-WS and JAX-RS web services. FULL STACK JAVA DEVELOPER PROCORE TECHNOLOGIES - Carpinteria, CA November 2014 to March 2019 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Participated in the complete software development lifecycle tasks (design, coding, testing, and documentation).  • Extensive knowledge and experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS.  • Developed the single page application following Agile Scrum, participated in daily standups, sprint reviews, Kickoffs and used Jira for project management.  • Responsible for preparing the use cases and for designing and developing object models, class diagrams with UML Specifications.  • Designed and Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using Angular2.0, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery Created web application prototype using JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Implemented nested views and routing using the Angular Router as per the requirement. GUI was developed using JSP, HTML, and AngularJS and created reusable components in Angular2.0 using Custom Directives Filters, Services, and Partials.  • Developed pages using Angular2.0 directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and Angular components such as grid, buttons, carousels, date pickers, modal dialogs, and other input components.  • Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using angular UI router.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC intensively that leverages classical MVC architecture and JavaScript for major data entry that involved an extreme level of data validation at the client side.  • Integrated Single sign-unsinged and Active directory on Spring security layer, successfully maintained users and groups integrity in the application.  • Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Good experience in developing Ext JS applications with extensive server calls using AJAX and stronghold in handling the server data and exceptions to provide the interactive user experience.  • Developed components of web services (JAX-WS, REST, JAX-RPC) end to end, using different JAX-WS standards with a clear understanding on WSDL (type, message, port Type, bindings, and service).  • Used Junit and Mockito framework for unit testing of application and Log4j 1.2 to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions  • Designed and developed data access layer using Data Access Object (DAO), Session Facade, Business Delegate, and Singleton design patterns.  • Responsible for implementing Angular2 components using CLI for the provider portal.  • Configured AWS IAM and Security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Involved in provisioning AWS S3 buckets for backup of the application and sync this content with remaining S3 backups, by creating an entry for AWS S3 SYNC in crontab.  • Configured hibernate to make use of second level caching to display the static lookup data from the database. JAVA DEVELOPER VERITAS TECHNOLOGY - Santa Clara, CA July 2008 to November 2014 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology, designed use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase.  • Developed Monolithic application and used Swing, JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery for front end development.  • Migrated JSP's from Struts1 to Struts2 eliminating custom tags to increase the ease and performance.  • Developing Web applications using Java, J2EE, Struts and Hibernate. Developing Action Form classes, Form beans, and Action classes using Struts framework.  • Implemented Struts Dispatch Action class and form bean classes using Struts framework.  • Struts Validator Framework's validate plug-in is used to handle Client-server validations.  • Implemented Multithreading for unblocking the user for performing multiple actions on the database.  • EJB Session Beans were used to process requests from the user interface and CMP entity beans were used to interact with the persistence layer and developed EJB MDB's and message Queue's using JMS technology.  • Used Stateless Session Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) to encapsulate the business logic.  • Java message queue (JMS) is used for exchanging the information and messaging services.  • Build and maintain Solicits, indexes, and complex queries for data analysis and extraction.  • Created Stored procedures and scheduled jobs to support our applications for to create reports for customers.  • Interacted with backend Oracle and wrote stored procedures, functions and cursors for deleting and inserting using PL/SQL.  • Experience in installing, configuring and deploying application on Web Logic Server.  • Used Data Access Objects (DAO) to abstract and encapsulate all access to the data source.  • Modified WSDL and XSD schema while generating web service client artifacts by using jaws in Jboss server and RAD 8.x  • Written JUnit test scripts to automate the unit testing process  • Used MAVEN built tool for compiling and generating war file using maven-war-plugin.  • Developed UI screens using Struts tags in JSP.  • Extended standard action classes provided by the Struts framework for appropriately handling client requests.  • Configured Struts tiles (tiles-defs.xml) for reusing view components as an application of J2EE composite pattern.  • Developed Web Service client interface with JAX -RPC from WSDL files for invoking the methods using SOAP.  • Developed RESTful web services for the Downstream Systems  • Designed DTO, Business Delegate, Factory and Singleton design patterns.  • Developed the application on Eclipse and used it for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation  • Used Ajax to give ease to the user by providing data while filling the forms in the application  • Developed Web Services using Apache Cxf to provide the health record information to the care provider.  • Developed WSDL and transferred data using the SOAP protocol.  • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and developed Hibernate mapping between MVC model and database.  • Developed SQL queries and Stored Procedures using Oracle 11g to retrieve and insert into database schemas.  • Coded different deployment descriptors using XML. Generated Jar files are deployed on Apache Tomcat Server. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Spring, jquery, Jsf, .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Redux, Json, Php, Python Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  JAVA, J2EE, JSF, hibernate 3.0, Spring, Swing, JavaScript, SQL, HTML, Alfresco 2.1, JPA, EJB 3.0.  HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XHTML, PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 2+, AngularJS (1.x), Node.js, React JS, Ember.JS, Redux, Vue's, AJAX, JSON, DOM, XML, Bootstrap, SASS/LESS, and Restful API.  LANGUAGES  C, C++, Python, Ruby on Rails, C#, .Net and Java.  DATABASES  Oracle, Ingres, MySQL, Server, MongoDB.  DEVELOPMENT TOOLS  Eclipse, Putty, WSFTP, Toad, Text pad, TestNG, Find Bugs, OpenEJB, NetBeans 6.9.  Atom, Sublime Text, Visual Studio code, and Edit Plus.  TOOLS AND UTILITIES  Jira, Adobe Photoshop, MS Office, MySQL Workbench, Dreamweaver, In Vision.