GoLang Developer GoLang <span class="hl">Developer</span> Addison, TX Work Experience GoLang Developer Panacea IT (Remote) March 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed JSON REST APIs in a TDD environmentforcontrollingandmonitoringthejobs  • WrittenMicroservices  • CreatedMicroserviceconfigurationjsonfiles  • Developed backup and recovery engine for VM backup/recovery using VMware vSphere APIs, GoLang programming language and RabbitMQ Message bus (communication interface).  • Used Go Programming Language (GoLang) and Scala in the development of the application.  • Created PDF reports using Golang and XML documents to send it to all customers at the end of month with internation language support.  • Used GOLANG to log the different host system event and alert information to Cassandra database.  • Worked on micorservicesstartupandsynchronizationsequencing  • Production log analysisusingSplunk.  • Dockerized MongoDB 3.2 and setup a replica set with persisted data in a Docker network.  • Programmed the invoicing web application using Golang and PostgreSQL as the backend.  • Utilized Go Channels and Routines to enhance the performance of the invoicing application.  • Contributed source code in Golang to developing an automation framework for AWS CFN.  • Setup Rancher management platform with Kubernetes as the orchestration framework for running Docker containers in all environments.  • Data  • Unit testingandbug fixes forthemodules.  • Created Docker image for the Go Microservice, and implemented deployment to run in Kubernetes  • Created Docker imageforthe Go Microservice, andimplementeddeploymenttorun in Kubernetes    Skills used: Golang, Microservices, Webservices usingRestAPI, AWS, Consul, Splunk, Mesos, Chronos, Cassandra, dbeaver, Docker andVagrant. Java Developer Businessneeds Inc - San Jose, CA July 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • As part of a small team, developed a near real-time event-driven monitoring system that collects billions of records yearly. The system is a full microservices architecture written in Python and Golang utilizing distributed message passing via NSQ (nsq.io), with JSON and XML as data exchange formats  • Designed and implemented lexer/parser for specification test files in Golang.  • Contributed source code in Golang to developing an automation framework for AWS CFN.  • Experience of the design patterns and best practices with golang(and more) to start with design and get to deployable production systems including scale monitoring and instrumentation platform.  • Enhanced, fixed functional and performance related bugs in core product written in GO (Golang).  • Setup Kubernetes cluster (Master & Minion) on AWS(Ubuntu) using CFN and Ansible.  • Configured and deployed more than 70 microservices in a redundant configuration on more than 30 virtual servers in the cloud. Services are controlled by supervisord and run as system services.  • Created a RESTful Library of utilities to extract various data from PostgreSQL, DynamoDB, and Kepware Server  • Set up separate Docker container for Mongodb, Uwsgi App server and the Nginx Server.    Skills used: Java, Microservices, Webservices usingRestAPI, AWS, Consul, Splunk, Mesos, Chronos, Cassandra, dbeaver, Docker andVagrant. SR. Web Developer SPX, NC May 2010 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, implementation and Coding.  • Reviewed requirements with the Support Group and developed an initial prototype.  • Integrated web services and messaging systems with Mulesoft ESB.  • Experience in building load balanced environments and administering SOA components.  • Created Mule ESB Flows, performed payload transformation.  • Developed a middleware data identity mapping solution utilizing Spring, JPA.  • Designed & implemented the error processing strategy for the SOA integration.  • Involved in creating Servlets and JSP. ponents like Navs, Navbars, Pagination, Alerts, Progress bars etc.Used JQuery to make RESTful API calls and Designed/documented REST APIs for collection and retrieval of high data.  • Involved in creation of web services, and web methods with hibernate, Implemented  • Web Services in JAXP based on SOAP protocols using XML and XSLT.  • Worked extensively in creating data sources with JDBC  • Involved in the analysis, design and development of the application components using JSP, Servlets, EJB components and J2EE design pattern.  • Made changes in the JSP pages according to the requirement.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various WebPages using AJAX, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created RPC-based service for reading large volume of data from PostgreSQL using GO(Golang).  • Developed custom consumers and producers for Apache Kafka in Go (golang) for cars monitoring system.  • Used GoLang to create backend servers.  • Created Ajax forms for update operations  • Data was converted into JSON using JSP tags.  • Developed Multi -threaded code for web application development.  • Developed online SQL query facility using JSTL to manage the database.  • Worked on the Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Worked on Stored Procedures using the oracle database.  • Registration process handled by entity bean with communicates to the oracle database.  • Developed server side utilities using J2EE technologies Servlets, JSP, EJB.    Environment: Core Java (GUI interfaces, Angular, Bootstrap, Swings and Awt, Threads, Networking) J2EE, MulesoftESB, Servlets, JSP, XML, Design Patterns, Oracle 8i, Cloud computing (Platform as servie), SQL, Pl/Sql, JBOSS, Eclipse, JUnit. Java UI Developer San Jose, CA November 2009 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Worked with NoSql and Big Data technologies such as MongoDB, Cassandra, Hadoop.  • Worked on JavaScript to validate input, manipulated HTML elements using JavaScript, developed external JavaScript codes that can be used in several different web pages.  • Implemented EJB's session bean to maintain mobile session.  • Implemented methods to validate, invalidate, keep Alive session for login process and maintaining session credentials.  • Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the angular js front-end.  • Providing scalable solutions via erlang, golang, AWS, protocol buffers and supervision trees.  • Developed Golang API and chat-bot using TDD to automate software deployments and rollbacks using Github webhooks.  • Programmed the invoicing web application using Golang and PostgreSQL as the backend.  • Architected and developed a Golang API using TDD to aggregate data to show application server alignment.  • Engineered Network Analytics Engine (NAE) for Aruba switch, implementing RESTful layer in Golang,  • High use of Selenium in collecting client's information, development, identifying test cases, compatibly testing, automation of test scripts, Flex application testing and design, requirements review, design review, test plan review.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC.  • Set up Selenium tools from scratch and configured various other peripherals tools to perform Selenium test.  • Experience Working on Selenium , QC, Rally, QTP, LoadRunner, JMeter, Fiddler, SOAP UI, REST/SOAP testingand API testing  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern  • Deployed the application on Weblogic Application Server cluster on Solaris environment.  • Deployed EJB Components on WebLogic.  • Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF.  • Architecture& Designed the Restful web services and developed core component layers like xml validation, core service layer, solr search and transformation components.  • Development of AJAX toolkit based applications using JSON.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript  • Involved in adding AJAX, JavaScript components to some of the JSP pages wherever needed.  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Worked on Data Services implementation for the CRUD services.  • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, Prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Involved in JUnit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes.  • Developed XSD for validation of XML request coming in from Web Service.  • Implemented a prototype to integrate PDF documents into a web application using iText PDF library.  • Extensively used QA tools: Selenium, QuickTest Professional (QTP), WinRunner.  • Designed and developed client and server components of an administrative console for a business process engine framework using Java, Google Web Toolkit and spring technologies.  • Make files and the like. Worked with Clearcase source management.  • Configured glassfish server; Design shipping rate template upload UI using Adobe Flex and Developed Jasper report.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSTL, JSF, ICE Faces, XML, iRise , CSS, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Weblogic, APACHE CXF and REST, JQuery, AJAX, ExtJS, JavaScript, JSP & SERVLET, Oracle, CRUD, SQL, UML, Eclipse, Junit, MAVEN, ITEXT, , JavaScript, Weblogic Application Server, ANT, Junit, Solaris, Windows, Jax-B, JMS, Log4j. Java Backend Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA February 2009 to October 2009 Responsibilities:  • Created the web application using MVC Struts framework.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML and DHTML embedded in JSP.  • Developed web layer using Struts framework to manage the project in MVC pattern  • Used Eclipse to develop J2EE Components. Components involved a JSP front end (Light weight). CSS and scripts were also part of front end development  • Designed J2EE project with Front Controller pattern  • Designed CSS and tag libraries for Front end  • Extensive use of Java scripts and AJAX to control all user functions.  • Developing front end screens which includes JQuery, JSP, JavaScript, Java and CSS  • Attend business and requirement meetings  • Developed custom consumers and producers for Apache Kafka in Go (golang) for cars monitoring system.  • Programmed the invoicing web application using Golang and PostgreSQL as the backend  • Contributed source code in Golang to developing an automation framework for AWS CFN.  • Involved in Test Driven Development. Written automated unit test functions in golang to cover the API code.  • Using ANT to create build scripts for deployment and run the JUnit test cases  • Using VSS extensively to code check-in, checkout and version them and maintain production, test and development views appropriately.  • Understand the sources of data and organize it in a structured table setup  • Deliver daily reports and data sheets to clients for their business meetings.  • Code review, unit testing and local Integration testing.  • Integrating of application modules, components and deploying in the target platform.  • Involving in the requirement study, and preparation of detailed software requirement specification.  • Involving in low level and high level design and preparation of HLD and LLD documents Visio. Testing support during integration and production    Environment: C, Java, Hadoop, Hive, Sqoop, Zookeeper, MapReduce, JSP, J2EE, Struts, JDBC, Oracle, SQL, Log4j, JUnit, VSS, Ant, Shell script, Visi Fullstack Developer Bank Of America April 2008 to January 2009 Responsibilities:  • REBA is a Retail Business Administration application developed using Adobe Flex 3.0 and Java, Web Services, J2EE design patterns using DAO and with log4j logging, security using LDAP authentication and authorization.  • The web front-end is implementation of Flex, JSP, Servlet and using calls to RESTful web services, database DB2 using DAO.  • Have participated in business requirement gathering and use case analysis and design of the application.  • Have been involved in Java/J2ee development using Java, Servlets, Adobe Flex 3.0, ActionScript 3 to build highly interactive front end using Flex Cairngorm framework and using RESTful Web Services with standard design patterns.  • Implemented J2EE Design Patterns DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object), and Service Locator and MVC design patterns.  • Have done code review and configuration build management for the application using Ant, ClearCase.  • Have used IDE tool Eclipse Ganymede for development, integration with web application server Tomcat 6.0 and JBoss.  • Used database DB2 for the back-end system and have written SQL.  • Developed components in test-driven environment using testing framework JUnit.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Adobe flex 3, Cairngorm framework, RESTful Web Services, XML, ActionScript 3, ANT, Eclipse, Tomcat 7, JBoss, ClearCase, Oracle 10g, Toad, Windows XP, UNIX. Java UI Developer Constant Contact - Boston, MA June 2007 to March 2008 Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and Development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Review and guide the application architects with Object Oriented Design using Rational Unified Process (RUP) and also proficient in using UML-Rational Rose.  • Implemented the web-based application following the MVC II architecture using Struts Framework.  • Developed user defined custom JSP tags to separate presentation from application logic.  • Responsible for creation and consumption of Web services using SOAP and WSDL.  • Designed, developed JSP, Servlets, and EJB and deployed them on WebLogic Application Server.  • Used Hibernate for mapping the Object oriented model of Java with Oracle.  • Involved in writing SQL, Stored procedures and PL/SQL rebuilding the application for Oracle database end.  • Developed HTML, JavaScript and Perl Scripts for UNIX platform deployment.  • Used ANT and Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files and doing unit testing using Junit.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Struts, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, Hibernate, Spring, Web Services (SOAP), WebLogic App Server, Oracle 10g/9i, JUnit, JDBC, PL/SQL, Perl, Eclipse, ANT, Maven, Rational Rose, Solaris/ Windows2000. Education B.S. University of Washington - Seattle, WA