Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Thermo Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh, PA ? Over 9+ years of software development experience using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  ? Experience in building UI technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap4 and scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, DOM, AngularJS, Angular2 and ReactJS.  ? Strong experience in using JSP's, JSTL, Struts Tag Libraries, Tiles, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap3 and Bootstrap4 for developing Front-end web pages.  ? Developed web applications by implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture.  ? Hands on experience in writing light weight Node.js, Express server using JavaScript, JQuery to make connections between server and databases like MongoDB.  ? Experience in building applications using like Java, spring, Hibernate, EJB, JPA, JSF, Struts, Servlets, JSP.  ? Strong experience in using spring models like Spring MVC, Dependency Injection, JDBC, JTA, Spring Rest, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring Eureka, Spring Netflix.  ? Experience in developing Spring JDBC Templates and Spring Rest Templates.  ? Implemented various design patterns like DAO, DTO, Singleton, Prototype, Service Locator, MVC.  ? Experience in Service Oriented Architecture and Web Services using SOAP and REST.  ? Expertise in XML technologies like DTD/Schemas, DOM, SAX and XSLT.  ? Experience using SOA which include Universal Description and Discovery Integration (UDDI) and Web Services Description Language (WSDL) using SOAP protocol.  ? Experience in developing and deploying the microservices applications in Pivotal Cloud Foundry (Paas).  ? Experience in Amazon Web Services knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, RDS, VPC, Direct Connect, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM and SNS.  ? Experience in using Amazon Web Services and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  ? Deployed the Application in Docker container and made easily accessible at run time using Cloud Foundry and other cloud services like AWS, Netflix, Eureka, Spring Hystrix as fall back method Spring Ribbon.  ? Experience in Database Modeling, design and development of PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and packages in relational databases Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL, SQL Server 2000.  ? Experience in managing and maintaining Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  ? Experience with build tools like Maven, CICD-ANT and logging tools like Log4J  ? Experience in unit testing using Karma, Jasmine, Junit and integration testing using Selenium, Continuum, Hudson, Jenkins and Apache Camel.  ? Experience in deploying application on Tomcat, Web Sphere, Web Logic and JBoss servers.  ? Experience in document preparation includes Requirement Specification, Analysis, Design Documents, Test cases and User Training Documents and Technical Help Documents.  ? Experience working in SDLC methodologies like Agile Scrum, RUP and Waterfall Model  ? Experienced in Development, Testing and Deployment of various domain applications on Windows and UNIX platforms using IDE's such as Eclipse, NetBeans, Spring Test Suite, IntelliJ.  ? Good experience in integration tools and frameworks like Spring Integration, Mule ESB, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka and Apache Camel to integrate and standardize the enterprise application technologies Work Experience Full Stack Developer Thermo Fisher Scientific - Pittsburgh, PA June 2016 to Present Description: Thermo Fisher Scientific is one of the American multinational biotechnology product development company which provides cures for cancer for customers, protecting the environment or making sure food is safe. Digital Engineering group provides various enterprise initiatives and technical projects related to Fisher Scientific and Thermo Fisher Scientific ecommerce web sites. I'm a part of agile team for designing, developing and maintaining web applications and microservices.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Agile SCRUM methodology.  ? Implemented a security module in Angular that integrates with the Spring security in the backend with Authentication and Authorization and defined various custom directives.  ? Implemented Routing and HTTP modules for navigation between the components and invoking the Rest Services using GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE methods.  ? Analysis, design and development of Application based on J2EE using Spring and Hibernate.  ? Used Spring framework for Model View Controller (MVC) and integrated with Hibernate.  ? Used Spring inheritance, Auto-wiring, Core Containers, ORM modules for migration from EJB to Spring, Spring Quartz for scheduling tasks to generating reports and emails to clients.  ? Implementing or exposing the Microservices to base on RESTful API utilizing, implementing the Microservices to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC. Worked on SOA Web Services using SOAP with JAX-WS for large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  ? Used RestAPI with JAX-RS for consuming Restful web services.  ? Implemented Separate controller per form using Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, view resolver and Request mapping annotations and Rest Controllers annotations.  ? Developed API using AWS Lambda to manage the code and run the code in AWS.  ? Good experience with Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Spring Security, Spring Quartz batch jobs. Used Executor Framework to deal with Java Threads.  ? Deployed SpringBoot based Microservices into Docker container using Amazon EC2 services.  ? Used AWS cloud watch in maintaining and monitoring of production and corporate storages.  ? Developed and deployed applications in Pivotal Cloud Foundry (Paas) cloud platform.  ? Experience with building Docker images and running them on Docker container.  ? Used Oracle as backend database and integrated with Hibernate to retrieve Data Access Objects.  ? Worked on packages to run using dynamic SQL and developed UNIX Shell scripts.  ? Configured and used Maven scripts to deploy application in server.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access with Hibernate to implemented CRUD operations  ? Implemented Second level of caching using Hibernate configuration files, EHCache provider.  ? Implemented Hibernate join strategies, to select elements from different tables in efficient way.  ? Used SQL, HQL and Hibernate Criteria queries, depending on the complexity of the Object.  ? Configured and administered Jenkins for CI/CD into JBoss Application Server  ? Involved in preparing the test cases using Junit and Easy mock test case and in the testing phase.  ? Deployed on JBoss 7.1.0 enterprise server with JBoss Native and Metro stack using document style web services.  ? Implemented transactions using XML, Web Services, Microservices, JNDI and Multithreading Executor Services.  ? Designing and developed Microservices using (MEAN Stack) Node.js, Mongo DB, Neo4J, Elastic search on Cisco Private Cloud Open Stack Platform using Express.js.  ? Working on Microservices to manage termination and methods that can produce a Future for tracking progress of one or more asynchronous tasks. Experience in Building Web Service Contracts in SOA Service Manager.  ? Implemented a metrics collections for the server by utilizing Apache Kafka to stream server-side events.  ? Worked on Drools rule engine and exception rule engine for writing business rule validation.  ? Used Drools decision table using excel sheets with a Spring MVC project.  ? Have knowledge of managing and administering NoSQL database systems using Azure table  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Rest web services, Angular4, Spring 4.x, SpringBoot, Spring cloud, JSON, Maven, Junit, Hibernate, Oracle, JBoss, Docker, ECMA6, AWS lambda, Executor services, Microservices architecture, Netflix ZUUL, Swagger. Java/J2EE UI Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Doral, FL December 2015 to June 2016 Description: Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies offer a variety of insurance products to all segments of the population, including large employer groups, small business and individuals. The purpose of the BCBSND Official Sponsor of Recess Health Grant Program is to serve and show benefit to rural North Dakotans and their health needs and raise awareness for the need for all ages to engage in more daily, physical activity and overall wellness.    Responsibilities:  ? To analyze the root cause for a problem raised, and provide quick solution as soon as possible.  ? Used Agile Scrum to manage the full life cycle development of the project.  ? Developed application using Spring MVC, Hibernate and Rest web services on presentation layer, business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer.  ? Used Spring configuration files, application context object for creating various factory objects.  ? Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation  ? Used Hibernate with JPA annotation and created several persistent classes.  ? Implemented Spring MVC controllers with annotations, validations and using model attributes to pass request from the presentation layer to helper classes in java.  ? Developed and ensured service design Reference Architecture for in SOA Environment.  ? Developed DAO classes with JUnit using Spring DAO package for data access manipulation.  ? Developed JMS components to send messages from one application to other applications.  ? Built EJB with Point-to-Point messaging functionality and MQ Series as JMS provider.  ? Integrated Spring with Hibernate using configurations and implemented DAO layer.  ? Extensively used Hibernate ORM in data access layer to write DAOs.  ? System analysis and deliver integration specification which includes interfaces exposed, technology and protocols used based on Oracle SOA suite of products mainly BPEL, Service Bus and WebLogic application server including JMS resources.  ? Implementation of asynchronous workflow engine based on JMS and EJB entity bean.  ? Experience in installation, configuration, Deployment and management of web and enterprise applications on BEA WebLogic Server.  ? Taken care of complete Java multi-threading part in back end components.  ? The web UI is implemented with DOJO JavaScript framework that includes drag-and-drop, tree and grid controls, and floating panes.  ? Created different XML documents using XML, XSD and XSLT. Used Light DOM parser, and SAX parser for transforming the XML data.  ? Oracle 11g used as backend, worked on SQL queries for persistence of Business Objects using JDO as ORM. Involved in creating different SQL scripts.  ? Used Maven to build application and deploy on the server.  ? Configured and created application log files using Log4j to trace application and GIT for version controlling.    Environment: Java, Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Rest web services, Angular, Junit, Spring IOC, Spring security, Spring Batch, JQuery, Backbone JS, Handlebar JS, IBM WebSphere, Oracle, Apache-Maven, Junit, Hibernate, JMS, WebLogic, WSDL-2, HTML, XML, XST, XSLT. Java/J2EE Developer Magellan Health Services - Maryland Heights, MO August 2014 to November 2015 Description: Magellan Health Services is one of the largest providers of Healthcare Information Technology solutions, services, devices and hardware. Magellan enables physicians, nurses, and other authorized users to share data and streamline processes across an entire organization. Company's comprehensive portfolio of solutions is designed on a common blueprint. Magellan combines technology with knowledge to deliver vital data needed for real-time decision-making.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and production environments.  ? Worked on Agile Development Methodology using Scrum concepts.  ? Worked in developing Spring related backend services (For the flex to access the database).    ? Implemented page specific controllers using Spring MVC components like @Controller, View resolver, dispatch servlet and calls respective helper classes.  ? Implemented caching mechanism using Spring cache, configuration properties using EHcache.  ? Implemented presentation layer of application using HTML, CSS, JQuery and Ajax calls.  ? Implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management and spring AOP.  ? Implemented Hibernate Entity classes that map data base tables using Hibernate annotations.  ? Implemented Hibernate utility classes that used as base implementation for DAO layer.  ? Implemented Hibernate second level caching at hibernate level using EHcache provider.  ? Implemented Search based queries using Hibernate Criteria Query interface.  ? Implemented Rest based web services, implemented security using JAX-RS annotations to handle data formats and used http methods.  ? Build Maven Scripts for the application deployment and integrated with Jenkins server.  ? Involved in writing test cases, implement unit test cases using Junit and mocking frameworks.  ? Deployed on JBoss 7.1 enterprise server with JBoss Native and Metro stack using document literal style web services.    Environment: J2EE, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate 3.x, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, JSF, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Jenkins, Multithreading, Web services, SOAP, XML, Microservices, SaaS, Java Beans, Net Tool, JQuery, JavaScript, Drools, Oracle 10g, WebSphere 7.0, Design Patterns, SVN, Apache Maven, JUnit, XSLT, HTML. Java/J2EEDeveloper Century Bank - Boston, MA May 2012 to July 2014 Description: Century Bank offer services like banking, investment and several types of loans. The project ('EBanking') was developed with the aim of providing customers with various online features like creating new accounts, managing existing accounts, and personal or Home loan applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked in Agile Environment and Iterative Development Process using Scrum concepts.  ? Responsible for design and development of the front-end using HTMLJSP, CSS, JavaScript.  ? Designed and Developed complex UI screens using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSP, JQuery, JavaScript for request management and search and filter modules.  ? Developed Struts Forms, Action classes, performed action mapping using Struts Config Xml.  ? Hibernate is used for ORM and perform CRUD operations with DB.  ? Applied J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Objects (DAO), Front Controller and Adapter during the development of components.  ? Developed and deployed Action Classes and JSP for Dynamic HTML generation.  ? Developed SOAP web services utilizing business logic for CRUD functionality and Rest Easy web services for creating reports and tested using SOAP UI.  ? Implemented stateless session beans in business processing layer.  ? Used GWT for compiling code written in JAVA to JavaScript code, write client-side application.  ? Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP and JAXB in the web service's request response data marshalling as well as Un-marshalling process.  ? Implemented Graphical User Interface using JSP, HTML, JSTL, CSS, JavaScript.  ? Implemented DAO layer and mapped data base tables with Hibernate Entities using annotations  ? Created inheritance mapping and integrated with Hibernate template method calls.  ? Developed reports in Perl for the end users.  ? Used Custom node.js proxy used to simulate API responses before client implementation.  ? Develop the Perl and Shell scripts to automate the finance billing file.  ? Implemented Spring ORM for data persistence support for Hibernate.  ? Built and edited Spring-Hibernate configuration file for subprojects.  ? Used SOAPUI for JAX-WS and JAX-WS API for creating XML-based web services.  ? Involved in writing CSS scripts and JAVA Scripts.  ? Worked on Groovy Support with Quark framework.  ? Used spring JDBC to connect database for web services, Worked On Test Driven Development.  ? Deployed on JBoss enterprise servers with JBoss Native and Metro stack using document literal style web services.    Environment: Java/J2EE 1.7, JSP, SpringBoot, Angular.JS, Node-JS, CSS3 and JavaScript, XML, Eclipse IDE, Maven, Jenkins, ReactJS, Redux, Node JS, Express JS, NPM, Web pack, Dockers, Kubernetes, Cloud foundry, Jenkins, ECMS 6, JSX-react, AXIOS, React life cycle, MONGODB, Mongoose connection, NODE JS service, OPEN ID connection, OAUTH, HTML, CSS3. Java Developer Anthem Inc - Virginia Beach, VA November 2010 to April 2012 Description: In Anthem Inc, there are many critical business applications used for their internal purposes. One among the application is Member Touchpoint Measures (MTM This application is used for internal auditing purpose. The audits are performed and the data is entered into this application. This application also provides the facility to generate reports out of the data populated. The final score will be calculated from the application and will be sent out to the BCBSA association on the monthly basis which is a mandate for WellPoint. There are some scheduled jobs as well that sends out reports to the metrics team.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for design and development of Web Application using Struts Framework and written Action Classes, Form Bean Classes and configure the Application using Struts Configuration file.  ? Did technical design to conform to STRUTS (MVC) framework.  ? Wrote server-side programs by using Servlets and JSP.  ? Designed and developed the HTML front end screens and validated forms using JavaScript.  ? Made use of almost all Object-Oriented concepts like Inheritance, polymorphism and Abstraction.  ? Application and user level configurations have been maintained by using XML Files.  ? Implemented MVC using Struts Framework.  ? Utilized Servlets to handle various requests from the client browser and send responses.  ? Created and implemented PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers.  ? Designing and documenting of the stored procedures.  ? Coding Test Classes using Junit for unit testing, Performed functional integration system and validation testing.  ? Implemented design patterns MVC, Session Facade for developing the application.    Environment:J2EE, JSF, XHTML, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, Oracle, Spring framework, Spring IOC, java multithreading, Prime faces, Spring Batch, JAX WS, soap services, stored procedures in SQL server, Drools, Spring AOP, IBATIS, Hibernate, MySQL, PL/SQL, XML, WSDL, SOAP, SOAP UI, IBM Web Sphere JUnit, Web sphere Application Server, Tomcat. R. Software Engineer Kansas Department of Corrections - Fremont, CA April 2008 to October 2010 • Extensive knowledge of Core Java concepts and its JSEAPI.  • Expertise in Implementing J2EE technologies.  • Having very good implementation knowledge of OOPs concepts.  • Proficiency in Java, JDBC, JNDI, Servlet, Custom Tags, JSP, JSTL.  • Experience in various frameworks like Struts and spring.  • Extensively used ORM tools like Hibernate.  • Hands on experience in various design patterns like MVC-2 and J2EE Design Patterns.  • Hands on experience in using Eclipse as IDE for developing software applications.  • Experience in various servers namely BEA Web Logic Server and Tomcat.  • Good Knowledge in Hibernate, Springs Frameworks.  • Influential character with good technical & pioneering skills and can handle Software projects efficiently.  • Ability to learn new technologies with minimal time period.  • Flexible and versatile to adapt to any new environment and work on any project.  • Ready to work for Advance Tech group with research mindset.  • Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy.  • Designed and developed Groovy Grails applications for end users. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP's, Struts, JSF  Frameworks Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Restful Services, Spring Boot, Spring Eureka, Spring Netflix, Spring Boot  Database Technologies Oracle, MySQL, DB2, MongoDB, Cassandra  XML Technologies XML, XSL, XSLT  Web Services SOAP, REST  Build tools Ant, Maven  SQL Languages SQL Queries, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures  Cloud Environments Azure, AWS, Netflix, Eureka, Mesos, Kubernetes  App Server Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss, Glass Fish  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, TDD (Test Driven Development)