Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Innovative Thinker - Problem Solver Hampshire, IL • Ambitious individual wanting to join a collaborative, dedicated, and hard working team.  • Highly-motivated, innovative, and hard-working individual with set goals in life and determined to complete every assigned task successfully and proficiently as possible.  • Quick learning, communication, and leadership skills allow me to take initiative and work effectively with others. Work Experience Software Developer Northwestern University - Chicago, IL June 2017 to Present Worked on major project to re-write company's main application from Webforms to C#, .NET Core 2.0, Restful web api, Angular 4. Completed in less that 10 months which was expected to take 1 year. New portal supports 2,500+ active users a day. Maintain legacy applications along with writing enhancements. Day-to-day operations include daily stand ups and sub-task creation using JIRA in a Agile environment. Application Developer Comcast - Oak Brook, IL February 2016 to June 2017 Comcast June 2015 – Current  Software Developer - Java  ? Assess and analyze business requirements to provide full-scalable designed and implemented software solutions for business line and users.   ? Working with Customs Border Patrol and Export Compliance to add to existing core web applications and improving framework design  ? Ensuring high quality by executing unit-testing, system integration testing, and customer acceptance testing before deploying new code to production Intern Software Developer - Java United States Postal Service June 2015 to October 2015 Assess and analyze business requirements to provide full-scalable designed and implemented software solutions for business line and users.  * Working with Customs Border Patrol and Export Compliance to add to existing core web applications and improving framework design  * Ensuring high quality by executing unit-testing, system integration testing, and customer acceptance testing before deploying new code to production Internship Zempleo January 2014 to December 2014 A member of the internal data operation team at Ameren and work closely with the Database Administration team.  * Monitor users and space, create/set-up database instances, develop meaningful queries, install vendor scripts and troubleshoot database/application related issues by using provisioning tools and accessing UNIX/Linux Machines.  * Experienced with Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2, Oracle, and Sybase platforms.    ACHIEVEMENTS Education B.S. in Computer Science Southern Illinois University Edwardsville 2011 to 2015 Physics McHenry County College 2010 to 2011 Skills Java (4 years), C# (1 year), Web Development, .NET (4 years), Angular (2 years), Javascript, PHP, MYSQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/acevedojaime