Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Win supply Inc Detroit, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Win supply Inc June 2017 to Present Ohio Jun 17- Present    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Clients and Stakeholders to understand the requirement.  • Participated in Knowledge Transition and played a vital role in building the project team.  • Worked as Java/J2EE Developer.  • Analyzed the requirements and involved in application and database design.  • Designed and used SOAP and REST Web Services (both implementer and Consumer) for the DAO modules involving data retrieval and storing.  • Developed Java classes, Java Design Pattern (including Singleton, Factory) for the API reusability and extensively used Collections, Multithreading, lambda expression concepts during development.  • Worked as a production test support Java Developer in IT department, investigating, analyzing and resolving issues in Java/J2EE based Message Broker System for Fleet Maintenance and Supply Chain application.  • Developed and consumed Restful Web services for middle tier and front end.  • Designed and Developed Representational state transfer (REST) based services and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based services as part of the requirement.  • Developed and consumed Restful Web services for middle tier and front end.  • Good Hands on Experience on Multithreading, Exception handling, Collections Framework.  • Developed build script using Maven to build, package, test and deploy Web applications in Tomcat container.  • Wrote database queries using SQL and PL/SQL for accessing, manipulating and updating Oracle database to interact with backend systems.  • Developed web pages by using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Eclipse to develop source code and debug the application.  • Built a custom cross-platform architecture using Java, Spring Core/MVC, and Hibernate.  • Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications internal and third-party components using SOAP and REST services using Apache-CXF  • Configured Queues and Topics as part of application integration and defined Camel routing between queues/topics.  • Resolve or escalate problems and manage risk for both development and Production support.  • Reviewed the XML logical data model and developed XML schema XSD to validate the model and used JAX-B for Xml- Java Mapping and XML-XSLT conversion.  • Developed and published web-services using WSDL, SOAP and XML, JAX-B based on top-down and bottom-up approaches.  • Experience in pre-testing the Web-Service calls with SOAP UI using endpoints.  • Coordinated Unit Testing by JUnit, Easy Mock, Integration and User Acceptance Testing and developed test cases for bean components.  • Used Subversion for maintaining the component and for release and version management. And JIRA for defect tracking.  • Maven tool has been used for the build and deploy procedure scripts in UNIX, Linux and Windows environment using Hudson.  • Been though Release process for project execution as part of SCRUM.    Environment: Java, J2EE, SOA, Spring, Web Services, CXF, XML, XSD, Shell Script, UML, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, WebLogic, Active MQ, JAX-B, JMS, Axis2, AJAX, Hudson, Maven, Jenkins, Restful, SOAP, JIRA, Oracle, PL/SQL, XPath, XSLT, Oracle application server, SOAP UI, JUnit, SVN, Windows, Unix. Intern Visual Soft - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to December 2015 Java / J2EE Developer    Description: The WTS project is initiated by the Quality department of Aegis as an internal requirement to track the Reporting of the software developers and capture the metrics there by and analyze the same for the future Requirements as part of quality function.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various stages of the project life cycle primarily design, implementation, testing, deployment and enhancement of the application.  • Involved in designing the system based on UML concepts which include data flow diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, state diagrams using Rational Rose Enterprise Edition  • Designed and developed web pages using JSP, HTML and used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Programmed new Java applications, components, Oracle objects and functionality to existing  systems.  • Involved in design and development of the application in n-tier fashion based on MVC architecture standards and utilized Struts framework.  • Developed data model and storedprocedures.  • Developed Servlets to process update information.  • Responsible for maintenance and production support of the application documented design and functional aspects of the application.  • Used JDBC for communicating with the database.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, MVC, JMS, EJB2.0, Oracle application server, Weblogic8.1, JavaScript, Oracle8i, HTML, DHTML, XML, Windows XP.    • Education: Education Bachelor's in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering JNTU Hyderabad Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Atlantis University Skills Java J2Ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Angular, MVC, Javascript, Core Java, Rest, AWS, Angularjs, J2Ee, JEE, JSP, Soap