Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Department of Labor and Industry Camp Hill, PA Summary:  • Having Around 6 years of IT experience in Java/JEE enterprise web application design, development, maintenance & support, involving all SDLC activities like requirements analysis, design, implementation, reviews, unit testing, integration testing, UAT and production deployments.  • Good understanding in business processes retail, E-commerce, insurance, health care and bank sectors.  • Experience in developing applications based on Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts, Java and web-technologies including Core Java, Multithreading /Concurrency, Collections, JDBC& Connection pooling, JMS, Active MQ, JNDI,JAXB, J2EE, EJB, JPA, JavaScript, Servlets, Spring Core, MVC, Hibernate, Web-Services like SOAP, RESTFUL, WSDL and UDDI.  • Strong experience with setting up AEM/CQ5 using Maven and standard Eclipse tools.  • Exposure to dispatcher configurations as part of AEM website architecture.  • Extensive knowledge and experience with Hibernate ORM and JPA implementation.  • Experienced with Java Multithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications.  • Experience with the various Spring modules like Spring Core (IOC), Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring ORM, Spring Integration, Spring MVC etc.  • Experience in spring technologies like MVC, AOP, JDBC, ORM, and WebServices using Eclipse and integration with Hibernate as well as Struts.  • Experience in HTML, DHTML, XHTML and Java Script.  • Experience in working with Mongo DB and Cassandra NoSQL.  • Experience in JVM Performance Tuning: GC and Heap Analysis, Thread dumps, Heap dumps, Memory Leaks, Connection Leaks, Core Dump, Profiling, Refactoring.  • Extensive knowledge in front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JSPs, JSTL, JQuery, Angular JS and JavaScript for Client side validations.  • Experience with AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Experience with web-services and SOA related standards like RESTFUL/JSON/XML and SOAP/WSDL.  • Experience in implementing SOAP & RESTFUL WebServices using JAX-WS, JAX-RS  • Experience with Java API for XML-Based RPC (JAX-RPC) is an implementation of Remote Procedure Call (RPC) technology in the Java language.  • Expertise in web application design using MVC frameworks like Struts and Spring.  • Extensive knowledge in database transactions management for database related changes by integrating JDBC, Hibernate with Spring, also having good knowledge on Apache Camel.  • Experience with XML schema documents.  • Working experience on SQL, Oracle PL/SQL, and Stored Procedures.  • Developed, tested and executed SQL scripts and the PL/SQL blocks.  • Good knowledge and experience in writing Junit test cases with EasyMock, Mockito and Power Mock.  • Experience in using Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Sonar jobs for java code quality.  • Experienced in UNIX shell scripts for data-driven automatic processing.  • Good experience in SCRUM process of Agile (Iterative) development methodology.  • Experience & knowledge with protocols like HTTP, HTTPS, FTP and SMTP.    Professional Summary:  Worked as a TA: FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY ,New Jersey AUG 2014- MAY2015    Worked as a Teaching Assistant/Grader with Professor in college environment involved in grading the assignments and Evaluated the Status Reports for the Software courses ,did couple of real time Projects for developing a Software in academic Environment.  Involved in Grading the courses like Operating Systems, Software Engineering, computer algorithms, Systems programming.  Developed Java web application(login and registration app) using Servlets and Jsp technology.    Worked as a Intern Software Engineer: FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY ,NJ JUNE 2015- MAY2016    This paper proposes a framework used for real-world software development in the academic environment of Fairleigh Dickinson University (FDU). The framework thus far has been used to establish the functional baseline for the Predictive Wastewater Management System (PWMS), a participatory sensing system for monitoring and predicting problems occurring in a municipality's wastewater system for the Eastech Corporation. As software development becomes globally distributed, students need immersion in a realistic software development lifecycle (SDLC) and experience with a framework targeted toward this emerging paradigm.    Fairleigh Dickinson University (FDU) was approached by the Eastech Company to develop a predictive participatory sensing system in order to identify potential problems in a municipality's wastewater management system using Eastech flow-cell sensors. Eastech looked to FDU to deliver a system that would solve this problem. However, there were a number of problems, not readily apparent, that required addressing before a software product with integrity could be delivered. To this end, a team was formed of graduate computer science students and one faculty member.    • Worked as a Software Engineer on the Audit and Alert subsystem of the Predictive Wastewater Management System (PWMS) - a real-world project for the Eastech Company.  • The functional baseline consisted of Requirements Analysis Documents and UML models (using Rational Rose) to specify the requirements and functional and dynamic models for PWMS  • Worked as a Domain Specific Language project to create a menu system in Java and C++.  • Hands on Experience to work on a software project team and understands UML and design patterns.  • Worked as a founding officer of the student ACM chapter at Fairleigh Dickinson, serving as the co-chair of the chapter.    Zensar Technologies, Pune, India Jan 2013 - May 2014  Java/JEE Developer  Description:  This project has three core modules Payment Module, Ticket Access Module and Reschedule Module. Each of these modules contains multiple sub-modules like Batch control, Indexing, Scanning, Payment and others. In payment module, the application allows the users to make online purchases, web check in, reschedule travel etc.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio.  • Created Highly Available Environments using Auto-Scaling, Load Balancers, and SQS.  • Implemented the AJAX, JSPs, and Servlets, in the MVC Struts Framework to effectively handle the workflow of the application.  • Developed Action classes to handle HTTP client requests by using HTTP Servlet Request, HTTP Servlet Response, Action Mapping and Action Form objects.  • Worked with Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injection, Spring Context to provide message sources.  • Developed Spring Configuration file to define data source, beans and Hibernate properties.  • Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, JSF, HTML5, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Implemented single portal application using Spring MVC, Angular JS, REST services and JSON  • Solved problems using a combination of JavaScript, JSON, and JQUERY  • Worked with Spring web flow to represent UI flow.  • Implemented Design Patterns like MVC, Session Facade and Data Transfer Objects.  • Used Hibernate XDoclet tags to generate hbm.xml files.  • Worked with Hibernate for developing Persistence classes to interact with the database.  • Implemented a ftp utility program for copying the contents of an entire directory recursively up to two levels from a remote location using Socket Programming.  • Implemented WebServices for communicating one application to another application by using SOAP, WSDL and EJB Technology.  • Successfully executed the entire test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Worked with Cassandra NoSQL Database  • Used Eclipse IDE, IBM RAD and Web Sphere application server in development.  • Worked with Log4J for logging purpose in the project.  • Involved in building and deploying scripts using Maven to generate WAR, EAR and JAR files.    Environment: Java, J2EE,Socket Programming, Servlets, MVC Struts, Spring, SQL, HTML5, CSS, Java script, Angular JS, WebLogic ,SOAP, UML, MS Visio, Rational Unified Process (RUP), XML, Oracle, Cassandra ,VSS, Log4j, Unix, Maven/Ant, Jenkins.    ING LIFE INSURANCE VYSYA- Bangalore, India May 2010- Dec 2012  Java/J2EE Developer  Description:  ING is one of the leading insurance group, which provides health insurance products and related services, including medical, pharmacy, dental, behavioral health, group life and disability plans, and medical management capabilities and health care management services for Medicaid plans. ING has customers includes college students, part time employees, governmental units, labor groups and many more.    Responsibilities:  • Design, develop and implement Customer Requirements using J2EE, Java, Java Server Pages (JSPs)andXML.  • Involved in development of presentation layer using JSPs and Servlets with Development tool Eclipse IDE.  • Worked with MVC Architecture integrating Hibernate and Spring frameworks.  • Mailing system using java mail API to notify the staff when a customer submitted a policy.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping (ORM) in the persistence layer using hibernate frame work in conjunction with spring functionality.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using spring core module.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection (DI).  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in Spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  • Used HQL and SQL for fetching and storing data in databases.  • Used WebServices - WSDL and SOAP for getting required information from third party  • Implemented WebServices with Apache Axis  • Designed and Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in Oracle to cater the needs for the entire application. Developed complex SQL queries for extracting data from the database.  • Used Apache Ant for the build process.    Environment: Java, JDK 1.5, Servlets, Hibernate 3.2, JPA 2.0, Spring 2.5, Ajax, Oracle 10g, Eclipse 3.4, Apache Ant, WebServices (SOAP, RESTful), Apache Axis 2.0, WebSphere 6.1, Taglibs, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Department of Labor and Industry - Harrisburg, PA January 2019 to Present Harrisburg, PA,USA (Delloite)  Project Name: UCMS(Unemployment Compensation Management System)  Sr. Java Developer  Description:    It's a tax and wage management application that maintains the wages and tax details of Pennsylvania state used for unemployment compensation. This application is used by employers across Pennsylvania state and the department of labor and industry. The Project is developed using JSR Portlets, Hibernate, Spring Dependency Injection,JSP's, JavaScript etc. The Project is vast in terms of size, complexity, functionality and business logic.    Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in sprints and successfully implemented the project following scrum agile practice. Involved in the all phases of Software development life Cycle process, in short our's is 3 weeks sprint.  • Basically I have been working as a full stack developer involved in Designing, coding, unit testing, defect fixing, deployments, issues debugging, etc.  • Actively Participated in the development of UCMS application.  • Ensure effective Design, Development and Validation with client needs and architectural requirements.  • Design, development and delivery of Java based enterprise applications.  • Writing high quality code and creating high quality documentation supporting the design/coding.  • Spring - Expert-level implementation skills with the Core Spring Framework and including other sub-projects like Spring JMS, Spring Security, Spring Data and Spring Integration.  • Excellent knowledge of Relational Databases, SQL and ORM technologies  • Developed the application using JSR Portlets, Spring and Hibernate framework.  • Developed user interface with JSP, Portlets, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML.  • Used Oracle Database for the backend.  • Used log4j for logging information into log files.  • Used WebSphere application Server  • Performed Unit testing.  • Actively involved in meetings with Business Users and subject matter experts of the application.  • Used Team Foundation server for code repository.  • Worked with Spring Core, Spring MVC Framework for Dependency Injection (DI), Spring Context to provide message sources.  • Working with Jenkins, CI/CD pipeline to integrate and deploy the code in to the PCF Server.    Environment: JSR Portlets, Spring, Hibernate, Core Java, JSP, XML, Oracle, WebSphere, TFS, Windows 10. Sr. Java Developer FORD MOTOR COMPANY, MI November 2017 to December 2018 Description:    Vehicle Data Definition Services (VDDS), a master data management system for all in-vehicle module and inter-module communication specifications, is a foundational enabler for Connected Vehicle Services. VDDS provides data services for CAN DBC files, Part II specifications, PARSED module specifications, etc. These services are used by CVDA for vehicle data access configuration set-up and CVFMA for robust feature definition. In addition, VDDS scope includes reference definition services used to decode all data flowing out of the vehicle before downstream consumption. The system manages the complexity of specification variance by vehicle platform and other factors and also ensures data integrity and timely availability. VDDS has main three components CARMon, RDR, and PARSED  CARMon Enabler The CAN Access via Remote MONitor enabler is a design capability and corresponding definitions established by the Advanced Research team to provide the ability to access in-vehicle message signals and diagnostic data conditional upon pre-defined operations. CARMon data groups include: -CAN Signals -Diagnostic Data  RDR Enabler Remote Diagnostic Request is the functionality developed as part of the B2 feature delivery that can be used to trigger various diagnostic service requests from the cloud to the vehicle via a Telematics Control Unit for any Electronic Communication Unit (ECU) over the Controlled Area Network (CAN) bus. The B2 design will be incorporated to be part of the larger CVDA enabler and AVD feature capability in B4, introducing more rigor in the structure and the formatting of the request.  PARSED Enabler Processing and Reporting System for Efficient Data-upload (PARSED) provides a unified system for accessing vehicle ECU deep data that is not currently accessible via the vehicle network. Due to current vehicle network bandwidth limitations, some level of data compression is necessary to provide the fidelity of information while maintaining bus utilization requirements for the vehicle. PARSED is intended to: -Provide an aggregation structure and transmission method for internal software variables that are located in the software of an ECU that might not be transmitted on the vehicle bus. -Aggregate already available data into smaller data structures to be transmitted over high cost data transmission methodologies at a reduced cost without sacrificing data integrity. -Provide a unified access point for cloud based analytics.    Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in sprints and successfully implemented the project following scrum agile practice. Involved in the all phases of Software development life Cycle process, in short our's is 3 weeks sprint.  • Basically I have been working as a full stack developer involved in Designing, coding, unit testing, defect fixing, deployments, issues debugging, etc.  • Working with core java, java8 concepts like lambda expressions, method references, streams, etc.  • Working with spring framework, creating adapter classes, using validator interface to validate the entities.  • Worked with Spring Core, Spring MVC Framework for Dependency Injection (DI), Spring Context to provide message sources.  • Implemented Rest API's for providing the vehicle related data to the customer.  • Working with microservice architecture.  • Worked with sqlserver 2014 Database for storing the data and retrieving the data back to the business.  • Working with Jenkins, CI/CD pipeline to integrate and deploy the code in to the PCF Server.  • Experience in working with GIT as a version control. Checkin the code checkout the code and cherrypick the code etc.  • Working with PCF application Server to deploy the apps into all kinds of environments.  • Involved in migration of higher Java version from legacy version  • Debugging production issues, root cause analysis and fixing.  • Integrated different other modules with current existing reporting applications.  • Extensively used JUnit,Mockito and developed JUnit tests classes. Involved in Jenkins configuration.  • Worked on production issues, used Rally for a issue tracking.  • Worked on multithreading, synchronization, collection framework.  • Published methods as web methods using REST-FUL web services.  • Involved in PL/SQL,Joins, Stored procedures/packages, Triggers, Constraints, Cursors and Views, writing test scripts.  • Developed the application using Core Java, Multi-threading, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, J2EE, Hibernate, and Web Services REST.  • Worked on refactoring the code with couple of usecases. Extensively involved in doing code reviews and submit the review comments based on the code quality and also used sonarqube to test the code quality.  • Developed implementation code to consume core Java, J2EE, web services, used Eclipse for development.  • Working on object storage to store the files in the app it will generate a checksum with that checksum able to import the files in the vdds database.  • Extensive knowledge in working with swagger as a api, developed for all the apps so that consumers can use the swagger endpoint to access the api's.  • Working with XML/XSD and validate the xml fields and unmarshall the data into java objects.  • Working with splunk dashboard to log the errors and present them through it for the customer.    Environment: JDK1.8, Java 1.8, Collections API, Node.js, JUnit, Jenkins, logback, Cassandra,Spring, JDBC, Web Services (RESTful),XML, JSON, SQL Developer,, PCF, Eclipse IDE, Git, Maven, Google Web ToolKit, LeanKit,Rally. Sr. Java Developer Bed Bath & Beyond, NJ May 2016 to November 2017 Description:  Project involved development of Online shopping by implementing Server side java framework. This Application is meant to shop the products online having mainly two modules, user and Administrator. Every user has provided user id and password while registering to the site and provided with respective shopping cart in which they can choose the products and checkout. Then their credit card details and billing address and shipping address are requested and the purchased order is confirmed. Again the Administrator will have his own login screen and has right to modify the users and the products as adding, deleting, or modify the users and the product.  Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in sprints and successfully implemented the project following scrum agile practice. Involved in the all phases of Software development life Cycle process.  • Involved in Designing, coding, unit testing, defect fixing, deployments, issues debugging, etc.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection API's to implement various features and enhancements.  • Worked on Amazon AWS EC2 cloud services for installing, configuring and troubleshooting on various Amazon images like Amazon Linux AMI, Redhat, Ubuntu and Windows.  • Experience with AWS S3 services creating buckets, configuring buckets with permissions, logging, versioning and tagging.  • Created a new repository for new AEM 6.1 instances.  • Provide estimates, designs, and specifications for AEM development modules.  • Developed Adobe CQ6.1/ AEM 6.1 templates and reusable components.  • Worked with Spring Core, Spring MVC Framework for Dependency Injection (DI), Spring Context to provide message sources.  • Implemented and Consumed Jersey RESTFUL web-services to provide the item details to different consumers.  • Implemented spring security for all micro services.  • Developing micro services based architecture that is highly scalable, concurrent and fault tolerant web services for VNF Market Place (Vendors to load the VNF's and automatically validates, loads the packages, instantiates VNF, etc.,) and SiteBot (Validates the Site, Test the basic functionality of VNF in any open stack chosen in UI)  • Used SOAP UI tool for web-services testing.  • Worked with Cassandra Database for real time inventory, price, location data etc.  • Used Automic Application Release Automation (ARA) tool for deploying batch applications.  • Experience in working with GIT as a version control  • Developed Angular JS Single Page Application consuming JSON data from REST services.  • Involved in migration of higher Java version from legacy version  • Debugging production issues, root cause analysis and fixing.  • Integrated different other modules with current existing reporting applications.  • Extensively used JUnit and developed JUnit tests classes. Involved in Jenkins configuration.  • Worked on production issues, used JIRA for a issue tracking.  • Worked on multithreading, synchronization, collection framework.  • Published methods as web methods using REST-FUL web services.  • Involved in PL/SQL, Stored procedures/packages, Triggers, Constraints, Cursors and Views, writing test scripts.  • Wrote database triggers, procedures, functions in PL/SQL and incorporated business rules and constraints.  • Used Associative array to find and then dynamically generate PL/SQL code blocks.  • Used ref-cursor to capture many rows within a PL/SQL block to send the data to Java middle tier.  • Development, enhancement and testing of the Web Methods flow services and Java services.  • Developed and provided support to many components of this application from end-to-end, that is, Front-end (View) to Web Methods and Database.  • Developed the application using Core Java, Multi-threading, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, J2EE, Hibernate, Web Services REST.  • Used Core Java concepts like Multithreading/Executor Service, web sockets, exception handling and collections.  • Developed implementation code to consume core Java, J2EE, web services, used Eclipse for development.  • Developed the System using core java, Servlets , EJB, JPA, JSF.  • Configured DataSources, JMS QUEUES using WebLogic admin console.  • Extensive knowledge in working with WebMethods.  • Created XML transformations and used file adapters using Web Methods.  • Created shell scripts for startup and stop processes for WebLogic.    Environment: JDK1.8, Java 1.8, Collections API, Node.js, JUnit, Jenkins, logback,AEM 6.1/CQ6.1 Cassandra,Spring, JDBC, Web Services (RESTful),XML, JSON, SQL Developer, Anthill Pro, Automic (ARA), WebSphere, Eclipse IDE, Git, Maven, Google Web ToolKit, LeanKit, JIRA.    Aug 2014 - May 2016 Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology JNTU Fairleigh Dickinson University Skills C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, ORM, PYTHON, SVN, VISIO, XML, XSLT, ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAXB, JAX-WS, JBOSS Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: Java, J2EE, C, C++, Python.  Query Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, NoSQL.  Web Technologies: JSP, Servlet, CSS, XML,LDAP, XSD, JavaScript, JQuery & AJAX, GWT.  Frameworks: Hibernate (ORM), Spring, AngularJS, JSTL.  Web-Services: XML, JSON, XSLT, XSD, WSDL, JAXB, REST, SOAP(JAX-WS).  IDE's & Tools: Eclipse, IBM RAD, Maven, SVN, and Git, MS Visio.  J2EE Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, GlassFish, Jboss.  Utilities: Log4J, Logger, JUnit, Ant, Maven.  Design Patterns: MVC, DAO, Singleton pattern & Factory pattern.  Methodologies: UML, Agile Methodology, Scrum.  Database / RDBMS: Oracle, SQL Server &MySQL, DB2, Cassandra.  Tools: SOAP UI, AUTOMIC (ARA), TOAD & SQL Developer.  Networking: TCP/IP, UDP, Java Socket Programming, SNMP, POP3, SMTP, DNS.