Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Newark, NJ • Technical expertise of more than 4 years in the field of Software Development in both Java and J2EE applications.  • Actively involvement in Design and improvement of multi-level Web-app applications utilizing J2EE advancements JAVA, Servlets, JSP, Oracle, MySQL and JDBC.  • Broad involvement in Object Oriented Analysis in creating server side and front-end system utilizing J2EE configuration designs.  • Involvement in all periods of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which incorporates User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment. Profoundly educated in UML, Use Cases, Conceptual Models, Collaboration Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Activity and Sequence Diagrams.  • Expertise in using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script and JSP Custom tags in designing web pages.  • Web development experience using AngularJS, React, Progressive web app, (X)HTML (5), CSS (3), JavaScript, Bootstrap, REST API.  • Knowledge on different databases like Db2, Oracle, My SQL, Mongo DB and writing PL/SQL packages, procedures, Functions, Views, triggers using SQL Plus  • Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), IOC (Inversion of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and familiarity with AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming).  • Implemented various J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Session Facade, Data Access Objects (DAO), Factory, Singleton, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier Distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience in continuous integration and deployment using Jenkins.  • Experience in developing Restful Web Service and Microservices using Jersey framework.  • Experience in deploying and configuring applications onto application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS and Web server Apache Tomcat.  • Experienced in implementing SOAP based web services using Apache CXF, Axis, and Spring CXF in handling HTTP, JMS transports.  • Proficient in programming by using the IDE's such My Eclipse 8.x, Eclipse 3.5, IntelliJ, Good working knowledge on CVS, SVN, ClearCase and GIT for code management and version control.  • Capable of delivering optimized, effective and well-documented code, adhering to quality standards and delivery dates.  • Good understanding and experience in working with team members from different cultures and excellent verbal and written communication and ability to learn new technologies.    Technology  J2EE Technology Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI  Architecture and Framework MVC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Angular JS, EXT JS (MVVM)  J2SE Technology Multithreading, Reflections, Collections, Serialization, Networking, Beans  Middleware Technology JMS, MQ Messaging, Active MQ  IDE Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans, Spring Tool Suite  Database Oracle 10g, 11g, SQL server 2005/2008, MySQL, Mark Logic, MongoDB. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Investors Bank - Short Hills, NJ September 2017 to February 2018 Project Description:  Investors bank is implementing access anytime, anywhere feature for the commercial client where included module of Single sign-on integration for multiple services, Dual authorization option for creation of user functionality and Internal account to account transfers - one to one, many to one, one to many.  Responsibilities:  • Applied Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts (including UML use cases, class diagrams, and interaction diagrams).  • Used the lightweight container of the Spring Framework to provide architectural flexibility for Inversion of Controller.  • Involved in creating and consuming RESTful web services for pre-authorized Transfers.  • Involved in implementing DAO pattern for database connectivity and Hibernate 5.2 for object persistence.  • Implemented the Spring Security standard to facilitate user authorization.  • Worked on Postman for testing request/response client internal/external web service and outbound internal/external web services.  • Developed UI layer components and pages using Spring MVC, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JSTL and JSP, Angular 2.  • Involved in creating Single page application using Angular 2 with services, custom directives and filters.  • Worked on DROOLS Business rules engine to process the data and apply rules to the scenario.  • Used Maven tool to build, config and packaged, deploy an application project and integrated with Jenkins.  • Deploying Spring Boot based microservices onto cloud using Amazon EC2 instance services.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application within Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology  • Worked on tools like JIRA for bug tracking, GitHub for version control.    Environment:  JDK 1.8, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Security, RESTful API, JAX-RS, Hibernate 5.2, XML, JMS, Apache- Tomcat, Angular 2.0, HTML5, CSS3, D3.js, JIRA 7.0, Jenkins, Git, Junit, Maven, Log4J, Bootstrap, Agile - TDD, Amazon EC2 Java Developer Amul - Ahmedabad, Gujarat May 2015 to July 2017 Project Description:  Amul developing an e-commerce Amulonline Java web application for a small retail store, where the store owner (also called the administrator or admin) can sell goods over the internet. In the application, the admin will be able to manage products, 12 customers, and orders, while the customers will be able to order and pay for products. Also, the buyers will have the opportunity to subscribe to an email list in order to get announcements about new arrivals and sales promotions. Furthermore, there will be an email notification after completing an order or subscribing to an email list.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the application based on the architecture of the MVC design pattern.  • Requirement Analysis and Documentation as per SDLC methodologies.  • Converted requirement into flow design diagram using MS Visio.  • Performed data loading using spring - Hibernate.  • Used WSDL to post the services in the UDDI.  • Configured Hibernate second level cache using EHCACHE to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.  • Developed views for JSP pages using AJAX, AWS  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Code development using Eclipse, HTML, JAVA, JSP, SWING, Servlet and SQL.  • Created Functional Test cases and achieved bug fixes.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL (Procedures/Functions/Packages/Triggers) to handle business functionality.  • Used XML SAX parser to simulate xml file which has simulated test data.    Environment: Java, J2SE, JSP, Servlet, SQL, Oracle9i, JDBC, Swing, Eclipse, HTML, SDLC, MS Office, Windows, AJAX, JPA annotations, SOAP web services, WSDL, UDDI, SAX, DOM Education Bachelor's Skills C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, GRADLE, GUI, JAVASCRIPT, Java, Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Hibernate Additional Information Operating Systems Windows 9x/NT/XP/2003/7/8, Linux, UNIX  Web/App Servers WebLogic, Web Sphere, Tomcat, JBoss, Apache  GUI HTML5, XML, XSD, AJAX, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular 2,4,6,7 jQuery, CSS3  Query Languages SQL, PL/SQL  Programming Language C, C++, Java, J2EE  Design patterns  MVC3, Business Delegate, Business Object, Value Object, Front Controller, Database Access Object, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade    Tools Maven, ANT, Gradle, Log4J, JUnit, TOAD, SoapUI 4.0.5, JUnit, Rational Rose