Senior Software Developer Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - vCargo cloud Technologies Work Experience Senior Software Developer vCargo cloud Technologies October 2018 to Present 01 Project Title: Single Window application Senior JAVA Developer October 2018 to Present Software/Environment/Framework: JAVA 1.8, Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate 4, Oracle DB, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, STS, SOAP, REST webservices.  Life Cycle methodology: AGILE Senior Systems Engineer Project in Detail March 2017 to September 2018 Project in Detail:  The single-window system is a trade facilitation idea. As such, the implementation of a single window system enables  international (cross-border) traders to submit regulatory documents at a single location and/or single entity. Such documents are  typically customs declarations, applications for import/export permits, and other supporting documents such as certificates of origin and trading invoices.  December 2014 - Sep 2018  Infosys Ltd.  Senior Systems Engineer  01 Project Title: iTime    Client Name: All Infoscian's  Team size: 6  Role Played: Senior JAVA Developer  Duration: 1+ Years [Mar 2017 to Sep 2018]  Software/Environment/Framework: JAVA, Spring MVC, SQL Server 2016, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Eclipse.  Life Cycle methodology: AGILE    Project in Detail:  iTime is the application that will be used for time tracking. It calculates overtime hours. Calculated  overtime hours are sent to Payment team and Comp-off system as comp-offs. It is used to view all the pending actions/items in one  screen, to capture Start and End time of tasks, break times and meal tasks etc.  02 Project Title: Equifax Personal Solutions - PSOL  Client Name: Credit Reporting  Team size: 7  Role Played: JAVA Developer  Duration: 1 Years 7Months [July 2015 to Feb 2017]  Software/Environment/Framework: JAVA1.5, J2EE, Struts1.2, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, WAS8.5, TOAD 8.6, JENKINS  Life Cycle methodology: AGILE    Project in Detail:  Equifax is a global service provider providing value-added information solutions to businesses and consumers for over 115 years.  Equifax serves customers across a wide range of industries including the financial services, retail, healthcare, telecommunications/utilities, brokerage, insurance and government industries. Equifax has two major divisions, Personal  Solutions and the Business solutions. The Personal solutions form the B-C (Business to Consumers) part and the Business  solutions form the B-B part. The core area is offering services like credit report information solutions.  Different organizations like banks and insurance agents, approach our client for getting credit scores of their customers who want to be benefitted monetarily. So, our client, using Interconnect application as a tool, will calculate a credit score. Along with this  score, few more details also will be returned, that will be based on the customers. Customizing the functionality of the  Interconnect application based on the customer's requirement, in both ways, either asking for additional inputs from customer  directly, or utilizing the other similar competitors like Transunion etc.    RESPONSIBILITIES  Participating in Requirement Analysis, Design.  Worked in developing the application from scratch.  Developing Integration with third parties.  Effectively analyzed the change requests and taken care to perform the end to end changes in the applications so that the existing flow doesn't get affected at all.  Setup the clustered environment for Development, Integration testing, Functional testing.  Responsible to maintain source code.  Preparing and maintaining CM plan (Configuration Management plan) for the projects.  Setup, Configuration and maintenance of the different environments during new roll outs.  Maintaining the version history for the source code and service patches.  Defect Tracking- Making sure every defect has traceability back to the source.  Maintained a record of all the baselines builds and Releases for the applications.  Providing on call support to the client on every new rollout.  Responsible for initial SMOKE testing of the application to make sure that everything works fine, before every release.  Late nights support for the production releases.  Troubleshooting issues and evaluating the permanent solutions for the issues.    DECLARATION  I hereby declare that all the details provided above are true to the best of my knowledge.  Place: JAVA Developer Equifax Personal Solutions - PSOL July 2015 to February 2017 Duration: 1 Years 7Months [July 2015 to Feb 2017]  Software/Environment/Framework: JAVA1.5, J2EE, Struts1.2, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, WAS8.5, TOAD 8.6, JENKINS  Life Cycle methodology: AGILE    Project in Detail:  Equifax is a global service provider providing value-added information solutions to businesses and consumers for over 115 years.  Equifax serves customers across a wide range of industries including the financial services, retail, healthcare, telecommunications/utilities, brokerage, insurance and government industries. Equifax has two major divisions, Personal  Solutions and the Business solutions. The Personal solutions form the B-C (Business to Consumers) part and the Business  solutions form the B-B part. The core area is offering services like credit report information solutions.  Different organizations like banks and insurance agents, approach our client for getting credit scores of their customers who want to be benefitted monetarily. So, our client, using Interconnect application as a tool, will calculate a credit score. Along with this  score, few more details also will be returned, that will be based on the customers. Customizing the functionality of the  Interconnect application based on the customer's requirement, in both ways, either asking for additional inputs from customer  directly, or utilizing the other similar competitors like Transunion etc.    RESPONSIBILITIES  Participating in Requirement Analysis, Design.  Worked in developing the application from scratch.  Developing Integration with third parties.  Effectively analyzed the change requests and taken care to perform the end to end changes in the applications so that the existing flow doesn't get affected at all.  Setup the clustered environment for Development, Integration testing, Functional testing.  Responsible to maintain source code.  Preparing and maintaining CM plan (Configuration Management plan) for the projects.  Setup, Configuration and maintenance of the different environments during new roll outs.  Maintaining the version history for the source code and service patches.  Defect Tracking- Making sure every defect has traceability back to the source.  Maintained a record of all the baselines builds and Releases for the applications.  Providing on call support to the client on every new rollout.  Responsible for initial SMOKE testing of the application to make sure that everything works fine, before every release.  Late nights support for the production releases.  Troubleshooting issues and evaluating the permanent solutions for the issues.    DECLARATION  I hereby declare that all the details provided above are true to the best of my knowledge.  Place: Education B. Tech in ECE N.B.K.R Institute of Science 2014 Technology Vidyanagar University Nellore - Nellore, Andhra Pradesh 2010 S.S.C in L.R.G Vidyalaya Board of Secondary 2008 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Scripting, Svn, Xml, Mvc, Ajax, Css, Tomcat, Web services, Html5, Soap, Sql server Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Languages Known JAVA 1.8, J2EE  Frameworks Spring, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate 4  Scripting Languages HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, XML, Ajax, Bootstrap  Databases MYSQL5.7, Oracle12g, SQL server 2016  Operating Systems Windows, Ubuntu  Hosting Servers Tomcat, AWS  Development Tools Eclipse, STS (for Deployment)  Repository Tool GitHub, SVN  Tracking Tool JIRA (Agile User stories Management)  Building Tool Maven, JENKINS  Web services SOAP, RESTful