Technology Analyst Technology Analyst Java Developer Englewood, CO • 4.5 years of experience as Software Developer using Java/J2EE Technologies.  • Good experience and understanding of different phases of SDLC and maintenance projects.  • I understand Spring Boot, Microservices, Hibernate, REST Web Services, can work as per requirement.    Technical Expertise  IDE eClipse, STS  Servers Web Sphere, Tomcat, JBoss  Database Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server, DB2, MongoDB(non relational database management system)  Java/J2EE    Web Technologies    JAVA, SERVLET, JSP, JDBC, STRUTS, Hibernate, Spring, Spring Boot Microservices, REST Web Services    HTML, CSS, Java Script, JSON, XML, React, Angular    Operating System Windows Work Experience Technology Analyst Infosys - Raleigh, NC February 2019 to Present Sr. Software Engineer Fiserv Global Services March 2007 to July 2007 Java Developer Java Developer Fiserv Global Services March 2007 to July 2007 Description: FAB is a very advanced billing product of Insurance domain. Functionality wise and technology wise FAB is very rich. It can be customized up to a certain extend as per customer need.    Responsibilities:  • I was responsible for understanding and analyzing the Bugs logged by customer in BugZilla.  • Worked with on-shore BAs for clarification and demo.  • Fix the issue reported in Bugs using core java, jsp, servlet, jdbc etc.  • Wrote JUnits for unit testing.  • Wrote or updated SQL queries which is compatible to both for DB2 and SQL server  • Acted as mentor for new team members and helped them understand our application and provided them the tips and tricks to work with the system and troubleshoot issues.    Environment: JDK, WSAD, DB2, SQL Server, XML, MVC Architecture Technical Associate Tech Mahindra Ltd May 2006 to February 2007 Java Developer AT&T May 2006 to February 2007 Description: MOR is an order processing system. This is an online automated system, but at the same time it provides manual interference to reprocess a job, which fails due to any of the business validation or data inaccuracy.    Responsibilities:  • Attended Client calls for understanding the modules functionality.  • Wrote order entry and order verification form using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, servlet and JDBC etc.  • Wrote SQL queries for Oracle and DAO to access data using JDBC.    Environment: JDK, JSP, Oracle 8i, XML Software Developer Thomson InfoTech September 2002 to July 2005 Project Profile:  Client: Verizon  Role: Java Developer    Description: Project NAUTILUS is responsible for network circuit design as per the service order, thus interacts with other domains of networking such as service order, topology, activation etc. As part of the team, I am working on defects and enhancement using JAVA8, Spring Boot, Microservices, Hibernate and Spring Boot JPA, Oracle and MySQL etc. Java Developer Hansapaints - IN September 2002 to July 2005 Description: Hansapaints is one of the very big paints and Chemicals Company in India; their clients are mostly in Asia and Middle East. The application provides the facility of ITO (inquiry to Order) tracking and online inventory monitory system. This is an Intranet/extranet application where most of the functionality is available to internal users of the company at the same time it is linked with extranet application, which gives client the visibility of their order and goods movement up to some extent.    Responsibilities:  • Wrote web pages for user registration, shopping cart, order tracking modules using JSP, Struts, JDBC and Oracle as a backend.  • Proactively participated in the business requirements/capacity planning meetings with the Client and providing valuable inputs.    Environment: STRUTS, JDK, JSP, Oracle 8i, XML, Tomcat Java Developer LawJournal - IN September 2002 to July 2005 Description: Company Law Journal is one of the famous journals published by LawJournal. This journal has different cases of courts that were prosecuted by the advocate himself. This web-site had been developed to publish this journal on the net to make it accessible to the people living in remote regions.    Responsibilities:  • Wrotethe journal pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Wrote backend service and DAO to retrieve and display data in journal.  • Wrote Administrative page to control the availability of a journal to be viewed.  • Wrote Administrative page to feed in journal to be displayed in journal listings.  • Mailing module to mail about a new journal to the registered users using SMTP protocol and JavaMail.    Environment: STRUTS, JDK, JSP, Oracle 8i, XML, Tomcat Java Developer In-house September 2002 to July 2005 Description: Dream Family is a portal. It has all the facilities, which a big portal has, e.g. New user registration, astrology pages, tour schedules, discussion forums, chat, e-greetings, articles, general topics relating to family, father, mother, son, daughter, grandparents, etc. and search engine.    Responsibilities:  • Developed costumed java search engine to search data from "Dream Family" portal using core java, servlet and JDBC etc.  • Wrote web pages such as New user registration module, Astrology Pages using JSP and JDBC.  • Develop Discussion Forum and using HTML, JSP and JDBC etc.    Environment: JDK, JSP, Servlet, Oracle 8i, XML, Tomcat Java Developer Heart Care Foundation - IN September 2002 to July 2005 Description: Heart care foundation keeps on publishing the research and journals in the field of health and specially in the field's of heart disease and their cure. It maintains its program /schedule for different open camp and specialized program at various locations all over India and neighboring countries. The application helps to maintain the list of participants at various camp programs and the progress of individuals.    Responsibilities:  • Developed various modules such as displaying camping information using JSP and JDBC.  • mailing about the camps to the registered users(region wise) using JavaMail.  • Wrote Administrative page to enter camp information using JSP and JDBC.    Environment: JDK, JSP, Servlet, Oracle 8i, XML, Tomcat    Recent projects from Front End Web Developer Nanodegree from Udacity:    MyNeighborhood  Github link: https://github.com/tulikarai/MyNeighborhood_gh_pages    This is one of my Front End Web Developer Nanodegree Project of Udacity in React. create-react-app was used to create this app.This is a single page responsive web site that uses a Map API (like Google Maps API) and another venues type of API (like FourSquare API) to show locations on a map via markers with a filterable list of those locations. I have followed Udacity Project Rubric for specific requirements. This project uses React, Google Maps, and Foursquare API to present a map and markers of places to show the Elementary Schools in Englewood, CO.    MyReads  Github link: https://github.com/tulikarai/MyReads    This is one of my Front End Web Developer NanoDegree Project of Udacity in React. create-react-app was used to create this app.This project can be used to search for book titles and store them on different shelves depending on what you are currently reading, what you have read and what you would like to read.    Pixel Art Maker  Github link: https://github.com/tulikarai/PixelArtMaker    This project is part of the Udacity Front-End Web Developer Nanodegree program. Starter template was given by Udacity. Using this template, I built the script to do the following:    (1) Upon form submission, build the grid.  (2) The form provides the number of rows (via the grid height) and columns (via the grid width).  (3) The grid is a html table.  (4) Upon clicking on a single grid square, color that square's background color to the currently selected color.  (5) Build it with jQuery    Memory Game  GitHub link: https://github.com/tulikarai/MemoryGameProject    Built a complete browser-based card matching game (also known as Concentration). It's a well-designed, feature-packed memory game! Starter template was provided by Udacity. This game test user's memory. There's a deck of cards with different icons. Match the right pair of cards. I manipulated the DOM with JavaScript, altered part of the HTML and also styled the game. Education Application Architectures University Of New Maxico May 2015 MongoDB University October 2013 MCA(Master Of Computer Applications) in Computer Applications Indira Gandhi National Open University 2004 Bachelor of Commerce in Commerce Delhi University 1998 PGDCA(Post Graduation Diploma in Computer Application in Computer Application DOEACC Skills Java