Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full stack java developer - Tech Mahindra Pvt Ltd Omaha, NE • More than 15 years of experience working in IT Services Industry.  • Proficient in Java programming competency  • Good exposure to Retail and Logistics industry.  • Working in projects of Logistics and Retail clients among Fortune 150.  • Involved in developing various web based and client server applications for Telecom and Class I railroads in United States.  • Good command over Relational Databases like Oracle, SQL.  • Taken an active role in all stages of software development life cycle.  • Onsite experience (USA) at client site with technical exposure with good client relationship.  • Extensive server-side Java programming experience with technologies like Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Xml, JavaScript, HTML, EJB, JSON,JPA, Oracle 10g, SQL Server, Version Management Tool, Report Creation Tool.  • Good Exposure of full System Development Life Cycle(SDLC), business process, development, and testing client /server applications  • Involved in configuring queues and topics & bridges for DEV, TEST, PRODTEST, SIT, UAT, PRODLIKE and PROD environments  • Experience working in fast-paced, deadline-oriented environments  • Outstanding technical skills; able to quickly learn new concepts and technologies.  • Great understanding of distributed systems such as Hadoop/BigData.  • Have extremely good knowledge on SDLC processes  • Possess sound knowledge on IT Application architecture, Design methodologies across multiple platforms  • Have good grip on non-functional areas like performance, scalability studies, human interaction, software ergonomics  • Have clarity on what business wants and ability to transform wants to results  • Thought provocative leader  • Critical reasoning skills, Decision making skills  • Analyzed, designed, coded, tested, and documented software utilizing Java, swing,c++,Spring, hibernate ,wicket,EXTJS ,angualr JS , Java Server Pages, SQL, PL/SQL and Oracle databases.  • Analyzed business requirements, developed design analysis documents and provided high-level engineering design for Application which simulate and test the Locomotive Command and Control Module (LCCM),  • Coordinated the selection and the implementation of suitable technologies and infrastructure for the desktop applications that runs as windows service.  • Gathered requirement, designed and developed end to end security framework for web based applications,  • Participated in R&D of the issues identified during migration of web applications from weblogic to JBoss.  • Coordinated discussions between many different technical teams to design and implement required functionality.  • Introduced the ant tool, and created a nightly build process.  • Developed the unit tests using JUnit,mockitos.  • Designed an architecture using Java Enterprise Technologies  • Migrated code from visual basic components to a JSPs, Servlets, and JSTL.  • Migrated code from EJB to Spring and JMS.  • Redesigned the code, introducing wicket framework to angular js / Spring MVC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Werner Enterprises - omaha ,ne December 2017 to Present Currently working as Full stack java developer. involved in design and development activities Technical Associate Tech Mahindra Pvt Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra February 2006 to July 2007 Software Eng./ Java Programmer Essense Imagination Pvt Ltd Mumbai October 2004 to January 2006 Education Master in Computer Science in Computer Science Dr BAMU University Skills Java (10+ years), J2EE (10+ years), Spring (10+ years), Struts (5 years), Hibernate (7 years), AngularJS (3 years), Wicket (4 years), jms (5 years), XML (4 years), JSON (5 years), Oracle (6 years), SQL (6 years), Gradle (2 years), maven (3 years), jenkins (2 years), Jquery, Angular, Javascript