associate java developer associate <span class="hl">java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> java developer and software developer Atlanta, GA • Over 3 years of experience in designing, developing, and implementing of core Java/J2EE applications.  • Worked on all phases of software development life cycle SDLC including requirements, analysis, applications design, and development and testing of various web applications.  • Good Knowledge in Java Technology (J2EE and advance J2EE) and strong understanding in  Object oriented concepts.  • Good knowledge of spring's IOC, Spring MVC, Web flow and spring's integration with  Hibernate, Struts and Spring technologies.  • Expertise in server-side development with JDBC, Servlets, MVC architecture, Java Beans,  XML.  • Extensive experience in MVC frameworks like Spring.  • Extensively involved in development of the front-end components using Html5, CSS3, Java  Server Pages, JSTL, JAVASCRIPT and XML.  • Experience using MAVEN tools.  • Participation in all phases of project development including requirements gathering and analysis as well as project design, development, implementation and deployment.  • knowledge in web Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) fundamentals.  • Experience in writing Web Services using SOAP, REST, and UDDI in distributed web application development environment.  • Experience in Oracle, SQL Server databases. Hands on with L/SQL Stored Procedures,  Triggers and Views.  • Good exposure in implementing web services-WSDL using SOAP and REST web services.  • Have excellent problem solving, proactive thinking, analytical, programming skills, communication skill, work ethics and the ability to work well in a team or individual environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience associate java developer Wipro September 2016 to May 2019 Roles & Responsibilities * Developed the Java Code using Eclipse as IDE.  * Assisted the Development of web pages using JSP, CSS, AJAX and Java Scripts.  * Worked on Spring MVC Framework for the development of the services.  * Develop GUI using JSON and Java script.  * Monitoring remotely HVAC system for renown companies (food depot) through a java platform. Performing remotes troubleshoots and resetting controllers * Provided excellent customer service assistance both in English and French * Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  * Experience in writing Unit Test classes using Junit.  * Involved in Creation of tables in database for customers.    Academic Project work:   • Airline Reservation system, Internal platform where the customers could reserve and pay for their fly tickets according to the flights availability that are updated every time a reservation is made.  • Currency convertor a platform prototype that will take a specific currency and amount and convert it to another one selected by the user according to the rate of the day.  • Student Library, Software developed using Java and SQL Server, in which the different students and professor could access and update course contents, and need to create a unique account with specific id and and password. Jr. Java Developer intern Afriland First Bank October 2013 to September 2015 Roles & Responsibilities: * Development of various use cases, sequence diagrams using UML.  * Developed various product applications using Java, J2EE and related technologies.  * Utilized Agile SCRUM Methodology (SDLC) and Test-Driven Development to managed projects.  * Involved in the Business Requirement analysis, Design Process, Data Modeling and Product development.  * Designed and developed the persistence tier using Hibernate framework.  * Designed and developed front view components using JSP and HTML.  * Developed re-usable utility classes in core java, OOPS for validation which are used across all modules.  * Developed UI navigation.  * Developed various objects using java and HTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with Controllers to get data from PostgreSQL database.  * Created stored procedures, Views in the Database. Education Bachelor in Computer Science in Computer Science Kennesaw State University - Marietta, GA December 2019 Skills Hibernate, Java, Spring, Java J2Ee, J2Ee Assessments Technical Support Skills — Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mamhjl75oonxrr7n Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java, C, C++, PYTHON  J2EE Technologies & Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, JPA, JMS, Spring, Hibernate, Spring  frameworks MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data.  Web Services SOAP, REST, JSON  Web Application Server Tomcat 7.x/8.x, Web Sphere7.0  XML XML, DOM, XML Schema  Client-Side Technologies Java Script, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, jQuery react js   IDE's Eclipse, IntelliJ, Visual Studio  Databases SQL Server, Oracle8i/9i/10g/11g, My SQL, Microsoft SQL Server  2005/2008, DB2 and Microsoft Access  OOAD (Design Skills) UML (Rational Rose, Star UML)  Patterns MVC, DAO, DTO, Singleton, Factory  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap, jQuery. React.js , redux ,Node.js , express.js, postgre   Project Management Tool Microsoft Project  Cloud Technologies AWS,  Build & Configuration Tools Maven, Junit  Development Methodologies Agile, Test Driven Development, Waterfall  Version Control Tools GIT  Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix