Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - UST Quincy, MA A computer programmer with 2 years of programming work experience. Highly organized, accomplishes assigned tasks in an efficient manner. Able to perform on both back-end and front-end technologies. Demonstrated ability to work well in a team environment or take on leadership roles to ensure completion of assignments.    • Java, C++, Python, JavaScript and Kotlin  • Secret Security Clearance  • US Army Veteran  • Spring Framework  • Apache Camel  • Kafka  • React native, React.js and Vue.js and StoryBook.js  • Jmeter  • Jenkins Work Experience Java Developer UST - Quincy, MA July 2018 to Present Skills:  • Worked on the development, enhancements and operation of web-based software as a full-stack web developer within a dedicated, product-based team.  • Worked with Java and Kotlin to develop production ready micro-services for business needs.  • Experience with Apache Camel, SQL and Oracle database.  • Develop complete regression and unit test cases to make sure components are tested rigorously in an automated fashion.  • Working collaboratively to tackle complex problems and make important decisions.  • Worked on agile collaborative team using Jira Products.  • Front-end experience with JavaScript such as Vue.js and React.js.  • Experience with Jenkins and SaltStack for the deployment of the application and continuous integration.  • Created and deployed virtual box to deploy microservices.  • Build and Deployed Storybooks component and integrated into company webpage.  • Monitored the microservices using Sonarqube to insure quality codes and best practice.  • Worked with Hazelcast for in memory cache service  • Worked with Apache Kafka and ActiveMQ for message processing Army Specialist US Army, Fort Campbell January 2012 to June 2015 • Acted as a team leader in the hostile and stressful environment, motivating junior personnel to accomplish mission objectives.  • Facilitated successful communication by interpreting between senior management and local populations during international assignments and improved relations between Americans and local population of Afghanistan. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in design Hofstra University - Hempstead, NY Skills Java, Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist