Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Express Scripts Dallas, TX • Full-Stack Developer with 4+years of experience in Application Development, including design and development of Projects in the areas of Java/J2EE Client and Server side Enterprise Applications.  • Extensive IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes Development, Design, Analysis, Testing and Integration of various web based and client/server applications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in developing applications using SDLC methodologies like Waterfall, Agile (SCRUM) and Test-Driven Development.  • Created and developed Web Pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, and modern Java script Libraries like AngularJS and NodeJS for Server-Side scripting.  • Achieved 100 % Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap Grid for styling the web pages.  • Used Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions to make the code concise and Stream API to increase the performance.  • Expertise skills in JQuery, Node JS, Angular JS 1.0 & 2.0 Typescript related technologies.  • Experience in developing and deploying applications on Cloud Platforms like Amazon Web Services.  • Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elastic search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  • Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed reaching one or more EC2 instances.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Java/J2EE, Servlets, Struts, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, JDBC, Web Services (SOAP & RESTful services) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate, IBatis.  • Portable deployment of applications as a single object using Docker.  • Developed Web and other components using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Micro Services Architecture based J2EE applications.  • Developed and maintained components using Spring Boot in a Micro Services Environment.  • Experience using Hibernate for mapping Java classes with database and using Criteria API and Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Experienced in using Enterprise Messaging Systems like Tibco, JMS and Rabbit MQ for sending over asynchronous email notifications to the clients as well as subscribers.  • Worked with Relational and Non-Relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, and IBM DB2.  • Hands-on Experience in working with NoSQL Database like MongoDB, Cassandra to manage extremely large 8data sets.  • Hands on experience in writing Unit Test Cases for UI and Backend with JUnit, Mockito and Groovy.  • Experienced with deploying applications on to production servers, configuring various parameters of servers like Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, BEA Web logic, IBM Web Sphere.  • Used version controller tools like Tortoise Subversion (SVN) and GIT.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's.  • Experience in working with IDE'S like Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite (STS), and Intellij.  • Have extensive experience working on Windows, Linux and UNIX Operating Systems.  • Work experience with a wide variety and diversified teams since the beginning of the career and experience of providing training to business users. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Express Scripts May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Developed using new features of Java8 Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and ENUMS.  • Developed UI pages with Spring MVC, HTML5, CSS3,and used Boot Strap for creating Web pages.  • Created the React.JS express Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side Angular Js 1.5 to back-end MongoDB, in order to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  • Used Angular JS controllers to update entity, models and database.  • Used Angular development tool kit, which is developed, by the client internal source and also created many custom components using Angular JS.  • Worked extensively on migrating .net application into Angular 2 used Node JS, Twitter Bootstrap, Restful web-services, HTML 5, CSS 3, JSON, Media queries for responsiveness of existing pages.  • Developed single-page applications (SPAs) using various JavaScript frame works like Angular 2 and bootstrap.  • Written Unit and Integrated test cases written in karma and executed jasmine framework.  • Used Chrome/IE, Firebug Developer tools for debugging.  • Designed new Dashboards using Lombardi Team works for status of incoming and outgoing requests.  • Implemented design patterns such as Session Façade, Adaptor, Bean Factory and Singleton.  • Setup Spring 4.x Job by configuring job Tasklets , Quartz Scheduler and Listeners for error handling.  • Developed bean references in Spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI)/IOC  • Used Spring Annotations to simplify the business logic for creating Spring MVC RESTful web services.  • Worked on Column Filters of Data table using JQuery and ReactJS.  • Used spring boot Actuator to externalize application's configuration properties for different environments  • Implemented pre-authentication and data base security using Spring security and securing application access and Spring Batch for scheduling and maintenance of batch jobs.  • Configured Swagger-UI registered Micro service with Eureka server to monitor service health check from Spring Boot admin console and Spring Hystrix dashboard.  • Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Produced and consumed centralized Spring Restful Web Services for Enterprise applications to consume in JSON format and in trusted client-server environment and extensive experience in building Rest services using Jersey Framework  • Extensively used Hibernate concepts such as inheritance, lazy loading, dirty checking, locking, and transactions.  • Developed ORM mappings using Hibernate annotations and also established data integrity among all tables sitting on Oracle Database.  • Developed entire user interface using various ExtJS components like Form panels, Tab panels, View port and Editable grids  • Setup the continuous Integration (CI) and continuous deployment (CD) jobs in Jenkins.  • Used Micro service architecture, with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Tested REST services using google chrome's POSTMAN plugin.  • Used micro-framework to implement with REST API and Mongo DB (NO SQL) as back end database.  • Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR & dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto the WebLogic Application Server.  • Experience with GIT for version control, experience with git-bash and git-hub  • Created JSON Data and stored as documents comprising documents, data types and conversions in MongoDB.  • Extensively Used Apache Storm to transform unstructured data before it sending into NOSQL Data Base.  • Integrated SoapUI and JMeter Test cases into Maven.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database and reporting.  • Writing Entities in Java, Play Framework along with named queries to interact with database.  • Prepared SQL/PL-SQL scripts and Stored Procedures required to implement fine-tuned from DBAs if needed.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  Environment: IBM Lombardi, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, Angular JS 1.5, JavaScript, JSON, React JS, Maven 3.0, Spring 4.x, Hibernate 4.x, Mule ESB, Restful Web Services, WebLogic Application Server,Jersey framework, Amazon Elastic Beanstalk, S3, Soap UI, Jenkins, Git, Jquery, DOM, JAX-RS, Junit 4.4, Log4j, Apache Kafka, MongoDB, Oracle, Agile Scrum. Full Stack Java Developer Western Union June 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on High level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript, JSON.  • Used two-way data binding features of AngularJS to implement Data binding to bind various server controls to the data from database.  Worked on development and implementation of the MVC Architectural pattern using Spring Framework including JSP, and Servlets.  • Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting useful plans from different module.  • Implemented Core Java concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  • Configured Apache to proxy the backend Jboss domains over HTTPS for secured communication.  • Designed and integrated the full-scale spring / Hibernate persistence solution with the application architecture.  • Deployed web and enterprise applications on Jboss application server in a channel secure environment.  • Used Spring Transaction to provide a consistent programming model across different transaction APIs such as Hibernate and to Support declarative transaction management in application.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using spring, Hibernate template support.  • Involved in design and development of the Hibernate Domain Model for the services.  • Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), WSDL, UDDI and SOAP.  • Experience in developing and deploying applications on Cloud Platforms like Amazon Web Services.  • Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elastic search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  • Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed reaching one or more EC2 instances.  • Worked in wide-area network to maintain all the device related data onto MYSQL database.  • Experienced in RDBMS such as Oracle, MySQL, and IBM DB2 databases. Used NoSQL DB database MongoDB for proof of concept and having experience in create a Stored Procedures and having experience in Remote Procedure call (RPC).  • Experience in writing complex PL/SQL queries using joins, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursors, and indexes in Data Access Layer.  • Involved in identifying and implementation of different J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Business Delegate, and DAO.  • Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications.  • Experience in using JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN. Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs and SVN for version control.  • Experienced in Splunk development - Splunk search language, Splunk Web Framework, simple xml, alerts configuration, report building, custom dashboard building and data modelling.  • Worked on Splunk DB Connect APP to load the data into Splunk from Oracle Database.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Deployed and tested the application in UNIX on IBM Web Logic Application Server.    Environment: Agile Methodology, Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, JSON, JSP, Struts, Micro Services, Spring, Hibernate, SOA, SOAP, WSDL, RabbitMQ, Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, JDBC, Oracle, Maven, JUnit, Jboss, Log4J, SVN, JAXB, XML, Web Logic, Unix/Linux.Client Java developer Pace OSA - New York, NY April 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involving in design, development, testing and implementation of the process systems, working on iterative life cycles business requirements, and creating Detail Design Document.  • Using agile methodologies to plan work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environments.  • Development of web pages using spring, JSP and JavaScript.  • Developed user interface using JSTL, HTML, Java script, JQuery and CSS.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Factory pattern & Singleton Pattern.  • Designed and deployed Multi-threading for Finance management cycle.  • Used Hibernate as an O/R mapping tool for selecting, inserting and updating the records in the database.  • Java/Spring/Tomcat on Ubuntu, RHEL & Mac OS/X, some Groovy  • Involved in bug fixing and resolving issues with the QA and production environment during production support.  • Worked on UML diagrams like Class Diagram, Sequence Diagram required for implementing the Quartz scheduler.  • Handled Java training sessions for the trainees.  • SVN is used as a tool for version control.  • Used TOAD for accessing the database.  Environment: JAVA, STRUTS, SPRING, IBatis, XML, XSL, JSP, JMS, JavaScript, EJB2.0, Oracle 8i, Web Logic App. Server 8.1, Web logic Workshop, CVS, OOPS. Java Developer Singularity Software India Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the risk workflow system.  • Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support in WATER FALL methodology.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Involved in component development using J2EE principles and used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Data Access Object (DAO) in the implementation of the application  • Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in J2EE using Struts MVC.  • Implemented Struts framework (Action & Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate classes.  • Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC for MySQL.  • Written SQL queries, PL/SQL store procedures and Triggers to fetch and store data from the database.  • Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components and deployment of the application was on Jetty.  • Prepared JUnit test cases and executed the test cases using JUnit.  • Involved in bug fixing during the System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing.  • Used GIT to check-in and check-out and co-ordinate among team members for Version Controlling.  • Used Net Beans IDE to integrate different frameworks to build application.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, Struts, Web Services, SOAP, RESTful, JSON, XML, JDBC, SQL, MySQL, ANT, Eclipse, JIRA, GIT and Jetty Education None Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Wsad, Visual studio, Api Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java, SQL & PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies Core Java, Collections, JDBC , Multi-threading,Servlets, EJB, JMS, Java Beans, Custom Tags, , , Design Patterns  Frameworks Spring, Struts, Hibernate  Application Server IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Logic,  Web services SOAP, WSDL(JAX-WS), UDDI,REST(JAX-RS),  Web-Application Tools XML, XSD, JMS, Servlets, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag Library, JSP, JPA, JAXB  Database DB2, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL,  Scripting Language HTML5, XML( Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, EXT JS, Angular JS  Core Expertise  Java GOF and J2EE design patterns, Core Java concepts - Collections, Java 1.8features, Multi-threading, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency etc.    Build Tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Cruise Control  Other Tools Log4JSQL developer,JIRA, SOAP UI, Putty,  IDEs Spring Tool Suite, Maven, Eclipse IDE, , WSAD, JBuilder, JDeveloper, Visual Studio.NET, Toad, Putty, Junit, Log4j.  Logging Frameworks Log4j, Java Logging API  Testing Tools Junit, JMeter, SOAPUI  UML Tools MS Visio  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX/Linux