Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Fifth Third Bank Cincinnati, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Fifth Third Bank - Cincinnati, OH June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Generated stubs for the multiple RAFT functions and do build and publish jars for RSP to consume.  • Used Quick build to do build and deploy into JVM.  • Developed Soap webservices and followed bottom-up approach to generate the WSDL files in RSP.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Written Unit test classes by mocking the services.  • Used ANT for building the application and deployed on Application Server.  • Generated soap client JAX-B jars from the WSDL and deployed and published to jFrog repository.  • Build Spring boot Application and Used Gradle as a build tool automating the building, testing, publishing and deployment loading all the dependencies from the jFrog artifact repository.  • Used Jacacco as a report generating tool.  • Document/generate API swagger yaml/JSON files for multiple consumers and make sure that integration is seamless across the board  • Develop services based on different standards for REST, web services, data integration techniques, messaging, and transformation engines and non-standard services (APIs).  • Developed RESTFul webservices to consume RSP webservices and generated swagger APIs to client.  • Design, implement, test and deploy APIs using the latest technologies and best practices with agile project delivery.  Environment: JDK1.8, JDK1.6, Spring boot, SOAP Web services, JSP, HTML CSS, Spring MVC, Spring Web Services, SOAP, JAXB, SQL, ANT, XML, Junit3.x, Windows7, GIT, jFrog, Gradle, Swagger. Java Developer Elements Fleet Management, Virginia - Java, VA April 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible to support several Java based applications for production issues.  • Ensure performance and stability of responsible applications.  • Actively communicate with business team to understand provide solutions to satisfy business needs.  • Developing Restful web services using Spring framework.  • Worked on Web Services for customer related business process and fleet management solutions to expose the business logic.  • Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL.  • Worked on MVC design pattern for applications by creating separate Java classes for handling database objects and view creation only by using JSP.  • Perform Root Cause Analysis to major or recurring production issues, plan and execute necessary actions to avoid such recurring issues.  • Involve in design discussions with other application architects and solution architects to provide integration opportunities in the involved applications.  • Analyze, design and implement the enhancements requests.  • Provide functional and technical consultation for the vendors in delivering the modules in time with quality.  • Provide support to different teams during the integration projects.  Environment: JDK1.6, JEE, ColdFusion, Spring Framework, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Jeresy, SAP Business Objects, Open AM, LDAP, Sybase, Oracle, Git, Tomcat, Maven, Junit3.x, SOAPUI, Web services (ReST), HPSM, Linux and Eclipse. Full Stack Developer Hewlett Packard Enterprise - Fort Collins, CO January 2016 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented RoB (Request-on-behalf) feature in shop to order the items for the recipient by requesting on behalf of someone. This helped CSA in satisfying many clients and this is shown in HPE innovation.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Model View Controller(MVC), Singleton, Factory, Data Access Object (DAO), Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Service Locator etc  • Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and React.JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Implemented react JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozella, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari and FF.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Developed RESTful web services using Jersey, Spring framework and JAX-RS.  • Deploying applications using Lamda, ECS and Docker containers and utilising CI/CD processes.  • Deployed Docker contained Spring boot micro services in to AWS EC2 container service using AWS admin console and used lambda to run applications in AWS console.  • Loaded Data into Oracle Tables using SQL Loader.  • Developed Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Used SASS as CSS extension language and Foundation as CSS Framework.  • Followed Agile, actively participated in Scrum-Meetings, Daily Stand-up's, Backlog-grooming, Retrospectives, Sprint-Planning.  • Used Stash to manage our GIT repositories and accessed them using SSH Keys  • Used Jenkins server, which builds and configures various instances of CSA.  • Tested micro-service applications on Bug-Hunt day and filed defects into AGM before the product release.    Environment: JDK1.5, JEE, Life ray, Struts, Spring, web Methods, JSP, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, React Js, CSS, LDAP, SQL Server, JBoss, Ant, Maven, Junit3.x, SOAPUI, Web services, HP QC, HPSM, Linux and Eclipse. Java Developer Bank of America - IN May 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, development, coding and testing of user requirements for the various sub projects.  • Involved in the day to day discussions with Architects to get clarity on the requirement analysis and new releases.  • Involved in technical design, which included, defining the screens, validations, error messages, coding standards, etc.  • Developed application by Implementing MVC (Model, View, Controller) framework.  • Involved on the modules Enroll, Accounts Overview, Open an Account and Funds Transfer.  • Working on the development work as well as support for the previous releases.  • Conduct root cause analysis to identify the cause of specific problem/fault and resolved the same.  • Troubleshooting of application related issues by analyzing log files created in Linux/Unix environment.  • Responsibilities include release support and production support.  • Handle new work requests and enhancements  Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts 2, Spring, MVC, Web Services, FTL, Core Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JBoss4 & 7, JMS, MDB, JDBC, Web services and MS SQL. SQL Developer and SQL Server Studio Clear Case, Git, SVN, CVS, RTC Rational Rose, Ant and Maven. JProfiler, TOAD, Jasper, Easy Mock, Emma Coverage Tool, SQL Developer and SQL Server Studio. XML, XSLT2.0, XSD, JAXB, XMLBeans, XML Spy, Sitemesh and Jack Rabbit.  Databases: SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Server2008/2012, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11i and MySQL  IDE: Eclipse 3.x/4.x  Operating Systems: Windows 2000/XP/7, MS-DOS, UNIX, LINUX Education Bachelors in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering JNTU 2014 Skills Spring, Java, Java J2Ee, J2Ee