Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - State Farm Bloomington, IL • About 8 Years of software development experience in Development and Implementation of Web-Based Client-Server applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Agile Management and Software Development with Extreme Programming, Scrum, RAD and "Agile" RUP.  • Experience in full-life-cycle development of software's using Object Oriented Programming/ Methodologies (OOPs).  • Experienced with developing rich user interface applications using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Node JS, React JS, Backbone JS, Twitter Bootstrap, JQuery Mobile, XML, JSON that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Excellent experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for Developing, Maintaining and Supporting projects.  • Demonstrated my ability and passion to learn technologies quickly through projects the project I worked using Spring 4.0, Web Services, JavaScript, Ajax, JDBC, Web Sphere, Tomcat servers and worked on self-taught Java projects using Spring, Hibernate, JSF and Struts.  • Good Experience in Core Java concepts like JavaBeans, Collections Frameworks, and Multi-threading etc.  • Experience in Analysis, Design, Code Reviews, Unit testing and Integration Testing.  • Developed advanced applications on latest versions Eclipse based environments.  • Test driven development (TDD) such as domain-driven design, code reviews, continuous integration, GoF design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Facade which resulted in not only more maintainable and extensible code, but also significant drop in bugs.  • Implementing data persistence through Hibernate and JDBC methodologies through Oracle DB.  • Good experience with Hibernate, JPA, Spring JDBC in Persistence layer.  • Configured logging using Log4J and managed version control tools using SVN, CVS and Clear Case.  • Experience in describing data using XML (DTD, Schema) and working with XML management technologies like XSL, XSD, XSLT and Web Services using protocols such as SOAP and WSDL.  • Involved in building and deploying Apache ANT/ MAVEN scripts for deployment and customizing WAR/ JAR file management for web applications.  • Experience with Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) components Technical expertise & demonstrated high standards of skills in J2EE frameworks like Struts (MVC Framework).  • Extensive experience in Web application development using - HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, XHTML, UML, JavaScript, Ajax, J2EE (JSP, JSTL, JMS, JSF, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Java Beans, LDAP, Struts, EJB).  • Experience with databases like DB2, Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, MySQL, SQL Server, Sybase and MS Access.  • Experience in creating complex SQL Queries and SQL tuning, writing PL/SQL blocks like stored procedures, Functions, Cursors, Index, triggers and packages.  • Experience in working with Relational Database (RDBMS) concepts, database designing, Normalization, PL/ SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers and extensively worked with SQL Server, Oracle and MySQL.  • Ability to communicate effectively with all levels of the organization such as technical, management and customer's and presented technical designs and strategies through daily operations meetings.  Willing to relocate: Anywhere. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer State Farm - Bloomington, IL August 2015 to Present Description: Claim processing application allows users to manage claim details during the investigation period of a claim. The origination of CP was a first step initiative to split and modularize the ICS application hosted in Web Sphere Application server. The big giant Integrated Claim System consists of the following sections  - Claim Overview, Documents and Images, Medical bills and Payments, Notes and Activity Records followed by a User Inbox showing the Claim tasks from Workflow system. Claim Processing integrates with existing ICS and acts as a Portal login application. The system also integrates new requirements from the business for Auto and Property policies, adding new functionality screens to process the claims in an efficient way. The development cycle of the system was challenging to keep the code reusable between both application EARs and included a separate application EAR to host the common page functionalities which finally get ported as an AJAX utility serving content.    Responsibilities:  • Used Agile Methodology for developing the application.  • Worked on IE Developer tools to debug given HTML.  • Implemented functionality rich user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and JSP's.  • Installed and configured GIT on developer workstations and documented merge strategies  • Extensively used Hibernate ORM in data access layer to write DAOs. Developed hibernate mapping and Configuration files.  • Used ReactJS to build web components such as signup form and rule form.  • Used Ext JS, JavaScript for validating client-side validations.  • Wrote Ext JS, Ember.js function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application)  • Developed web pages using Ext JS, Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  • Developed single page applications, components using Angular JS directives, controllers, view and routing, service modules.  • Wrote interfaces to invoke various AWS web services and eBay web services.  • Used MVC architecture of Ext JS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  • Used CSS3.0 for styling and HTML 5.0 for Templates in Ext JS.  • Responsible for design and developing Persistence classes using Hibernate and Spring JDBC Template frameworks to save data in database tables.  • Used Maven tool to build, Config, and package and deploy an application project.  • Used Sub version to maintain different versions of application code.  • Developed full stack web applications in Ruby on Rails  • Integrated EJB 3.0 with JSF and managed application state management, business process management (BPM) using JBoss Seam  • Tested the web application and deployed on the Apache Tomcat web server and JBoss application server.  • Generating Hibernate mapping files and domains using tables.  • Used Maven tool to build, Config, and package and deploy an application project.  • Used Sub version to maintain different versions of application code.  • Written test cases for Unit testing using JUnit.  • Implemented logging mechanism using log4j.  • JSF ( Java Server Faces) was used for to simplify development integration of user interfaces and the operation on the values they (UI) hold.  • Configured managed beans and made available to the application by declaring them in the faces-config.xml configuration file.    Environment: Java 6, Spring Tool Suite, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4, log4j, Angular JS, EXT JS, Ember JS, JUnit, IBM MQ, JMS, JAXB, Rest Full Web -Services, HTML, XML, XSL, JQuery, Java Script, Maven, Hibernate Sr. Java Developer USAA - Plano May 2014 to July 2015 Description: The company offers quote comparisons and sells personal auto policies directly from its website and through select online agents. It also provides online access to accounts and makes telephone agents available for offline questions.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Develop web application using Java, JMS technologies on MVC design pattern.  • Was responsible in developing the front end using JSP, HTML and Java Script.  • Created asynchronous request-reply communication with the services utilizing JMS queue.  • Was involved in coding the business logic using Java and Servlets.  • Used rest and WSDL to connect to third party services.  • Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data  • Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory  • Designed and Developed the UI screens using JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, JSP, require JS, Html and CSS.  • Worked on Junit Reports library to merge individual XML files generated by the JUnit task and eventually apply a stylesheet on the resulting merged document to provide a brow-sable report of the test cases results.  • Coded Business services using spring and interacted with the database using Spring JDBC, Spring DAO.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection, and handled validations using JavaScript and Struts Action Scripts.  • Developed components that connected Java Servlets to LDAP Server for validating the results.  • Involved in writing the parsers for parsing and building the XML documents using SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Was involved in developing the request validations using Java XML Validation API  • Involved in creating thread classes to run the test cases in parallel using concurrent thread pool utility.  • Involved in Unit testing and Bug Fixing.  • Developed Session Beans and entity beans to implement the business logic and deployed into server.  • Used Maven to build a project structure and war files.  • Used Apache Camel Messaging Service to process the messages in Queue and to send and receive form the producer and client end.  • Developed the application following Agile/Scrum software development methodology.  • Defined strategy for transaction management and exception handling.  • Created a new JSF scope similar to the Conversation scope of Java EE 6 CDI.  • Mentoring of the developers, conducting training sessions on new technology features, presentation on architectural decision to bring a common understanding across the team.  • Used Clearcase Version Control for Project Configuration Management.  • Resolved some interesting technical problems like a Prime Faces component feature failing with JPA result set, or developers claiming some features working on their local workspace but not on the server.    Environment: Java EE 6/5, Java SE 6, JSF 2.1, EJB 3.0, Angular JS, JPA, Prime Faces, Rich Faces, JQuery, AJAX, JMS over WebSphere MQ, IBM WMB, Web Services and SOA, ClearCase, Maven, Apache Camel Sr. Java Developer FORD Motors December 2012 to April 2014 Description: Project helps to claim payment information from different Countries by the Dealers. When dealer submit claims thru mainframe application that data will be saved into Network Attachment Storage (NAS). These files stored in different format. Claims processed by J2EE environment, filed will be processed into web    services format by Batch Process everyday 9.30 pm. Generated web Services are send to the J2ee application to process and send the response to the Dealer. Every claim has number of claims, if submitted information is correct it will be processed and give the response success, if submitted data might have nay duplicate data then claim will be rejected and send Exception message to the Dealer.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering business requirements, review the requirements and converting  • them to detailed design documents and clarification documents.  • Used Agile Methodology (Scrum and XP) for the entire module.  • If required giving a quick prototype for the application.  • Implemented J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Service Locator and Session Facade.  • Responsible for High Level Designs (HLD) and Low Level Design (LLD) using J2EE  • Design Patterns for numerous enhancement projects within the application.  • Exposed RESTFUL Web Services, with Chart Specific parameters passed as query string  • Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules.  • Used OR mapping tool Hibernate for the interaction with database.  • Developed web interface using JSP, Struts tag libraries (Bean Tags, Logic Tags, HTML Tags etc.), Tiles framework, Struts Validator for server-side validations, and JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Developed Message Handler Adapter, which converts the data objects into XML message and invoke an enterprise service and vice-versa using JAVA, JMS and MQ Series.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT to generate WAR, EAR and EJB.JAR files and store them on the repository, publish and deploy on the WebSphere.  • Used Ajax for interactive and dynamic interfaces on web pages.  • Used JQuery ajax calls to decode JSON.  • Designed and developed authentication and authorization framework using LDAP.  • Developed GUI policy forms implementing JSF-lifecycle.  • Implemented the business logic using the Enterprise Java Beans (Session Beans).  • Used Rational Rose suite for designing the System.  • Used SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problem.  Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, Hibernate, Restful, Structs, WebSphere, Java Beans, Ajax, JQuery, ANT, XML, Eclipse, Rational Rose, SVN, Log4j Java Developer Yash Technologies - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN April 2010 to October 2012 Description: Parental Guide is the reports generated based on Parental control findings and is available only to those parents who personally opted. These reports contain the information of the children's  internet usage pattern over various categories for the past month. These reports help parents to mentor and guide their children in the right direction.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Requirement analysis, gathered all possible business requirements from end users and business Analysts  • Involved in creation of UML diagrams like Class, Activity, and Sequence Diagrams using modeling tools of IBM Rational Rose  • Worked with core Java code extensively using interfaces and multi-threading techniques  • Involved in production support and documenting the application to provide training and knowledge transfer to the user  • Used Log4j for logging mechanism and developed wrapper classes to configure the logs    • Used JUnit and Test cases for testing the application modules.  • Used Various Data structures and algorithms to hold the performance data of the investment plans  • Developed and configured the Java beans using Spring MVC framework  • Developed the application using Rational Team Concert and worked under Agile Environment  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database  • Also, used C++ to create some libraries used in the application  Environment: C++, Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Eclipse, Oracle 9i, Apache Tomcat, CVS, JavaScript, Log4. Java Developer Colruyt - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN August 2008 to March 2010 Description: The financial advisors site is committed to being the highest-value provider of investment products education and support for financial advisors and their clients. The primary site audiences include broker-dealer firms, broker-dealer advisors, and registered Investment advisors, trust professionals, hedge fund managers, endowments officers and pension managers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and implementations of the architecture for the using OOAD, UML designs patterns.  • Extensive experience of working in Multi-Threading Environment and Concurrency Programming.  • Involved in designing documents.  • WebSphere v5.0 application server used for deployment.  • Experience on object-oriented design, data structures, and algorithms.  • Configured Validator Framework with the Struts for client side and server side validation.  • Used the Struts validation, Struts Custom tags and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer.  • Implemented logging mechanism using Log4j tool.  • Used JDBC to provide database connectivity to database tables in ORACLE.  • Creation and maintenance of data was done using MySQL database.  • Involved in production support of the application by responding to the tangible needs.  Environment: Java, J2EE, API, UNIX (for production environment), Structs, Apache POI, Oracle, MySQL, Log4j, Eclipse, proprietary frameworks Skills JAVA (8 years), APACHE (7 years), JDBC (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (6 years), Java 6, Spring Tool Suite, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4, log4j, Angular JS, EXT JS, Ember JS, JUnit, IBM MQ, JMS, JAXB, Rest Full Web -Services, HTML, XML, XSL, JQuery, Java Script, Maven, Hibernate,Java EE 6/5, Java SE 6, JSF 2.1, EJB 3.0, Angular JS, JPA, Prime Faces, Rich Faces, JQuery, AJAX, JMS over WebSphere MQ, IBM WMB, Web Services and SOA, ClearCase, Maven, Apache Camel. (8 years) Additional Information SKILLS    JAVA (8 years), APACHE (7 years), JDBC (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (6 years)    Technical Skills:    J2EE Technologies J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, JDBC, MVC, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, XML Application Servers Web sphere Application Server, BEA Web logic, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  Web Services SOAP UI, REST, WSDL, , XSD, CXF, MQ Series, JAX-RS, and JAX-WS.  IDE Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, Rational rose, Intellij, RAD Languages Java, C, C++, PL/SQL, PHP, UML, XML, HTML  Web technologies JavaScript,CSS,HTML5,ReactJS,DHTML, XML, DTD, HTTP, Bootstrap, Jquery1.8, JQuery UI, Backbone JS, Node JS  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, EJB, JSF, AngularJS Build Tools ANT, Maven    Spring framework Bean Factory, Application Context, Dependency Injection/IOC, MVC, Struts, Data Binding, AOP, JDBC, ORM, JMS.  Distributed computing JMS API, JAXP, JAXB, JNDI, XML  Databases Oracle12c/11g, MySQL, DB2, JDBC, Mongo DB, PostgreSQL, H2, NoSQL Version Controllers SVN, CVS, Clear Case, GIT, TFS  Testing Tools Junit, SOAP UI, Eclipse Plug-ins(Code Pro, Find Bugs and PMD) Operating Systems UNIX (Solaris, Ubuntu, Linux, OSX); Windows 9x/XP/Vista/7/8