Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - Day air Credit union Monroe, LA • Around 8+ years of IT experience in developing software applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Solid experience in using Java Design Patterns and Unified Modeling Language (UML) in designing JEE applications.  • Extensive development experience in object oriented analysis, design, and programming (OOA/OOD/OOP) throughout complete SDLC in various models like Waterfall, RUP and Agile.  • Excellent programming skills in JAVA, C, C++, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, SQL, PL/SQL, and XML Technologies.  • Strong business knowledge in Telecom and Banking.  • Expertise in using J2EE design patterns including Front Controller, Data Access Object, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, MVC, Data Transfer Object and GOF patterns - Factory, Abstract Factory, Singleton, Adapter, Observer, Composite etc.  • Expert in documenting business requirements, functional, technical specifications, and test cases.  • Strong experience in database design using SQL, PL/SQL-Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Sequences, Packages, and Views.  • Hands on experience in creating build scripts using ANT and Maven.  • Experience in Networking and load balancing applications.  • Good communication and interpersonal skills.  • Excellent problem solving, analytical and leadership skills and ability to perform independently or as part of a team.  • Extensive experience in design and implementation of MVC architecture using STRUTS 1.x/2.x, SPRING 3.2, spring-ws and JSF.  • Solid experience in design, development of web based applications using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, AngularJS, Java script libraries like JQuery & DOJO, Ext Js and Tag Libraries.  • Strong in design and development of SOAP & Restful Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, CXF, AXIS, JAX-RS, JERSEY, and WS-Security.  • Used Jira to track/update project changes. Used SVN as Source Control.  • Good working experience with HIBERNATE open source object/relational mapping framework.  • Good working experience with Mule ESB.  • Experience creating workflows, fields, and other project components in Jira.  • Expertise in using JMS for Asynchronous messaging.  • Used Git for Version Control System.  • Proficient in development of enterprise business solutions using Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere and JBOSS application servers.  • Extensive experience with Oracle 10g/11g, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, DB2 and Microsoft Access.  • Excellent hands on experience with Servlets, JDBC, EJB 3.0-Session beans, entity beans, JMS, XML, XSLT, DTD, XSD and DOM/SAX.  • Good expertise using various IDE tools like RAD, Eclipse & Net Beans etc.  • Experience with Workflow management & Batch processing.  • Expertise in Unit testing using JUnit & Mockito, Integration testing, Smoke testing & System testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Day air Credit union September 2015 to Present Description: Day Air Credit Union was founded in 1945, by 26 employees of the United States Air Force Depot - Gentile Station (later known as DESC); who came together as a group to help each other improve their individual financial situations. After much discussion, the original members decided to combine the words "Dayton" and "Air Force" creating the name we know, "Day Air."    Responsibilities:  • Implemented development process on Software Development Life Cycle.  • Involved in data Integration and Documents module.  • Involved in using HTML, DHTML, Java Script, AJAX, ExtJs, JQUERY, JSP and Struts Tag Libraries to develop view pages  • Involved in doing analysis on DB Schema as per new design in DB2 from Oracle.  • Developed AJAX applications in java and compiled the source to JavaScript running on all the browsers using GWT.  • Complete feedback system was designed using MEAN (ExpressJs, AngularJs, NodeJS) stack technologies.  • Involved in using Core java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, and Serialization.  • Involved in preparation of developer test cases, execution, and preparation of scope & traceability matrix.  •Utilized JBoss for web server.  • Responsibilities included development of new modules of the application such as Web using J2EE 1.6 technologies, Struts, and Spring Framework.  • Used spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Node JS, Hibernate and JSF.  • Developed MVC controllers and deployed flow of Execution in the Servlet Environment using Spring MVC.  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injection of components.  • Implemented Web Services using Spring RESTful.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database.  • Used Struts framework to inject services, entity services, transaction management, and concerns by factory class corresponding to the use case operation executing.  • Worked on XML POC for inbound and out bound XML into database using SAX Parser.  • Implemented business logic components using POJOs.  • Created Jira projects, templates, workflows, screens, fields, and other administrative activities.  • Involved in ATG Web development on windows based workstations.  • Involved in Technical upgrade of e-commerce applications.  • Application code investigation, code cleanup and code repository maintenance.  • Coordinating and tracking all projects for seamless releases using Project Management System Jira Source.  • Created dynamic attributes in a JSP page using the struts concept.  • Analyzed WSDLs as per wire frames, UI pages & generated client jars.  • Involved in creating internal & external services, Entity services and handlers.  • Involved in writing SQL queries & PL/SQL - Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, Cursors, sequences, indexes etc.  • Implemented Struts framework (Action and Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate class.  • Involved in JBoss server configurations, Data Sources, Connection Pooling, and deploying the apps on different servers in different environments like Local/Dev/QA/Production.  • Used JavaScript, JQuery for the client end data validations  • Involved in creating JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE.  • Involved in creating XML inbound & outbound flows using XSTL.  • Involved in doing Unit testing using MOKITO and Integration testing.  • Developed and consumed Rest Services using HTTP methods such as GET, POST, PUT and DELETE for user and account micro services.  • Implemented Spring Boot Micro services to divide the application into various sub modules.  • Used MongoDB for storing the user profile data from multiple systems such as LDAP and other legacy systems.  • Implemented Mongo repositories to retrieve and store the data in MongoDB.  • Build SOAP Web Services based on AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSP, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 and DHTML.  • Build user interfaces differently by breaking them into components using ReactJS and used a real, full featured programming language to render views, with ReactJS  • Developed Web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Implemented client-side Java-beans for DAO pattern.  • Supported Dev, QA and PROD builds and identified issues in Smoke testing and tracked them efficiently.  • Involved in building the code using Ant & deployed on server.  Environment: JAVA 1.6, J2EE, DAO, HTML, JSP, Boot strap, Java Script, XML, CSS, Ajax, ExtJs, JBoss, EJB, Oracle 11g, Log4J, Struts Tag Libraries, JIRA, GitHub, Eclipse 3.1, Ant 1.6, Struts 2.0, JAVA/J2EE Design Patterns, Edit Plus, DB2, Oracle, MongoDB, SVN, SQL developer, Windows 10. Sr. Java Developer Monroe, LA October 2013 to September 2015 Description: CenturyLink (NYSE: CTL) is a global communications and IT services company focused on connecting its customers to the power of the digital world. CenturyLink offers network and data systems management, big data analytics, managed security services, hosting, cloud, xqlambda, and IT consulting services. The company provides broadband, voice, video, advanced data, and managed network services over a robust 265,000-route-mile U.S. fiber network and a 360,000-route-mile international transport network.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, Testing, and Maintenance phases of EA application.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in Spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Implemented Agile development process on Software Development Life Cycle.  • Actively participated in daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Involved in using HTML, DHTML, Java Script, AngularJS, AJAX, ExtJs, JQUERY, JSP and Tag Libraries to develop view pages  • Involved in preparing design TSD document with Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams using Microsoft VISIO.  • Involved in doing analysis on DB Schema as per new design in DB2 from Oracle.  • Involved in using REST API while integrating with servers.  • Developed User Profile and Account Service and Micro Service modules using Spring Boot.  • Involved in using Core java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, and Serialization.  •Utilized Tomcat and Apache servers for cloud server management.drf.  • Used Spring framework to inject services, entity services, transaction management, and concerns by factory class corresponding to the use case operation executing.  • Developed the application using Mule ESB, and build & deployed the services  • Involved in using spring concepts - DI/IOC, AOP, Batch implementation and Spring MVC.  • Involved in Declarative transaction management using spring AOP.  • Created WSDLs as per wire frames, UI pages & generated client jars using JAX-WS.  • Used Apache CXF to create SOAP based & Restful web services.  • Involved in creating internal & external services, Entity services and handlers.  • Used JAVA Mail API, and implemented an automated functionality to generate e-mails to the managed whenever a user registers for the applications.  • Used Jira for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management.  • Developed several POJO classes to map the data into Java Object.  • Used TOAD for the DB2 database changes.  • Involved in writing SQL queries & PL/SQL - Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, Cursors, sequences, indexes etc.  • Involved in Web sphere server configurations, Data Sources, Connection Pooling, MQ Series Queues set up for messaging and deploying the apps on different servers in different environments like QA/IST/Production.  • Involved in creating JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool.  • Ran check style, PMD defects & Find bugs and fixed them.  • Involved in fixing defects identified in QA and IST phases. And tracked QC status as per the guild lines.  • Created MULE ESB artifact and configured the MULE config files and deployed.  • Experience with Test Cycle management in Jira.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using XPath using MULE ESB.  • Done with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of mule ESB endpoint through WSSR.  • Involved in doing Unit testing using MOKITO and Integration testing  • Used SVN for version and source control.  • Used SOA (Spring WS) for implementing third party Services.  • Implemented Spring ORM with Hibernate taking advantages of java features like annotation metadata, auto wiring and generic collections that is used to implement the DAO layer with hibernate.  • Supported IST, QA and UAT builds and identified issues in Smoke testing and tracked them efficiently.  • Involved in deploying the application in Unix and to connect to see logs for fixing UAT/Production defects.  • Involved in building the code using Ant & deployed on server.  • Used Jenkins for Auto Builds.  • Used Splunk for log monitoring.  Environment: JAVA 1.6, J2EE, Servlets 2.4, EJB 2.0, JDBC 2.0, JAXB, Spring-IOC/DI/WS, AOP, MVC, JSF components, REST API, DAO, HTML, Java Script, XML, CSS, Ajax, ExtJs, Web Sphere Application server8.0, LDAP, Oracle 10g, Log4J, Eclipse 3.1, CVS, DOJO, Ant 1.5, SOA, Mule ESB, SOAP, DB2, PL/SQL, SQL, Web Services-WSDL, SOAP UDDI, SOAP UI, Axis2, JIRA, JAX_RS, JERSEY, Splunk, Jenkins, Windows XP. Sr. Java Developer AETNA HEALTH INSURANCE - Hartford, CT September 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile - Sprint methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning.  • Involved in preparing High & low-level design docs with UML diagrams using Rational Rose tool.  • Used REST API for translated UI text.  • Developed generic web service architecture using Spring Web Services  •Conducted performance testing of Apache and Tomcat management services.  • Implemented jQuery and JSON to minimize code and manage complex data set.  • Used HTML, DHTML, Java Script, AngularJS, AJAX, ExtJs, JQUERY, JSP and Tag Libraries to develop view pages in SAI portal.  • Used Struts framework to define Controller, action mappings, forms, and View pages for Fidelity Desktop.  • Used Spring Core to define beans for Services, Entity services and corresponding depended services.  • Involved in doing spring transaction management using AOP and using Spring Batch.  • Used Apache CXF, WSDL, SOAP, AXIS, and JAX-RS technologies to create web services, generate stubs and consuming the existing services.  • Involved in developing Restful web services using Apache CXF tool.  • Used Axis2 to create and invoking the web services and testing web services using SOAP UI tool.  •Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate and JPA.  • Used JMS to pass messages as payload to track different statuses, milestones, and states in the workflows.  • Involved in the configurations set for Web logic servers, DSs, JMS queues and the deployment.  • Involved in creating queues, MDB, Worker to accommodate the messaging to track the workflows.  • Involved in using Core java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Serialization, and Java 1.5 features etc.  • Created Hibernate mapping files, sessions, transactions, Query & Criteria's to fetch the data from DB.  • Created MULE ESB artifact and configured the MULE config files and deployed.  • Used Mule ESB in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using Xpath.  • Used Mule ESB to design and implement communication between software applications and SOA.  • Involved in second level cache using EHCache in Hibernate at table level.  • Identified check style, PMD and Find bugs and fixed them.  • Involved in building the code & deploying on Web logic server.  • Creating JUNIT test cases to have thorough Unit testing to avoid defects.  • Involved in creating JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool.  • Involved in doing build & deployment using Maven.  Environment: JAVA/J2EE, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, JS, ExtJs, AJAX, JQUERY, CSS3, Servlets, JSP, XML, REST API, XSLT, XPATH, XQuery, Axis2, WSDL, SOAP, CXF, REST, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, Web logic server, JMS, Eclipse4.2, Elastic Search, JUNIT, Mockito, CVS, SOAPUI, JNDI, Java/J2EE design patters, Mule ESB, EMMA, Spring framework - DI, AOP, Batch, Hibernate, EJB-Session Beans, Ant, IVY, OSB, JUNIT, HP QC, Coherence, Rally. Java Developer Pega Systems - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN September 2011 to September 2012 Description:  We are Pega systems - dedicated to streamlining business and enhancing customer engagement. The company has 3000 customers rely on our dynamic, strategic applications to drive excellence in their sales, marketing, service, and operations. It seamlessly connects our customers with their customers across channels, in real-time. The adaptive, on-premise, and cloud-based apps - built on our unified Pega 7 platform - empower people with comprehensive visual tools to extend and change applications to meet strategic business needs.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the account details Presentation module.  • Involved in designing of PNC financial services using - AIS using J2EE guidelines and different J2EE design patterns with JSP, Controller Servlets and EJB.  • Involved in the implementation of the Service Locator, Business Delegate, and the Session Façade design pattern for the enterprises level functionality.  •Programmed and prepared code for interfacing with Apache Tomcat systems.  • Involved in Jtest. And used Jprobe to quickly pinpoint and repair the root cause of application code performance and stability problems that obstruct component and integration integrity.  • Developed the Stateless Session bean for processing the business logic.  • Developed numerous Transfer objects using the DTO design pattern for inter-tier communication.  • Involved in using Core java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Serialization.  • Used Struts Validation framework for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Used JSF for automatic synchronize UI components.  • Used JSF for navigation handling and duplicate button press problem.  • Used Dojo to develop custom dojo widgets for Color chooser and others.  • Used Dojo Widget Library Dijit like Tree, Back button, Calendar, List box, Validation text box, Text area, to create form, validation and for specialized input.  • Designed and delivered innovative transparent cryptography layer for Dojo SQL using AES 256-bit encryption, protecting stolen laptops from having their offline data compromised.  • Written SQL, PL/SQL queries. And used DB2 stored procedure, functions, triggers, cursors, objects, sequences  • Adopted J2EE best Practice, using J2EE Design patterns.  • Implemented Rational Unified Process (RUP) for software development process  • Develop Message Driven Beans (MDB) & involved in building and accessing a web Services using SOAP over JMS.  • Developing a mechanism for sending and receiving SOAP messages over JMS by MQ Series Engine  • Developed Web Services using Apache AXIS2 tool Framework.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) Concept.  • Written JUnit test cases for Business Objects, and prepared code documentation for future reference and upgrades.  • Used Groovy for static and dynamic typing, operator overloading, associative arrays, polymorphic  iteration and native support for regular expressions.  • Written build xml file for ANT scripting from Groovy.  • Used IBM Rational Clear Case (software configuration management (SCM)) for version control, workspace management, parallel development support and build auditing to improve productivity.  • Deployed applications using Web Logic Application Server.  • Implemented open source log4j logging framework in whole application.  • Used CVS as a version controlling tool for managing the module developments.  Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Servlets 2.4, EJB 2.0, JDBC 2.0, JAXB, Struts 2.0, JSF components, DAO, HTML, Java Script, XML, CSS, Ajax, Web logic Application server, LDAP, Oracle 10g, Log4J, Eclipse 3.1, CVS, DOJO, Ant 1.5, SOA, SOAP, DB2, PL/SQL, SQL, Axis2, Web Services-WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, SOAP UI, JAX_RS, JERSEY, Windows XP. Java Developer Kentar Technologies August 2009 to September 2011 Description:  Kantar is home to some of the world's leading research, data, and insights brands. Individually, brands such as Kantar Millward Brown, Kantar TNS, Kantar Media, Kantar World panel, Kantar Added Value and Kantar Futures are famous and highly respected experts in their fields. Collectively, they offer the most complete view of consumers - the way they live, shop, vote, watch and tweet - in over a hundred countries worldwide. For the benefit of our clients, Kantar connects these specialists as well as providing access to the wider WPP group of companies and other partners.  Responsibilities:  • Designed user interfaces, object model, application server logic and schema by analyzing requirements.  • Used J2EE patterns for designing applications.  • Designed UI pages using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, Ext JS, JSP and Struts tag libraries.  • Monitored the performance of application using Jprobe, also coded Struts Action Classes and Model Classes.  • Using Model View Controller (MVC) architecture of Struts developed client User Interface.  • Used Struts Validation framework for client/server validations.  • Extensively used design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory etc.  • JMS is used for exchanging the information like Author publication status report between the author and company.  • Used EJB Session beans and entity beans to develop business services and the persistence.  • Involved in using Core java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Serialization.  • Designed UI using HTML, DHTML, Java Script, CSS and JSP.  • Developed distributed java components using EJB and JPA for persistence.  • Involved in peer design and code reviews using JProfiler.  • Involved in writing Oracle SQL & PL/SQL- Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Sequences, Indexes, and Views.  • Involved in doing performance tuning by observing AWR reports & execution plans.  • Involved in IBM MQ Series set up & messaging using Queues.  • Involved in setting up rules & apply to the application using JRules.  • Application deployment and Application Server maintenance.  • Production server issues investigation and providing solutions (Common and reusable) for technically challenged problems  • Involved in implementing & processing batch processing.  • Application code investigation, code cleanup and code repository maintenance.  • Used Eclipse as IDE to develop the application.  • Involved in preparation of scope & traceability matrix.  • Prepared Change Request business documents and participated in testing.  • Onsite Coordination with customer, business partners of RTA and project team  • Involved in JUnit & Integration testing.  • Performed Change and release management and supporting business users of application.  • Involved in doing build using Maven and deployed on Web sphere server  • Followed coding guidelines while implementing the code.  • Extensively involved in Unit testing and coordinated with the testing team and fixing Bugs at various stages of the application development.  • Ran check styles, find bugs and configured EMMA tool for test coverage.  Environment: JAVA/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JSTL, Java Script, EJB-session bean, entity beans, JMS, HTML, DHTML, Struts, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat 6.0, CVS, Windows 2000, JAVA/J2EE Design Patterns, Edit Plus, TOAD, Ext JS, Struts Tag Libraries, Validation framework, JUNIT, JProbe, Oracle-SQL, PL SQL, EMMA, QC, Maven etc. Education Bachelor's