Legal Assistant Legal Assistant Software Developer - Tech Mahindra/Cisco, Inc Cupertino, CA To obtain professional and interpersonal skills for a career in management in the network/systems admin, QA, software development, or data analysis fields and to improve upon my management skills by implementing it into project ideas that would further increase the efficiency of the teams and their work satisfaction. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Legal Assistant Verma Law Firm - San Jose, CA June 2019 to July 2019 Experienced in immigration law. Assisted in drafting PERM labor certifications, family and employment visas, green cards, H-1B petitions, etc. Used case management software to organize clients and cases. Managed client intake forms and worksheets to ensure all critical information is collected. Reviewed documents and information from clients. Aided firm attorneys with response to Requests for Evidence. Maintain reports and status updates on client caseload. Drafted retainers. Front Desk Receptionist/Administrative Assistant Verma Law Firm - San Jose, CA June 2019 to July 2019 Greeted clients and visitors and answered visitor inquiries. Created and drafted initial case files for lawyers to work on. Routed and transferred incoming calls on a multi-line telephone system. Maintain files on a server system (i.e. make sure the files are properly saved). Scheduled consultations on a system-wide Outlook calendar for all lawyers and legal workers. Maintained and scheduled conference rooms for consultations. Maintained the waiting area, lobby or other public areas. Ordered supplies as needed and made sure it was affordable. Increased workplace efficiency by incorporating technological systems. Scanned, photocopied, faxed and filed case documents. Mailed checks appropriately. Collected and organized mail and hand-delivered packages. Maintained and updated casefiles, records, and invoices to make sure clients paid on time. Communicate with Marketing Team to coordinate consultations for new client cases. Convene and coordinate with managing and associate attorney to make sure office runs smoothly.  Software Developer Tech Mahindra/Cisco, Inc - San Jose, CA November 2018 to February 2019 Clearly and regularly communicate with management and technical support colleagues. Aid with designing and updating of software databases (Apache Cassandra & MongoDB, focus on Cassandra). Help create options for clients to use either MongoDB or Apache Cassandra databases. Work with Cassandra APIs. Work with experienced team members to conduct root cause analysis of issues, review new and existing code and/or perform unit testing. Utilize Agile development techniques to develop project. Instructional Assistant San Jose State University January 2018 to May 2018 Generally assisted faculty in evaluating student work and examinations. Assisted professors with course-related work. Marked exams and assignments to assist professors with grading. Tutored students in the SJSU Philosophy Center by helping them with homework, exams, papers, etc. Worked with other ISAs (Instructional Student Assistants) in order to effectively help students with their classwork. Helped students learn how to argue well in philosophical papers. Had competency in the philosophical area(s) of my assignments. Was in academic good standing to acquire the job opportunity. Acted courteously and professionally in all interactions with students to represent the Philosophy Department. Java Programmer Drastin, Inc March 2015 to February 2016 Communicated with the manager to establish project goals and report progress. Designed, developed, and implemented Java applications to support business requirements. Used Natural Language Processing (NLP) with parsing and searching algorithms. Tested Java programs with JUnit. Resolved technical issues through debugging. Technical Support Techcycle - San Jose, CA October 2014 to January 2015 Repaired and revived the efficiency of the donated computers. Took care of malware issues. Upgraded systems to keep them performing well. Altered the configuration of the system for maximum performance and installed the desired software. Evaluated the performance of the computer and identified the areas failing the quality standards with respect to efficiency, speed, and accuracy. Youth/Girls STEM Network Instructor San Jose State University - San Jose, CA August 2014 to January 2015 Worked with a group of instructors to lead instruction in interactive, out-of- school, academic enrichment programs where elementary school kids can learn about various STEM concepts, specifically in cybersecurity and computer science. Brought STEM education-focused learning opportunities to the local community. Used curricular modules developed by NSF (Nation Science Foundation)-funded Scientists for Tomorrow and CyberWatch programs to allow youth to showcase their work and products generated in sessions of STEM activities. Gift Gallery Cashier Kaiser Permanente - Cupertino, CA June 2008 to July 2010 Operated a cash register and a POS system. Coordinated a profit sheet analysis at the end of the day. Calculated the profits. Communicated with customers on the phone. Provided customer service like delivering flowers and mail to patient rooms. Trained new volunteers learn how to operate the POS and do daily tasks. Patient Escort Volunteer Kaiser Permanente - Cupertino, CA June 2008 to July 2010 Greet all guests and visitors, professionally and courteously. Answer and screen incoming phone calls when needed. Assist other administrative staff and coordinators with overflow work, including word processing, internet tasks. Provided members information to aid their hospital visit. Education Philosophy & Computer Science San Jose State University (SJSU) 2018 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Adobe Photoshop (Less than 1 year), AutoCAD (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Javascript, PHP, MySQL, HTML 5, Git, CSS, jQuery Links http://linkedin.com/in/madular http://github.com/maduram Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nwqlc5rzrhkwgf1x Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS    Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7/8/8.1/10, Linux Ubuntu  Web Programming Languages/Services: HTML, CSS, Adobe Dreamweaver, XML, XHTML, XML DTD, Javascript, PHP, JSON, MySQL, Node.js, Express.js, XAMPP/Apache/HTTP servers, server-side web programming  Programming Languages: Java, Python, C++, C, C#, Visual Basic .NET, Scratch by MIT  Graphics Tools: Adobe Photoshop, GIMP, AutoCAD