Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Verisk ISO Chicago, IL • 7+ years of software development experience in requirements Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, and production support of scalable, Multi-Tier distributed enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Superior project implementation skills using Java, Jsp, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, JSTL, RMI, EJB, Struts, Spring, JavaScript, XML(SAX, DOM), Webservices, JMS, Java Mail, JAXP, WSDL, SOAP, RESTFul, JSON, Hibernate.  • Experience on Agile(Scrum), Waterfall, RUP and Extreme Programming (Test Driven development, Pair Programming, Code Reviews).  • Extensively worked on coding using core java concepts like multithreading, collections, serialization, Synchronization, exception handling, generics, network APIs and database connections.  • Strong front-end UI development skills using JSP, JSP Custom Tag Libraries, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making WebPages cross browser compatible, single page web applications using AngularJS.  • Experience in developing web applications with various open source frameworks like JSF, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, Struts Framework, Struts Validation and Tiles Frameworks.  • Hands-on experience with Spring, Spring Data, Spring Integration, Spring Data-RS, Spring Security.  • Proficient inpersistence frameworks Hibernate, iBATIS, JPA, to map POJOs to a relational database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Experience in implementing the declarative enterprise services using Spring AOP and implementation knowledge on spring web flow to manage the application page flows.  • Experience in working with relational databases like Oracle 11g, MySQL, MS SQL Server using SQL, PL/SQL and NoSQL databases such as Mongo DB and Cassandra.  • Extensive experience in using SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, snapshots, Triggers and optimization with Oracle, DB2 and MySQL databases.Hands on SQL Performance Tuning Operations and worked on database tools such as TOAD and SQL Loader.  • Experienced in MEAN stack development (MongoDB, Express.JS, AngularJS &NodeJS).  • Experience in Angular.JS for application implementation, creating modules, controllers, routeProviders, factory services, ng-repeat, customizable filter, http get/post methods and directives to realize functionalities like REST service with Ajax call, input validations, searchable and sortable contents.  • Handsome experience in writing light weight Node.js express server, and using technologies like JSON to make connections between server and databases like MongoDB and MySQL.  • Experience with Angular JS MVC Framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters working with animations, routing and states.  • Good Experience working with Node.js (Grunt, Bower, Express, HTTP, FS) andexperience implementing custom directives in Angular JS.  • Experienced in developing REST based Web API with Node JS using routing frameworks such as Express JS and Restify. REST API for CRUD operations to develop MongoDB DAO connectivity. Experience in CSS preprocessors SASS, LESS.  • Strong experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and publishing web services(SOAP, RESTful) that include several components like SOAP, WSDL, XML, XSD, UDDI, JAX-RS and JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAXB.  • Good exposure to tools like SoapUI, Postman for testing SOAP and RESTful web services, browser plugins like Advanced REST client and also CURL using command line for testing HTTP requests.  • Proficient in Java/J2EE Design Patterns including singleton, command, object pool, session facade, Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Applications.  • Experience in designing, developing applications using Struts (1.x/2.x) Frame work, Oauth framework and configured the validation framework for validations and Tiles framework for layout management.  • Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM,JDOM,SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC, Document Handlers, XML Beans and Castor Framework.  • Proficient in handling web and application servers in creating Domain, configuring connection pool, JMS, deploying applications on WebLogic, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, Glassfish and JBoss.  • Experienced in use of build tools like Apache Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins and logging tools like log4J, project tracking tools by JIRA and QC.  • Involved in Unit Test Cases writing and having good knowledge in JUnit, used mocking frame work like Mockito, JMockit. Spring test with Groovy for debugging and testing the applications.  • Expertise in UML which includes creating Use-Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Interaction diagrams (Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams) using Designer tools like MS Visio, Rational Rose.  • Experience in Version Control tools like CVS, Clear Case, SVN, GIT for Source Code version management and merging Source code after intermittent Project releases.  • Development experience in different OS like Windows, Linux and UNIX and excellent troubleshooting skills  • Innovative team player proven to work under tight deadlines and work pressure. Ability to learn and merge new technologies quickly. Excellent problem solving, analytical and communication skills.  • Sponsorship required to work in the US Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Verisk ISO - Chicago, IL August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Followed Agile Scrum Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC intensively that leverages classical MVC architecture and JavaScript for major data entry that involved extreme level of data validation at client side.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in springframework using Dependency Injection / Inversion of Control (IOC), and Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) on SpringSource Tool Suite.  • Created the Spring Bean Factory for initializing services. Added security for service layer methods using Spring Security.  • Integrated Single sign on sing LDAP and Active directory on Spring security layer, successfully maintained users and groups integrity in the application.  • Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Extensively used XML Web Services for transferring/retrieving data between different providers. Extensively involved in developing Restful Web services using Jersey framework (JAX-RS) and REST annotations.  • Implemented Single Page Design and customized directive and filter criteria by using AngularJS.  • Created RESTful APIs in Express and returned logic through AngularJS data binding. Wrote tests in Mocha on server side and Jasmine on the client side.  • Utilized Angular.JS UI-bootstrap components like time picker, directives, model pop-ups, ng-grid, router, progress bar, ng-Idle, ng-Upload. Implemented flexible routing and nested using Angular.JS-ui-router.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a Responsive Webpage across different screen-sizes.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database and used dependency injection (DI) using Spring framework and annotations.  • Used Hibernate for mapping java classes with database and created queries with Hibernate query language (HQL).  • Extensively used IBM REST API in task assignment, reassignment, closure and ad-hoc task implementation.  • Incorporated knowledge of TDD and BDD for front end UI applications and performed end-to-end testing with Protractor.  • Maintained the code repository on SVN through frequent and definite updates and built the application using Maven to deploy on WebSphere Server and used Jenkins for continuous integration.    Environment: Spring Framework, Hibernate 4.3, HTML, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, XML, JSON, RESTful Webservices, JMS, Websphere, Spring Tool Suite, SVN, Maven, JIRA, Jenkins, log4j, Jersey, DB2. Java Full Stack Developer Jackson National Life Insurance - Franklin, TN September 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements from the client business unit by participating in design discussions and implementation feasibility analysis with business analysts at all levels.  • Followed iterative application development specified by Agile Scrum methodology consisting of weekly Sprints and stand up meetings and built the application with Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Designed the system based on Spring MVC Model architecture. Developed a business logic layer using Spring Dependency Injection and client side Java-beans for DAO Design Patterns.  • Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application and also to track CRUD operations on the database. Used Spring Transactions and Spring Web Flow for Payment and Money Transfer.  • Worked on coding standalone batch jobs, and providing monitoring and application support using Spring Batches, Java Batches, and ETL batch jobs. Used Spring Batch with Quartz scheduler for generate the reports.  • Involved in design and development of UI component, which includes layered POVs and Carousels using frameworks AngularJS, JavaScript and Jquery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and LESS.  • Implemented core features of AngularJS framework such as dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Directives, Templates, Services and Deep Linking.  • Created AngularJS controllers, services and used AngularJS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  • Used Express JS to build a web service to provide access to the models and exposed it using a REST API that emits JSON. Secured the app with Passport JS using a local strategy.  • Called REST web services through AngularJS services to get JSON Object and modified the response object to display in UI.  • Developed REST architecture based web services using JAX-WS to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Involved in development of web services for business operations using SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, JDOM, XML, XSL and Apache CXF.  • Implemented various design patterns: Singleton, Data Access Object (DAO), Command Design Pattern, Abstract Factory, Factory Method Design Pattern.  • Worked on XML parsing by using JAXB for XML Schema Validation. Used XSLT to transform my XML data structure into HTML pages.  • Used Mongoose JS to access the documents from the NodeJS web server and build data models for the entities in the database schema.  • Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB and Oracle database management system and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  • Configured & deployed Java applications on Amazon Web Services(AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the AWS stack, cloud formation.  • Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage efficiently Hibernate Resources and consistent exception Hierarchy.  • Implemented persistence layer using various features like XML configuration file for Database connectivity, connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control using ORM tool Hibernate 3.0 framework like HQL queries etc.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information, such as order status report, delivery report. Wrote JMS class to transfer the orders between agents and policy holders.  • Used JMS using RabitMQ to report failure of connectivity between Quad instance and other components in Cluster.  • Extensively used the Log4j for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking and Exception statements.  • Created build files using Maven. Developed the application using Eclipse IDE. GIT for version control and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Used Hibernate ORM frameworks for database connectivity. Developed SQL procedures for login module and written complex SQL queries.  • Worked in an Agile environment delivering output in sprints. Used Apache Tomcat 7 as the server to host the application.  • Generated UML artifacts such as use cases, sequence diagrams, class diagrams using Rational Application Developer  • Wrote Junit test cases with Mockito, Mock MVC test framework, resolved bugs and Eclipse's debugging tool.  • Involved in various internal releases of the application and supported the application modules during testing and pre-production phases.    Environment: MEAN Stack (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, NodeJS), Spring Framework, RESTfulWebServices, JSON, Apache CXF, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JMS, RabitMQ, Hibernate 4.3, Oracle database, Spring Tool Suite, Windows 7, JUint, Git, Maven, Jenkins and Tomcat. JAVA/ J2EE Developer Acxiom Corporation - Little Rock, AR December 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participated in all aspects of the development lifecycle from design to development to deployment and on-going enhancements.  • Contributed to project by working on end to end flow - developing JSP's for front end by developing Servlets, BO classes in middle tier and to database by writing various SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Extensively used Spring MVC model to implement the application and created Spring Beans using IOC and AOP. Developed the controller, business logic and DAO classes achieving dependency injection.  • Leveraged Spring as middle-tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate and declarative transaction management.  • Implement the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security. Implemented remote service access with Spring Remoting.  • Used factory inAngular.JS to use the common functions in different views to reduce redundancy and improve maintenance of the code.  • Implemented authentication session to certain routes and cache strategies for certain HTTP requests.  • Used Bootstrap&media queries to create Responsive Webpages across the different size of screen from phone or Laptop  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the forms through HTML and used AJAX, JSON to send requests to the server. Wrote AJAX calls to populate tables, tab menu and other components with JSON data in AngularJS.  • Implemented the integration with the back end system with web services using REST. Involved in developing Restful Web services using Jersey framework (JAX-RS) and REST annotations and used JACSON based REST-JSON convertors  • Work involved extensive usage of HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX, AngularJS and JavaScript for client side development and validations.  • Implemented JMS based SOAP Web service using Spring CXF, JMS config and Mule ESB. Built various capabilities in ESB like Security, Message routing, message transformation, transaction management etc.  • Wrote Hibernate configuration files, mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist data into MySQL Database.  • Configured Hibernate session factory to integrate Hibernate with Spring and used JPA/Hibernate to communicate with data layer and XML/JAXB to read XML data.  • Configured IBM-MQ in servers as message driven architecture for the exchange of messages between the applications.Created topics, queues and MDB's for communication using JMS/IBM MQ Series.  • Formalized code organization to comply with the official database design and improved table structure. Created Database tables and views using HLD Data Model E-R Diagrams.  • Configured the connection pools and security for the server. Used JUnit to perform unit testing.  • Followed the Maven build life cycle to build the application war/ear files and deployed into Websphere Application server. Used JIRA for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • Estimated engineering efforts, planned implementations, rolled out system changes and triaged production issues.  • Developed project plans, adhered to project milestones, monitored project progress, management reporting, resource management, coordinated offshore development activities.    Environment: Spring Framework, AngularJS, Node.JS, JavaScript, REST & SOAP WebServices, XML, JMS/IBM MQ, Bootstrap, JMS, Hibernate, JUnit, Eclipse, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, HTML, CSS3, MySQL database, SVN, JIRA, Maven, Junit, WebSphere. JAVA/ J2EE Developer Javelin Capital - New York, NY August 2011 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in business discussions regarding Requirements analysis, System Module Specifications and Implementation feasibility analysis with business analysts at all levels.  • Engaged in the development of the entire spectrum of business components, including the web interface, J2EE based middleware and authentication systems, database connectivity systems and relational databases.  • Worked on SOA to develop RESTful Web service to generate and consume services from different modules. Implemented MVC Framework to make single page applications for responsive services.  • Involved in invoking the Web Services by making using of Axis, REST, WSDL, SOAP with techniques such as Ajax, JQuery, JSON, JVM, DHTML and DOM scripting.  • Extensively usedSpring Framework'sIOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator Design Pattern into Action Classes.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Security modules to integrate with MySQL database to implement persistence layer in Hibernate.  • Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage efficiently Hibernate Resources and consistent exception Hierarchy  • Implemented JSF framework extensively which involves building the whole user Interface components using JSF tab panels, Panel groups and data tables. Integrated components like partial triggers, calendar, action/value change listeners with JSF for enhancing the front end GUI layout. Used JQueryvalidationframework for front end validations.  • Implemented JSF with Managed Beans, Topics, and Connection Factories in project (Model View Controller) to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application. Constructed JSF Portal Framework at Presentation Tier and Faces Servlet acts as the Front Controller.  • Creating custom JSF Facelet tags for error handling, datatables, true/false markers etc. Creating generic progress message and error handling using Richfaces Modal component.  • Involved in fixing the bugs at Development and production levels with onsite Offshore delivery model.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSF, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring ORM, SQL, MySQL, DB2, JBOSS, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, JMS, REST, SOAP, UML, JUnit, Log4J, SVN, Gradle, TDD, JMeter. JAVA Developer Sonata Software Ltd January 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • System was developed using Java, J2EE technologies and open source frameworks and application was implemented using struts architecture.  • Implemented MVC architecture and DAO design pattern for maximum abstraction of the application and code reusability.  • Followed agile methodologies to execute project. Build the application using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach.  • Developed various helper classes using Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Involved in all layers like Presentation Layer, Business Logic and Data Access Layers.  • Using technologies like SOAP, WSDL and UDDI based Web Services. Exposing and consuming web services using SOAP/WSDL for getting request from external source systems and sending response to external source systems.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, EJB, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, MVC, Oracle, WebLogic, DAO, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, TDD, XML, SQL, JMS, Web Services, CVS, SOAP, Eclipse. Education Bachelor's