Python/Django Developer Python/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python/Django Developer - Dell Inc Python/Django Developer • 10+ years of experience in Web/Application Development in analytical programming using Python and Java with skills in analysis, design, development, testing and deploying software applications.  • Experienced with full software development life cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design, etc.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language  • Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments using Agile methodology.  • Experience with design, code, debugs operations, reporting, and data analysis utilizing Python.  • Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries)  • Vast experience coding in various IDEs - Eclipse, Netbeans, Sublime Text, Spyder, PyCharm  • Familiar with supervised and unsupervised Machine Learning algorithms such as SVM, CNN, Regression Trees, clustering techniques, NLP, NLTK, Scikit, XGBoost  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, AWS, Jinja2, WSGI, PostgreSQL, Redis, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, and XML  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script, and Node.js  • Experienced in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Java, C++, and PHP  • Well versed in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture  • Familiar with JSON based REST, SOAP, and Amazon Web Services.  • Strong REST Services development skills by using DjangoRestFramework and TastyPie  • Experienced with Unit testing/Test driven Development (TDD), and Load Testing  • Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked on different Rest API's also involved in handling the JSON responses of those API's.  • Substantial Experience with server-side technologies including relational databases (Oracle, MySQL, DB2, SQL Server and PostgreSQL), RESTful services and MVC design patterns.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python/Django Developer Dell Inc - Santa Clara, CA March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Coded model level validation and provided guidance in making long-term architectural design decisions.  • Developed and handled business logic through backend Python code to achieve optimal results.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in Python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed view and templates in Django to create a user-friendly website interface  • Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON and JQuery.  • Used Bootstrap to manage and organize the HTML page layouts.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations  • Used Django configuration to manage URL's and application parameters  • Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data  • Supported web project which consumes JSON  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used several Python libraries such as Scipy, NumPy and Matplotlib  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application and created unit test/regression test framework for working on new code.  • Involved in build and deployment on various environments including Linux and UNIX  • Worked with a team of developers on Python applications for risk management    Environment: Django, HTML, CSS JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, Mongo DB, TDD, SOAP, REST, MVC, Git, Amazon EC2 Python/Django Developer Liberty Mutual - Indianapolis, IN January 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle including design, development, implementation, and testing  • Django Framework used in developing web applications to implement the MVC architecture  • Used Django APIs for database access  • Extracted, loaded, and analyzed data to and from Oracle database with Python  • Parsed various file formats including XML and JSON and loaded into Oracle database with Python XML and JSON modules  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and JSON  • DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions  • Created a Django dashboard with custom UI for end user after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many programs  • In order to avoid the reloading of the entire web page to update small portions, AJAX in UI was used  • Implemented RESTful web services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Developed and tested various dashboard features using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.    Environment: Python, Django, Java Script, HTML, XHTML, jQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git, Linux, Pycharm, AWS Python/Django Developer Lenevo - Raleigh, NC September 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record  • Involved in designing application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python  • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Participated in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Managed code versioning with BitBucket and deployment to staging and production servers  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services  • Used regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in database on a chronological basis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base  • Involved in analysis and design of the application features  • Was involved in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and de-normalization.  • Deployment of the web application using the Ubuntu server  Environment: Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, RESTful, MS SQL Server, Ubuntu server, Windows 12 Server, Amazon S3, Jenkins, My SQL, Mongo DB, GitHub, Bit Bucket, Linux, and Windows. Python Developer Bank of America - New York, NY July 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.  • Regular interacted with developers at various client locations in resolving issues successfully.  • Developed the firmware OS for mobile devices and communicated with other testing teams for better functionality.  • Found critical bugs in the firmware and helped other teams in making the software stable.  • Migration of Test Content to Automation Tool using Python and XML  • Development of Media OS based Validation test content in ACS (Automation) using Python and XML  • Worked in developing the screens for delete, Edit, Enable, Disable and Impersonate Users in web application  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework, invoke database message service setup, and update functionality.  • Analyzed and improved application efficiency by optimizing queries and caching contents for Django  • Created database schema for MySQL Database and helped to draw ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and review process    Environment: Django, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, Python, MySQL, XML, Git Java Developer State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL October 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and developing services for Community Design, Update Community sign and Get Community Design services  • Used Struts Framework extensively for controller components and view components  • Developed front end using Struts tag libraries, JSTL, JSP, HTML, and Java Script  • Involved in analysis of specifications  • Designed and developed various Servlets.  • Coding Different Java helper and validation classes for the Application logic and utilities  • Used Oracle 10g as back-end database and written PL/SQL scripts.  • Designed and developed JSP pages, JavaScript for various functionalities and testing.  • Fixed bugs and documented.  • Implemented log4j by enabling logging at runtime without modifying the application binary  • Developed the ANT scripts for preparing jar and other purposes  • Used Eclipse integrated CVS to maintain version controlled source code.  • Created stored procedures and triggers that are required for project  • Created functions and views in Oracle  • Responsible for updating database tables and designing SQL queries using PL/SQL.  • Created bean classes for communicating with database  • Involved in documentation of the module and project  • Prepared test cases and test scenarios as per business requirements.    Environment: Java 1.4, Eclipse 3.3, Struts, WebSphere Application Server 6.0, Hibernate 3.X, Oracle 10g, JSP, Servlets, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Ant, Web Services, SQL, Unix. Java Developer I Edge Software Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used OOP concepts in overall design and development of system applications  • Used Struts framework to follow MVC architecture in the application server  • Designed, developed and implemented the application as a team member.  • Implemented Business Logic of the system using Core Java API  • Spring was used for dependency injection.  • Involved in building a web application using spring framework  • Developed and Consumed SOAP based Web Services using SOAP based Web Services.  • Participate in designing Web service framework in support of the product.  • Designed and Implemented Unit testing using JUNIT Framework  • Experience in developing web services for production systems using SOAP  • Hands on experience with data persistency using JDBC and Developed the Servlets and Data Access Layer  • Performed in various phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Developed user interfaces using JSP framework with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, XHTML and CSS  • Created business logic and application in Struts Framework using JSP, and Servlets and JavaScript is used for front-end validation and Junit was used for unit testing.    Environment: Servlets, JavaScript, XML, Struts-MVC Framework, Oracle 11g, My Eclipse, VMware Player, Java, SQL Developer Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, C#, C++, DJANGO, Git Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages C++, Java, Python, C#, PHP  Scripting Languages JavaScript, Shell Script, R, MATLAB  Databases MySQL, Oracle, Mongo DB, PostgreSQL, Redis  Web Technologies CSS, HTML5, JS, JQuery, REST, SOAP, JSON, Django, Node, Angular, MVC, JSP, Servlets, XML, Ajax,  Operating Systems: Windows 8 & 10, GNU/LINUX, MAC O/S.  Tools & Servers: R-Studio, Jenkins, Maven, WebSphere, Tomcat, WebLogic,JBoss  ETL: MapReduce, Hadoop, Mahout  Machine Learning Libraries Theano, Scikit- learn, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Pandas, XGBoost, NLP, PCA, SVD, Regression and Classification Algorithms  Repositories Git, Heroku, BitBucket  Cloud Management Amazon Web Services  SDLC Agile, Waterfall, Scrum  Network TCP/IP, HTTPS/HTTP  IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, Spyder, Sublime, Netbeans