Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Charter Communications, MO Software Developer with 3+ years of experience in designing software applications and developing testing procedures. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Charter Communications, MO February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed the application following Agile Scrum methodology and Test-Driven Development using JIRA  • Participated in daily stand ups and Sprint planning, Backlog grooming and review meetings.  • Implemented navigation from presentation layer to another layer using Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security module  • Developed UI screens using Angular-4, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Node-js, Grunt and Karma.  • Written Junit tests using Spring Test MVC & Mockito.  • Collaborate with customers and onsite/offshore developers to execute projects through full lifecycle software development  • Designed and developed Micro Services using Rest APIs, Spring Boot and Spring Cloud config Netflix oss (eureka, zuul, hystrix).  • Worked closely with technical Team Lead for design and development Java Developer Intern Inteliroute Technologies LLC August 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Creating Detailed Design Document by developing and implementing the software systems.  • Involved in different stages of Software Development Lifecycle which includes designing, coding, testing and debugging followed by implementation.  • Worked on implementing spring boot modules like spring batch and security with RESTful API where batch processing is performed to schedule a time to complete the complex jobs without the interaction of user and security is written for the login service.  • Developed User Interfaces for client access using JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and CSS.  • Used Hibernate as an O/R mapping tool for selecting, inserting and updating records in database.  • Used Agile methodology with two-week sprint where we plan the work accordingly and worked on Jenkins which is a continuous integration tool used to build and deploy automation to different environments.  • Used Apache Tomcat server to connect my application to the database.  • Designed various unit test cases, got implemented using JUnit framework and performed unit testing.  • For version controlling system GIT is used and for tracking development updates JIRA is used. Graduate Assistant University of Central Missouri August 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Supervise laboratory work and answering student questions.  • Evaluate and grading for examinations and other assignments. Associate Software Engineer MindTide Software - IN August 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile Environment utilizing a Test-Driven development  • Developed applications using Java7 and made an extensive use of core Java Collections, Generics, Exception Handling, and Design Patterns for functionality such as portfolio summary and user information.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Rest Controllers to replace the existing operations layer, which acts as bridge between business layer and the UI.  • Implemented JWT (JSON Web Tokens) for creating tokens to assert claims in the application and thus providing authentication of RESTful services  • Junit is implemented to perform unit testing on our RESTful web application.  • Worked in Spring Security for application Authentication and Authorization using OAuth2.  • Created prototypes in HTML, JavaScript and CSS for different UI pages and used jQuery for passing on data from HTML forms.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  • I have worked on Query optimization, functions and Stored Procedures and other database objects  Worked on Oracle10g.  • Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions in MYSQL database.  • Involved in deploying and testing the application using Tomcat Server.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with Jenkins, and Jenkins Jobs.  • Focused on Test Driven Development by creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Used Agile methodology and attended daily and weekly SCRUM meetings to update working status.  • JUnit are used for extensive functional and unit testing code and used Log4J API for logging and debugging.  • Used GIT as version management, Jira for defect management system.    Skills: Tools & Technologies  Java/J2EE, micro services JDBC, Spring 3.1.2, Spring Boot 1.5.2, Hibernate, Angular Js 1.6.2, React Js, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Netflix, CSS, Mockito, Json 2.2, XML, REST API, SOAP web services, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, SonarQube, Struts, JSP, Servlets, Web Logic, Eclipse, Intellij IDE, GIT, JBoss, JIRA, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, Oracle, Selenium, Netezza Db, JDE, TIBCO, WebFocus 7.7, Junit, Log4J, Type Script, Angular 6, Selenium, Mockito, Azure, AWS, Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS and Linux. Education Master of Science in Cybersecurity & Information Assurance University of Central Missouri - Kansas City, MO August 2017 to December 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Sri Venkateswara College - Chittoor, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN September 2011 to May 2015