Full Stack JAVA Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack JAVA Developer - Goldman Sachs New York, NY • Over 8 years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies in various domains like Finance/E-Commerce/Banking/Insurance.  • Experienced with the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process, Iterative Development Model and OOAD Techniques.  • Good experience in developing and implementation skills in Core Java and J2EE technologies.  • Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes Integration, Implementation, Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Documentation, and Testing of all software applications.  • Ability to efficiently translate algorithms, ideas and concepts to software applications.  • Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Ajax, Bootstrap based on the W3C standards and Web2.0.  • Having in-depth knowledge in server side java applications that includes JSP, JDBC and Servlets.  • Proficient in design and rapid development of web and J2EE applications using Core Java, JSP, JSF, CSS, Servlets, EJB, JavaScript, Spring, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, SWING, HTML/DHTML, XML and Struts framework.  • Proficient in MVC architecture using Spring framework / JSP-Servlet and J2EE Design Patterns.  • Experience in using Design patterns/frameworks such as MVC, Singleton, Session facade, Value Object, Service Locator and Business Delegate.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using UI frameworks AngularJS and Webpage's using HTML, CSS and JSP's for user interaction.  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Packages using TOAD.  • Worked on IDE's such as Eclipse/My Eclipse, JBuilder.  • Proven experience with Application Servers like IBM WebSphere 6.x/5.x/7.x, Oracle/BEA WebLogic9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, JBoss and Tomcat 5.x/4.x/3/x.  • Implemented SOAP, REST based JAX-WS web services.  • Developed REST web services using Spring MVC.  • Experience in GWT for developing java applications based on the functionality.  • Efficient in using Web services like SOAP and Restful Web Services.  • Expertise in developing use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using UML modeling tools like Rational Rose and Visio.  • Expertise with Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Modelling (OOM) based on Unified Modelling Language (UML) architecture.  • Experience in Jenkins integration service for software development.  • Experience in working version control tools like CVS, Clear Case, GIT and SVN.  • Experience in database management for Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL server, PL/SQL, Mango DB, DB2andMy SQL.  • Good knowledge of Layer 3 and Layer 2 networking protocols of the TCP/IP model.  • Experience on Flex to utilize the power of Java servers while creating expressive and interactive interfaces with a technology that has almost 100% deployment in browsers.  • Strong analytical, problem solving and programming skills.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, lead/work within a team environment. Work Experience Full Stack JAVA Developer Goldman Sachs - New York, NY August 2016 to Present Project: CDH service    Description: CDH (Customer Data Hub) is a system that manages customer data and provides the functionality for adding, editing, duplicate resolution, merging and cleansing customers. Several other internal/external systems (amfam.com, Policy Center, Billing center etc.) use the services provided by CDH.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Lead role as one-point contact for any ongoing issues in software system.  • Involved in the requirements analysis meetings and understand the requirements for the modules for development.  • Used Java and Object Oriented Programming to write business logic for different requirements.  • Worked on Agile Methodology (SCRUM) for the project. Used JIRA and Version 1 tools for logging and tracking.  • Used Spring MVC controller to decouple business logic and view components.  • Designed and developed GUI using Java Swing.  • Application developed using WebSphere Application Server.  • Implemented Message Queues using Active MQ and JMS for transaction management.  • Developed JSP and Servlets for the presentation tier.  • Involved in Technical upgrade of e-commerce applications.  • Used Apache Tomcat as the web server. Deployed the entire application in Tomcat using MAVEN.  • Used JAX RPC,JAX-WS web service clients to consume JAX RPC/JAX-WS web services.  • Created Test cases using JUnit4.4 to test functionalities of application.  • Unit testing the components using JUnit.  • Created Restful API with basic CRUD plus query functions.  • Unit testing and working extensively with the testers and business analyst to finalize the portal.  • Implemented log4j for debugging as well as post production support. Utilized the same for logging each sensible data access from the application.  • UNIX shell scripting was used for scheduling batch jobs. The system was used to run batch processes  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Wrote test cases in JUnit for unit testing of classes.  • Interfaced with the Oracle 10g as back-end database using Hibernate with spring integration for data abstraction.  • Configured MQ Objects within Application Environment.  • Used Hibernate for mapping java classes with database and created queries with Hibernate  query language (HQL).  • Worked with Spring Framework, Struts, and JIRA.  • Used SVN and GIT for Source Control and Version Management of all codes and resources.  • Formulated Use Cases (UML) for each business requirement and normalized the use cases to suit the requirements.  • Conducted code and unit test review.  • Built Enterprise Java Beans with Point-to-Point messaging functionality and MQ series as JMS provider.  • Wrote JPA/Hibernate queries.  • Writing Unix Shell Scripts to run batch jobs, automated processes, and to automate routine systems administration tasks.  • Used JBuilder for developing, deploying and debugging the applications.  • Involved in the design and development of XML presentation.  • Created XML Schema, XML template and XSL.  • Installed and configured styling library and supported UI frameworks.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, node.js, angular.js, Responsive design.  • Monitored and scheduled the UNIX scripting jobs.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AngularJS to design the front end.  • Extensively used Spring dependency injection to build the application.  • AngularJS was used to parse the JSON file using the REST Webservices.  • Used Eclipse3.0 IDE for developing code modules in the development environment.  • Performed connectivity with Oracle database using JDBC.    Environment: Java 1.6, Agile SCRUM, Apache Tomcat 7.0, Spring Framework, Struts, Eclipse, JBuilder, Mongo DB, MySQL, Intellij IDEA 12, Maven, Bamboo, UNIX, Apache Camel, Apache ActiveMQ. HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, XML, XSL, JQuery, Java Script, Angular JS, node.js, Backbone JS, Oracle11g, Maven, Spring MVC, Junit, Web services REST and SOAP, JTables, JMS, JPA ORM, Swings, JSON, JIRA. JPA, Windows. Log4J. Sr. Java/J2ee Developer Allianz Life Insurance Company - Minneapolis, MN January 2015 to July 2016 Project: Customer Insurance Catalog    Description: Allianz Life is one of the world's largest integrated financial services organizations which offer products like universal life insurance and long term care insurance for individuals. The Customer Insurance Catalog is an intranet application developed for employees within the company. The employees can access Customer information and update the customer information on various types of insurance policies provided by the company. The employees can also process claims and authorize payments for the customers. This application also provides various functionalities such as generating different types of quotes based on medical history of customers.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the J2EE application based on the Service Oriented Architecture.  • Involved in design and development of workflow and support.  • Used Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade and DAO.  • Developed using new features of Java 1.7 Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums. Used Spring and Hibernate for implementing IOC, AOP and ORM for back end tiers.  • Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions.  • Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Configured and build Asynchronous communication with JMS services with MQ Series.  • Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  • Worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending them mails about different policies.  • Used JMS for the asynchronous exchange of critical data and events among J2EE components. Publisher-Subscriber method was used for data loading and Point-To-Point method of JMS was used for event processing  • Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, cache concepts.  • Modified the Spring Controllers and Services classes so as to support the introduction of Spring framework.  • Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Developed screens using jQuery, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX and Ext JS.  • Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Developed screens using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Developed various EJB components to fulfill the business functionality.  • Used XStream API to transfer data back and forth between Spring MVC and Ext JS, Node JS.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework in JSP and Client-Side validations were done.  • Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Axis.  • Developed RESTWeb Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Designed and developed custom message adapter components that allowed message to travel through IBM MQ Series XML Beans and JMS.  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  • Used Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development  • Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues with a quick turnaround time.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  • Created properties files and used enhanced JTable for improved general performance.  • Used Rational Application Developer (RAD) which is based on Eclipse, to develop and debug application code.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, Angular JS, Jquery and Java script.  • Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs.  • Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • Involved in a full life cycle Object Oriented application development - Object Modeling, Database Mapping, GUI Design  • SVN was used for project management and version management.  • Deployed the application on WebSphere 7.0 application server.  • Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement.  • Experience with Flex framework for building and maintaining web applications.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixing the problems.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.x, jQuery, JSON, JSF, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Web Services, SOAP, XML, Java Beans, XStream, Apache POI, Ext JS, JQuery, Restful, JavaScript, Oracle 11g, IBM RAD, WebSphere 7.0, EJB 2.1, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, SVN, Apache Maven, JUnit, Html, Unit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML. Java/J2EE& Application Developer Internet Broadcasting - Saint Paul, MN February 2013 to December 2014 Description: Internet Broadcasting is a provider of content management and digital media solutions for the television broadcasting industry. It provides digital publishing solutions for local news-media companies.    Role& Responsibilities:  • Experience in the development of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB's) to implement Business logic for maintaining state information and database operations.  • Modeling conceptual design using Use Case, UML Class, and Activity diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed AJAX applications in java and compiled the source to JavaScript running on all the browsers using GWT.  • Had experience with Swing for better development of GUI.  • Deployed application in local for testing performed in JBoss and final Testing, Stage and Production versions are deployed and released using the WebSphere Application Server.  • Experienced in writing SQL scripts including Stored Procedures, functions, packages and triggers and implemented Database access connectivity through JDBC at Server end.  • Responsible for pagination for the application by integrating Spring framework with Angular JS  • Object relational mapping and Persistence mechanism is executed using Hibernate ORM.  • Used Google API's to scheduled search requests to track the Internet for new and updated information on a specific subject.  • Developed front end bug fixes and theme changes in Angular JS applications.  • Involved in developing & exposing web services and also consumption of Web Services like RESTFUL Web services.  • Developed the application using JSF, spring, Java, Java script, hibernate, Ajax and SQL server.  • Worked on different util classes that are used all over the application for validations and formatting at the back end.  • Involved in the JMS Connection Pool and the implementation of publish and subscribe using Spring JMS.  • Worked on performance improvement using hibernate second level caching.  • Developed test classes in JUnit for implementing unit testing.    Environment: Java, JDK 1.6, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, EJB, HTML, Swing, AJAX, Spring Framework, Java Script, CSS, XSLT, XML. JUnit, GWT, Angular JS,Web services (JAX-WS), WebSphere, JBoss6, Rational Application Developer RAD 6.0, Google API, Hibernate, Rational Rose, JMS, UNIX, Oracle 10g. Java/J2EE Developer UMB Bank - St. Louis, MO January 2012 to January 2013 Description: Worked on setting up a loan-mapping project where a mortgage broker can search for different loan types according to matching criteria. It required making queries on an internal lender database based on a borrower's preferences, and finding programs from the database matching those preferences. There were webpages to register a broker into the system, to enter borrower information and a search page to look for loan information. There was also a facility to ask for a quote for a particular type of loan that existed in the database.    Role and Responsibilities:  • Involved in the various phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) like Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design and implementation of the project.  • Development of multithreaded UI for the application to control Frequent usage by retailers.  • Involved in the development of the Java bean classes, JSPs, Servlets, and JDBC to access Oracle 8i.  • Developed helper java classes needed for the application.  • Developed the building components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, using WebSphere Studio Application Developer.  • Used to interact with Business Analyst in team meetings and involved in testing with End user.  • Developed the application using the iterative and incremental software development process of SCRUM technology.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Integrating Struts with spring by delegating Struts action management to Spring Framework which is Unix and Linux operating system environment.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection.  • Involved in writing and business layer using EJB, DAO and VO.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Used complex queries like SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  • Used Java Scripts for client side validations and validation frame work for server side validations.  • Designed and developed Big Data analytics platform for processing customer viewing preferences and social media comments using Java, Hadoop, Hive  • Used log4j for logging messages and Rational Clear Case for version Control.  • Used ANT scripts to fetch, build, and deploy application to development environment. Worked on SCALA technologies.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, REST) from third party  • Worked on front end Java Script frameworks like Angular JS.  • Deployed the application on to Web Sphere application server.  • Used no SQL databases for integration of data with front end using MongoDB.    Environment: Core Java1.5, J2EE, Spring 2.5, SOAP, JNDI, EJB, HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, SQL 2005, UNIX, ANT, Log4j, JSF, J Unit, XML, WebSphere Application Server, QA automation frameworks, JAX-RS, SQL server, Angular JS, Web Services. Java/J2EE Developer Black Rock Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to December 2011 IND    Project: Distribution Control and Purchase Order Generation  This package was developed to keep track of distribution of various categories of garments from the wholesale depot to the retailers. Further all possible rejections and various kinds of returns were considered and purchase order generation was taken into account based on different factors. Different kinds of reports like purchase order report, rejection report; material receipt report etc. could be generated periodically. This project was basically designed to keep track of distribution of different categories of garments from wholesale depot to various branches in the area.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developed the web interfaces using JSP.  • Developed business logic codes using Servlets at the back end of the system.  • Involved in developing the database tables to hold lender information  • Responsible for designing the front-end using HTML / Java Servlets.  • Developed JSP's and Servlets to provide dynamic content to the HTML pages.  • Developed data access components and multilingual screen generator classes.  • Developed JSPs, for client side validations.  • Used JSP and Servlets for server side transactions.  • Login authentication is done by JSP by verifying with database security tables.  • Designed and developed Entity beans and Session beans.  • Configured and Deployed EJB's Entity and Session beans on Web Logic Server.  • Involved in hybrid mobile application development using Angular JS.  • Developed the interface to automatically forward quote requests to qualified lenders using SMTP.  • Developed test cases to test the business logic.    Environment: Core Java, WebSphere Server 5.1, Servlets, Struts 1.2, Oracle 8i, PL/SQL, JSP, J2EE, XML, JMX, XSL, JDBC, HTML 5.1, UNIX, SMTP. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JDBC. (8 years), Oracle (8 years), Servlets (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java, C, C++, J2EE, JDK 1.6/1.7/1.8  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB.  Frameworks Struts, Spring MVC, Hibernate.  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, DOM, JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX, CSS, GWT. Swing. Backbone Js.  XML Technologies XML, DOM, SAX, XSL, XSLT, JNDI, SOAP.  Application/Web Servers IBM WebSphere, Web Logic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat.  Web Services SOAP, RESTful, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Apache 2.x, Apache-CXF.  Databases Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2  Messaging Systems JMS  IDE Tools IBM -WSAD, RAD, Eclipse, JBuilder, NetBeans.    Operating Systems Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/7, UNIX, LINUX.  Tools JUnit, Log4j, Rational Rose