Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Verizon Atlanta, GA • Overall 8+ years of extensive experience in object-oriented design/analysis, Java development, web services for service-oriented architecture, and data modeling, skilled at progressing from problem statement to well-documented designs and code.  • Proficient experience in Scala to develop web-applications, analyze data with Spark and implementing the same in AWS lambda functions.  • In depth knowledge and work experience in managing NoSQL based databases specifically like MongoDB and managing very high load of transactions.  • Proficient with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies like Agile, Scrum.  • Experienced in UI frame works such as jQuery, Ajax, Google Web Toolkit (GWT), JavaScript, Node JS, React JS, Backbone JS, AngularJS, Tag Libraries, Custom Tags.  • Strong experience in designing and developing data models and accessing from Java applications using SQL, PL/SQL, ORM tool Hibernate and has experience with NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Proficient in using Amazon Web Services AWS. Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, VPC, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, Amazon RDS, Elastic Cache.  • Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  • Deploy application updates to AWS and monitored the load balancing of different instances.  • Experience in developing web services like (SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with Python and Scala.  • Extensively used Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API. Experienced in Full stack UI technologies using Grunt JS, Gulp Server, Yeoman generator for Angular.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies such as Spring, Hibernate, EJB, JPA, JSF, Struts framework, Servlets.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Annotations, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.  • Experience in implementing client - server business applications using Microservices, Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  • In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, exception handling, Thread pools, concurrent utilities, File IO and Serialization.  • Good knowledge in Hadoop Architecture with various components such as HDFS, Flume, Pig and MapReduce.  • Good experience with messaging systems like Kafka event sourcing.  • Hands on experience in XML related technologies JAXP (SAX, DOM) parsers for parsing XML in to Java object.  • Proficient in developing Web Services related technologies &frame works: WSDL, SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AXIS and Jersey, SOAP UI.  • Experienced with JAX-RS specification like Jersey and REST Easy to Implement REST based applications.  • Also worked on creation of Docker images, Containers, push/pull and on integration with Spring Boot.  • Experience in configuring and deploying the applications into Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss Servers  • Extensively worked on UNIX shell scripts to do the batch processing.  • Hands on experience in configuring and using Maven, Ant build tools and Jenkins to deploy automated builds in different environments.  • Expert in using version control tools such as such as SVN, CSV and GIT.  • Experienced in writing and implementing unit test cases using Junit, Easy mock and Mockito.  • Ability to adapt to evolving technology, strong sense of responsibility and accomplishment. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Verizon - Irving, TX July 2017 to Present Description: Verizon Wireless is an American telecommunications company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications, which offers wireless products and services. Verizon wireless customer can do all sorts of activities like activation of phone, downloading ringtones, changing bill cycle, paying their bill, changing mobile number, changing device, changing SIM card, device software upgrade, downloading widgets, Verizon apps, accessing NFL, TV etc. The purpose of this project was to support all real time customer level API's throughout the day [120-140 millions].    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed Sprint planning and estimation for user stories in Agile Environment.  • Designed and Developed enterprise level angular component libraries such as data-tables, autosuggestion, pagination etc. Implemented React JS on server-side validations, to handle actions and Events and Encapsulation.  • Worked on migration of AngularJS to Angular 2.0.  • Developed the application using Java 8 and implemented its features like lambdas Expressions, Time API, Streams, functional interfaces, collectors, default methods, type interfaces, for each.  • Used multithreaded environment to run processes asynchronously using different future calls to access the data.  • Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like MVC, Dependency Injection (IOC), Auto Wiring, Spring Security and AOP. Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Spring Boot Micro Services were developed using Micro Service architecture with RESTFUL and Apache Kafka.  • Exceptionally handled heavy traffic with the help of Spring Ribbon and Kafka broker service.  • Employed fail safe and circuit breaker patterns for the first time in Client's email applications using Hystrix and Hystrix Dashboard in Spring Boot Micro Service Applications.  • Implemented functionalities using Spring IO / Spring Boot with Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM.  • Spring security is used for authorization/authentication, session fixation, click jacking, cross site request forgery.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Mongo DB Database.  • Developed Python and Scala based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events.  • Used Spring Tool Suite (STS) which is based on Eclipse to develop and debug application code.  • Creating REST based Web Services by establishing links using Hateoas from spring based Applications  • Worked on Scala to manage parallel processing, concurrent programming with mutable state, parsing of files and developed applications using Play framework.  • Deployed Docker contained Spring boot micro services in to AWS EC2 container service using AWS admin console and used lambda to run applications in AWS console.  • Worked on Swagger UI to interact with the API'S. Designed and documented APIs using Swagger.  • Migration of Existing Application to AWS cloud. Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, S3, RDS, cloud watch and Cloud Front for promoting code in various environments.  • Deployed Micro-services as Restful Java Web Services on Amazon Elastic Beanstalk.  • Docker containers were used to deploy the applications as part of scaling application using Micro services and increase isolation. Image creation, pushing and pulling of images was also part of deploying application  • Using Kafka on publish-subscribe messaging as a distributed commit log, have experienced in its fast and Python and Scalable.  • GIT is used for the version control, Maven is used for build script and configured log4j, .log files.  • Using JUnit test in Eclipse, developed Unit test cases and test suite. Curl was also implemented to test.  • Used JIRA for project management, Issue tracking and monitoring errors and fixed the errors.  • Used Jenkins as the integration tool and improved Scalability of applications on cross-platforms.  • Used Drools Decision table using excel sheets with a Spring MVC project.  • Involved in System Testing, Integration Testing, and Production Testing on WebLogic Server.  • Worked on Karma to unit test the Angular API modules.  • Track production incidents, identify and prioritize scope for bugs and enhancements, conduct reviews with State counterparts and plan releases.    Environment: J2EE, Spring, Spring boot, Spring MVC, Java Scripts, Hibernate, Rest, Maven, JUnit, Angular, HystrixDashboard, AWS, Netflix Ribbon, Spring Kafka, MAVEN, JUnit, Jenkins, Agile Methodology, Eclipse, Curl, GIT, Mongo DB, Log4j, PL/SQL, STS, Docker, Hateoas, WebLogic Application Server, Karma. Java/J2EE Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Seattle, WA September 2016 to June 2017 Description: Liberty Mutual Insurance is one of the leading Auto, Home, Personal, and Fire Insurance Provider. Quote and Issue Application web portal application which is designed and developed especially for Liberty Mutual agents and users, where they can get the Auto, Home, Personal, Fire quotes and policies for the customers. The application is designed at various milestones starting from quote, new business and amendment.  • Used Agile Methodologies to manage the full life cycle development of the project.  • Participated in development of a well responsive Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS framework, JavaScript and jQuery in conjunction with HTML, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team.  • Worked on MongoDB to manage high writing load of data, setting up of replica-Set and managed millions of transactions occurring at different locations.  • Use JSF ( Java Server Faces) to implement component based User Interface Applications.  • Developed server side JEE application components using Spring Core, Spring MVC, Annotations, Servlets, JDK 1.7.  • Extensively used Spring Framework modules like DI(IOC), Auto Wiring, JDBC Templates, Spring Security, AOP.  • Deployed the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using Cloud Foundry and other cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka, Spring Hystrix as fallback method, Spring Ribbon for load balancing and a broker service to maintain status using Spring Kafka and Zookeeper.  • Developing spring boot application using Micro Services architecture with Spring Eureka to maintain small and lightweight services and communication between these services are done by using API routes for the entire cluster.  • Used Spring Batch as spring batch jobs can meet the requirements of reliability, robustness, and traceability, which are essential for automatic processing of large amount of data.  • Parsed the data to project to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Spring Transaction is used for the degree of isolation to work with other transactions and to execute within a transaction scope to run that transaction and used to check out before timing out of the transaction.  • Extensively used Hibernate concepts such as inheritance, lazy loading, dirty checking, locking, and transactions.  • Hibernate DAO classes were developed to retrieve and save data using Spring framework manager classes.  • Performance monitoring of Mongo databases with OPS manager/MMS and familiar in installing and maintaining MongoDB in private Cloud Environments. Worked on multiple BSON type objects and used based on requirement.  • Developed a code for Web services using JAX-WS, SOAP and used SOAP UI tool for testing the services.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Modified existing applications to a suite of Micro Services and all Micro Services to facilitate deployment using Spring Boot and JUnit and Power Mock frameworks for unit testing.  • Involved in developing Micro Services integrated with VSTS for CI/CD by automating the build/release process.  • Moving existing monolithic architecture to Micro Services and migrating them to AWS cloud.  • Created and configured AWS Elastic Load Balancers and auto scaling groups to distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient, fault tolerant and highly available environment.  • Deployed and tested on WebSphere application server.  • Configured Maven for Java automation projects and developed Maven Project Object Model (POM).  • Writing Unit test cases using JUNIT testing framework and performed unit and system testing.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions, monitored error logs and fixed the problems.  • Selenium's playback tool feature for authoring tests has been used in executing more than 100 test cases.  • Used IBM Clear case as version controlling system.    Environment: Agile, Servlets, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS3, AngularJS, JSP, HTML, XML, JSF, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Spring MVC, JDK 1.7, EJB, JMS, J2EE, Eclipse, Spring Batch, Security, Transaction, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, PL/SQL, Apache Axis2, SOAP, WSDL, SOAPUI, Microservices, AWS, Maven, JUnit, Log4j, Selenium. Sr Java Developer Ally Bank - Detroit, MI April 2015 to August 2016 Description:Ally Bank offers a broad array of financial, banking services etc. The system developed provides personal savings details of Ally bank Customers. It offers a broad array of financial clients and as per the users account status offers him to take up the new schemes enrolling with the bank. Upon the user's request it generates the reports of user details and submits it to the user. Advertises other mutual benefits and keeps track of the contact details of the users and updates them on an event if requested.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Code, Test, Integrate, UAT, Deployment & production phases.  • Implemented Spring MVC with JSP2.0 and JSP Tag libraries to facilitate user interface.  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Objects [DTO] and Data Access Objects [DAO] patterns.  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Used Angular JS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Load data from various data sources into AWS using Kafka.  • Following Agile methodology and SCRUM meetings to track optimize and resolve impediments to meet deadlines on time.  • Used Spring Core Annotaions for dependency injection spring Di and Spring MVC for Rest APIs and spring Boot for Microservices.  • Developed, tested, and deployed Storify Business feature set in Nodejs with Express and Mongo DB backend.  • Expertise with web based GUI architecture and development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript XML and Tag libraries (JSTL)  • Worked with maven 3.0 and Spring 3.0 and Spring suite to develop the coding to batch jobs  • Searched and fetched the records by using SOLR queries.  • Responsible for supporting integration and testing environment.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for testing DAO's.  • Created a build environment for Java using Jenkins, Git, Maven, Artifactory, and a number of reporting tools.  • Configured Splunk database connector.  • Configure producer and consumer coding part in java to establish connection from twitter source to AWS with popular hash tags  • Design/Implement large scale pub-sub message queues using Apache Kafka.  • Responsible in designing and developing reports using jasper reports.  • Created build scripts for running components individually using Apache ANT and XML.    Environment: Spring, JMS, SOAP, JavaScript, JSON, Nodejs, Spring Boot, Splunk, Jasper report, Apache Kafka, UNIX, Oracle 9i, JUnit, SVN, Log4J and ANT. Java/J2EE Developer GE Healthcare - Milwaukee, WI January 2013 to March 2015 Project: Provider Appliances    Description: GE Healthcare provides transformational medical technologies and services expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies, performance improvement and performance services help customers to deliver better care to more.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Requirements gathering, Design, Code, Integrate, and Deployment and production phases.  • Worked on front end pages that were developed in a professional manner using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQUERY.  • Extensively used/modified JQUERY to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Worked to convert HTML/CSS non-functional pages into dynamic JSP pages.  • Implemented Struts Framework along with JSP2.0, Struts Tiles, and Struts Tag libraries to facilitate user interface design.  • Involved in test driven development (TDD) model using JUnit.  • Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  • Authentication and security in apache kafka Pub-sub system.  • JAXB parser for marshaling and un-marshaling.  • Experienced in handling multi-threading applications in java  • Working with WSDL and SOAP messages.  • Used Hibernate3.1 to store the persistence data into the Oracle9i database.  • Used Struts Framework to integrate the application with Hibernate3.1.  • JMS was used to send/receive asynchronous data from various message brokers  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build the application.  • Involved in using Log4J to create log files to debug.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for Unit Level Testing.  • Worked in IBMRAD 6.0 to develop complete application  • Deployed the application on WebSphere Application Server6.0 (WAS)    Environment:WAS, Struts, spring, EJB, Servlets 2.3, HTML, JSP 2.0, JNDI, Web Services, JMS, SOAP, IBM MQ Series, JavaScript, JQuery, WSDL, UNIX, Oracle 9i, JUnit. Java developer Gilead Sciences - Foster City, CA June 2011 to December 2012 Description: Worked as a Java Developer to make enhancements to the existing Supply Chain Management application. Initially the application was built using Spring MVC, Hibernate and REST. We were responsible to enhance performance, effective use of spring boot to migrate Micro service to AWS.    Responsibilities:  • Full System Development Lifecycle experience. Participate in all aspects of the Software Development lifecycle. Support existing software development efforts and develop new software modules.  • Maintain the application MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Analysis, design and development of applications based on J2EE design patterns.  • Used Hibernate ORM Tool for the backend persistence and developed DAO interfaces for interaction with the database  • Design, build, maintain web sites using authoring or scripting languages HTML5, CSS3, content creation tools, management tools  • Created database tables and implemented SQL Stored Procedures and complex queries in Oracle SQL Developer.  • Used JUnit for unit testing  • Involved in writing Multiple Service calls using Spring MVC and for version control management like GIT Hub.  • Security platforms/protocols related to user authentication/authorization, and security implementation for APIs/Micro-services.  • Evaluate code to ensure that it is valid, properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems  • Business process and domain knowledge in Supply Chain Management & Inventory Management specifically in context of ecommerce business landscape.  • Identify, locate, acquire and curate data    Environment: Java, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, Tomcat, Oracle, GIT, Eclipse, Jenkins, and JUnit. Java Developer Hoffman Estates, IL August 2009 to May 2011 Description: Worked as a Java Developer to develop/enhance the E-Commerce application in order to allow purchase of products by the customers. The web application included CRM-like functionality to allow Customer Sales Representatives to process and maintain new and existing orders.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented JSPs corresponding to the controller wherein the data was propagated into from the model and view object from the Controller.  • Designed and Implemented MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications/artifacts.  • Analyzed the low level design (LLD) document and high level design document (HLD) as per the business requirements.  • Administered and Engineered Jenkins for managing weekly Build, Test and Deploy chain, GIT with Dev/Test/Prod Branching Model for weekly releases.  • Actively participated in Story Card Reviews during the transition from Waterfall to Agile Scrum.  • Used Quality Center for change management and defect tracking.  • Used Spring Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database.  • Involved in Developing and performing Unit Testing and creating mock objects using JUnit.  • Implemented business tier using Spring Dependency Injection in order to establish relationships between application components.  • Developed Hibernate Mapping (hbm.xml) file for mapping declaration.  • Involved in writing simplex and complex SELECT queries in SQL for back-end testing.  • Created database tables and implemented SQL Stored Procedures and complex queries in Oracle SQL Developer.  • Worked on CI/CD tools like Jenkins, Docker in Devops Team.  • Analyzed and performed fixes on logged application defects by comparing the system behavior to the design specifications.  • Built and accessed the database using Hibernate with Oracle.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit framework.  • Used Spring validation framework for server side validation of user data submissions.  • Created JSP pages using standard JSTL tags, as well as Struts tags.  • Used Apache log 4j logging framework for application logging for debug purposes.    Environment: Java, JSP, JSTL, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, Eclipse, Jenkins, and JUnit. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (9 years), JUNIT (9 years), TESTING (9 years), DATABASE (8 years), JSP (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Java 1.6/1.7/1.8, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JMS, EJB, JDBC, JSP, JNDI, Java Security.  XML / web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, NodeJS, ReactJS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, JSON, Bootstrap.  Tools & Framework Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, JSF, JUnit, SOAP UI.  Web services SOAP, Restful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2, Micro Services, AWS (Amazon Web Services).  Web/App Servers IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss EAP, Web Logic Server, Glassfish.  Database Oracle, SQL-Server, MongoDB/NoSQL.  IDEs Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite (STS), RAD.  O-R mapping Hibernate, MyBatis.  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Soap UI, Mockito, Rational Clear Quest, JMeter, StarTeam, TOAD, Jenkins.  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS, Rational Clear case, GitHub.  OS & Environment Windows, UNIX, Linux.