Technical Lead Technical Lead Technical Lead - Stiaos Technologies Inc Bellevue, WA Work Experience Technical Lead Stiaos Technologies Inc June 2017 to Present Project Title: Universe 2.0  Project Description:  The Universe 2.0 program is aimed at replacing the existing User Interface (UI) and Backend (for Retail, Web and Customer Care) used in T-Mobile with a brand-new system. Rebellion is a sub-program in this initiative, which is focused on the user experience. The Middleware, which is in between the UI layer and the Backend, is made up of several rest-based API's and are entirely based on the microservices architecture with the latest in technology.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Implementation phases of the project.  • Developed rest-based APIs based on microservices architecture.  • Worked as Technical lead in driving the project from both onsite and offshore.  • Coordinating day to day activities with various teams. Backend, design, testing and making sure the dependencies are resolved and schedules are aligned.  • Attended technical and functional grooming sessions with clients and other shareholders of the project.  • Attending daily sync up calls with offshore and resolving technical challenges faced by team.  • Enabled better quality control of Java source code by implementing Sonar and PMD.  • Involved in leading the team, doing code reviews and unit testing the application.    Tools & Technologies: Java 1.8, Spring 4.0, Spring web services SOAP and Rest, Microservices, Swagger, Splunk, Maven, Pivotal cloud foundry, Docker, CCP, JAXWS, JAXB, Reddis, Gemfire, Service registry, Spring config, spring cloud, Netflix Eureka, Ribbon, JMeter. Senior Java Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Alpharetta, GA December 2015 to June 2017 Project Title: OPUS-MX  Project Description:  OpusMX is an online application of AT&T Mexico, which is used in stores to assist the sales representatives in servicing the customers. The application contains various modules, which help in adding the customers to the queue, activating the customers in AT&T system, sale of phones and accessories, return of items, providing warranty exchange. It is a one-stop solution for the sales representatives in assisting the customers who show up at the store.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Integration & Testing, Implementation and maintenance phases of the project.  • Developed SOAP and rest-based web services for providing and consuming.  • Created various oracle-stored procedures as part of project requirements.  • Worked on Ajax and JQuery extensively in the front-end web application part.  • Enabled better quality control of Java source code by implementing Sonar and PMD.  • Involved in leading the team, doing code reviews and unit testing the application.  Environment: Java 1.7, Spring 4.0, Spring web services SOAP and Rest, Spring JMS, Microservices, EJB, Log4j, Oracle 11g, Ajax, JQuery, Maven, Unix, Soap UI, WebLogic Server, Eclipse, Soap UI, SQL Developer Sr. Java Developer Walt Disney Parks and Resorts - Orlando, FL April 2015 to December 2015 Company: Cognizant Technology Solutions.  Project Title: TDM (Test Data Management)  Project Description:  TDM deals with generating test data for various services in Walt Disney. It primarily contains Amazon SWF framework where all the service calls are triggered and processed inside the cloud. Amazon SWF engine controls the workflow implementations and managing asynchronous activity implementations. It also involves consuming soap based and rest-based web services from various backend systems. The workflow status is recorded in the oracle database, which can be viewed live on the front-end side via jQuery data tables. Each workflow can be triggered to rerun via the data table itself in case of any failures. The frontend part houses the UI to invoke the workflows and to get the status of it.    Responsibilities:  • Gained comprehensive understanding of the client's applications by conducting detailed sessions with project stakeholders including business and technical SMEs and by navigating through the code  • Involved in writing amazon SWF Workflows and created data tables to track the status  • Had hands on experience in writing java web services both soap based and rest based via spring.  • Involved in creating stored procedure in oracle 11.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Rest and Soap web services, Microservices, Spring MVC, IOC, boot, Oracle, Amazon SWF, Oracle, Hibernate, Eclipse, Soap UI, and SQL Developer Sr. Java Developer Express Scripts - Jersey City, NJ October 2014 to December 2015 Company: Cognizant Technology Solutions.  Project Title: AOM  Project Description:  AOM deals with automated outbound messaging. Here we take the inputs like member detail and their associated pharmacy records from external systems, validates those records via a set of java batch jobs, and put them in MQ for further processing. These records are picked up by MQ, which will eventually send these to vendors who in turn places a call to the customer informing them of the status of the request. The status of the call is again captured by AOM in the database, which will be used to track the call status.    Responsibilities:  • Gained comprehensive understanding of the client's applications by conducting detailed sessions with project stakeholders including business and technical SMEs and by navigating through the code  • Involved in writing code enhancements for various java jobs involved in the application.  • Involved in identifying code enhancements to reduce the maintenance the maintenance of application.  Environment: Core Java, Spring, MQ, Junit, Mockito, Eclipse, Windows Batch Schedule Tech Lead Cigna Corporation - Raleigh, NC May 2013 to August 2014 Company: Cognizant Technology Solutions.  Project Title: COPTS  Project Description:  Handle preprocessing of claims, appropriate claims routing and effective pricing and post processing of claims for Cigna Corporation. Project involves complex routing mechanisms based on the rules that are predefined and have to be redirected to the appropriate claim processing engines.    Responsibilities:  • Gained comprehensive understanding of the client's web applications by conducting detailed sessions with project stakeholders including business and technical SMEs and by navigating through the code  • Involved in providing production support to the web applications 24X7.  • Involved in identifying code enhancements to reduce the maintenance the maintenance of application.  • Automated manual interactions for batch job monitoring  Environment: Java, Java Web Services, Spring, Struts, Putty, Maven, WinScp, continuum Sr. Java Developer American Express - IN August 2011 to April 2013 Company: Cognizant Technology Solutions.  Project Title: RAY  Project Description  Create a highly customizable user interface (UI) for American Express card members that result in a significantly differentiated loyalty program and redemption experience. Create flexible tools that enable American express to launch marketing promotions quickly across multiple marketing channels (e.g., web, email, mobile, online ads, etc.) with the ability to customize rewards and offers at the customer level with differentiated pricing. Create user-friendly reward management applications in which AXP can have significant ownership rights and thereby the ability to update content and data/merchandising rules. Consolidate multiple data sources and eliminate multiple data movement across vendors and internal platforms    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis for the development of 5 web services which are consumed by American Express  • Performed project estimation activities  • Created High Level design documents involving all the associated requirements  • Delivered various design documents such as Class, Sequence, Collaboration and Use Case diagrams  • Involved in developing Web Services for the application using Soap based JAXWS.  • Involved in developing the module for parsing the input XML and inserting into DB.  • Developed Unit tests cases and assisted in test data preparation for integration testing for the developed modules  • Developed admin module for creating/approving/applying rules to the earn offers from scratch  • Provided support during SIT and UAT test phases  • Co-ordinated with Testing team for timely closure of defects and in setting up the data environment  • Involved in Maintenance activities which included defect resolution and feature enhancements  • Tracked team member's progress. Resolved technical issues during detailed design, coding and unit testing  Environment: Java, Java Web Services, Spring, Struts, Putty, Hibernate, Maven, Winscp, continuum, Windows XP, UNIX Java Developer American Express - IN September 2010 to July 2011 Company: Cognizant Technology Solutions.  Project Title: Earn Hub  Project Description:  As part of the Earn Hub application, we developed two web applications and two web services. Web applications include Offer Management Tool and Earn Hub Web Application.  Offer Management Tool is used for creating Merchant funded offers and can be targeted and non-targeted campaigns. The tool has the features of creating, approving, modifying, rejecting, withdrawing an offer as well as applying the rules for presentment purpose on the Earn Hub web pages. Earn Hub is a Web Application through which customers can make use of merchant funded as well as Affiliated offers. Web services interact with the DB2 database to insert the offers and retrieve the offers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements analysis, high-level design documentation.  • Design documentation using UML Class, Object and Sequence diagrams  • Performed Coding using Core Java, Java Web services, Spring JDBC and Spring IOC.  • Performed Unit testing activities and was involved in coordination with testing team for defect tracking and closure  • Preparation of automated test cases and Integration testing of the project  • The project was critical to the client's business and the application is being widely used by many clients and has reduced to a greater extent some of the cumbersome manual process involved earlier.  Environment: Java, Java Web Services, Spring, Struts, Putty, Maven, Winscp, Continuum Programmer Analyst American Express - IN May 2009 to August 2010 Company: Cognizant Technology Solutions.  Project Title: Nova Rsec  Project Description:  This project deals with the payments being made in terms of Amex loyalty points instead of dollars at amazon.com Project involves developing web services that can help card member to make use of their loyalty points for purchasing the items at amazon. Total six web services were developed as part of this project, which involves online enrollment of card member to make use of his points for payment transaction checking his online balance and making a reservation for a product.    Responsibilities:  ? Role was a Team member in a six-member team.  ? Responsibilities include developing one among the 6 web services that were part of this project. Played an active role in enabling the caching for the web services.  ? Involved in performance testing for all the web services and identifying the memory leakages and the CPU utilization for web services.  ? Actively involved in support activities for AT, SIT and UAT.  ? Developed Unit tests cases and performed unit and Integration testing for all the coded modules.  ? Involved in Maintenance activities, which included defect resolution and feature enhancements and involved code changes to conform to coding standards.  ? This implementation resulted in significant cost savings to the client and the Program Manager appreciated the contributions.  Environment: Java, Java Web Services, Spring, Struts, Putty, Maven, Winscp, Continuum Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2008 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Java, spring boot, Microservices, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Java 8, APIGEE, Kafka, REST, Soap, Redis, Gemfire, Swagger, JUnit, Mockito, Bitbucket, Maven, Java J2Ee