Sr. Fullstack Java Developer Sr. Fullstack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Fullstack Java Developer - Northern Trust (NT) Marlborough, MA • All over Experience 8+ in developing enterprise applications using Java, Spring, Hibernate and REST with support for multitenancy.  • Experience in development process following agile and waterflow models and experience in tracking tools like Rally.  • Implementing and deploying microservices using Restful Services and communication with main platform using token based authorization using HttpClient and Jersey.  • Developed RESTful web services using Jersey and Spring framework.  • Implementing security in REST based webservices using Spring security, WSO2 and JAAS.  Worked on implementation and design of application to deploy and execute workflows using activiti framework.  • Worked on message driven frameworks like JMS and KAFKA.  • Configured build agents and jobs in build integration tool Teamcity using ANT, JUNIT and SVN.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as IOC, AOP, JDBC, ORM and Spring security.  • Experience with data driven analytics engines like Elasticsearch and MongoDB.  • Experience working with different databases like Oracle, Postgresql and Sybase.  • Implement build scripts for building and deploying applications using ANT and Maven. Building and deploying enterprise applications in JBoss 6 and JBoss 7 and migration of application from JBoss 6 to JBoss 7.  • Developed UI Pages using React Js, Typescript, AJAX, jqGrid, CSS and Struts tag library extensively.  • Extensively used Spring MVC framework to develop web applications.  • Developed DAOs (Data Access Objects) and to access data from the database. Implemented persistence logic using Hibernate to persist and retrieve the data from DB.  • Worked on JAXB to marshal and unmarshall the XML that clients send and receive. Used Java Messaging Service to send and receive messages via Message Driven Beans.  • Used annotation based configurations to reduce code redundancy. Performed unit testing using Junit, Mockito and performed integration testing.  • Provided Testing support to QA (Protractor, Selenium), UAT, and PRODUCTION team to address and close the application issues.  • Working for the exchange investment products such as Bonds, CDs and other fixed income products, Mutual funds, ETFs, stocks, FX currencies and options Swaps & future, the OTC products such as forwards on underlying securities.  • Trade processes are handled on a Message Queuing (MQ) basis unless identified as needing to be held for validation. The system provides an intuitive user interface that allows the user to manually add non-MQ trades and change existing trade information. Worked on multiple tools and modules to simplify back office work.  • Exposure to Investment terminologies such as Cash, traditional investment to alternative investments across trading, accounting and Performance & Risks management.  • Markit EDM Core component and Silverlight User Interface Trained & Certified in Markit office, London, UK.  • Markit EDM Plug-in development using C# .NET which communicates web services and DB2 data base for reference data.  • Knowledge on Eagle PACE/STAR EDM data workflow, analysis and reporting that supports an Investment firm.  • Knowledge of SQL and relational database concepts (in Oracle & MS SQL Databases).  Authorized to work in the US for any employer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Fullstack Java Developer Northern Trust (NT) September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in daily scrum meetings, sprint planning, product backlogs.  • Implemented business layer using Core Java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, Spring annotations, and Spring MVC components.  • Used Angular JS, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript framework for creating Dynamic Reach Design Layout with JSP.  • Used Angular JS for synchronizing java applications and client side scripting.  • Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Implemented Hibernate Inheritance strategies to map relation between tables and configured many-many relationship using Hibernate annotations.  • Designed and Developed Highly Concurrent Multithreaded SOA Integration components leveraging capabilities of WebSphere.  • Developed service components which are exposed as Web Services using restful Web Services, developed service components to consume Web Services.  • Created RESTful Web service for updating customer data from sent from external systems.  • Worked on triggers and stored procedures on Oracle database.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE to write the code and integrate the application.  • Used GIT as Version Control.  • Wrote MS SQL queries to save the data and retrieve the data from database using spring mongo data repository.  • Used Maven tool to build, config, and packaged, deploy an application project.  • Developed Junit test cases to validate the REST services.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Servlets, Hibernate, CSS, HTML, GIT, XML, AJAX, Angular JS, Eclipse, JUnit, JavaScript, Oracle, IBM WebSphere, PL/SQL, Scrum, RESTFul Web Services, ANT, Eclipse, Windows. Java/J2EE Developer T-Mobile August 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing applications using the core J2EE design patterns Singleton, Prototype, Data Transfer Objects, Business Delegate, and Value Object.  • Involved in Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object Oriented Design (OOD) Techniques using Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Worked on the back end part of the application involving spring framework, and Hibernate.  • Persisted common application level data like domain libraries using ehCache.  • Used spring AOP for transaction management and developing advices for various cross cutting concerns such as logging, security and indexing.  • Hibernate was used as admin tool persistence framework. Also, implemented interceptors using Hibernate and spring.  • Developed the Hibernate entity classes using Annotations and XDoclet.  • Developed JSPs strictly confining to the policy of no java use in them and AJAX was used for asynchronous server calls.  • Ported service to expose them as SOA web services. Used Oracle Enterprise Manager, Oracle Service Bus, and Data power (for PCI CC encryption).  • Used Lambda expressions to achieve closure and currying. To reduce the code and increase the performance we used anonymous functions a.v.a Lambda Expressions.  • Generated complex PDF reports using Jasper.  • Agile delivery of software using practices of short iterations, sprints, Scrum.  • Developed the provider by top-down approach by writing the WSDL.  • Used SOAP Protocol for communicating between two different backend systems.  • Presentation tier of the application was built completely on Struts framework. Heavily used Struts Tag Libraries, Validators, and Tiles and involved in Configuring web.xml and struts-config.xml.  • Extracted the SOAP request sent to and SOAP response received from the backend system.  • Developed web services using Apache Axis web service engine.  • Used Drools as a business rule management system (BRMS) with a forward and backward chaining inference based rules engine.  • Working knowledge and Experience in NDMP operation to back up and restore of NAS filer through Tivoli Storage Manager with different retention policy period.  • Acted as a Scrum master in the Smart Gaps project and was facilitator for a product development team for a development methodology that allowed the team to self-organize and make changes quickly as per the business requirement.  • Worked on writing Unix Scripting to perform certain tasks.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions. Actively involved in tuning SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers in Informix.  • Involved in validating designs done by other developers as well as in the code review process to check the code is aligned with company standards.  • Created highly responsive GWT web applications with heavy lifting on the client-side and reduced chattiness with the server-side  • Implemented Spring's Acegi Security feature which includes configuring Spring Provider Manager for delegating authentication responsibilities to LDAP authentication provider.  • Migrate from a typical web application to a GWT application iteratively .Used JSNI to interact with loads of JavaScript functions and moved them to GWT.  • Flex applications were developed using Adobe Flash Builder software, an enterprise-class Eclipse based IDE.  • Experience with the ios, as we developed the T-Mobile app, which is compatible in all iphone types. Used on IOS 7 and Restwebservices to achieve it.  • Used the Remedy API and CoreLocation frameworks  • Used Git repository for version control and IDE used to connect to repository was Git for Mac  • Delivered Remedy data to the technical support associate via customized XIB final which got downloaded to the associate through attrition  • Lockheed Martin intellectual property, app not prepared for App Store publishing  • Helped the product owner maintain the product backlog in a way that ensures the needed work is well understood so the team can continually make forward progress.  • Helped the team to determine the definition of done for the product, with input from key stakeholders  • Coached the team, within the scrum principles, in order to deliver high-quality features for its product  • Promoted self-organization within the team.  • Helped the scrum team to avoid or remove impediments to its progress, whether internal or external to the team.  • Facilitated team events to ensure regular progress.  • Educated key stakeholders in the product on scrum principles.    Environment: J2EE , Java 8,Agile-Scrum Development Process, Spring, JSF 1.2, EJB 3.0, AngularJS, Web Service(JAX-WS) JPA 2.0, RSA, JMS, JIRA, JSP, LDAP, Websphere App Server 6.1,7.0, MySQL, Windows XP, HTML, GWT ,XML, SOAPUI, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD), Maven 2, Log4J, XML, JavaScript, Ext JS 4,JUnit, SVN. Java/J2ee Developer CANON July 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Methodology and Tools: Java, spring, JQuery, Hibernate, Liferay, RESTful web services, Oracle 10g, JBOSS.  • Reports can be generated to show case performance of salespersons. New leads can be captured by the lead management system for sales persons.  • Accounts created by one sales person can be transferred to other sales persons by managers. Managers can track performance for each sales person.  • It is complete CRM solution.  • Requirement gathering and client interaction for new enhancements /requirements.  • Broke stories down into logical tasks and identified technical requirement for each task  • Implemented end to end Lead generation, opportunity module using Spring MVC  • Designed Developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and perform  • configuration of Spring and Hibernate Integration  Write test cases for unit testing using Junit framework  Overall responsible for performance enhancements and overall product performance  • Extensively involved in fine tuning the SQL performance which includes tuning of long running queries and indexing.  • Developed, Implemented and consumed Restful services.  • Custom Reports generation  Worked closely with business to define development estimates according to Agile (SCRUM) Methodology Production support Played a key role in resolving helpdesk tickets, providing on call support and resolving urgent issues in production within the accepted timeframe. Java Developer CITI Bank June 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Managed a team of 6 employees and delivered a project involving the development of a New Citi Bank Rewards product.  • Brought up the idea of Rewards Raffle, a lottery ticketing system: customers can win daily prizes with their rewards points by purchasing lottery tickets.  • Worked directly with clients in automating release management tasks, reducing defect counts in the testing phases to ensure smooth implementation of projects.  • Designed Jobs to load and extract data from database using Data Stage.  • Analyzed extensive data available in Authorization and Rewards system using REXX tool and suggested process improvement ideas to reduce the MIPS of large modules.  • Migrating the Ant build applications to Maven build.  • Making the application reconcile with Weblogic12c on migrating from Weblogic10 server.  • Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) have been re-coded in 3.0 version which include Stateless, Stateful, Message Driven and Java Persistence APIs (JPA). Earlier developed in 2.0 Version.  • JSPs were mainly coded in Struts 2.x which were migrated from Struts 1.x; so as the Action classes.  • Compiling and running the applications.  • Writing the test plans and test cases for the developed screens.  • Executing test cases and fixing the bugs through unit testing.  • Integrating the module with other modules and deploying them on Weblogic12 server.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Apache Tomcat, Weblogic, EJB 2.x, EJB 3.x, Struts 1.x, Struts 2.x, Oracle, XML, HTML5, COBOL, DB2, CICS System Administrator UT Tasks May 2009 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Onsite Integration Project Lead responsible for assessing current legacy systems and applications and determining best procedures for transitioning from legacy infrastructure and services to GE Healthcare standards.  • Work with various departments such as Engineering, Development, and Support by contributing knowledge and skills to ensure that IT infrastructure critical to the proper performance of their departments is kept up- to-date as well as acting as a Subject Matter Expert in several areas relating to IT Infrastructure and Service Support.  • Monitored servers via various technologies and submitted tickets for various issues as per documented procedure.  • Design backup strategies, Manage and monitor tape backups and restores to ensure proper business critical disaster recovery critical data was being backed up and stored off-site.  • Managed out of timeframe recalls from off-site backup storage provider at customers request by ensuring that the recall was submitted and the system updated to properly reflect the recall.  • Ensured that on-site backups were properly stored, media managed, and locations documented.  • Updated and modified SQL Server and Powershell scripts at the request of various departments.  • Perform all tasks in the approved manner by following the appropriate documentation of the procedure being performed.  • Review documentation of procedures and infrastructure and submit through the appropriate channels for review any updates or recommendations for improvement.  • Managed backup deliveries by ensuring that appropriate backups were staged for pickup and that the outgoing backups were logged into the system for pickup prior to the pickup time.  • Performed touch labor for remote personnel when prepping a system for use by configuring ILOs and ensuring that network cabling was properly connected. Also responsible for ensuring that any issues encountered were properly documented and submitted in the appropriate manner.  • Assisted in preparing legacy servers for surplusing and arranged for proper disposal.  • Performed other tasks at the request of, or by verbal direction of, off-site system administrators relating to Acted on customers' requests as received through tickets as per documented procedure Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (7 years), JAVA (7 years), HIBERNATE (5 years), ORACLE (7 years), SQL (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: Java, C++, Shell Script, c#, VB.NET, Classic ASP.  J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlet, Java Beans, JDBC, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, RESTFUL,AJAX JNDI, JMS, JavaMail  Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, JSP Templates, Tiles, XHTML, CSS, AJAX,  JQuery, ASP.NET.  Frameworks: Spring, Struts, MVC, Hibernate, ANT, MAVEN, JUnit, Test NG.  XML Technologies: XML, XSL, JAXP, JAXB.  Databases: Oracle 12/11, TOAD 8.6.1, MySQL, MongoDB, SQL, PL/SQL.  Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, JBoss, WebSphere  Tools: Spring Tool Suite (STS), Eclipse, Toad, ERWIN, SOAP UI, Fiddler, SVN, Maven  OS: UNIX, Linux, Aix, Windows