Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - USAA Austin, TX • Over 8 years of strong software experience in designing, developing and deployment of web-based applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Expertise in several J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, XML, HTML, CSS, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, RESTful Web Service, SOAP, Core Java, Multithreading, Generics, Serialization, Externalization, Spring, Struts and Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate.  • Sound knowledge in Algorithms and Data structures and extreme mathematical problems and can efficiently translate algorithms, ideas, and concepts to software applications.  • Experienced in Software methodologies like Agile, scrum methodologies.  • Strong experience in working with scripting languages like JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery.  • Knowledge about Splunk architecture and various components (indexer, forwarder, search head, deployment server), heavy and universal forwarder, license model.  • Proficient in programming JavaScript data capture and event handling methods via the DOM event model.  • Excellent knowledge and proficiency in core java concepts like OOPs, collections, Threading, generics, Exception Handling, Thread pools, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO and serialization and handling XML.  • Familiar with EJB design patterns, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) and Representational State Transfer (REST).  • Strong development experience with expertise in J2SE core concepts, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JDBC), spring, EHCache, Hazel cast, Hibernate, JPA, DWR frameworks and Web services.  • Expertise in RDBMS like Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL.  • Experienced in working with SOA architecture concepts by designing and developing web services/WSDL, SOAP using TIBCO business works.  • Worked on spring core, Spring ORM, Spring DAO, Spring AOP and Spring MVC architectures.  • Strong knowledge of spring, Hibernate ORM, JPA, Maven, ANT.  • Also done Performance Tuning in some of my projects. Have knowledge about memory allocation, JVM options, and code optimizations. Always believed in Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.  • Worked on different Operating Systems like Windows XP/7, Linux, and UNIX.  • Good experience in Application testing (Unit, Integration) and software deployment  • Experienced in designing the front end pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSF, JSP, APIs, JQuery, AJAX, XML, NodeJS, React JS and Angular JS.  • Expertise in design with Class diagrams, Use case, Sequence Diagrams with exposure to UML, and tools like Rational Rose.  • Expertise in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures, IPC (TCP/IP socket programming), and design patterns.  • Excellent programming skills in Core JAVA, Multithreading, Java 8,JDBC, JSP, Servlets, JNDI, JMS, EJB, Struts, Spring framework (Core container & MVC),Spring Integration, Spring Boot,  Restful Web services, HTML5, DOJO, JavaScript, CSS3, Hibernate, , RabbitMq.  • Design and implementing application to meet with integration technology (JBoss Fuse, Active MQ)  • Good exposure to NoSQL stores like Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Analyzed data by writing Apache Hadoop custom MapReduce programs in Java and UDFs for Pig and Hive using Java in order to analyze the data efficiently.  • Worked with no schema databases like Couch DB and have knowledge on other no schema databases like MongoDB.  • Worked using Spring Micro Services, spring boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Netflix Eureka.  • Proven experience with application servers like IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, and Tomcat.  • Strong program analyzing skills with ability to follow project standards. Strong ability to understand new concepts and applications.  • Excellent Verbal and Written Communication Skills to be highly effective in interfacing across business and technical groups. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX December 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC development like Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing of application using Agile Methodologies and performed object oriented analysis.  • Expertise in using FIX Protocol API. Application FIX messages like heartbeat, logon, logout, resend request, reject, sequence, pre-trade, trade and post-trade messages.  • Read and understand the FIX log file and to interpret format and different tag combinations.  • Developed an application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, and WebLogic.  • Worked on various design patterns specific to the requirement. Used JBOSS developer studio as IDE.  • Responsible for requirements gathering, designing, coding web applications using Ruby on Rails, Java Scripts, HTML, CSS and jQuery.  • Developed Applications using Spring Framework (MVC, Web flow, JDBC), HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, and Node JS.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture using Struts Framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance.  • Experience in development of JAX-WS, Apache Axis for Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, and REST.  • Responsible for secure batch data flow to downstream system using middleware java technologies.  • Extensively worked on form validation using the Spring Validator framework.  • Provisioning and monitoring network equipment and UNIX systems logs via centralize syslog-ng server to alert via pager in case of unusual events. Used the Struts Validator framework for validating the forms.  • Planned, constructed and iterated upon an application and custom REST API using AngularJS, React JS.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate spring framework.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application and Groovy framework for Automated Functional Testing.  • Used Angular JS, Ext JS, spring/ JSTL tag libs and Java Script for developing the view tier and used Service Oriented Architecture with Java and XML/XLST also. Unit tested the applications before release to QA.  • Worked with Quality Assurance team in tracking and fixing bugs. Used Log4j for logging purposes.  • Developed Stored Procedures and Triggers on Oracle Database.  • Designed and developed the new features in the existing application to meet the customer's satisfaction.  • Extensively used Angular JS, React JS, and Ext JS by consuming Restful web services.  • Responsibilities include design for future user requirements by interacting with users, as well as new development and maintenance of the existing source code.  • Responsible for setup, Installation and Administration of JBOSS Fuse container.  • Build and deploy OSGI bundles on Fuse ESB.  • Create a separate Data source module which was reused from all Fuse modules.  • Responsible for the development of IP Cloud which combines Cassandra, Hadoop into scalable integrated platform.  • Used Jenkins and GOCD as Continuous Integration tools to deploy the Spring Boot Micro services to Pivotal Cloud Foundry using build pack.  • Decommissioned and added new nodes to existing Cassandra cluster. Architecture and capacity planning for MongoDB/Cassandra clusters.  • Worked on JavaScript frame work (Angular JS) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  • Utilize HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSF for designing and implementing custom components  • Setup the Continuous Integration (CI) process for the application using the Jenkins.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, UDDI.  • Developed Form Beans and Action Classes to model views and client side functionality.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring, EJB/MDB, Oracle, SOA, Jenkins, Eclipse IDE, Log4J, Ajax, CSS3, CVS, PL/SQL HTML 5, AWS, Web Logic, Tibco EMS, Cassandra, Splunk, Mongo DB. Sr. Java Developer HP - Plano, TX June 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in the Requirement gathering for the enhancements to the existing project.  • Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  • Created Hibernate mappings using Core Java (OOPS, Class, Multi-threading, Collections) and debug issues related to data integrity.  • Involved in implementation of OTC Sterling/IBM frontier. It uses Sterling Business Center, OTC Sterling Web Channel, Sterling Call Center of Sterling ecommerce, ESB, GUI, and API.  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components. Developed programs to send email alerts and error logs in the event of process failures.  • Developing micro-services using Web API 2 and MySQL.  • Designed and implemented SOA compliant management and metrics infrastructure for FUSE ESB infrastructure utilizing the SOA management components.  • Developed the OTC Product Master System using Java/J2EE technologies and Oracle.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using, Angular JS, Ext JS, React JS, JavaScript, CSS and involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP, JSON. Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications.  • Integrated Cassandra NoSQL database for connecting different vendor.  • Designed various screens using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and Richfaces.  • Used Drools rule engine to perform validations  • Designed and documented JBPM, REST/HTTP APIs, JBoss, Groovy, MULE ESB including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy. Managed module development using Pair programming in team.  • Accessed and manipulated the Oracle 10g database environment by writing SQL queries in the oracle SQL developer for testing purpose. Managed Database design, creation and querying of the whole project.  • Managed onsite/offshore communication for design review. Web services development using SOAP.  • Developed web Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular JS which binds the data to specific views and synchronize the data with server.  • Created a page that accepts attachments. This is done using richfaces component fileUpload. Restricted the attachments to 3 and it accepts only certain extensions with specific size limits.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to deploy micro service applications.  • Prepared Unit test case using JUnit and used Jenkins for continuous integration testing.  • Writing the front end look and appearance for the screens using Core Java, Swing, NO SQL, MongoDB, AWS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS and JQuery.  • Used Richfaces framework to enhance the web application.  • Created RFP (Request for Proposal) micro services to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Micro service has been built using spring boot, spring security, JPA and deployed to pivotal cloud foundry.  • Experience in developing cloud based application using Spring Cloud and Pivotal cloud foundry  • Having experience in understanding of Splunk 5.x and 6.x product, Distributed Splunk architecture and components including search heads, indexers, and forwarders.  • Migrate IaaS, PaaS and SaaS instances between public and private clouds - Java, J2EE, .NET, Ruby, LAMP, Apache, RDBMS, Oracle, SQL, MySQL, Unix/Linux, NAS/SAN, LAN/WAN VPN, Security, IDS, Firewalls and Encryption.  • Maintained the existing code base developed in the Struts, spring and Hibernate framework by incorporating new features and doing bug fixes. Involved in configuring web.xml and struts-config.xml for workflow.  • Wrote SQL queries and Stored Procedures for interacting with the Oracle database.  • Worked on solving issues in production. Documentation of common problems prior to go-live and while actively in a Production. Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases. Used SVN to keep track of source code versioning.  Environment: Java, J2EE,Agile,Servlet 3.0, JDBC, Eclipse, Spring, Hibernate, React JS, Struts 1.2, Apache CXF, UNIX, Linux, JSP 2.2, JUnit, JQuery, JIRA, Jmeter, JSF 2.0, Maven, WebLogic 12.1.1, Drools, Oracle 11g, UML, Angular JS, Ext.js, SAML, Groovy/Grails, Junit, Jenkins. Java/J2EE Developer Optum Services Inc - Hartford, CT February 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Application is implemented using agile methodology where there is a daily SCRUM meeting to understand the status and resolve any issues.  • Worked closely with the testing team in creating new test cases using JUnit Framework. Create functional and technical specifications for products.  • Involved in installing and using Splunk app for Linux/Unix and installed Splunk on nix and Splunk SOS for monitoring the health of the clusters.  • Integrated Splunk with Active directory and LDAP authentication.  • As a Programmer participated in the designing of the Web framework using Struts framework as a MVC design paradigm. Designed and Developed Web services using SOAP and REST API.  • Use Ajax and JavaScript for the client side validation. Designed and Developed Presentation Tier using Spring MVC and JSP integrating Custom Tags, JSTL, JSP Expression Language and AJAX.  • Mainly responsible for developing RESTful API using spring framework. Developed different controllers that return the response both in JSON and XML based on the request type.  • Development of code using Drools Decision table format and deployment with Drools Rule Engine.  • Driving team to integrate with latest technology frameworks like AngularJS, TestNG, Hazel Cast etc.  • Python for deploying various components of application on Linux servers. Managed the asynchronous messaging app using JMS API. Scanned source code and fixed the issues in code review.  • Implemented XML-based communications protocol using JAXB.  • Deployment on Apache servers. Worked on JMS on WebLogic. Developed multi-threaded application using Java.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  • Implemented migration from Oracle coherence cache with Hazel cast cache.  • Developed various java objects (POJO) as part of persistence classes for OR mapping with databases.  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.  • Development carried out under Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Used Clear Case Version Control for Project Configuration Management.  • Managed data exchange at application and database level using multiple formats like: XML, JSON.  • Deployment on Apache servers. Worked on JMS on WebLogic. Developed multi-threaded application using Java.  • Used agile methodology for development. Involved in writing the client side scripts using JavaScript.    Environment: J2EE 1.1, J2SE, Hibernate, Restful API, SOAP, Struts 1.2, Spring core 2.5, JSP 2.2, JSTL 1.2, Servlets 3.0, JavaScript, HTML, XML, JUnit, Maven, AGILE, Groovy/Grails, Jmeter, Drools, Hazel cast, Scrum, Eclipse, Web sphere, Jenkins, Ant, Oracle9i. Java Developer National Republic Bank of Chicago, IL October 2011 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Object Oriented Analysis and design using UML which include the development of class diagrams, sequence diagrams, and state diagrams with Rational Rose and implemented these diagrams in Microsoft Visio  • Developed the controller servlet to handle the requests and responses. Designed and developed JSP pages using struts framework.  • Extensively used the spring framework AOP features.  • Used the struts framework to develop and design the JSP pages.  • Utilized the tile framework for page layouts.  • Developed of web based applications and TCP/IP socket applications in UNIX, using PHP , C, Perl, JavaScript, Oracle, Pl/SQL, open SSL.  • Worked on setting up CI (continuous Integration) in TFS and Jenkins.  • Extensively used hibernate framework to persist the employee work hours to the database.  • Actively involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall unit testing of the system.  • Developed Perl and Shell Scripts on the UNIX machine.  • Developed classes to interface with underlying web services layer. Designed web services for the JSP, Struts modules.  • Developed and configured using BEA WebLogic Application Server 8.1. Developed the build scripts using Ant.  • Involved to edit and structure documentation. Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement.    Environment: JSP 2.1, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JNDI 1.2, JDBC 3.0, WebLogic Application Server 8.1, SQL Server 2005, XML, XSLT, UML, Rational Rose, Eclipse 3.3, Ant, TFS, Jenkins, Windows XP, Microsoft Visio Java/J2EE Developer Life Insurance Corporation of India - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN July 2009 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Managed application integration, deployment and post production support.  • Gathered functional requirements, created design documents. Drew UML diagrams like class, use case and sequence diagrams.  • Involved in creating hibernate mapping files and giving relationships between entities, created JSP pages with struts tags & written java script, jQuery & EXT JS java script libraries.  • Coded JSP's and Struts2 Action Classes, workflow, service, data manager classes& written queries in data manager classes. Used Spring MVC framework for web development.  • Worked on Service oriented Architecture (SOA). Analyzed and fixed issues related to SOAP/REST web services and application responses.  • Utilized CVS as version control to check in the code, created branches and tagged code in CVS. Participated in functional integration and unit testing.  • Full lifecycle development including Java Script libraries: Angular JS, Node, D3.  • Involved in developing Hibernate mapping definitions for the required persistent layer. Implemented validations for both client side and Server side using the Struts2 Validator Framework.  • MVC design pattern and TDD was used in the application in order to make it more modular.  • Was responsible in generating Maven Script was faster and easier deployment.  • Deployed Web Services, JSP's, Servlets, and Server side components in Web Logic Application Server.  • Worked on running integrated testing using the JUNIT and XML for building the data structures required for the Web Service.    Environment: J2EE 1.1, J2SE, Hibernate, Struts 1.2, Restful API, SOAP, Spring core 2.5, JSP 2.2, JSTL 1.2, Servlets 3.0, Apache Axis 1.2, JavaScript, HTML, XML, JUnit, Maven, AGILE, Jmeter, Eclipse, TOAD, Web sphere, Ant, Oracle9i. Java/J2EE Developer Andhra Bank - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN July 2008 to May 2009 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Actively involved in writing the PL/SQL queries to access data from oracle database.  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using JDBC.  • Used HTML5/CSS3 for client development. Used struts framework.  • EJB as middleware in designing and developing a three-tier distributed application.  • Used Ant tool to build and deploy the application in Web Sphere. And successfully set up the WebSphere application server.  • Effectively used programming languages such as C, C++ and Java to solve problems and to create applications and scripts for picture manipulation and calculations and have proficient knowledge about object oriented programming, data structures & algorithms & test driven development (TDD).  • Monitored and managed the content management system.  • Implemented Home Interface, Remote Interface, and Bean Implementation class.  • Implemented business logic at server side using Session Bean.  • Developed Software Modules in C++ under Linux environment.  • Used JSP and servlets, EJB on server side.    Environment: Core Java, Java Swing, Struts, J2EE (JSP/Servlets), XML, AJAX, DB2, My SQL, C++, Tomcat. Education Bachelors of computer science in computer science JNTU August 2004 to May 2008 Skills Eclipse (7 years), Java (8 years), JSP (8 years), Struts (8 years), XML (8 years), Javascript (7 years), HTML (7 years), SQL (6 years), Servelets (7 years) Additional Information SKILL-SET:    Programming Languages Java, SQL  Java Technologies Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, EJB 3.0, JDBC, JNDI  Frameworks JSF, Jakarta Struts 1.1, Hibernate, Spring 3.0, Spring integration  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Resin, BEA WebLogic, Java Web Server.  Web Technologies SERVLETS, JSP, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JAXB, JQuery  Web Services: WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, Axis, RESTFULL, JAX-WS  Databases MySQL, Oracle  Tools JUnit, JMock, ANT, Log4J  IDE Net Beans, Eclipse