Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Hitachi Data Systems Santa Clara, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer Hitachi Data Systems - Santa Clara, CA October 2016 to Present Hitachi Data Systems (HDS) has a Global wide sales process which was being done using Siebel CRM. It is a Product based company which sells their products to Customers and Partners around the Globe. Sales Apps were implemented in this Project to support both Internal Users and Partner Community Users functionality.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Direct discussions with the Business users to gather the requirements and provided input for the design from Technical Stand point.  • Involved in complete End to End functionality implementation, usingagile methodology.  • Worked on Sales Cloud objects like Accounts, Leads, Pricebooks, Products, Opportunities, Quotes, Quote Line Items, Orders and Order Products.  • Designed and developed various Custom Objects like Adjustments, Confidential Documents, Config Measures, and Certs Forms etc., to support the Business functionality apart from Standard Objects.  • Developed Triggers, Apex Classes, Visual Force Pages, and Visual Force Components for various business requirements.  • Developed Custom validation matrix in addition to Salesforce validations to achieve business functionality which was to validate the data before deal progresses to next step.  • Developed custom buttons for lightning using Visualforce pages when the 'On click JavaScript' buttons were not supported in lightning.  • Worked on different Process Builders and Flows which are mostly user interacted.  • Refactored Process Builders which have updates on same records to Apex code, as multiple recursion of Triggers is occurring because of updates on same record and if recursion is stopped we were missing some business functionality.  • Developed various Workflows, Formula fields, Approval Processes based on business requirements.  • Developed different record types to support different relationships of an object to different objects and also maintaining different List of Values (LOV) as a place holder in the system in a single object for different business requirements.  • Worked very closely with the Business Leadership to provide updates on the development status.  • Developed different Batch Classes, Future Methods, and Queueable Methods for different complex scenarios where synchronous methods were running into governor limits.  • Developed custom report types, reports and dashboards based on business requirements.  • Refactored code where 101 SOQL errors were occurring by merging different methods and stopping recursions of the triggers.  • Co-ordinated with different boundary Application teams like EBS, NetSuite, Change point, FPX (CPQ) to maintain the consistency of Data and maintain the integrations.  • Custom code to create New Opportunity, New Order based on the business requirement.  • Worked on different Test Classes to improve the code coverage above 75% for successful deployments to Production Environment.  • Worked on different securities in the system developing Sharing rules, permission sets, public groups, and maintaining Roles and Profiles.  • Worked with Integration team to develop different triggers for the data transfer using callouts.  • Used Custom settings and Custom Metadata for different scenarios for ease of use of the system by Admins.  • Customized page layouts for different profiles and different record types based on the level of access the users should have.  • Co-ordinated with the offshore development team (Jaipur Development Committee: JDC) every day to communicate the business requirements and review their work every day and getting it ready for deployment.  • Used Appirio's ticketing system Cloud Management Center (CMC) to maintain Epics, Components, Stories, Issues, and Tasks and update the status of the development for Client to review.  • One of the key developers during the war room support for the Go Live for different Geo's. Salesforce Developer PRESS GANEY - Chicago, IL January 2015 to September 2016 For nearly 30 years, Press Ganey's mission has been to support health care providers in understanding and improving the entire patient experience. As a strategic business partner to more than 20,000 health care organizations, Press Ganey leads the industry in helping clients transform the patient experience and to create continuous, sustainable improvement.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in various activities of the project, like information gathering, analyzing the information, documenting the functional and non-functional requirements.  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for salesforce.com CRM implementation.  • Participated in requirements Gathering and definition of Entity Relationship diagrams.  • Worked on configuring and customizing Service/Sales clouds.  • Customized sales cloud around price books, quotes and custom orders object.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application using the Eclipse IDE.  • Built Visual Force Pages, Controllers, Visualforce Components, Custom Objects, Analytic Snapshots, Tabs, Tags and Components.  • Wrote several visual force pages for users to create on demand reports not available with native Salesforce functionality; using scheduled apex, user selected visual force pages are emailed as Excel files  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Handled integrations with backend systems like iSeries and ERP systems.  • Customized the entire Salesforce.com applications to incorporate the business requirements, which involved creating Web Forms and processing the data in SFDC with the usage of Web services API.  • Used Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.  • Implemented Batch Apex, Future methods and Schedule Apex  • Used sandboxes for testing and migrating code between environments  • Proficient in using Eclipse based Salesforce.com IDE to develop and deploy force.com code.  • Supported Production deployments, User Rollouts and quick fixes.    Environment:Salesforce.com platform, Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Eclipse IDE, JavaScript, Controllers, Sharing Rules, Workflows, Email Updates, Web Services API Salesforce Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions, Connecticut March 2013 to December 2014 Cognizant Technology Solutions is the implementation partner for Cushman& Wakefield. Cushman & Wakefield is a large commercial real estate firm, we implemented Sales and Marketing apps for the client using Sales cloud.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in a large team, on new enhancements into tools and speaking with Business partners and designing solutions.  • Agile Development Methodology was followed for the implementation.  • Developed Apex classes, Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created Test Classes and used SOQL queries based upon the requirements.  • Created workflow rules, validation rules and assignment rules. Configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Used Process builder for record creation as well as record updates.  • Design of Visual Force Pages, Dashboards and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Implemented REST based web services for fetching the data.  • Implemented web to lead and email to task functionalities.  • Responsible for all the activities related to configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files into salesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data.  • Customized page layouts for Lead, Opportunity, Account, Contact objects depending upon user roles and groups.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Creating an apex scheduler class which will schedule the batch Apex class.  • Ability to overcome the governor limit.  • Responsible for creating the Test Methods to provide maximum coverage to the triggers and other Controller classes.  • Involved in SFDC application support for end users.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Worked in onsite/offshore model with the client.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Visualforce pages, Apex triggers, Apex classes, SOQL, Data Loader, REST, Data Management, Validation Rules, Workflow Rules, and Relationships Salesforce Developer PAYPAL - Phoenix, AZ December 2010 to February 2013 PayPal Holdings, Inc. is an American company operating a worldwide online payments system. Online money transfers serve as electronic alternatives to traditional paper methods like checks and money orders. PayPal is one of the world's largest Internet payment companies. The company operates as an acquirer, performing payment processing for online vendors, auction sites and other commercial users, for which it charges a fee.  Responsibilities:  • Performing the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects including Accounts, Contacts, Reports, Dashboards, Events and Tasks.  • Administered tasks like setting up organization with Roles, Users & Profiles, Sharing rules, IP restrictions, Session settings.  • Configured/Created Profiles, Roles for the organization and setting up Field-level, Object-level security rules for the application.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, validation rules, Components.  • Using Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Worked with SOQL & SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  • Encrypted sensitive data with Encryption Fields feature.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response for automating business logic.  • Developed Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for creating effects in Visualforce pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Developed several Custom Reports & Dashboards to better assist managers and also report folder to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel.  • Worked on Unit testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project.  • Provided the training to the internal business users to use the application and develop their own custom reports.  Environment: Saleforce.com CRM, Force.com platform, Apex Classes, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE, WSDL, Windows. Java Developer Green Light Technologies - Pune, Maharashtra July 2010 to November 2010 WebMD provides valuable health information, tools for managing your health, and support to those who seek information. You can trust that our content is timely and credible.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, design and implementation of front end part of the application.  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and other dependent objects declaration.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection framework for Application flow and inject the Business, Service, Data layer Objects.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Worked on creating Java web services using SOAP, implemented the SOAP 1.2 standards.  • Actively engaged in the agile development process.  • Contributed in the system study to understand the functionality of the current system Requirement Specification document.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Worked with RAD for coding all java classes, web services and utility classes.  • Worked on file transformations with text to xml and vice versa, wrote custom parsers for the same.  • Used SOAP UI to test the web services, created SOAP UI test cases and worked on SOAP composite projects.  • Used Junit for all unit testing and integration testing.  • Used CVS as source code repository system for source code version control.  • Used Oracle 10g as the database for all the data related to both the web applications.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring JDBC, Oracle 10g, UML, XML,1 Web services, JSP, SOAP, Bootstrap, CSS, DAO, CVS, SOAP UI, Junit, JIRA, SOAP UI, RAD. Java Programmer Meta Minds Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2009 to June 2010 This application is developed for a consulting and Designing IT service company that delivers system and the Application Integration-Business, e-commerce, database technologies and also web services specialized technology staffing and a spectrum of other IT services.    Responsibilities:  • Used a formal Iterative development process (based on RUP) from requirements analysis through deployment.  • Development of customized software for the automation of product designing and process planning.  • Responsible for functional specification, technical specifications.  • Developed Authentication and Authorization modules where authorized persons can only access the system.  • Created use cases, class diagrams, activity diagrams and collaboration diagrams using Rational Rose 2000.  • Used struts tiles for JSP page layouts.  • Utilized struts validates for client side validations.  • Heavily used STRUTS framework for JSP and Servlet development, JMS, JSP, Servlets, and other J2EE APIs.  • Eclipse was the IDE used for java code development  • Junit scripts were used for unit testing the modules developed in the development environment.  • Used Log4j for logging and run time debugging of the application.  • Utilized Rational Clear Case as a version control system and for code management.    Environment: JDK 1.5, Struts, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, Apache Tomcat 5, XML, RUP, Java, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS2, Web services. Education Bachelor's Skills APEX (6 years), DATABASE (5 years), ECLIPSE (5 years), WEB SERVICES (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), Salesforce.com platform, Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Eclipse IDE, JavaScript, Controllers, Sharing Rules, Workflows, Email Updates, Web Services API (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Force.com  Apex Language, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force (Pages, Components & Controllers), S-Controls, Apex Web Services, Apex Data Loader, Dashboards, Reports, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects, Force.com, Eclipse IDE Plug-in    Business Process  Service Requests and Activities, Opportunities, Quotes and Proposals, Order Management, Campaign Management, Case Management, Contract Management, Pricing, Approval, Partner Deal Registration, Data Cleansing and De-duplication, Agreements and Entitlements    Visual Force Custom Visual Force Pages  Languages C, Java, Apex, JavaScript, SQL.  Database Microsoft SQL Server, MS Access  Web HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, SOAP/REST.  Platforms Windows, Windows Server.  Tools Data Loader, Workbench, Eclipse IDE.  Operating Systems 2003/XP/2000/NT/98/95, MS-DOS, UNIX