Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - USAC Washington City, DC • Hands-on, Application Development with more than 12 years of experience in design and development of high performance, large scale software applications using OO design methodologies, service oriented architecture, in financial services industry using Java/J2EE technologies for trade processing, Risk Technology, compliance, health care and airlines data systems.  • Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design, Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing, System Testing, Documentation, Production Support, Functional and Regression Testing.  • Experienced in Core Java 6, 7, 8 And Java collections, data structures, Transaction Management, algorithms, multi-threading, concurrency, asynchronous processing  • Hands on experience on Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Worked on the performance profiling using JProbe and enhancement of the application which involved identifying the memory leaks and memory consumption and continuously monitoring the performance.  • Experienced in spring framework development, Spring batch, Spring data, Hibernate, Batch Programming, Spring MVC, Spring WS, Spring Boot, Junit testing, Testing framework.  • Extensive used project build tools such as Maven, Jenkins, and Ant.  • Experience in J2EE and related technologies like JSF, EJB, JDBC, JTA, JTS, JSTL, JNDI, JAXB, JAXR and JAX-WS.  • Experience with Soap based web services, WSDL, RESTful web services, XML, JSON. Handle the security implementation for web services using SAML.  • Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT, XPath, XSD, XSLFO, XQuery, parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  • Strong Experience in EJB's (Session Beans, Entity Beans, Message Driven Beans), SOAP, HTML5, JMS, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Struts and UNIX.  • Worked on Hibernate for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to fetch the data, insert and update the data from the database  • Extensively handle the implementation and deployment of Telecom, Banking and Financial, Insurance, Energy & Utilities web application along with security implementation like SSL configuration and Digital Signing and Application Servers clustering  • Excellent understanding of relational databases involved in application development using several RDBMS like Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS-SQL, PostgreSQL SQL SERVER, LDAP.  • Expertise in developing highly interactive rich Web UI using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, JSF 2.0, Rich faces 3.0 and Wicket.  • Experienced in development and deployment on IBM WebSphere 6.0, BEA WebLogic [ ] JBoss Application Server3.2.5, 5.1.0 and Tomcat 6.0/7.0  • Hands on experience in using relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  • Experienced in the use of various software development tools as database management (SQL Query Analyzer, Navigator, DB Visualized, TOAD), source code control (SVN, Subversion, VSS, CVS, Rational clear case), profiling and debugging tools (Eclipse), IDE (Eclipse and RAD).  • Experience in writing ANT, Maven build scripts, providing logging facility using Log4j and Writing JUnit test cases.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML and developing Use Cases, Class diagrams and Sequence Diagrams with Rational Rose.  • Experience in different design patterns like MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Factory, DAO, Builder, Business Delegate, and Session Facade in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Knowledge on Big Data technologies like Hadoop, HBase, HDFS, Apache Spark, Apache Scala.  • High development skills and ability to meet project delivery deadlines.  • Good analytical skills, commitment to co-operative teamwork and developing high quality software's meeting exacting requirements of the customer.  • Excellent interpersonal skills, including the ability to coordinate and motivate team members.  • Strong interest and high caliber to learn new tools, methods, and technologies Work Experience Senior Java Developer USAC - Washington, DC October 2016 to Present Description:  Providing funding to companies working to expand connectivity infrastructures in unserved or underserved areas. Carriers participating in modernized Connect America programs must file deployment data with USAC's HUBB (High Cost Universal Broadband) portal showing where they are building out mass-market, high-speed Internet service by precise location. This information will include latitude and longitude coordinates for every location where service is available, and will eventually be displayed on a public-facing map showing the impact of Connect America funding on broadband expansion throughout rural America.  Responsibilities  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services S3  • Build micro services using spring boot for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  • Created Python scripts and updated the scripts as per the requirement  • Designed and implemented a database migration to centralize multiple local MySQL database instances to a single Amazon Aurora S3 instance.  • Create RFP (Request for Proposal) micro service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Configuring application server for Performance Auditing/logging and managing memory.  • Developed an Analytics and Reporting application in Java to gather database metrics, store them in a Orient DB graph database and produce a daily snapshot report from a Java application running in Tomcat.  • Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using DB2. Also, used JPA with Hibernate provider. Proficient in Java Multi-Threading and Concurrency.  • Monitor performance using JProfiler for memory leaks and thread deadlocks.  • Hands on experience using multi-threading in back end java beans  • Implemented business logic using Spring MVC and Hibernate framework  • Taken care of Java multi-threading, concurrence in common java classes / library.  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using spring framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Postgres, REST/JSON Web service, REST, JMX, ANT, Maven, JUnit, SVN, Kafka, S3, Bamboo, Microservices, Confluence, Concurrency, Multi-threading, Memory Model. Senior/Lead Java Developer SITA - Washington, DC July 2014 to October 2016 Description:  The APP/PNR project provides a system to obtain the traveler information in the right format which helps in conducting traveler pre-arrival risk assessment. The project will identify international traveler (inbound, outbound and transit) as well as domestic travelers. The system provides a portal where officers can view the flight details, traveler details, bookings, boarding's and crossing details.  Responsibilities  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Oversee and develop Notification Service micro service to use across the enterprise.  • Created shell scripts and updated the scripts as per the requirement  • Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database  • Developed scripts for inbound and outbound of the data on servers  • Used spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate  • Proficient in Java Multi-Threading and Concurrency.  • Hands on experience using multi-threading in back end java beans  • Implemented business logic using Spring MVC and Hibernate framework  • Taken care of Java multi-threading, concurrence in common java classes / library.  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using spring framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Utilize Camel to integrate micro services with other micro services and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges.  • Oracle is used as the persistence layer, configured, and optimally indexed for searches  • Experience with SQL and basic CRUD operations  • Developed stored procedures, triggers, and functions with PL/SQL for Oracle database  • Used JDBC to connect to the information model tier.  • Develop innovative and quality solutions by making use of latest tools and technologies like Apache CXF, Spring Core, and Spring AOP.  • Developed Rest architecture based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Developed application using Eclipse Ganymede for rapid development.  • Use of WebLogic application server to deploy the application and connect through the data source using JNDI name  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Designed and implemented four Agile Scrum teams for product development  • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence, and Class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed application code using Eclipse IDE and configured with Maven and Apache tomcat  • Developed framework using Java, iText, MySQL and web server technologies  • Worked with ILog Jrule engine, to trigger the business rules in the rules execution engine configured in WebLogic application server.  • Worked with business teams using agile methodology to integrate business line of apps with SOA in a seamless fashion.  Environment: Java 7, Concurrency, Microservices, Threading, Spring MVC, Hibernate, XML, Oracle, REST/SOAP Web service, REST, JMX, ANT, Maven, JUnit, SVN. Senior Java Developer Primatics Financial - McLean, VA January 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  • Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database  • Used spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate  • Proficient in Java Multi-Threading and Concurrency.  • Developed SOAP web services utilizing business logic for CRUD functionality  • Worked on PL/SQL and created views, triggers, procedures, function, and stored procedures.  • Created complex SQL and used JDBC connectivity to access the database  • Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment  • Used Eclipse as an IDE for developing the application  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum.  • Designed UML diagrams using UML and Rational Rose.  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Design, implementation, and development of Oracle ECM workflows to meet the requirements of the business user  • Created user interface and backend server application using Java, Google Web Toolkit, Spring, Tomcat, and GIS  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), JIRA/ Quality Center for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build  Environment: Java 7, JavaScript, Concurrency, Threading, Web service, JDBC, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Oracle, PL/SQL, Tomcat 7.0, ANT, CVS, and JUnit. Senior Java Developer Daedalus Software - Cambridge, MA May 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities  • Developed a Java, Oracle, Spring MVC, and Hibernate based Web application.  • Built an end to end vertical slice for a JEE based billing application using popular frameworks like Spring, Hibernate, Maven2, and Ajax by applying OO design concepts, JEE & GoF design patterns, and best practices.  • Integrated other sub-systems like loans application, equity markets online application system, and documentation system with the structured products application through JMS, MQ, and SOAP based Web services, and XML.  • Tuned SQL statements, hibernate mapping, and WebLogic application server to improve performance, and consequently met the SLAs.  • Gathered business requirements and wrote functional specifications and detailed design documents.  • Improved the build process by migrating it from Ant to Maven2.  • Built and deployed Java applications into multiple Linux based environments and produced both unit and functional test results along with release notes.  • Developed JSPs using EL language and JSTL tags.  • Developed JSP pages and Servlets for customer maintenance  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto Tomcat application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process  Environment: Java 1.6, Spring MVC, Ajax, JQuery, XML, Hibernate, Oracle, PL/SQL, Spring-ws, SOAP Web service, JMX, ANT, Maven2, Continuum, JUnit, SVN, TDD, and XP. Senior Java Developer Ericsson July 2008 to April 2010 Responsibilities  • Designed and developed Struts, JSF Web framework using the front-controller design pattern, which is used successfully in several production systems.  • Normalized Oracle database, conforming to design concepts and best practices.  • Resolved product complications at customer sites and funneled the insights to the development and deployment teams to adopt long term product development strategy with minimal roadblocks.  • Convinced business users and analysts with alternative solutions that are more robust and simpler to implement from technical perspective while satisfying the functional requirements from the business perspective.  • Identified and fixed transactional issues due to incorrect exception handling and concurrency issues due to unsynchronized block of code.  • Developed JSPs using EL language and JSTL tags.  • Developed JSP pages and Servlets for customer maintenance  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto tomcat application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process  • Developed REST Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Involved in a full life cycle Object Oriented application development - Object Modeling, Database Mapping, GUI Design.  • Used XML/XSLT for transforming common XML format.  Environment: Java 6, Servlet, JSP, custom tags, JNDI, JDBC, XML, XSL, DTD, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle, DB2, PL/SQL, JBoss, JUnit, Log4J and CVS. Java/J2EE Developer Avanza Solutions November 2005 to July 2008 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete life cycle of software development including designing, developing, testing and deployment of application.  • Designed framework for outbound interface  • Designed frame work for inbound interface  • Designed and developed batch jobs using Spring quartz API  • Designed and developed registry for registering the status of batch jobs.  • The framework was designed to process large amounts of data and to be performance effective  • Mentoring team members  • Preparing check list for coding standards.  • Estimating for development of connectors  • Did POC for packing connector code and all dependent jars into one single jar  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML and CSS  • Involved in developing applications using Java and J2EE.  • Designed database Entity-Relationship diagrams, data constraints, triggers, stored procedures, and functions.  Environment: Java, Eclipse, MVC, Servlets, JSP, AJAX, J2EE Patterns, Apache tomcat Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (10+ years), TOMCAT (10+ years), ECLIPSE (10+ years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (10+ years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (10+ years), Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Rest, Hibernate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Technology Tools: Core Java (7,8), Multi-threading Inter-process communication Algorithms Collections Generics Memory management Concurrency Design patterns.  Design Patterns: MVC, Factory, Session Façade, Service Locator, Front Controller, Singleton Pattern, View helper.  JEE: JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, JCA, JTA, JPA, JSTL  MVC Frameworks: Struts, Spring, JSF (MyFaces1.0, RichFaces3.0, Prime Faces), Ajax4Jsf1.1.  ORM Frameworks: Hibernate, JPA  IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans. Spring Tool Suite (STS)  Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Hibernate  Databases: MS SQL Server 2014, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MySQL, MS-Access 2003, Sybase, DB2  Web/App Server: IBM WebSphere 6.0, BEA WebLogic 8.1, JBoss3.2, Tomcat IIS Server  Web Service: Imp Axis, CXF, Jersey Web Service Specs JAX-RPC, JAX-WX, JAX-RS(Restful)  Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, IBM Clear Quest  Testing Frameworks: JUnit, Easy Mock, Power Mock, Selenium, Mocha. SOAPUI