Sr. Java Team Lead Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Team Lead Sr. Java Team Lead - Cognizant Mexico - San Juan Ocotan Zapopan Jalisco Orlando, FL ? 18+ years of experience in JAVA/J2EE. Very strong JAVA, J2EE, Spring Boot 2, Spring REST, Spring Cloud Microservices, Spring MVC, JPA, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, UML, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, WSDL, EJB3.  ? Experience in Cloud Technologies - Amazon Web Services (AWS). Experience in EC2, S3, RDS, IAM (Identity & Access Management).  ? Managed quality software using n-tier J2EE application architecture using JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB 2 , EJB 3, Struts 1.4, 2, Spring 4, JDBC, XML, and XSLT.  ? Building Business layer implementations considering Big O notation and Java best practices.  ? Experience in working with cross-functional teams and Experience in working with offshore teams as Indian, Canadian, Brazilian and Poland people.  ? Work experience with Banking, Government, Automotive Industries.  ? Expertise in Server-side application performance monitoring using Aternity and Sonarqube tools.  ? Expertise designed web APIs using Swagger tool.  ? Expertise implementing web APIs using ApiGee platform.  ? Expertise in Server-side programming and testing applications , system, integration, and product test using JUnit.  ? Advanced experience with SCRUM and RUP methodologies.  ? Expertise in UNIX and application server , source code repositories thorough understanding of coding, design, documentation, unit testing, change management, deployment and release procedures using CVS,Git, Oracle Cloud platform. Work Experience Sr. Java Team Lead Cognizant Mexico - San Juan Ocotan Zapopan Jalisco May 2018 to Present EZCorp client - POS - Point of sale. EZCorp is a loan store based on USA.  POS is a web portal to management the loans.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Adding new features to LATAM - Mexico and El Salvador.  ? Leading development team to re-architect of POS2. Proposing Spring REST.  ? Implement best practices for coding, unit test, code repository, build and deploy using Jenkins  ? Implement a lot of tickets to fix version issues.  ? Assisting testers during test regressions.  ? Meeting with Customer owner to discuss the tickets status.  ? Meeting with the developer team to work on issues tickets  Environment - Java 1.6, Spring MVC, Spring REST, Angular 1.6, Postman, EJB persistence, Ant, Git, TortoiseGit, Tomcat 8, Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, Windows 10, Agile, Scrum, Sprints.    Walmart client - Recip - Point of sale  Sr. Java Team Lead  POS is a web portal to management the loans.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Designing API Rest WS using Apiary platform.  ? Implementing architectural API WS proposal using APIGee platform.  ? Implementing a prototype REST WS based on Spring Boot development platform.  ? Course about Spring Cloud technology  ? Working with AWS platform. Using services like S3,IAM,EC2, RDS and Beanstalk.  ? Stream API using on Business layer.  Environment - AWS, Java 1.8, Spring Boot, Postman, Maven, Git, TortoiseGit, Tomcat 8, Windows 10, Agile, Scrum. Sr. Java Consultant TATA Consultancy Services, Technology park, Zapopan Jalisco May 2015 to April 2018 Citi-Banamex - Aternity APM tool implementing to LATAM  Citi global decides to implement the Aternity tool to monitor web application performance to Mexico Banamex infrastructure.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Developing Aternity Signature to implement Mexico user cases.  ? Build a java stand-alone application using RESTlet API based on Java, HTML, JSON and Windows Script Host Technology. This application takes video recording of windows desktop on background and creates a video file for each 10 minutes. The administrator can access remotely mode to stop or run it.  ? Build a Java Web application to admin the agent installed on Windows desktops around intranet.  Environment - Java 1.8, Aternity APM platform , Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Agile, Scrum.    Morgan Stanley Client - DevOp implementation  The Worker Portal is part of the new Eligibility and Enrollment (E&E) system. It is available to case managers, supervisors and administrative staff. Beginning with Long Term Care (LTC) Medical Assistance, case managers, and supervisors can electronically process applications, redeterminations and make changes to existing cases in the Worker Portal.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  • Interacting with MS transition team to get Due diligence information and build an Implementation plan to WebOps on TATA Mexico.  • Responsible to create a new WebOps L2 team oriented to Support the Enterprise Infrastructure.  • Implementing the plan to WebOps training tasks, knowledge transfer from NTT to TATA. 21 tools to support 320 tasks of the support catalogue.  • Implementing the shadowing phase I - Take a look to the resolve issues.  • Implementing the shadowing phase II - Working with real support cases.  • Implementing go live process.  • Interaction with WebOps Indian Team - 30 team members.  • Managing of the 21 tools to do the support task of the all infrastructure task.  • Support to Load balancers F5 and A10, Web Servers -Apache,Tomcat and Websphere, Web Farm technology, Linux hosting, etc  • Script programming based on Linux shell to authorization repetitive task  • Improve the Run books documents.  • Proposing improve support process using PERL scripts.  * Using Service Now tool  ? Create change tickets for production deployment and take part in Production deployments.  ? Worked with various tools like Putty, WinScp, Service Now Tools etc.  ? Modify build scripts and deployed Java projects successfully using farm portal.  ? Worked with various tools like Putty, WinScp, TortoiseSVN, Beyond Compare etc.  ? Created various "How to Documents" that helped team members gain knowledge on how to use the Morgan Stanley procedures to apply Service now tickets.  Environment - Java 1.8, Eclipse Neon IDE, Windows 10 Enterprise, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Agile, Scrum.    Citi-Banamex - TIBCO support  Citi global project to include the Mexican bank called Banamex infrastructure.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Learning Tibco Banamex implementation to joining it to Citi Group platform.  ? Checking the integration plan and make a proof of concept about new requirements  ? Developing new requirements of Banamex Tibco implementation coupling it to Citi Group infrastructure  Environment - Java 1.8, TIBCO 3, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Agile, Scrum. Sr. Java Developer Monterrey, MX September 2013 to April 2015 Arrendadora Global System - Arrendadora Global System acts as a Portal to management the core business operation. It helps to facilitate Sales conversation with the customer.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Add a new features and improve code software components  ? Web developer using struts 2 framework with interceptors  ? Creating database schema under Oracle database  ? Using a front end framework based on AJAX  Environment - Java 1.6, Java 1.7 JAVA EE, Struts Framework, Oracle Database, Front End framework called XHTML Sr. Java Developer Banorte insurance, Banorte Insurance April 2012 to August 2013 The web system was designed to management the core business to insurance items. The presentation layer of main application is built using Java Server Pages (JSP), the controllers are REST WS and the business tier of is built with spring framework and uses Java Persistence API (JPA) for managing relational data using Java and J2EE.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Gather requirements from the Business Analysts. Analyze and convert requirements into technical design.  ? Create robust design by implementing various design patterns and best practices throughout the application.  ? Develop the application based on technical design and followed the development and business process while developing application.  ? Created various infrastructure components for various tiers such as Business tier, Integration tier and Database tier.  ? In Business Tier, worked with spring framework to develop the core business of the application.  ? Used Ant build tool to build the application.  ? Involved in testing with QA team for testing the application.  ? Definitions of technology, architecture, planning and methodology.  ? Definition of test cases, automation strategy unit testing and monitoring execution.  ? Application and Infrastructure Management for the Development phase.  ? Interdisciplinary Interaction for managing IT projects.  ? Report progress, risk analysis, definition and planning of countermeasures to minimize deviation implementation plan Information Systems.  ? Review of code in J2EE application of SOA implementation based on JAX-WS with AXIS2 and CXF  Environment - Java 1.6, JAVA EE, Spring Framework, JSP, Hibernate, WebServices Eclipse, Oracle, DBVisualizer, Oracle Application Server, PuTTY 0.60, Linux 5.5, Windows 7. Senior Java Consultant METALSA - Monterrey, MX February 2011 to March 2012 PLM -Product Lifecycle Management web application was a custom web application to Engineering team.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments;  Design, build, test, implement, release and support a new Web / Desktop PLM custom applications like Siemens similar platform  ? Proposals and implementations:  ? a. Implementation of Development methodology based on RUP and SCRUM  ? b. Implementation of infrastructure development based on tools such as Wiki, Track +, Content manager based on exoPlatform, CVS on SUN Solaris platform servers  ? c. Implementation of application architecture solution for PLM - based SOA Life-Cycle Management Planning  ? d. Implementation of artifacts such as 100% JAVA Database, FTP, BPM, EMAIL.  ? e. Analysis and design of interface for Java and ERP application based on the "Progress" platform  ? Implementation of PLM desktop application based on Python and OpenGL.  ? Implementation of Java J2EE application to solve file transfer deep draft on Web. Documentation based on UML  ? Requirements, analysis and design of application-oriented J2EE-based PLM services. BMPN, STRUTS 2 ExtJS 4 MVC, FTP, Sockets, XML and Web services: technologies such as were implemented.  ? Implementation of BPM engine based on Bonita Open Solution on Solaris.  ? Implementation of J2EE application for administering processes, instances, users and groups BPM engine.  ? Business proposal for implementation of project financial model for the business unit commercial vehicle.  ? Implementation of desktop application based on Java and QT for control and administration of the scale patio plant Apodaca.  ? Design, build, test, implement, release and support a new PL/SQL engine to calculate an XML file to CNC maquines to Indian and Brazil plants  ? Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of solution (datakit) based on PL / SQL and APEX for management geometries for System Floor (Floor Shop) in India and Brazil.  ? Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of solution (SCRAP) based on PL / SQL and APEX waste management for System Floor (Floor Shop) on workstations and Mobile.  ? Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of solution (Component rules) based on Dot Net for managing business rules for Floor Systems (Shop Floor) on workstations.  ? Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of solution (Search, stream and manage files CNC) based on PL / SQL and Dot Net for manufacturing flow management for System Floor (Floor Shop) on workstations  ? Implementation of GIT repository on UNIX platform development team.  ? Implementation of APEX for mobile intranet  ? Implementation proof of concept and prototype Android Smartphone  ? Implementation of concept and prototype testing on iPad Smartphone platform, IPHONE  ? Implementation of concept testing and prototype based Smartphone RIA ("rich Internet applications under JAVA.    Environment - Java 1.6, Strut 2 Framework,Unix Solaris Zone Virtual, Windows XP, Python 3, OpenGL library, APEX Oracle environment , PLSQL, ExtJS, Dot Net Framework based on C# language Senior Java Consultant FEMSA - Monterrey, MX August 2010 to December 2010 FEMSA is the owner of OXXO convenience stores at Mexico. FEMSA has a web application (SMF - Sistema de Mantenimiento de Flotillas) to management the fleet maintenance of the all business vehicles.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  Proposal:  ? Proposal to use Control Process Code - CVS and SVN  ? Development Environment Installation Guide SMF - Fleet System Mantto  ? Development Technical Discussion SMF - Fleet System Mantenance  ? Migrating from Tomcat to Glassfish Applicative  ? Proposal for Web application reengineering RIA - Rich Interface Application  ? Proposal for implementation of environment variables outside the application  Programming  ? Design in UML print framework based on Jasper  ? Correction of application SMF Bugs and PISMF  ? Analysis and PISMF SMF J2EE application in Tomcat for Reengineering and Migration  ? Migration and PISMF SMF application to Glassfish server  ? Design and Development Deployment environment variables outside the application SMF and PISMF  ? Design and Development of Dynamic Interface main menu under AJAX (RIA)  ? Design and development of module "My preventative" AJAX (RIA) and Struts 2  ? Design and Development Help PISMF application integrated into the main interface  ? Development bank data graphing application Java - JavaScript Web - PlotKit  ? Deployed applications to show proposal implementing changes.  Environment - Java 1.4.2, JSP 2.0, Servlet 2.4, Struts 1.3.5, Windows XP, version 5.1, PlotKit Javascript library, ExtJS, Glassfish server, CVS and SVN servers. Senior Java Consultant Insurance Afirme Bank CSDI consulting - Monterrey, MX January 2009 to August 2010 MIDAS - Insurance web application.  MIDAS is an Intranet web application that allows the operation process to management the Insurance as core business.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Involving to Review the analysis module Claims - Damages - Reinsurance  ? Modeling in UML standards for design according to method 4 + 1 for Java J2EE application. Class Diagrams, Activity, Sequence, Component and Deployment  ? Review the analysis module Claims - Damages - ReInsurance  ? Modeling in UML standards for design according to method 4 + 1  ? Review of the Java architecture for Web application , building a custom security module  ? Defining a Java J2EE architecture, MVC design pattern, EJB3 as persistence layer and Ajax  ? Definition of standard look and feel according business policies.  ? Implementation of architecture under development environment Websphere 6.1 under linux OS.  ? Defining interface for interaction with other systems based on Store procedures implementation  ? Defining modular component architecture for Java J2EE application  ? Reviewing Model Database using Graphic Schema Diagram  ? Definition of UML design for CU using Enterprise Architect tool network version  ? Defining Best Practices Development for Java and JavaScript, using CheckStyle plugin  ? Making the Midas development process from CVS to QA instance to Unit Test.  ? Implementing control tool findings (Mantis), Tickets system.  ? Publication frequent pattern analysis and development Web in Intranet  ? Implementing the report module using Jasper report technology using templates.  ? Implementing batch tasks to schedule background events using QUARTZ library.  ? QA Management Oracle database server for Development and Management of access to CVS  ? Management Control intranet and extranet wireless access publication Afirme  ? Implementation of architectural components to Midas using n-tier paradigm; Business logic layer, Business Service and DAO layers  ? Administration of the application versioning Midas  ? Installing the J2EE application in development and QA environmentsManagement CVS servers, Oracle DB, Websphere 6.1 and MSSQL 2003  ? Making migration from development CVS to the client environment  ? Formal handover of technical documentation for architecture, maintenance, access and the Midas system support  Environment - Struts 2, JSP 2.0, J2SE 1.6, MyEclipse IDE, WebSphere Application Server 6.1, Oracle 9i, Linus Fedora, CVS server, Windows XP version 5.1. Jasper report, Quartz schedule library Programmer/Analyst Kansas City Southern - Monterrey, MX June 2007 to November 2008 Train tracking System, DEINTEC Consulting  Train Tracking System was developed under .Net platform, then the business decides rewrite it under java technology.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Involved in re-architecting and re-designing the project.  ? Writing technical specifications for implementation on 2 Net using C #.  ? Making modifications to the original code in Java to integrate modules developed on 2 Net and present a Hybrid application in the transitional phase.  ? Developing of functional requirements (25 changes) the applicant, for which the following tasks are performed:  • Functional definition of requirements  • Analysis of the implication of change and / or addition of functionality  • Definition of the technical specification of each requirement.  • Development and unit testing  • Update control repository changes on TFS  Environment - Rational Suite, Rational ClearCase, RAD V6.0,JSP 2.0, J2SE 1.4.2, Rational Application Developer 6.0.1, WebSphere Application Server 5.1, XML, HTML, IBM DB2 database, X on Windows XP, version 5.1., Dot net framework, IIS server.    Neoris, Monterrey N.L. Mexico  Java Consultant    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  Implementation module reports using the Crystal Reports engine Reports on the J2EE platform using the Framework defined for system development.  This involved the following:  * Analysis of the functional requirement of the module reports  * Rewriting the technical specification for each of the 5 reports requested.  * Mounting the engine in Crystal Reports J2EE JAVA on Spring Framework  * Development of data access services following the practices implemented in the application according to the fixed architecture. MVC Model - Injection objects using Spring and Store Procedures on Oracle Server data base.  * Development Templates 5 reports to Crystal reports.  * Development of reports by filling data via POJO  * unit and updating the repository Development Tests.  * Delivery time reporting module.  Environment - Windows XP, version 5.1. Eclipse , Crystal Report library, Spring framework.    Johnson Controls, Monterrey N.L. Mexico  Java Consultant    Incentive Rate IRD Definition. Web application developed on Java J2EE 1.4, 5.1 and Oracle Webshpere 9. Application rate definition incentives for payroll.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  ? Design patterns DAOs, EBJs, AJAX, JAVASCRIPT, TILES and Struts were used.  ? Project Leader.  ? Design of the data model. In ERWIN.  ? Review of architecture.  ? Design and manufacture of technical specifications.  ? Design and Manufacturing Test specifications.  ? Design and specification of user tests.  ? Activities RELEASE MANGER.  ? Management Unit Websphere TEST.  ? Training App Users.  ? Make the technical specifications for the migration of 8 applications of version 5 to 6 websphere  ? Test specifications  ? Implementation of development  ? Analyst and developer of the migration of JAVA applications Websphere 5.1 to 6.  ? The analysis was made.  ? Technical Specification.  ? Development.  ? Design test specification  ? Running tests.  ? Correction 2 functionality for CI  ? Analyst.  ? J2EE Developer.  ? Tester.  ? Release manager.  ? Junks. Adding module to extend the functionality. It is a web application for managing the batteries that the customer returns to the plant.  ? Development unit tests for extended functionality.  Environment - Windows XP, version 5.1. Eclipse , Oracle 9i database, Struts 1.4 framework. HTML, JSP, EJB2. Programmer/Analyst DF. Mexico, SAT Mexican government office January 2007 to May 2007 Develop technology to make data sources (ORACLE, PEOPLE SOFT, etc.) By WEB SERVICES and according to the business rules of the dept. BPM (Business Process Manager)    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  • Making the transformation to VIEW and PRINT SCREEN on through the XML technology and XMLT  * Make the model analysis solution using WEB SERVICES, JAVA EE with STRUTS, DOM, XALAN, XERCES, JDOM, etc.  * Ask planning to manufacture 564 XML files and 236 Documents  * Coordinate the implementation of the model solution  * Make JAVA SWING tools for manufacturing process XML and XSD  * Participate in the work of the WEB JAVA J2EE tool to simulate the processing of documents from XML, XSD, XSL and XSLT to HTML and PDF.    Environment - Java 1.4, Windows XP, version 5.1. Eclipse , Oracle 9i database,SpyXML, HTML, JSP, Swing framework, Tomcat server. Programmer/Analyst Toluca Edo. de Mexico December 2000 to November 2006 Nacional Monte de Piedad Fundacion , DF. Mexico, Java Consultant, Ingenieria en Computo.    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  Developing an assets system control with 3 layers. The application should be an Images database for each Item. The System should be working with a HAND HELD device.  A management system asset was developed in 3 layers. This system should be integrated into the database images of each record, using bar code inventory collector HAND HELD and must comply with NORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION 2006 concerning bulletins issued for fixed assets and portal only for consultations, among other requirements  * Developing task.  * Installation and Configuration Server, Database, Printers, Wireless Network and Hand HELD  * Responsible for coordinating decision-asset inventory and photography.  * Responsible for capturing information system  * Documentation on white paper  * Make testing system functionality.  * Delivery of the system and documentation  * After-sales service  Environment - Windows XP, Lotus domino tool    Robert Bosch Plant, Toluca Edo. de Mexico. Mexico, Java Consultant    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  WEB system for monitoring production lines. A Server application that received signals from PLCs production lines that distinguish the state that keep the various work stations along the production line was implemented. With this application, Developed in JAVA WEB, Managers, Programmers Production Planners and shop assistants, they can take the immediate state of the production lines analytically and graphically.    Responsibilities:  * Analysis of user requirement.  * Approach to the proposal.    Environment - Development of systems engineering. WEB application on tomcat, Database ORACLE, analog-digital interfaces in JAVA PC application that sent files to the application server    Robert Bosch Plant , Toluca Edo. de Mexico. Mexico, Java Consultant    Responsibilities & Accomplishments:  Manufacturing of an application in C ++, for backing up files in DOS an Industrial Computer, which verified the quality of the production line "Automotive Alternators" in the company ROBERT BOSCH located in Toluca.  Responsibilities:  * Make the analysis of the requirements of the CUSTOMER.  * Shaping the request and make a sketch of the solution.  * Make the analysis of the solution and specify the computer program. and submit the proposal to the client.  * Project management, development plan, financial plan, plan testing and implementation in place.  Environment - D.O.S System Operative, Borland C IDE, batch files. Education Computer Science Instituto Tecnologico de Toluca 1995 Industrial Mechanical Engineer Instituto Tecnologico de Durango - Durango, MX 1989 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Java technologies, Spring, Jaxp, Jsp, Java server pages, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Ajax, Css, Sharepoint, Tomcat, Web services, Java J2Ee, Hibernate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Frameworks Struts 1.4, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, JSP, Log4J, JUnit.  Java Technologies Java 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, Applet, Swing, JDBC, RMI with EJB3, Multi-threaded applications.  JEE Technologies JEE Architecture, JSP, Servlets, Java Persistence API - JPA, EJB 3.0.  Cloud Amazon Web Services (AWS), Experience in EC2, S3, RDS, ROUTE53 and VPC.  Design skills OOA (Object Oriented Analysis) & OOD (Object Oriented Design) using UML.  Methodology Agile methodology, Rational Unified Process (RUP),  Languages and Servers  Java, Python,Elixir, HTML, XML, Jenkins, IBM WebSphere 4.0/5.0/6.0/7/0/8.5,Apache, Tomcat, Glassfish, WebLogic 6, CVS, Git, Jira tool, IBM HTTP Server, Linux Ubuntu,RH,Fedora.    IDE's Eclipse Oxygen, Eclipse Neon, Eclipse Mars, IBM RAD V6, Spring Tool System 4, PostMan, Atom  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Java Server Pages, AJAX,XML, XSLT, JSON, Angular 2  RDBMS Oracle 9i, PLSQL, MySQL.  RDBMS Tools DBVisualizer, Squirrel, TOAD,  Non SQL MongoDB, DynamoDB  Microsoft Tools MS Office, Microsoft Visio Professional, Microsoft Office Outlook, Microsoft Project, Sharepoint, Microsoft Lync.  Atlassian Tools JIRA, Confluence and Trello.  Other  Postman, Chrome debbuging tool, SOAP, SoapUI 5.0.0, Web services, XML, XSD, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO, WSDL, JAXP, WS_FTP Pro, CVS, Ant, Maven, MQ with Rabbit MQ. Subclipse, Subversion, PuTTY 0.60 - Telnet/SSH Client, Git Repository, Tortoise Git.