Java/J2ee Sr. Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2ee Sr. <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2ee Sr. Developer - Inovalon Herndon, VA ? Having 8 years of IT Experience in Software development of Business Applications and Solutions as a Java Developer.  ? Experience in designing and developing applications using J2EE, Spring Framework, Spring MVC,  Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts.  ? Experience in developing, packaging and deploying Servlets, JavaBeans, and JSPs using Eclipse 4.x, STS.  ? Strong experience in the functional usage and deployment of applications over Web/Application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebLogic and WebSphere.  ? Experience in developing web based user friendly GUIs using Servlets, JSP, HTML, CSS, XHTML, Java Script, JQuery, JSTL and AJAX.  ? Experience working with Oracle & MySql databases.  ? Having good experience in handling XML form of data.  ? Expertise in defining coding and development standards and implementing design and code review procedures throughout the project lifecycle.  ? Experienced in Architectural design of the System and designing application using OO Concept, implementation of J2EE Design Patterns like DAO, Singleton Pattern, Session Facade, Service Locator, Spring IOC, Spring MVC  ? Hands on experience in using different types of build tools like MAVEN and ANT.  ? Good experience on version management tools Clear Case, CVS and SVN  ? Experienced in the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Like Requirement Analysis, Requirement Validation, Software Requirements Specification, Detailed design, development, testing, and implementation.  ? Good understanding of UML  ? Strong communication skills and excellent customer relations in collecting and analyzing user requirements.  ? Ability to quickly master new concepts, applications and work a team player  ? Experience in project documentation and has good logical and analytical abilities.  ? Strong communication and Interpersonal skills  ? Ability to perform at a high level, meet deadlines with quality delivery, adaptable to ever changing priorities  ? Ability to work in diverse platforms and industry environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2ee Sr. Developer Inovalon - Herndon, VA March 2014 to Present Consumers Energy has provided customers with reliable, affordable power to fuel Michigan's amazing innovation, production and progress. We have a bold vision to continue to safely and affordably meet the future energy needs of Michigan customers while continuing to protect our environment and mail future of this project is Manage customer account anywhere, anytime view and pay bills, view 18 months of account history, go paperless with eBill and newsletter, view energy use graph and report power outages or meter reads.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis & design of the application.  • Developed the controller servlet to handle the requests and responses.  • Designed and developed JSP pages using Struts framework.  • Involved in writing client side validations using JavaScript.  • Developed front-end content using HTML, CSS and client-side validations using Angular.JS JavaScript.  • AJAX was used to perform simple XML Http Request callbacks for retrieving data dynamically into the client pages.  • Used Web services (REST) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP. Various facets of the web service like functionality and performance were tested before deploying.  • Developed Data Access Objects (DAO) to access middleware Web Services.  • Coded Server pages using JSP, Servlets, Struts by following MVC architecture.  • Developed web services in Java and Experienced with Service Oriented Architecture Protocol, WSDL.  • JDBC with SQL/PLSQL for database connectivity.  • Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate, DAO, Transfer Object, and SOA.  • JUnit was the framework used in the development of test-driven development.  • Implemented persistence mechanism using Hibernate (ORM Mapping). Responsible for mapping the database model into persistence objects using Hibernate Annotations  • Used Oracle Database for persisting the data. Used Agile methodology.  • Websphere was used to integrate the applications and automate the process.  • Back end database testing was done to find bugs in the early stage of development.  • Implemented the integration with the back end system with web services using REST.  • Developed a logging component using Apache Log4J to log messages and errors.  • JQuery was utilized to simplify the client-side scripting of HTML  • Involved in the design of the Referential Data Service module to interface with various databases using  JDBC.  • Involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall Unit testing of the system.  • Prepared documentation and participated in preparing user's manual for the application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Eclipse, WebSphere, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, JDBC, Java Web services, Oracle, Junit, CVS Java/ J2ee Developer Tennessee Department of Human Services - Nashville, TN September 2012 to February 2014 Monsanto is a sustainable agriculture company and deliver agricultural products that support farmers all around the world and focused on empowering farmers - large and small - to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy. We do this with our leading seed brands in crops like corn, cotton, oilseeds and fruits and vegetables. We also produce leading in-the-seed trait technologies for farmers, which are aimed at protecting their yield, supporting their on-farm efficiency and reducing their on-farm costs.    Responsibilities:  • Perform the Requirement Analysis, Impact Analysis, Design and Development, Reviews, Testing and Implementation of System Changes and enhancements for the new development.  • Prepared the prototype pages of the application based on the templates and requirements using HTML.  • Developed the application implementing MVC Architecture, integrating JSF with Hibernate and spring frameworks.  • JDBC with SQL/PLSQL for database connectivity.  • Developed required Web pages using HTML.  • Struts 2.0 framework was used to develop the JSP pages  • Closely worked with Business Analyst and Client for business issues.  • Involved in Bug Fixing (Debugging) of the application.  • VISIO was used to create logic and flow charts when planning out the program  • Involved in Developing User Interfaces using HTML and JSP's  • Designed User Interface using Java Server Faces (JSF), Angular.JS Java Script, CSS, and XML.  • To transfer large blocks of XML data over HTTP, REST was utilized.  • JAXB was employed to convert XML files to data structure wherever necessary.  • Used Oracle database for persisting the data.  • To prevent deadlock, data corruption etc. backend tesing was done.  • Alfresco was the API used to optimize the processes and make collaboration easy.  • TIBCO was used to provide a comprehensive Java EE -based integration solution.  • JMS was utilized to allow multiple clients to access information wherever necessary.  • Created a data access layer using DAO pattern to make rest of the code database independent.  • Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate, DAO, Transfer Object, and SOA.  • IBM RAD was utilized to accelerate the development and deployment of JavaEE applications.  • WSDL 1.1 was the technology utilized to define the web service. Used Shell scripting language.  • To combine different components together wherever needed, the Spring framework was used.  • Used SVN for version controlling.  • Used ANT build tool to build and deploy the application.  • Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application and JavaScript for Data Validations.  • Used JUnit Framework for the unit testing of all the java classes.    Environment: Servlet, JSP, JSF, AJAX, Spring, Restful Web services, JMS, JavaScript, HTML5, DB2, ANT, log4j, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, MVC Architecture, Eclipse, CVS, SoapUI-Pro, VISIO, SVN Java Developer Consumer Energy - Jackson, MI October 2011 to August 2012 It has an exhaustive product that addresses entire gamut of automation needs of the Hospital and comprises of the following activities: In-Patient & Out-Patient Administration, Lab and other Clinical Investigations Pharmacy, General Inventory and Purchasing, Pay-Roll & HR Administration tenancy of General and Biomedical equipment, Financial Accounting and Billing House-Keeping, Ward management, ICU and OT administration, Marketing Health Services.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in coding, GUI design and testing.  • Validation of the registered users using JSP-Servlets and JDBC with the details available in the Database.  • Created documentation of the application.  • Developed Servlets and JSP for Data retrieval implementation with User Interface.  • Struts was employed to develop the web applications.  • JBoss Fuse was the SOA architecture employed.  • Developed Container Managed Entity and Session beans.  • Developed web services in Java and Experienced with Service Oriented Architecture Protocol, WSDL.  • JDBC with SQL/PLSQL for database connectivity.  • Developed required Web pages using HTML.  • Implemented EJB Components for modules related to Pharmacy, Purchasing, and General and Biomedical equipment. Used ExtJS Java datascript.  • Involved in Different J2EE Design patterns like Session Façade, Service Locator, and Business Delegate.  • Coded Server pages using JSP, Servlets, Struts by following MVC architecture.  • Developed Action Classes and Action Forms beans.  • Worked with the team in the development of the Application front-end using JSP, STRUTS with the help of HTML.  • Involved in the integration performance and unit testing of the project.  • Involved in the Performance related issues like open connections and open cursors.    Environment: WebSphere 6.0, SQL, JDBC, Java, EJB, Servlets, spring, JSP, HTML, Hibernate, JavaScript, JUnit, Ant, Oracle 10g and Windows XP. Java Developer Monsanto - St. Louis, MO March 2010 to September 2011 The Platform is a state-wide computer eligibility system for collecting client information and determining eligibility for family assistance programs including Families First, Food Stamps, TennCare Medic aid and TennCare Standard.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing common API for generating notices.  • Extensively used the Core Java concepts like Java Collections, Generics and JDBC concepts.  • Did the Memory Management by tuning Garbage Collector (GC) for best performance.  • Extensively used the singleton objects in the application.  • Developed complex SQL Queries for getting the records from the system.  • Responsible for developing batches which will run on timely manner and generate notices to clients which meets certain criteria.  • Developed Unix Shell Scripts for scheduling the batches.  • Developed JUnit and DBUnit test cases for application.  • Closely worked with Business Analyst and Client for business issues.  • Worked with the framework teams for the bug fixing in framework.  • Worked in stressful and deadline-oriented environment.  • Developed Data Access Objects (DAOs) to access data from the database.  • Used Filter Servlets to do activities like redirecting the user if he is not signed in already.  • Developed Hibernate for data persistence.  • Was involved in deployment using ANT for tool.  • Involved in UML, Package, Class and State Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed JUnit Test cases and performed application testing for QC team.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations.    Environment:Core Java, J2EE, Java Servlets, XML , HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse, Tomcat, Oracle 10g , SQL, PL/SQL, @Vantage framework, DBUnit, JUnit, TOAD, Web Logic App Server, Agile (SCRUM) Development Process, SVN(Subversion), ANT, Cruise Control, Windows XP & UNIXCore Java, Windows XP, SQL, PL/SQL, Tomcat 5.0, Java, JSP, Html, Javascript, Servlets, Oracle 9i, Jdk1.4, JDBC, SVN(Subversion). Java developer InfoTech Enterprises LTD - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh June 2007 to February 2010 Description: This project is a web based application developed using HTML and JavaScript. This application is developed for a consulting and Designing IT service company that delivers system and the Application Integration-Business, e-commerce, database technologies and also web services specialized technology staffing and a spectrum of other IT services to enhance the client company flexibility, and improve their business and IT performance.    Responsibilities:  • Coordinated with team members in gathering system requirements and specifications required for the redesign.  • Involvement in architectural and design discussions.  • Helped the project team to identify the suitable technology tools required for the projects.  • Designed and developed the Application based on Model-View-Controller architecture.  • Involved in analysis, design, Coding and development, Implementation phase of the modules.  • Involved in technical design and the architecture.  • Created external XML documents.  • Worked on JAVA J2EE team and designing DAO interface and implementation.  • Involved in Bug Fixing (Debugging) of the application.  • Involved in Developing User Interfaces using HTML and JSP's.  • Developed and published web-services using WSDL, SOAP and XML, Jax-B.  • Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications (internal and third party components using SOAP web services using Apache-CXF.  • Designed and developed the approaches/strategies for the entire application.  • Developed web pages with JSP and Servlets using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and XML.  • Used Apache Ant as the software build tool.  • Used Apache Maven for the over-all software project management.  • Used SVN tools for version control and management.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, MVC, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, SOAP, WSDL, Spring, CSS, UML,  XML, HTTP, Eclipse, MVC, AJAX, Apache Ant, Apache Maven. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:    J2EE/JEE Frameworks Spring3.0, JPA, Hibernate3.x, Struts2, EJB2.0 /3.0, JMS, JDBC, JUnit, Maven, ANT, Log4J, Eclipse, RAD, TOAD.  Web Technologies Servlet2.5, JSP2.0, HTML, Ajax, JQuery, XML, XSD, XSL, SOAP, Rest, JSON, JACKSON and WSDL.  Application/Web Servers Web Sphere, Jboss Fuse, Web Logic, JBoss 5.x, and Tomcat 6.x, Domino v8.x.  IDE Eclipse, STS, RAD.  Databases Oracle 11i, MS SQL Server 2000, My SQL 5.0.  Languages Java, C/C++, PL/SQL, Java script, Python ,  Software Methodologies Object Oriented Analysis & Design, UML, Agile, Development Methodology    Operating Systems UNIX, Redhat Linux, Ubuntu, WINDOWS XP/7.0.  Source Control/ BUG management CVS, SVN, GIT, JIRA and AMNTIS.