Sr. Java/J2EEDeveloper Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EEDeveloper Sr. Java/J2EEDeveloper - Wells Fargo Des Moines, IA • 8+ years of Professional experience in IT industry, involving requirement analysis, design, development and implementation of software applications using OOP Concepts, Java 8 and Java EE(Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB ), Web Services(SOAP, WSDL, Axis) , HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, Jenkins, JMS, Maven, Log4J, Oracle Web Center Suite, XML, Apache Tomcat, and JBoss.  • Experience in Pair Programming, Test Driven Development, Waterfall model and agile methodologies like SCRUM and KANBAN.  • Good knowledge and hands on experience in MVC (Struts Framework 1.x/2.x), spring Framework 2.x/3.x, Java Server Faces and ORM (Hibernate 2.0/3.0) frameworks.  • Extensive knowledge on the spring modules like Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring Web flow, Spring Security, Spring MVC and Spring AOP.  • Extensively worked on open source control frameworks Struts, Hibernate and have in depth knowledge of design patterns and Multi threading.  • Expertise in Distributed and Web environments, focused in JAVA Technologies - Java collections, Threads, J2SE, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate Framework.  • Having Good Knowledge on JVM.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like AngularJS, Bootstrap, Servlets, JSP, JSON, JSTL, HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, CSS3, XML, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, JQuery.  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Hands on experience working with Web and Application Servers such as ApacheTomcat, JBoss, IBM RAD, WebSphere, WebLogic and Sun Glass fish.  • Hands on experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse (Indigo, Juno, Europa, and Helios), Net Beans, RAD, WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer).  • Very good understanding and experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Object Oriented Programming (OOP).  • Extensively worked on implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using REST web services.  • Sound Knowledge and Hands on Experience in working with relation databases such as Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2, MySQL PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, Cassandra, Database triggers, Procedures, Functions.  • Closely worked with Release Management Team in doing builds and deploying code into various environments like DEV/QA/SIT/UAT/Prod.  • Experience in using DOM4J, JAXB, JAXP parsing and XML Bean to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  • Expertise in Creating Use-case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams in UML and Rational Rose.  • Experience in using CVS, GIT, Microsoft visual SourceSafe and Subversion (SVN) for project integration across modules.  • Hands on Experience in Sockets, Java Beans and Swing.  • Sound Knowledge writing JUnit for test cases.  • Having Good experience in resolving production issues.  • Excellent client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.  • Good learner with quick learning skills and good team member with communication skills. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EEDeveloper Wells Fargo - Des Moines, IA November 2014 to Present Description: Loan Approval and Payment system is an automated multi-application system. In this system customer(s) of the bank can quickly make processing of their loan (Home, Personal) applications and set up one-time or recurring payments. It consists of the modules such as Loan Authorization, Audit Trails that reduce the manual load on the staff and Payment module that provide convenience and control for the customers when paying back their loans.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using Agile Model.  • Attended discussions with the client to discuss and understand various components of the requirement and to implement the same.  • Used Eclipse IDE tool to develop the application and Used JIRA to create EPICs and User Stories for the Sprint cycle.  • Developed web application using Spring MVC framework. Implemented Navigation using Spring MVC controllers, configured controllers using Spring MVC annotations and configuration files.  • Created services for various modules like Account (CD/Checking/Savings) Creation and Maintenance using SPRING.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database.  • Designed Hibernate entities that map data base tables, implemented inheritance strategies using Hibernate inheritance strategy.  • Implemented search functionality, filtering, pagination using Hibernate criteria Query interfaces.  • Provided connections using Spring JDBC to the database and developed SQL queries to manipulate the data.  • Implemented RESTful web services for communicating using JAX-RS annotations.  • Established efficient exception handling and logging using Spring AOP.  • Developed GUI using AngularJS, HTML5, Java Script, Bootstrap, JSP, JSF, AJAX and CSS3 techniques.  • Used Spring DAO concept in order to interact with database (DB2) using JDBC template.  • Used Web sphere 8.5 Application Developer with RAD 7.5 as development IDE for building, testing and deploying application locally.  • Worked with XML and JSON contents.  • Utilized spring annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection.  • Deployed the application to apache TOMCAT server.  • Build components scheduling and configuration using Maven.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control, to make application easy to test and integrate.  • Used Auto wired Pojo and DAO classes with Spring Controllers.  • Used Log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • User login, search & portfolio created using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery  • Used GIT for version control.  • Created Use case, Class and sequence diagrams by using Microsoft Visio.  • Created numerous test cases using JUnit framework and JUnit for front end UI testing.  • Used CodePro Analytics to make sure all the code maintain standards.  • Interacted with testing team to fix defects.  • Involved in UAT support and bug fixing, enhancements and code refactoring.    Environment: Java 8.0, RAD 7.5, Web Sphere Application Server 8.5, Hibernate 4.30, Spring Framework 4.0, Angular JS, JQuery, Maven 3.3, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, JSP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, DOJO, RESTful, JAX-RS, JDBC, DB2, Log4j, Jenkins, Apache Tomcat. Sr. Java Developer Freddie Mac, McLean City, Virginia January 2013 to October 2014 Description: Freddie Mac is nothing but The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. It is a public government-sponsored enterprise, and its headquarters in the Tyson's Corner CDP in unincorporated Fairfax County, Virginia. It gives the Home loans, finance for apartments and investment business like mortgages and mortgage-related securities. The project was an IE11 upgrade Project.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the lifecycle of the software design process including, requirement Definition, prototyping, design, interface implementations, unit testing and maintenance.  • Worked in Agile methodology environment including Test Driven Development with Continuous Integration/Delivery.  • Participated in business meetings along with business analysts to record user requirements, and developed design artifacts and published.  • Status report was provided to the manager/Scrum master regarding the progress of the task assigned at both the beginning/end of the working day. JIRA tickets were created and tasks were completed in the assigned time.  • Actively participated in the implementation, maintenance and testing phases plan generation using Struts framework.  • Used Spring IOC, AutoWired Pojo and DAO classes with Spring Controller.  • Developed session EJB and message driven bean (MDB) to process JMS XML messages.  • Implemented Hibernate in the data access object layer to access and update information in the Oracle Database.  • Developed back-end logic with Core Java using technologies including Collection Framework, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Generics and Annotations.  • Enhanced user interfaces to enable input of additional personal information for the purpose of plan generation using CSS, HTML, HTML5, DOJO, JavaScript, AJAX, and Angular JS.  • Worked in UI such as JavaScript for enhancing the user interaction with the application and for client side validation. Coding, Testing and implementing new functionalities for new requests in the Application.  • AngularJS library has been used for creation of powerful dynamic Web Pages and web applications by using its advanced and cross browser functionality.  • Used web service calls using Java Web Services RPC and Apache AXIS client packages. Generated Client classes using WSDL2Java and used the generated Java API.  • Used SVN version controls to check in/out files, etc. also responsible for branching, merging the branch to main using Tortoise SVN tool.  • Used data modeling for creating a data model by applying formal data modeling techniques.  • Experience in application servers like Tomcat locally and Web logic to host it on the Linux server.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, and packages on Oracle database.  • Extensively used log4j to log regular debug and exception statements.  • Used Maven and ANT to build, run and create JARs and WAR files among other uses.  • Performed code review and unit tested the application using Junit framework.  • Involved in deriving at class diagrams and sequence diagrams during the design phase of the project using UML.    Environment: Java 7, Spring 3.0, Struts 1.2, J2EE,DOJO, HTML, HTML5, Hibernate 4.0, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, JQuery, Oracle, Rational Clear Case, Web Logic, Eclipse, ANT, Apache Tomcat, SVN, SOA, J2EE, Oracle, XML 1.x, JAXB 2.x, XSLT 1.x, SOAP 1.3, WSDL 2.0, JAX-WS, and Web Services. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer E bay - Austin, TX November 2011 to December 2012 Description: E bay is a leading US based E-commerce Company providing consumer to consumer and business to consumer service sales through internet. The project is about developing the pre-existing SDF framework and exposed multiple web services where procurement/order delivery /shipping related details and will further parsing and persisting the response to the database will help to track the delivery, shipping, payment related information.    Responsibilities:  • Understood the application. Involved in Design, Development, Programming, and Deployment of application.  • Project developed using agile software development methodology.  • Developed Application with Spring MVC frame work, EJB, JDBC and UI techniques.  • Involved in developing Spring MVC framework set up configure spring framework.  • Worked on Hibernate ORM. Created Hibernate XML files and Java class files to map the object relation mappings.  • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Custom Queries to querying data from Oracle Data base In DAO.  • Worked on JPA for persisting the objects into the system.  • Developed Service layer and DAO to integrate with persistence frame work.  • Developed the back-end logic with Core Java, Collections, Multi-threading.  • Developed UI pages using JSP, HTML, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, and Angular.js.  • Java Development experience on developing business enterprise applications using core Java, Java Servlets, JSP, Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), Java Server Faces (JSF), JFC Swing, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, Java XML API, Java Mail API etc.  • Published and consumed SOAP Web Services for transferring data between different applications.  • Helped in Selenium automation of the application for testing purposes.  • Used JQuery to develop functionality on UI pages.  • Developed controller classes for request processing used spring annotations to handle request.  • Used JDBC connection to integrate application with database.  • Designed web portal with cross-browser support and responsive.  • Worked closely with backend developer and data integration team.  • Developed JSF Tags and Components.  • Made Single page module with use of Angular.js framework.  • Fixed style and JavaScript issues pertaining to different browsers.  • Used Junit framework for Unit testing.  • Used Log4j for logging purposes.  • Used Maven to build, run and create JARs and WAR files among other uses.  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering Project artifact deployed on a JBoss Application Server 5.0.    Environment: Java/J2EE 1.7, JSF 2, spring 3.0, Struts, Hibernate 3.5.6-Final, JBOSS Application Server 5.0, Apache Axis 2.0, Apache ActiveMQ 5.4.2, UNIX, SQL Server 2008 (R2 - Enterprise Edition), HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, Eclipse3.8, Maven 3.0.4, JUnit 3.8, Log4j, SVN. Java/J2EE Developer Reliance Energy LTD August 2009 to October 2011 Description: Objective of this project was to develop and enhance Warehouse Management system facilitate information tracking for various warehouse products shipped from the dispatch centers to the locations where it should be placed according to the License Plate number. The application is developed in J2EE architecture using EJB's, JSP and Servlets.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in team discussions in laying out the architecture and designing of the prototype.  • Involved in UML design using MS Visio.  • Responsible for design and development of Web Application using Struts Framework.  • Written Action Classes, Form Bean Classes and configure the Application using Struts Configuration file.  • Did technical design to conform to STRUTS (MVC) framework.  • Wrote server side programs by using Servlets and JSP.  • Designed and developed the HTML front end screens and validated forms using JavaScript.  • Made use of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts like Inheritance, polymorphism and Abstraction.  • Application and user level configurations have been maintained by using XML Files.  • Widely used HTML for web based design.  • Implemented MVC using Struts Framework.  • Utilized Servlets to handle various requests from the client browser and send responses.  • Created and implemented PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers.  • Designing and documenting of the stored procedures.  • Coding Test Classes using Junit for unit testing, Performed functional integration system and validation testing.  • Customized RESTful Web Service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Used JDBC Prepared statements to call from Servlets for database access.  • Implemented design patterns MVC, Session Facade for developing the application.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous processing of alerts.  • Application Design Documented for my entire requirement.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, Struts 2.2, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, PL/SQL, Oracle9i, MS Visio. Java Developer Aircel - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2007 to July 2009 Description: Telecommunication Company that provides communications services from dial tone to sophisticated cloud-based technology at low cost. Also provides VoIP, Mobile-Internet-Access, web hosting, voice and cloud-based technology to school and business. The website is designed and implemented according to MVC model architecture with neat, simple and beautiful design using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.    Responsibilities:  • Part of the technical team in the development of Model View Controller (MVC), Model architecture to handle configuration, database connectivity, and template management.  • Created a Reporting tool using JSP and Servlets that calculates the amount of state and federal taxes.  • Developed the GUI of the system using HTML, CSS, JSP and client-side validations was done using JavaScript.  • Used JQuery for developing asynchronous web applications on client side. Built and accessed the database using JDBC for ORACLE 9g.  • Involved in the development of a web authentication module using Java Servlets.  • Handled Session Time-outs with HTTPSessionListener interface.  • Performed XML parsing using DOM parser.  • Tracked software errors with Clear Quest and coordinated with help desk staff in resolving bug.  • Maintained version control using CVS.  • Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP).  • Created test case scenarios for Functional Testing.  • Used Java Script validation in JSP pages.  • Helped design the database tables for optimal storage of data.  • Coded JDBC calls in the Servlets to access the Oracle database tables.  • Responsible for Integration, unit testing, system testing and stress testing for all the phases of project.  • Prepared final guideline document that would serve as a tutorial for the users of this application.    Environment: Java, J2EE 1.3, JSP 1.2, Servlets 2.3, EJB 2.0, Struts 1.1, JNDI 1.2, JDBC 2.1, Oracle 8i, UML, DAO, JMS, XML, Weblogic 7.0, MVC Design Pattern, jmeter, Eclipse 2.1, Log4j and Junit. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering JNTU - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Skills Integration (10+ years), INTEGRATOR (10+ years), Java (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), XML (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Domain Banking, Insurance, E-Commerce, Tele-Communication  Programming Languages Core JAVA, J2EE, SQL, C, C++, PL/SQL  Frameworks  Struts, CSS Frameworks, Spring (Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Access. DAO, Factory Pattern, Core, Spring Context, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring with Hibernate), Hibernate, DWR, Log4j.    Web Technologies  Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, AngularJS, HTML, HTML4, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, DHTML, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, XML, XSL, XSLT, REST/SOAP Web services, GWT, JNDI, JSTL, JMS, JPA, EJB, WSDL, JAX-RS, JSX-WS, Dojo and Java Beans.    Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g/12c, My SQL, MS SQL Server, DB2, Mongo DB, MS Access, Cassandra.  IDE Eclipse (Indigo, Juno, Europa, and Helios), Net Beans, RAD, WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer),  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat 4.0/5.0/6.0, Web Logic 8.1/9.1, Web Sphere 7.0, Web Sphere Application Server 8.0 & RAD 7.5/8.5, JBoss  Software Modelling MS Visio, Microsoft Project  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, Linux, Sun Solaris.  Version Control Systems CM Synergy, Rational Clear Case, CVS, VSS, SVN, GIT