Full Stack Java Developer iii Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> iii Full Stack Java Developer iii - Kroger Specialty Pharmacy Lake Mary, FL ? Over 9+ years of experience in design and development in the domain of Pharmaceutical, Financial, Insurance, and Telecommunications applications using Internet technologies based on Java and J2EE Technologies.  ? Strong Experience in Software Development methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, TDD, Iterative.  ? Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, XML, DHTML, XHTML, jQuery, JSON, Angular JS,Node.js, Angular 2.0/4.0and Bootstrap.  ? Implemented several design patterns such as Business Delegate, Service Locator, Singleton, Object Factory, Front Controller, Factory Design pattern, Singleton and Proxy Design Pattern.  ? Experience in building web applications using spring framework features like MVC, AOP, DAO (Data Access Object), SpringBoot, SpringSecurity, SpringJDBC templates, SpringBatch.  ? Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junitand Cucumber.  ? Good Exposure to implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Web Services including SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, SOAP UI tool andconcreteRESTful API's.  ? Experience in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux and Flux concept.  ? Experience with Hibernate Persistence Framework and Design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object.  ? Expertise in working with cloud services like AWS and NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  ? Experience with spark to handle streaming data and Scala for the batch processing and spark streaming data.  ? Mocked, validated and documented Web API (Swagger/Postman).  ? Hands on experience in amazon webservices which includes Cloud Formation, Elastic Load Balancer, ElasticBean Stalk, Cloud watch,IAM, ServerMigration, Route53, SQS, VPC, S3, DynamoDB, EC2 Container Service, Lambda.  ? Extensive experience of working with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/12c, MySQL, SQL Server and developing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Functions and SQL Queries.  ? Executed a continuous delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins,Hudson,GitHub and AWSAMI's, results in generating of new docker container whenever a new GitHub branch get started.  ? Experience in deploying and configuring multi-tier enterprise applications on multiple servers such as Web logic Server, JBoss, WebSphere and Apache Tomcat.  ? Experience in TDD, using JUnit framework with Mockito and Easy mock, Spring Junit Runner.  ? Experienced in using Log4j and good expertise in application build tools like ANT, Gradle and Maven.  ? Experience in the use of Defect Tracking & Version Management Tools such as SVN, CVS, GIT.  ? Experience with unit testing the applications using Junit and JMeter.  ? Used various issue and bug tracking tools like JIRA, Bitbucket. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer iii Kroger Specialty Pharmacy - Lake Mary, FL January 2018 to Present KrogerSpecialtyPharmacy (KSP) is one of the highly innovative team situated in Kroger's own newly remodelled Digital Group. Kroger delivers (Web, Mobile) e-commerce Applications/Portals that provide users a world-class digital UI shopping experiences. KSP serves physicians, patients and health care providers throughout the United States with their first ever services like online drug refill options. KSP Portal is extremely organized for patients to login to their own account and can look at their current Prescriptions, Drug usage, Refills, etc in such a way that It is easy to get their order in and they are fast. There's no waiting for paperwork to move from desk to desk. They can find answers very fast. Highlights of the application can be the Leftnav (navigation) where it provides links to MyPrescriptions (Sign Up, Prescription history, Refills, Auto Refill of drugs, Find a Pharmacy), ManagePatients (Patient Profile Page, Add a Patient, Patient Access), DrugInfo (Medication Tool box, Pet medications), PharmacyServices (Patient Wellness, Services, Vaccinations, Diabetic Needs, FAQ's).    Responsibilities: ? Followed Scaled Agile (Scrum) Methodology for developing Web Application with a two-week sprint.  ? Gained experience with full stack development including frontend and backend programming, database management and user authentication.  ? Created Web/Bootstrap application using React.js, Redux, JavaScript, Java, Kotlin, SQLServer, DockerImages, Nginx, Kafka, Zookeeper Broker Managers, JUnit and Enzyme.  ? Used both Java and React to develop MVP for client for the SPA of pixel perfect UI.  ? Responsible for designing/building all functional aspects of the feature in both front-end and back-end.  ? Developed frontend for a web application that closely mirrors the CVS pharmacy application with ReactJS,Node.js, JavaScript,HTML, Bootstrap, and CSS.  ? Developed Pharmacy Management RESTful APIs using Microservicearchitecture interacting through a combination of ApacheKafka, Zookeeper message brokers and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  ? Developed Responsive Single Page Applications (SPA) using ReactJS and rendering pages on the server side for faster loading and updating by 3x.  ? Used Multiple repositories like Rx-app for UI on presentation layer, Rx-bff (backend for front end API) and Patient-service(API) on service layer with Security-bff in security layer connecting with a third-party data base (CPR+ DB) from GitLab and Bitbucket.  ? Utilized J2EE technologies, object-oriented programming and Core Java for creating new features based on business requirements to improve pharmacy workflow efficiency.  ? Having enough knowledge on Git/Bitbucket, Yarn, Npm,Babel, Docker, etc and have rich experience in integrating Unit testing tools such as Jest, Enzyme, Mocha, etc.  ? Used SourceTree (Git-GUI) for creating the feature branches and merge the feature branches into Develop or Master Branches following the git lifecycle phases.  ? Used SSMS (SQL Server Management Studio) to get the .bak files provided by third party data base CPR+.  ? Used StoredProcedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  ? Experienced in developing complex builds, dependency management, and continuous integration using Gradle, Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Artifactory, Nexus, and Bash shell scripting for deploying Java, Kotlin applications.  ? Designed CI/CD process(Pipelines) across multiple servers using Jenkins and Git.  ? Used JIRA for defect management and to keep track of bugs and issues following the swim lanes in it.  ? Prepared documentation(Spikes) for some of the recurring defects and resolutions and business comments for those defects.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JDK8, Kotlin, React.js, Node.js, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, SQL Server, Microservice Architecture, REST API's, Gradle, Maven, Jenkins, PCF, JUnit, Enzyme, GitLab, Bitbucket. Full Stack Java Developer CenturyLink, CO June 2017 to December 2018 CenturyLink is an American Telecommunications company, that provides communications and data services to residential, business, governmental, and wholesale customers in 37 states.[ApriliaFiber plus is a fast-moving project which had a 45 day deliverable. It contains modules like Solution engine, Validation services, Camunda Bpm, SFDC, ARM, LIMS,Datalake, using SpringBoot project for solution, Maven modules,two flavors technology and solution,solution engine, Microservice based solution, SpringBoot, Java, MongoDB (strategic platform) replica set secondary and primary preferred, automation, dedicated infrastructure, two machines solution engine, validation engine, Pronghorn(physical layer),Rest exposed API's.    Responsibilities: ? Involved in analysis and design and development of the project, which is based on MVC (Model-View-Controller) Architecture and Design Patterns.  ? Participated in Scrum meetings with the team on daily basis and weekly team meetings every week.  ? Used Swagger and Postmantools in testing the Rest API endpoints and swagger gives the rich UI to test API.  ? Used JSON for the data transmission between UI and server.  ? Strong programming skills in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using web-based technologies like Spring MVC and Spring Boot 1.5.8.  ? Used SpringBoot framework to create properties for various environments and used.yml files for configuration.  ? Created SpringBoot applications to connect them to various databases and generated queries to retrieve data and modify the collections in the MongoDB.  ? Developed Microservices with SpringBoot and SpringBatch along with the test cases.  ? Experience in development and deployment of java basedREST services using SpringBoot.  ? Used Rest Controller in Spring framework to create RESTfulWebservices and JSON objects for communication.  ? Used Tomcat server for application deployment.  ? Developed WebServices to transfer data between client and server vice versa using REST, WSDL, and UDDI.  ? Responsible for coding NoSQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication and persisting of data using NoSqlBooster/MongoBooster 3.2.  ? Infrastructure setup for all the network elements provided in Mongoservices module.  ? Performed CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete)operations on the network elements (Core_Device, Evc_RR, NMI_RR, NID_Device, UNI_RR) of LIMS Module.  ? Involved in configuring JNDI properties and used Data Source objects for database communication.  ? Using Rally(CA Agile central) as project management tool for user stories and task assignment.  ? Developed Rest based webservices to facilitate communication between client and servers.  ? Build process with Maven tool to deploy the application in performing tasks like clean, install, and build.  ? Deployed Bpm files using CamundaModeler and configured LDAP to authenticate users.  ? Used Log4j API for logging in development, testing and production environments.  ? Hands on experience on Operating Systems like LINUX.  ? Involved in developing reusable core libraries using core java classes and Interfaces.  ? Implemented version controlling using CVS and used Jenkins for continuous integration.  ? Wrote unit test cases using JUnit framework and unit tested the developed components.  ? Followed Git lifecycle to check-in and check-out projects from Gitlab (Innovation IT) via Master, Dev, MMP Branches.  ? Worked with configuration management groups for providing various deployment environments set up including System Integration testing, Quality Control testing etc.    Environment: J2EE, JDK8, jQuery, JavaScript, MongoDB, Spring, SpringBoot, NoSQL, Web Services (SOAP), JMS, REST API's, Multithreading, Maven, Jenkins, Pivotal cloud foundry,Git, GitLab, Camunda Bpm, LDAP, Log4j,Linux. Full Stack Java Developer PNC Financial Services - Pittsburgh, PA May 2016 to June 2017 PNC Financial Services Group is a financial holding company that offers services like Insurance, investment and loans. The application offers various features like creating new accounts, managing existing accounts and personal loan applications.    Responsibilities: ? Agile Methodologies (SCRUM) are used to improve the control over the project and reduce the dependencies on individuals as the project has significant number of teams.  ? Developed using new features of Java 1.8annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums.  ? Designed the presentation layer GUI using JavaScript, JSP, HTML, CSS, Angular 4, Customs tags and developed Client-Side validations.  ? Implemented various features of Spring framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Spring MVC, Spring WebFlux frameworks, Annotations and Spring Integration with Hibernate Framework.  ? Developed a Single Page Application which can switch to different components using Angular4.0.  ? Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing jQuery, Node.js. Modularized front-endCSS and JavaScript code with SASS. Built a real-time mouse/click user analytics web service with Node.js.  ? Used Swagger Framework, implementing the Restful API and Swagger gives the rich UI to test API.  ? Implemented Spring MVC architecture and increased modularity by allowing the separation of cross-cutting concerns using spring Boot.  ? Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services, used Mongo DB (NoSQL) for database services.  ? Developed user interface by using the ReactJs, Flux for SPA development.  ? Created Data as Service (DAS) based Restful (Jersey) web service to connect to a Mongo DB.  ? Code application components as per TDD using Hibernate.  ? Worked with Microservices related frameworks SpringRibbon, Eureka for client-side load balancer andnetwork discovery. Also, Integrated with Spring Cloud components like Eureka,Ribbon and Zuul Proxy.  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  ? Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Involved in requirements gathering and Capacity planning for Multi-Datacentre (four) and Cassandra Cluster used Oracle DB and MongoDB for database related activities ? Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrateddashboard to monitor Spring micro services.  ? Worked with Kafka Cluster using ZooKeeper.  ? Implemented RESTfulmicroservices using the Domain given design to develop the largescale backend infrastructure leveraging Spring Boot, SpringIntegration, Hibernate, SpringDataand MVC.  ? Implemented RESTmicroservices using springboot, generated metrics with method level granularity and Persistence using spring AOP and Spring Actuator.  ? Worked on Camel-based integration middle-ware solution for provisioning services by design and implementation of business logic and data processing routes using Apache Camel.  ? Used Microservicesarchitecture withSpring Bootbased services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers ? Developed test-driven development (TDD) strategy guiding use of theNUnittesting framework.  ? Implemented pre-authentication and data base security using Springsecurity and securing application access and SpringBatch for scheduling and maintenance of batch jobs.  ? Worked on writing Scala programs using Spark/Spark-SQL in performing aggregations.  ? Used Microservice architecture, with spring boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and ? Apache Kafkamessage brokers and worked with Kafka cluster using Zookeeper.  ? Developed the DAO layer for the application using spring, Hibernate and developed various logics and reports using HQL and Hibernate criteria as ORM to map Java classes to data base tables.  ? Developed session, entity beans and message driven beans.  ? Application Deployment on pivotal cloud foundry using CF push.  ? Designed, built, and deployed a multitude application utilizing almost all the AWS stack (Including EC2, R53, S3, RDS, DynamoDB, SQS, IAM, and EMR), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  ? Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWSIdentity Access Management (IAM).  ? Good knowledge in writing ApacheSpark application using Python and Scala.  ? Used ELK for reporting, monitoring logging, debugging and error tracing. Worked on purging logs onElasticSearch DB and Kibana 3 UI. Also involved in trouble-shooting logs using Log stash and Kibana.  ? Troubleshooting of different versions of MongoDB and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios and restoring roll backs to avoid loss of Data.  ? Participated in unit testing, system testing and created various test scripts using JUnit.  ? Used Git as Version Control System, an important component of Source Configuration Management.  ? Implemented Jenkins as Continuous Integration Server, for configuring, designing, and administrating, integrating with other system tools.  ? Developed all custom processes, workflows and schemes within JIRA to accommodate the organization's needs.    Environment: JDK1.8, Java Scripts, HTML, Angular 2.0/4.0, knockout.js, Struts, Junit, Servlets, JDBC, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX, DOM, HQL,Bootstrap,JBoss, Spring Boot, cloud foundry,Scala, Spark, Selenium, JIRA,Apache Kafka, Restful services,Hibernate, DAO, Eclipse, EJB, log4j, NO/SQL, MongoDB, GIT, Maven, Jenkins, AWS. Sr. Java Developer Liberty Mutual Life Insurance March 2014 to April 2016 The New Business Accounting solution automates the process of Reconciliation and Balancing process. The Accounting solution runs the complex accounting rules for generating Trail balance reports and accepts data feed from multiple vendor sources to automate the process of R&C.    Responsibilities: ? Designed and developed the application by following Agile-Scrum methodology, involved in daily stand up and spring planning sessions as a part of Agile Scrum.  ? Used Java concepts like ObjectOrientedProgramming, Exceptionhandling and DesignPatterns while developing the application modules.  ? Developed the web pages using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript,JSP and implemented AngularJS directives, controllers, paginations and two-way bindings.  ? Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions(Including EC2, focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling).  ? Used AngularJS as frameworks to create single page applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Sass, Less, Bootstrap, AngularJS.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, indexes, shard, replication,schema design etc.  ? Expertise in Angular 2.0 framework and its ability to create simple and scalable code for SPA.  ? Extensive uses of AngularJS directives to get JSON data using AJAX from RESTful API and modify DOM.  ? Develop various screens for the front end using React js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and React Redux library.  ? Worked on Jenkins for project documentation and behaviour driven development.  ? Developed the presentation layer using Model View Architecture implemented by SpringMVC, which was initially done in the legacy system using Struts.  ? Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application as security protection for XML, SOAP, REST, NodeJS, ExpressJS and JSON to integrate with designs in Web Deployment.  ? Implemented Design patterns like DAO, Singleton Pattern and MVC design pattern of Spring framework.  ? Building RESTful services using Micro-services architecture with tools such as Spring boot.  ? Implemented Webservice client using CXF and Spring and implemented EJBs,Sessionbeans for business logic.  ? Configured the adapter for Event processing that can be synchronous or asynchronous, and listeners within the adapter to provide support for SOAP over HTTP, HTTPS, and JMS transports.  ? Designed and developed the UIscreens, data base design changes and changes to user access modules.  ? Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, SpringBoot, Spring Cloud.  ? Used a Microservices architecture, with SpringBoot based services interacting through a combination of REST and SpringBoot.  ? Used Microservices are designed with the individual database and project with no dependencies.  ? Worked on RESTfulWebServices for transferring XML data between two interfaces.  ? UsedEclipse-Spring Tool Suite (STS) for Microservices with Spring Boot & deployed into AWS lambda.  ? Integrated the application with SpringMVC using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection and Annotations.  ? Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2; auto-scaling; and VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems.  ? Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, Triggers and views.  ? Developed applications using rule engines, Drools and ILOG to validate the business user roles.  ? Wrote JUNIT test cases for web serversand done Unit testing execution with JASMINE and KARMA.  ? Involved in test automation like QTP, SeleniumWebDriverand Protractor.  ? Created continuous integration builds usingJenkins and deployed on WebSphere app server.  ? Used Maven tool to configure and build the application project and integrated with Jenkins.  ? Apache Mesos and Kubernetes were used as the best ecosystem to deploy and manage Micro-services.  ? Involved in CI/CD process using GIT, Jenkins job creation, Maven build, Create Docker image and deployment in AWS environment.  ? Involved in requirements gathering and Capacity planning for Multi-Datacentre (four) and Cassandra Cluster used Oracle DB and MongoDB for Database related activities.  ? Involved with Sprint Planning, Sprint grooming, Allocation of User Stories using Jira.  ? Used Log4J API for logging and debugging.  ? Provided good coordination with QA resources for the Functional testing, integration testing and End to End testing.    Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch,Spring Security, Spring Integration,Linux, Spring-Hibernate integration framework, JSP, Oracle, PL/SQL, MongoDB, XML, Spring web flow, Junit,GIT, Maven, Jenkins, Microservices, AWS (EC2, VPC), Docker, REST web service, HTML, CSS, SASS, AJAX, Jira,Angular 2.0, Angular JS. Java Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR May 2012 to February 2014 This project is to provide Single Sign on feature for a third-party application which is outside Walmart network, which is used by the active directory users involving Ping Federate Server in authentication process to provide a token which includes password for authenticating federation service and also several attributes such as token life time where can find these attributes in the exported agent configuration file from the federation setup    Responsibilities: ? Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.  ? Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, Node.js, HTML, SASS and Ajax to speed the application.  ? Working experience on Relational Databases like MySQL, Oracle (PL/SQL), SQL Server.  ? Incorporating SpringIOC&DAO framework for DependencyInjection with MVC design pattern for Auto Job scheduling module.  ? Used AJAX to request JSON data through REST APIs to acquire data from server and display in sorted order.  ? Involved in J2EE Design Patterns such as Data Transfer Object (DTO), DAO, Value Object and Template.  ? Focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects.  ? Implemented Spring Bean Factory to create proxy object using AOP framework.  ? Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP and REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks).  ? Involved in creating Restfulweb services using JAX-RS and JERSY tool.  ? Developed application using JMS for sending and receiving Point-to-Point JMS Queue messages.  ? Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Spring and Hibernate framework to provide needed functionality and assisted database developers using PL/SQL for managing data with the tables in Oracle.  ? Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR& dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto the WebLogic application Server.  ? Implemented XSD, Schema, DTD, XML documents for web services and tested services using SOAP.  ? Experience in compiling and tuning the Linux on database servers and JPA annotations to interact with database.  ? Used CQL (Cassandra Query Language) to read from and write data into Cassandra database.  ? Database development required creation of new tables, SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  ? Implemented NoSQL persistence pattern for some data within app to increase performance by indexing.  ? Used Maven for generating system builds and Jenkins for continuous integration.  ? Wrote unit-testing codes using JUnit, resolved bugs and other defects using Firebug and wrote JUNIT Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Junit.  ? Used Log 4j for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  ? Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  ? Participated in integrationtesting, bugsfixing, handling change requests and code reviews.  ? Implemented Continuous Integration of automation framework using tools like Jenkins, Hudson.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Web services, JAX-RS, JUNIT, SOAP, UI, SQL, JSP, JDBC, JSON,xml, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Html, CSS, PL/SQL, Jenkins, Maven, log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, Spring IOC, DTO, JMS, APACHE AXIS, Apache CXF, GIT, UNIX, AGILE-SCRUM,Oracle, Tomcat, Drools. Java Developer Aetna - Hartford, CT November 2010 to May 2012 Aetna, Inc is an American managed health care company, which sells traditional and care insurance plans and related services, such as medical, pharmaceutical, dental, behavioral health, long-term care, and disability plans. Aetna is committed to providing individuals, employers, health care professionals, producers and others with innovative benefits, products and services.    Responsibilities: ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, colour scheme and layout and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, HTML5, CSS and JavaScript, AJAX, JSON.  ? Worked on various use cases in development using Struts and testing the functionalities.  ? Involved in preparing the High Level and Detail level design of the system using J2EE.  ? Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).  ? Worked on core java, using file operations to read system file (downloads) and to present on JSP.  ? Developed SOAP based XML web services.  ? Used different patterns like SOA, MVC pattern, DAO pattern, and singleton.  ? Developed Stored Procedures, triggered stored procedures using Hibernate in secondary project, involved in developing Programmatic transactions using Hibernate.  ? Extensively worked on uploading files into CLOB and BLOB's of Oracle Data base.  ? Migrated from Ant to Maven via Ivy for dependency resolution.  ? Worked with high volume and complex PL/SQLstored procedures and packages using TOAD.  ? Experience in Updating, Modifying queries in Oracle 10g.  ? Used Rational Clear Case for version control and JUnit for unit testing.  ? Used quartz scheduler to process or trigger the applications on a daily basis.  ? Configured JBossapplication server and deployed the web components.  ? Developed applications using Rule Engines,JBossDrools4.x, Workflows, Human tasks implement Business rules validations and provided Drools dashboard for Business users.  ? Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects    Environment:Struts, Hibernate, Spring, EJB, JSP, Servlets, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, UML, HTML, JNDI, CVS, Log4J, Maven, Windows XP,Linux, Websphere App server, WebLogic, Rational Rose, Oracle. Jr. Developer Meridian Soft June 2009 to October 2010 This Application allows the customers to post their orders through Web. Various operations relating to their orders such as expediting, canceling, splitting the order lines can be done through the web itself Status of their order is also displayed upon request.    Responsibilities: ? Participated in system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  ? Involved in developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  ? Developed the presentation layer using JSP, AJAX, HTML, CSSand client validations using JavaScript.  ? Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework.  ? Effective usage of J2EE design patterns namelySession Facade, Factory Method, Command and Singleton to develop various base framework components in the application.  ? Modified Account View functionality to enable display of blocked accounts details that have tags. This involved modifying beans, JSP changes and middle tier enhancements.  ? Developed various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business logic.  ? Code implementation using java &groovy, re-factoring & peer review ? Developed Session Beans and DAO classes for Accounts and other Modules.  ? Extensively used Spring JDBC in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  ? Consumed Web Services using WSDL and UDDI from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  ? Used JAXB API to bind XML Schema to java classes.  ? Involved in Units integration using JUnit, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases.  ? Used CVS for version control and Maven as a build tool.  ? Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  ? Used JBoss Application Server to deploy application.    Environment: Java 1.4, JSP, Servlets, Struts frame work, Tag libraries, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, Oracle 8i, Java beans, Struts Validation framework,Javascript, xml, Maven, Windows/UNIX, Ant, JUNIT, SVN, QC, Edit Plus, Web Logic application server, SQL Developer. Education Bachelor's Skills Java (9 years), JUnit (9 years), Maven (9 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (9 years), testing (9 years)