Devops Java Devops <span class="hl">Java</span> Devops Java Developer Beaverton, OR * Four years of strong IT experience in Object Oriented development, implementation and maintenance of web and distributed Enterprise applications as java developer.  * Experience in designing and developing Web based Applications using J2EE technologies like Java, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, Java beans, HTML, Java Script, CSS, JDBC, XML, Junit  * Experience in MySQL, Oracle. Hands of experience in Stored Procedures, Triggers and Views.  * Proficient in using various units testing framework such as JUnit, Http Unit, and knowledge of ANT and Log4j tools for logging and debugging purposes.  * Experience with Apache Tomcat Application Server, WebLogic application server.  * Experienced in various Object-Oriented design patterns like Factory Pattern, Session Facade, Singleton and component.  * Experience working with different spring modules - Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Spring Core, Spring Batch and Spring AOP.  * Experience in version control systems like CVS and Clear Case.  * Troubleshooting ability to identify operational deficiencies and implement system improvements. Adapt easily in a competitive fast-paced environment and multitask seamlessly. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Devops Java Cambia Health Solutions - Beaverton, OR November 2017 to Present Worked as Java & Devops Developer across various provider projects with following responsibilities:  • Developed Serverless Spring Batch application using Spring beans to process data through API’s  • Designed and developed Elasticsearch cluster using EC2, AMI, Launch Config, ASG along with serverless lambda’s to backup Elasticsearch logs and data to S3 using Ansible  • Part of migration team during which we created Jenkins jobs, ALB, launch configurations, ASG, Code Deploy, lambda, EC2, SNS, SQS, S3, route54 by modifying existing playbooks and roles in Ansible        • Modified IAM and S3 policies to restrict access and dataflow in between applications  • Developed node.js serverless application to synchronize data between various service databases  • Debug and fix data sync production defects by monitoring cloudwatch logs  • Initially worked in Agile and moved to Kanban during migration Java Developer HPE, Arkansas September 2015 to Present Worked as a full- stack developer in Massachusetts Medicaid Information Systems. This healthcare project required enhancements which required changes in UI and backend.    Responsibilities:  * Interact with client and gather business requirements for the assigned WI during the release  * Analyze the work and present the best design solution to the client with time estimation  * Complete the construction for the design in given time and present the test results  * Part of the team to migrate the application from hibernate 3.2 to 4.3 and spring 1.2 to 4.1  * Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  * Modified presentation tier using JSP, Java Script, JQuery, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  * Generated POJO classes to map tables in the database using the JPA-Hibernate integration  * Used Spring framework for implementing Dependency Injection, AOP, Spring ORM  * Responsible for implementing the transaction management in the application by applying Spring AOP methodology.  * Used EJBs (Stateless Session Beans) to implement the business logic, MDBs (JMS) for asynchronous communication internal and external to the system.  * Generated SQL queries and stored procedures to  * Used JUnit for unit testing.  * Used Ant building tool to build the application.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, JSF, Ant, Servlets, WebLogic 12c, Eclipse, JavaScript, jQuery, Apache Axis Java Developer Aptiva Corp September 2014 to July 2015 Worked as a front-end java developer in the creation of web application used by employees. This portal is used to enter various employee information such as timesheets, employee information etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering and creating initial documentation for the system  • Developed user interfaces using HTML, AJAX, CSS & JavaScript, JQuery  • Designed and developed RESTful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event  • Involved in Unit testing AngularJS applications using Jasmine/Karma.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  • Used CVS source control system to commit the working changes to the repository system and to get other changes. Also resolved conflicts before committing the changes to the repository system.  • Implemented Test cases using JUnit and Tested web services with REST Client.  • Implemented web pages and banners from design mockups using HTML and CSS.  • Experienced and worked in Agile development methodology  • Worked with JIRA tool to solve and report the bugs and issues.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, Bootstrap, AngularJS, React, Node JS, Spring, Spring MVC.  *Willing to work on weekends and holidays Education M.S., Management in Information Systems Jon M. Huntsman School of Business, Utah State University May 2015 Bachelors of Tech in Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN May 2014 Skills Java (3 years), Java Script (3 years), JQuery (3 years), JSP (3 years), JUnit (3 years), AWS Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages Java, C#, SQL    Technologies JSP, Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, JSF  Web Technologies HTML5, XML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery  Application Server Apache Tomcat 7.x, WebLogic 12c  J2EE Frameworks MVC, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot  Tools Eclipse, MyEclipse, IntelliJ, ANT, Maven, Log4J  Database(s) SQL, MySQL  Version Control Tools Rational ClearCase, CVS  Testing Tools JUnit