Sr Full Stack Developer Sr Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Full Stack Developer - Priceline.com Norwalk, CT • Around 8 years extensive experience in design, development, maintenance and support of Web, Web 2.0, and Java/J2EE applications. Worked as Sr. Full Stack Java Developer.  • Strong knowledge in developing and designing web 2.0 application according to Information architecture and Usability standards using OO JavaScript framework, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, Dojo  • , JSP, XML, XHTML, CSS, HTML5, CSS3, Servlet and MVC framework.  • Experienced in UI Framework design and development, particularly using Ajax, JSON, DHTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Expertise in software analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of Java/J2EE web applications using Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Hibernate, Spring IOC, EJB, JMS, JNDI, JDBC, JAXP, JAXB, JAX-RPC, Java Mail, XML, XSLT, AJAX, Javascript, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, CSS and cross-cutting open source frameworks used in software development.  • Strong server side coding experience using Core Java, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, JMS, JNDI, JDBC, RMI, JAXP, JUnit, XML, XSLT, DOM, DTD, JDO, Hibernate, XML Schemas in Unix and Windows environments.  • Extensive Experience in developing, designing, professional, elegant enterprise web application using Object Oriented JavaScript and various java design patterns.  • Well-versed in project responsibilities such as planning, architecture, design specifications and implementation. Worked on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Strong knowledge in ORACLE 10.X.  • Designed and developed Axis Web service framework, Implemented Struts2.X, and migrated applications to Struts2 and Hibernate.  • Expert in developing Application & Framework using MVC Architecture, STRUTS Framework, Java Server Faces, MVC pattern, J2EE Design Patterns, Use-case design and Core Java Patterns.  • Extensive experience in developing Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using UML Rational Rose and Visio.  • Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Session Facade, Business Delegate and Data Access Object for building J2EE Applications.  • Experienced in web development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX technologies.  • Experienced in developing MVC framework based websites using Struts and knowledge of Spring.  • Expertise in AJAX, Java Script, Restful Service, JSON, JQuery, GWT, Aptana IDE.  • Highly proficient in design/development of standalone and web applications using Java Script, XML, DHTML, JDK 1.4/1.5, Java Beans, Ajax, JSP, Servlet, UI Tag Library, Hibernate, Struts MVC, JDBC, Weblogic, Tomcat and Apache Application server over various platforms (UNIX, Linux, and Windows).  • Experience in Design, Development, Testing enterprise applications using JDBC, JSP, JQuery, DOJO, JMS, Web Service, AJAX, Java page flows, Apache, and Tomcat Application server.  • Java desktop/control web-based application specialist, with sound understanding and experience with Generic types, JavaDoc, Java Multi-threading, JSP.  • Experienced in Object-relational mapping using Hibernate.  • Strong experience in XML related technologies. Experience in working in both Windows and Unix platforms.  • Experience in installing, configuring, tuning IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS.  • Experience in building and deployment of EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage systems in IBM Websphere application server v7.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse,Oracle, JDeveloper for Java/J2EE application development.  • Expertise in database modelling, administration and development using SQL, PL/SQL in Oracle (8i, 9i,10gand 11g), DB2 and SQL Server environments.  • Experience in using ANT for build automation.  • Having good hands on working with EJB 3.0 annotations to map POJOs to databases.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like CVS and SVN.  • Experience in designing, developing and implementing E-Commerce, B2B applications using J2EE technologies in Banking and Insurance domains  • Proficient in software documentation and technical report writing.  • Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Full Stack Developer Priceline.com - Norwalk, CT July 2016 to Present The Priceline Group is an American-based provider of travel and related online services to consumers and local partners through six primary brands: Booking.com, priceline.com, agoda.com, KAYAK, Rentalcars.com and OpenTable. CARES is a web application for supporting Priceline related bookings.  • Implemented Best Price Guarantee for all the product related bookings.  • Used Spring MVC framework for server side functionality of BPG Implementation.  • Used Angularjs and JS for client side design of the application.  • Worked on design of BPG validations.  • Used Gulp and Bower for building client side of the application.    Environment: JDK7, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Angular JS, gulp, CSS, HTML, JSON, Maven, REST, Bower, Jboss, Tomcat 8,IntelliJ, GIT, Bamboo, JIRA. Sr Full Stack Developer Avnet Inc - Lexington, KY September 2015 to June 2016 Intel IoT is an ecommerce application where consumers can purchase Intel's IoT products online. The application was developed for 2 types of customers where one being the direct consumer and other being a reseller. The application was designed to maintain the different kind of products, users with their order history and different types of terms and conditions based on the products and location of the consumer.  • Studied business requirements from the consumer and developed functional specification documents.  • Designed the complete website from UI perspective using HTML5, CSS and AngularJS.  • Involved in the design of Database schema with mapping of all primary features in the application.  • Designed and developed the complete server side of the application for phase 1 using EJB which majorly handles the user data and product data.  • Implemented 5 different user roles for the application, which displays content based on different roles.  • Implemented custom directives in Angular JS for the application.  • Implemented the pricing structure and complete cart functionality for the application.  • Implemented role based security using EJB in accessing the services    Environment: Java EE, JDK 7,EJB, Hibernate, Angular JS, Ajax, CSS, HTML, JSON, Maven, Oracle 11g , JAX-WS , Eclipse, JBoss 8.0, Bugzilla, Nodejs. Sr Java Developer Macy's May 2014 to August 2015 OmniClient application is a complete migration and merger of existing tools B-Connected and MyClient as one. The main objective of the OmniClient tool development is to help the Sales Associates and their management ladder to track and maintain the customer relationship effectively. The application contains modules such as User Dashboard, My Clients, My To Do, Create List, News, FYI, Memos, Customer Profile, Manage Client, My book search, Customer search, Sales reports, Transaction report and Batch jobs. OmniClient is developed based on responsive design and supports PC, Mobile, iPad and POS devices. It provides role based access and features for the Macys and Bloomingdales users. It has integration and implementation for contacting customer through messaging and email.  • Designed, developed and tested using n-tier J2EE architecture in BEA Weblogic Application Server  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Implemented Desired Contact Method functionality using Spring MVC.  • Implemented Credit card sorting using HQL.  • Implemented create and update record for new customer when fetched form cloud database.  • Implemented the logic for updating the phone type based on the SOAP response.  • Involved in fixing bugs and minor enhancements of the modules.  • Implemented dynamically selected a tab based on its position within its peers, or its ID attributes which supports nested Ajax tabs.  • Used Log4j for logging the application.  • Agile methodology is used for development of the application.  • Developed views and controllers using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Business logic is implemented using Spring Core and Hibernate.  • Deployed project components onto IBM WebSphere 7.  • Support QA, Integration and Production Environment testing and fix issues.  • Peer code reviews.  • SVN activities.    Environment: Java EE ,JDK 7, JSP, Spring MVC, JSF, Hibernate, OO JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, CSS, HTML, JSON, WSDL, Maven, Oracle 11g , JAX-WS, SOAP WebServices , CSS, AJAX, Eclipse, Websphere7, JBoss 6.1, Toad, Squirrel Sql Client. Sr Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Alpharetta, GA May 2013 to April 2014 Project 1: Wholesale LTE  Long Term Evolution is a new technology. It allows more clarity for application usage and all data services as well as theoretical typical speeds of 5 Mbps uplink and 12 Mbps downlink. Verizon Wireless has already launched LTE for retail customers. The LTE Wholesale project is a strategic initiative with the primary purpose of expanding Wholesale marketplace by offering the LTE/4G technology. This functionality was to continue support of 3G processing with system like MTAS, eTNI, DMD as these systems had API changes to support Retail LTE project in addition to 3G processing.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering, analysis, design & development of Applications.  • Conducted the requirement sessions with Business and Functional users.  • Involved in Coordinating, Planning & Executing the System Development Life Cycle.  • Designed and developed Restful services to handle various requests from all the application screens.  • Expertise in designing and creating WSDL using XML Spy and Spring WS Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Wrote all the SQL queries for the applications.  • Used maven data project to build, developed and consumed Web Services using SOAP.  • Adopt TDD (Test Driven Development) for extreme programming.  • Developed web pages using Struts, JSP, Servlets, HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Configuration of Business Rules, Business Processes and Responses with Meta data driven.  • Used Log4j for logging the application.  • Used JAXB for converting Java Object into a XML file and for converting XML content into a Java Object.  • Agile methodology is used for development of the application.  • Developed Servlets, Manager, Data transfer object classes to process requests.  • Designed and Developed servlets to handle asynchronous java batch requests, both scheduled and on-demand jobs.  • Developed views and controllers using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Business logic is implemented using Spring Core and Hibernate.  • Developed the presentation layer with Spring MVC using JSP and JavaScript.  • Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.  • Deployed the Application in Jboss Server present in Linux environment  • Deployed project components onto IBM WebSphere 6.  • Strictly followed Web 2.0 design features such as simplicity, fewer columns, separate top sections, fonts, simple navigation, logos, gradients, reflections and more.  • Implemented Spring Framework to loose-couple dependencies. Developed user views using Custom tags in JSPs and data validation using Struts validators.  • Used version control system - perforce visual client used and maintained maven build scripts.  • Developed JUnit test case and performed functional test, integration test for application.  • Support QA, Integration and Production Environment testing and fix issues.  • Peer code reviews.  • SVN activities.  Technologies and Environment: JAVA, Servlet, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Hibernate, SOAP WebServices, JAX-WS, XML, JDBC, SVN, Log4j, JUnit, SoapUI, HTML, JQuery, CSS3, JSON, HTML5, WSDL, ANT, AngularJS, Oracle 11g , CSS, Eclipse, Web Logic Application Server. Sr. Full Stack Developer Dice - Santa Clara, CA September 2012 to April 2013 Dice.com is a career website. It serves information technology and engineering professionals. Dice.com is owned by Dice Holdings, Inc.Dice.com typically has approximately 60,000 tech job listings. Dice have 3 million registered technology professionals and approximately 2 million unique visitors each month.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing of the system using Functional Specification provided by Business Analysts.  • Involved in developing the application built using J2EE technologies like Struts and Spring MVC Framework.  • The application is based on JSP, Javascript, Struts 2.0, JSF 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, Service Oriented Architecture System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and Development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Involved in Installation and Configuration of Tomcat, SpringSource Tool Suit, Eclipse, unit testing.  • Involved in Migrating existing distributed JSP framework to Struts Framework, designed and involved in research of Struts MVC framework which fits into our existing framework,  • Developed Ajax framework on service layer for 2 module as benchmark  • Implemented Service and DAO layers in between Struts and Hibernate.  • Architected an enterprise service bus using Mule, Java (EJB3), Hibernate, and Spring to tie back-end business logic/systems with web properties via a corresponding RESTful API.  • Used XSLT for transforming XML documents.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) applications using HTML5, JSP, JavaScript (JQuery), CSS, and AJAX.  • Applied MVC pattern of Ajax framework which involves creating Controllers for implementing Classes.  • Refactored, re-architected, and enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVVM/MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS, AngularJS and JavaScript  • Installed, configured, and managed the servers (Amazon Web Services, Linux, Tomcat, Apache, MySQL, MongoDB, Groovy/Grails, Hudson/Jenkins, JIRA, Git, JUnit, MediaWiki, tripwire, fail2ban, ssh, sendmail, sudo, etc.).  • Used Ext JS ui components to implement various functionalities, Coded for Various windows, panels, form and tree components, adding custom event on components and implementing their listeners for operation to be performed.  • Developed Data Access Object pattern for maintainability and portability across different persistence frameworks.  • Implemented Data Transfer Object for end-to-end remote communication.  • Involved in development, maintain web based application using Struts Framework 1.3 combined with Struts Validator Framework and Tiles for the application.  • Implemented JavaScript framework for primary validations of the web forms as well as enhancing the pages' interactivity for the users using Ajax and JQuery.  • Strictly followed Web 2.0 design features such as simplicity, fewer columns, separate top sections, fonts, simple navigation, logos, gradients, reflections and more.  • Implemented Spring Framework to loose-couple dependencies. Developed user views using Custom tags in JSPs and data validation using Struts validators.  • Used version control system - perforce visual client used and maintained maven build scripts.  • Involved in fixing bugs and minor enhancements of the modules.    Environment: Java EE 5.0 ,JDK 1.7, JSP, Struts2, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, MVC, Hibernate, OO JavaScript, Ajax, HTML, JQuery, CSS3, JSON, HTML5, WSDL, ANT, AngularJS, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g ,Oracle JDeveloper 10.3, CSS, Eclipse, Web Logic Application Server. Sr. Java Developer Bullhorn Inc - Boston, MA January 2011 to August 2012 Bullhorn provides cloud-based CRM solutions for companies in service-based industries. Its data capture and customer insight technology puts the most up-to-date and powerful information at users' fingertips to give them everything they need to win customers and keep them happy. Today, Bullhorn serves more than 10,000 clients and 350,000 users, and its software solutions are used by some of the world's most prominent services enterprises to help increase sales, improve service delivery, and streamline operations.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing of the system using Functional Specification.  • Involved in fixing bugs and minor enhancements of the modules.  • Involved in developing the application built using J2EE technologies and Struts and Ajax Framework  • The application is based on Service Oriented Architecture System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and Development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements  • Involved in Installation and Configuration of Tomcat, BEA Weblogic 8.1, Eclipse, unit testing  • Involved in Migrating existing distributed JSF framework to Struts Framework, designed and involved in research of Spring MVC framework which fits into our existing framework,  • Developed Ajax framework on service layer for 2 module as benchmark  • Migrated of our existing business logic layer of session bean and replaced with Distributed Session façade POJO in ORM Model with hibernate and DAO.  • Developed Data Access Object pattern for maintainability and portability across different persistence frameworks.  • Implemented Data Transfer Object for end to end remote communication.  • Involved in development, maintain web based application using Struts Framework 2.0 combined with Struts Validator Framework and Tiles for other application in the same group.  • Implemented "default" content inside the container to show while no tabs are selected using CSS/JQuery, or to be associated with a specific tab and also added inline on the page and where data is fetched via JQuery/Ajax so as to avoid unnecessary fetching of external pages.  • Implemented the session only persistence for the last tab user clicked on is remembered if he/she returns to the page within the same browser session.  • Implemented a auto mode where the JavaScript is automatically cycles through and also selects each tab periodically until a tab is explicitly selected.  • Implemented JavaScript framework for primary validations of the web forms as well as enhancing the pages' interactivity for the users using Ajax and JQuery.  • Reviewed already-made codes to identify and achieve performance improvements as well as more secured access of the application.  • Strictly followed Web 2.0 design features such as simplicity, Accordian, Tooltip, Three column Layout, Datagrid, CSS separate top Navigation, jQuery tab, jQuery navigation, logos, gradients, reflections and more.  • Expanded/Contracted the arbitrary CSS DIVs on the page as the tabbed content is contacted / expanded.  • Implemented dynamically selected a tab based on its position within its peers, or its ID attributes which supports nested Ajax tabs.  • Implemented Spring Framework to loose-couple dependencies. Developed user views using Custom tags in JSPs and data validation using Struts validators.  • Using Resource and Properties files for Servers configuration. Used JUnit test environment for test based development  • Used version control system - SVN Version Manager. Used and maintaining Ant build scripts.    Environment: Java EE ,JDK 1.6, JSP, Spring MVC, JSF, Hibernate, OO JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, CSS, HTML, JSON, WSDL, ANT, Oracle 11g ,Oracle JDeveloper 10.3,JAX-WS, CSS, AJAX, Eclipse, Web Logic Application Server. Sr. Java Developer Safeway - Pleasanton, CA March 2009 to December 2010 Safeway is an American Supermarket chain, it is the second largest supermarket chain in North America and has 1,678 stores located throughout the western and central United States and northwestern Mexico as of December. It also operates some stores in the Mid-Atlantic region of the Eastern Seaboard. The company is headquartered in Pleasanton, CA. Supermarket News ranked Safeway No. 4 in the 2011 Gathered client's requirements coordinated with different departments.  Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and tested using n-tier J2EE architecture in BEA Weblogic Application Server  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts Action framework.  • Developed EJBs [Stateless Session Beans and Entity beans] for Savings, Credit Card, Loan, Current account and Mortgage modules.  • Developed web services framework for retrieving User details using Axis  • Implemented Acegi security for all modules in product which require user authentication and authorization. Password encryption using SRP protocol.  • Designed and developed important application functionalities Download and Install session module for this product.  • Developed Persistence and DAO layer implementation using EJB 3.0 ORM for the domain objects involved.  • Development of content management as Struts MVC on OpenCms [on Jboss] for web commerce department.  • Wrote many unit tests using JUnit and EasyMock to cover existing functionality and provide a baseline for expansion.  • Designed and developed the Internal Admin module of the product using Struts MVC where the administer can login and configure the product specific configurations to start remote desktop session.  • Used OO JavaScript and CSS for UI Design Mockup. Written code in JQuery/JavaScript /CSS /AJAX for the navigation oriented application.  • Designed and developed interfaces using Design Patterns (Like Command, Singleton, Factory, and Controller) in OO JavaScript.  • Created Dynamic Integration of jQuery Tab, JQuery Grid, and other jQuery component Integration with Ajax.  • Extensively used JQuery plug-in like Auto populating select-box, Search plug-in, calendar plug-in, ajax-queue plug-in, and Auto populating multiple select-boxes.  • Implemented Ajax Call, when the user keys in the first few characters of mesh node entries an AJAX call is made and all the matching node entries are retrieved from database as a JSON Payload and displayed in a dropdown list box.  • Used Tiles for setting the header, footer and navigation and Apache Validator Framework for Form validation.  • Used Log4J logging framework to write Log messages with various levels.  • Created library class for financial calculations of various financial issues like Mortgage, Loans etc.  • Used JavaMail API, developed Secured Emailing system [a session bean].  • Involved in fixing bugs and minor enhancements for the front-end modules  • Used JUnit framework for writing Test Classes.  • Used Ant for starting up the application server in various modes.  • Used Visual Source Safe for version control.  Environment: Java (JDK 1.5), JSP, Servlets, Struts MVC, Struts2, Spring IOC, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, HTML, CSS, XML, XSTL, DHTML, Design Patterns, Eclipse, CVS, Apache Tomcat 5.5, JDBC, Oracle 9i/10g, Rational Rose, Xml Spy, UNIX, Windows-XP. Education Bachelor in Engineering in Engineering Anna University Skills CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), JSON (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (7 years), JDK7, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Angular JS, gulp, CSS, HTML, JSON, Maven, REST, Bower, Jboss, Tomcat 8,IntelliJ, GIT, Bamboo, JIRA (8 years) (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages: Java, C, C++  Java/J2EE Technologies: Java EE 5/6, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Struts, Hibernate, JSP, JMS, EJB, JNDI, XML  Web Development: HTML, CSS,OO JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, YUI, HTML5, CSS3, Protoype, JSON  Frameworks: Struts 1.x/2.x, Spring IOC, JSF, Hibernate, IOC.  XML/Web Services: XML, XSLT,XSD, WSDL, SOAP, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB  Messaging Technologies: JMS , Weblogic JMS, WebSphere MQ Series  Application/Web Servers: IBM Web Sphere, BEA Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS  Methodologies/Design Patterns: OOAD, OOP, UML , MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Facade  Databases: Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2000/2005, IBM DB2  IDEs: Eclipse, RAD, WSAD,Oracle Jdeveloper  Build Automation: Ant and Maven  Testing and Logging Frameworks: JUnit, Log4J  Tools: Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio, TOAD    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux