Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Thomson Reuters Minneapolis, MN, MN • Have 7+years of IT professional experience with full project lifecycle development in Java and Web technologies, Requirements analysis, and Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and production support of software applications.  • Expertise in web UI development using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, EXTJS, Angular-JS, Bootstrap, JSP and Struts Tag Library.  • Experience in Design, Development and Implementation of multi-tier thin/thick client web based applications using Object Oriented Methodologies.  • Extensive experience with both core and advanced Java technologies which includes Java, XML, JavaScript, JEE, JSP, EJB 1.1/2.0/3.0, JDBC, Struts, Struts2, Servlets, JMS, JSF, JSF My Faces, Rich Faces, Prime Faces, Ice Faces, JPA, Java API for XML Web Services, Spring and Hibernate.  • Extensive knowledge in using Javascript Frameworks like EXTJS, JQuery, Angular-JS, JSON and DOJO.  • Extensive knowledge and implementation skills in Spring MVC framework, JSF Framework.  • Hands-on experience in Consuming RESTful services using AJAX (Angular $http, $resource and jQuery) to exchange (request / responses) information with databases such as MySQL and Oracle.  • Strong programming skills using Java1.6/1.5, Spring, Hibernate, JPA 2, JTA, JNDI, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JSTL, JDBC.  • Hands on Experience developing SOAP and REST web services in Java using JERSEY and APACHE CXF.  • Extensive experience in using various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using REST, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Extensive experience in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD) and SCRUM.  • Strong Hands on Experience with IBM MQ, Active MQ Series and JMS for communications between middleware components.  • Design, develop and test ESB infrastructure on the JBOSS ESB platform.  • Hands on experience with various Application Servers and Web Servers including IBM Web Sphere, BEA Web logic, JBoss, Tomcat server with wide variety of development tools like IBM WSAD/ RAD / RSA, My Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Having good RDBMS concepts knowledge and worked with MySQL 5.0, Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages besides writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Rapid SQL.  • Expertise knowledge in building applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP) , UML and OOAD.  • Involved in developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated), Test Procedures and white-box and black-box testing  • Experience working with Oracle coherence for Sharing and Managing data in a cluster using Java collection classes.  • Experienced in implementing EnterpriseApplications with full life cycle of software development.  • Experience in using Log4J, Version Control using SVN, TFS, GIT and CVS.  • Experience with unit testing using Junit and writing build scripts using ANT.  • Good knowledge on application builds and deployments using Hudson/Jenkins  • Experience working with MAVEN.  • Good Knowledge working with Non-Relational Databases like MongoDB.  • Worked on different OS like UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux, and Windows 2003/08/12.  • Good team player with ability to solve problems, organize and prioritize multiple tasks.  • Excellent communication and inter-personal skills. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Thomson Reuters - Minneapolis, MN October 2014 to Present Project: STATE Dockets  Docket is a formal record denoting all the proceedings and filings in a court case. This project's main goal is to replace the existing publishing pathways and create a web UI (Product Builder UI) that lets builders view dockets, track the dockets as they go through the pathway and be able to resend (publish) them back through the pathway again if needed.    Responsibilities:  * Designed and developed the application using Agile Methodology and followed TDD and Scrum.  * Developed the Product Builder UI screens using Angular-JS.  * Developed Angular-JS components such as controllers, Services, filters, models and used Httpservice for rest service invocation.  * Creating custom use modules and components, which extend the elements and modules of core Angular-JS.  * Developed custom directives (for simultaneous file uploads) and created Angular JS services to consume in controllers.  * Configured routing in the single page application promoting rich user experience.  * Developed unit testing for angular components using Mocha, Chai, Gulp, Karma, Istanbul and Protractor.  * Created custom angular filters to filter the data based on user selection in bootstrap dropdowns.  * Implemented angular form validations and used bootstrap to show error, warning and info messages  * Configured Spring security in the application with LDAPTemplate and access controls using Spring security annotations based on user roles.  * Developed Spring Jersey resources for various HTTP methods and to send the requested data in JSON format to the web interface.  * Created Collections and documents and performed CRUD operations with Mongo repositories.  * Developed ORM mappings using Hibernate and wrote Criteria, Named and HQL queries for data retrievals in the DAO layer.  * Used Spring declarative transaction management and Spring Batch and scheduling for backend data processing.  * Implemented Normalization rules using regular expressions for minor parties.  * Implemented RESTFul webservices API using HTTP and REST principles.  * Works with business analysts and coordinates with them to make sure the data is being populated properly.  * Involved in writing JUNIT test cases and day to day builds and deployments using MAVEN and Jenkins.  * Involved in working, updating and closing the tasks created in Microsoft Team Foundation Server.  * Involved in converting the docket conversion system is to into XML that can be loaded into the Novus system.  * Worked with WAS admin to deploy applications on Websphere Application Server.  * Involved in Parsing the HTML and ENCRYPTED Data in to readable format and generate XML.  * Did the application support on different environments from QA to Production.  * Was responsible for analyzing the issues, providing technical & functional support to the users and fix them.  * Involved in Writing and Executing SQL Scripts and responsible for fixing the issues and monitoring it to make sure it releases in time.  * Involved in fixing the bugs biweekly iteration and publishing the Dockets to all Environments.    Environment: Java1.8, Spring 4, Spring boot, Angular-JS 1.3, Angular-UI,Jersey,Mocha, Chai, Karma, Istanbul,Gulp, Ldap, Hibernate,Agile, Websphere,Oracle11g, Unix, Eclipse, Brackets, TFS, SQL Developer, Maven,Jenkins, Mongo DB,Webservices,JUnit. Sr. Java Developer Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH October 2012 to October 2014 Java Full StackDeveloper    Description: Capital Appropriation Request is a composite application developed based SPA Net Weaver platform. It is used by employees of an organization to raise, approve and validate CAR. This streamlines the workflow involved with this type of request.    Responsibilities:  * Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum, pair programming.  * Wrote Technical design document with the class, sequence, activity diagrams in each use case.  * Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using Jquery, JavaScript and Angular JS.  * Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO and DTO.  * Worked with Angular JS MVC framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters.  * Customized Angular JS filters in several locations to get the required output.  * Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data.  * Integrated the service call with UI using $http and $resources which are substitutes for AJAX in angular.  * Developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes that are used across all the modules of the application.  * Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with Spring framework.  * Wrote data Components for Plan Setup, wrote and called StoredProcedures using Java, HQL, Hibernate.  * Involved in configuring and integrating Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  * Involved in design and implementation of MVC architecture in different modules.  * Integrated business layer using Hibernate with Spring DAO.  * Used Angular JS Factories and Services to make Ajax calls or Restful Calls to get data in JSON Format.  * Used Angular JS Directives like ng-app, ng-model, ng-init for initialization of Angular JS application data.  * Used Spring Batch to build the POJO-based development approach of the Spring Framework.  * Wrote the DAO's to access the database using JDBC calls.  * Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs such as JDO ( Java Data Objects) and Hibernate.  * Implemented Spring Bean Factory to create proxied object using AOP framework.  * Used AngularJS Global API to perform tasks like Comparing objects, Iterating objects and Converting data.  * Performed document and collection mappings with Spring and MongoTemplate.  * Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML.  * Designed & developed LDAP Authentication & Authorization Service using Java, LDAP, JNDI.  * Involved in transforming XML data in to Java Objects using a JAXB binding tool.  * Responsible for configuring and deploying the builds on Tomcat Web Server.  * Involved in the Performance Tuning of the Application on client side.  * Used Angular JS $http service to read data from remote servers.  * Worked on JavaScript framework (Angular JS, Bootstrap) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  * Wrote notification service that executes daily, sends emails and escalations to participants.  * Involved in Unit & Integration Testing for different Modules in the application.  * Wrote build & deployment scripts using ANT, Maven, shell scripts and JACL on unix env.  * Used Oracle Coherence in Java Collection API to access and modify data, and the JavaBean event model to receive data change notifications.  * Did the application support on different environments from QA to Production. Was responsible for analyzing the issues, providing technical & functional support to the users and fix them.    Environment: J2EE/J2SE, Java 7.0, Java Script, Angular JS, Spring Frame Work, Spring Batch, Hibernate, JDBC, JMS, Apache Axis 2.0, MongoDB, Tomcat Web server, LDAP, WSDL, SOA, SOAP, XML, HTML, Log 4j,RAD 7, Oracle, SunOS (UNIX), Sub Version , Maven and Windows 7. Java/J2EE Developer Express Scripts - Minneapolis, MN January 2011 to September 2012 Multifactor Authentication - Multifactor Authentication address critical security gap by delivering an integrated set of strong, risk based solution that effectively complement changes in JMIC's online Business environment .These changes provide the capability for Clients to access Client facing applications from anywhere at any time, over the internet.    Responsibilities:  * Designed and development applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML and OOAD.  * Created Use cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose. Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern.  * Developed user management screens using JSF framework, business components using Spring framework and DAO classes using Hibernate framework for persistence management and involved in integrating the frameworks for the project.  * Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using JSF, JSP's, Prime Faces, Ajax4JSF framework (Ajax), JavaScript and Backing Beans.  * Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO, DTO, and MVC.  * Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework.  * Hibernate used as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  * Wrote Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  * Worked on advanced Hibernate associations with multiple levels of Caching, lazy loading.  * Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validations.  * Implemented Ajax using Ajax4JSF Framework and nested taglibs API along with other standard taglibs in the application, as a better approach for screen development and reusability of visual components in the JSP pages.  * Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized xml documents using Spring framework.  • Was responsible for deployments using IBM WebSphere application server.  * Configured and Integrated JSF, Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  * Responsible for writing Java code to convert HTML files to PDF file using Apache FOP.  * Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from IBM MQ Series using JMS.  * Involved in UI testing using Cucumber and Selenium.  * Rational Clear Quest used for defects, change tracking across the application.  * Designed and developed direct live interfaces to handle multiple systems within the bank to subscribe the data in real-time.  * Involved in the performance tuning of PL/SQL statements.  * Developed database triggers and procedures to update the real-time cash balances.  * Worked closely with the testing team in creating new test cases and also created the use cases for the module before the testing phase.  * Involved in writing JUNIT test cases and day to day builds and deployments using GRADLE.  * Implemented webservices API using HTTP.  * Coordinated work with DB team, QA team, Business Analysts and Client Reps to complete the client requirements efficiently.    Environment: Java 6/J2EE, JMS, JNDI, JSP, JSF, My Faces, Prime Faces, Spring, Tiles, Hibernate, HTML, DHTML, IBM MQ Series, CSS, Web Sphere 5.1.2, Gradle, Clear Quest, Oracle9i, AJAX, JSTL, Eclipse, Junit, JavaScript, VSS. Java/J2EE Developer Marriot - Bethesda, MD November 2010 to December 2011 Message Center: Developed a Web Application to integrate different functionalities like User voicemails, E-mails and call history together. The Additional features in the application include calendar, calendar events, task bars, user notifications etc.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating use Cases and Class Diagrams. Used OOAD for building applications.  * Interacted coordinated with the Design team, Business analyst and end users of the system.  * Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, usecases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  * Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern.  * Developed front end using Struts framework, business components using EJB's.  * Implementing Spring/ Tiles based framework to present the data to the user.  * Created the web UI using Struts, JSP, Servlets and Custom tags.  * Deployment of Application in the JBoss Server environment using ANT tool using Struts architecture with the JSP Client.  * Configured Struts Dyna Action Forms, Message Resources, Action Messages, Action Errors, Validation.xml, and Validator-rules.xml.  * Designed and developed Caching and Logging service using Singleton pattern, Log4j.  * Coded different action classes in struts responsible for maintaining deployment descriptors like struts-config, ejb-jar and web.xml using XML.  * Designed and Developed front-end using struts framework.  * Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles and Validations provided by struts framework.  * Wrote authentication and authorizationclasses and manage it in the frontcontroller for all the users according to their entitlments.  * Developed and deployed Session Beans and Entity Beans for database updates.  * Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using EJB 3.0.  * Used IBatis for decoupling the mappings from the application logic by packaging the SQL statements in XML configuration files.  * Developed stored procedures and complex packages extensively using PL/SQL and shell programs.  * Used Struts-Validator frame-work for all front-end Validations for all the form entries.  * Implemented RESTFul webservices API using HTTP and REST principles.  * Design and development of JAXB components for transfer objects.  * Prepared EJB deployment descriptors using XML.  * GIT used for defects, change tracking across the application.  * Involved in Configuration and Usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes.  * Wrote Action Classesto service the requests from the UI, populate business objects & invoke EJBs.  * Used JAXP (DOM, XSLT), XSD for XML data generation and presentation  * Wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.    Environment: Java 5/J2SE , JSP, Spring, JAXB, XSLT, DOM, XML, EJB 3.0, WebServices, JNDI, J2EE, RSA, JBoss 6.0 , Ratonal Rose, GIT, Oracle9i, Junit, IBatis, JavaScript, DHTML. Java/J2EE Developer UniLever Limited - Trumbull, CT March 2009 to September 2010 Description: Part of Client & Account Data BI group to support Bank and Brokerage customer. The system is managing the data between 6 different wealth management systems and providing them real time access to the data. The Data is managed within MDM Solution. Involved in Integration project between Bank of America and Merrill Lynch, Enterprise customer information, Single version of the customer information, Identify same customer using MDM and IR/MDM-RE solution, Custom Framework, Custom Web Service solution to support client and account data for the Bank and Brokerage clients.    Responsibilities:  • As a User Interface designer, understanding user requirements designed by Business users, participating in Use case analysis discussion, feasibility study, documenting application changes.  • Designing application prototypes to support business requirements, developing prototypes into working models for application development team to integrate with server-side interaction and also for business team to interact with a static prototype-working model.  • Extensive use of Light box with embedded navigations, by creating them using complex CSS and AJAX at user interface to hide the server calls from the client perspective and routing them to backend using XML HTTP request objects.  • Creating Menus, drag/drop blocks (DIV) using DHTML, saving user preferences at backend by sending the request to server-side components.  • Extensive use of JavaScript and libraries, to display report data based on user customization, and generating reports as a graphical representation.  • Designing user Interface using CSS, as an external and internal source and also updating it manually depending on client display requirements using Adobe Dreamweaver CS3.  • Creating complex client-side scripts using libraries, for development team to integrate with server-side components to facilitate the user interface display.  • Application pages development using Struts / Tiles MVC framework, JSPs for presentation layer and client side validations, writing configuration XMLs, validation with Struts validation framework and extensive use of JavaScript, database interaction with IBM DB2 and deploying using IBM WebSphere application server.  • Validation XMLs from back-end for reporting and integrating XSLT transformations to apply formatting and displaying in front-end for business users.  • Developed an e-mail component for client communication manager, using SMTP to send customer inputs as an e-mail, to the business users with a preformatted HTML message composition.    Environment: Java: JDK 1.5, JSP, Java Script, HTML, AJAX, XSLT, XML, DHTML, Web, IBM WebSphere Application server6.1, UNIX, Struts/Tiles, XSLT/ XSL-FO, IBM DB2, UML, IBM Rational Clear case, JUNIT 3.8, log4j 1.2, Ant 2.7. Java Developer Smart Card - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2007 to February 2009 LM Benefits Client GUI An Intranet web application designed and developed to create a workspace for Highmark Business users to create Insurance Claim codes and associate various health diagnosis categories to each code. These claim codes are in turn used by Highmark Insurance Customers to claim their Benefits while claiming their insurance. Each Diagnosis code (or Product Service Component) is composed of several health related diagnosis attributes that are fetched from database (pre-loaded). The main functionalities involves creating new PSCOs, Searching PSCOs, PSCo Copy, Combining two or more PSCOs based on class/Type modifiers and displaying attributes for PSCo creation from Database, based on Business Rules.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding Use requirements participating in design discussions, implementation feasibility analysis both at front-end and backend level, documenting requirements.  • Using RUP and Rational Rose, developed Use Cases, created Class, Sequence and UML diagrams.  • Application Modeling, developing Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Architecture / Deployment diagrams using IBM Rational Software Modeler and publishing them to web perspective with Java Doc.  • Participation did in Design Review sessions for development / implementation discussions.  • Designed & coded Presentation (GUI) JSP's with Struts tag libraries for Creating Product Service Components (Health Care Codes) using RAD.  • Developing Test Cases and unit testing using JUnit  • Coded Action classes, Java Beans, Service layers, Business delegates, to implement business logic with latest features of JDK1.5 such as Annotations and Generics.  • Extensive use of AJAX and JavaScript for front-end validations, and JavaScript based component development using EXT JS Framework with cross browser support.  • Appropriate use of Session handling, data Scope levels within the application.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate3.0 standards, to access data from IBM DB2 database through JPA( Java Persistence API) layer creating Object-Relational Mappings and writing PL/SQL procedures and functions  • Integrating Spring injections for DAOs to achieve Inversion of Control, updating Spring Configurations for managing Java objects using callbacks  • Application integration with Spring Web Services to fetch data from external Benefits application using SOA architecture, configuring WSDL based on SOAP specifications and marshalling and un-marshalling using JAXB  • Prepared and executed JUNIT test cases to test the application service layer operations before DAO integration  • Creating test environments with WAS for local testing using test profile. And interacting with Software Quality Assurance (SQA) end to report and fix defects using Rational Clear Quest.  • Creating views and updating code to IBM Rational Clear case for Source code control.  • Solving QA defects, scheduling fixes, providing support to production application.    Environment: Java: JDK 1.5, JSP, JSP Custom Tag libraries, JavaScript, EXT JS, AJAX, XSLT, XML, DOM4J 1.6, EJB, DHTML, Web Services, SOA, WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, IBM RAD, IBM WebSphere Application server, IBM DB2 8.1, UNIX, UML, IBM Rational Clear case, JMS, Spring Framework, Hibernate 3.0, PL/SQL, JUNIT 3.8, log4j 1.2, Ant 2.7. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Technology in Technology JNTU - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN May 2007 Skills HTML (8 years), Java (9 years), JUNIT (8 years), testing (8 years), Unix (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java(J2SE1.8/1.6/1.5 ,J2EE 6/5) , SQL, PL/SQL, UML2.0,  Technologies  JSP2.1/2.0/1.2, Servlets2.x, JavaBeans, JDBC, Struts2.x/1.x, RMI, EJB3.0/2.1, Hibernate3.x/2.x, Spring 3.0, Spring 4,SOA, JMS1.1, SAX and DOM Parsers, AJAX, JAXB2.1/2.0, JAXP1.x, LDAP, Sybase Power Designer, RESTful and SOAP web services    Web Technologies HTML/DHTML, XHTML1.1, JavaScript1.x, XML1.0, XSL, XSLT, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular-JS, Jquery and EXT-JS  Development Tools (IDEs) Eclipse3.2/3.0/2.1.1, MyEclipse6.0/5.1.1, RAD7.0/6.0, WSAD5.x/ 4.x, NetBeans3.3, MS Visual Studio 2005, Brackets and Webstorm  Web/Application Servers Tomcat 7.x/6.x/5.x, WebLogic10.3/9.2/8.1/7.0, IBM WebSphere 8.x/7.x/6.x.  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Session Façade, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns  RDBMS Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL Server 2005/2000, MySQL5.1/4.1, DB2 9.1/8.1/7.2  Platforms Windows, UNIX, LINUX  Testing Tools JUnit 4.x, TestNG, Selenium, Cucumber, Jbehive  Version Control GIT, SVN, VSS and Rational Clear Case.  Methodologies Agile Methodology, RUP, Extreme Programming  Build Tools Ant 1.7, Maven 2.x,Gradle