Sr. Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Developer - UBS - Weehawken ? 12+ years of strong IT experience in Analysis, Development, Implementation in RPA, BPM and J2EE applications.  ? Around 2 years of Pega RPA experience in covering all the stages of Software Development Cycle.  ? 10+ Years of Experience on BFSI Domain (Wealth Management, Custodian Banking, Core Banking, Payments, Credit Cards and Personal Finance).  ? Proficient in analyzing and translating business requirements to technical designs and developing using Pega RPA (OpenSpan).  ? Experience using Windows, web & Universal Web, Text/mainframes adapters in Pega RPA (OpenSpan).  ? Experience using the interaction Manger frame to integrate multiple applications.  ? Experience using Excel File, Microsoft Outlook,ServiceClient connectors.  ? Experience with RPA & RDA infrastructure setup.  ? Experience with using the webservices in Pega Robotic Automation.  ? Good understanding of Assisted vs Unassisted Robotics Implementations.  ? Experience with web services standards and related technologies (HTTP, XML, JSON, REST, SOAP, WS*).  ? Good understanding of PEGA integration using Restful calls, SSO integration, OCR.  ? Analyzing the business requirements and involving in design preparation and functional requirements specifications.  ? Proficiency on various PEGA Rules - Ex: UI, Activities and Flows, Declarative, Decision, Validation, Reports.  ? Expertise in developing web based multi-tier enterprise and interactive applications using J2EE technologies like Java, J2EE, MVC architecture, Webservices, XML, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, XML and jQuery.  ? Closely worked with Quality Assurance (QA) teams to meet Quality check in all the stages of the Enhancements, Change request and Maintenances.  ? Have strong logical thinking in reproducing, debugging and bug fixing of the production issues. Work Experience Sr. Developer UBS - Weehawken May 2017 to Present ISToolset - IS Toolset is single enrollment tool for product enrollment. Currently SWP is stand-alone product. As part of this migration the SWP (Strategic Wealth Portfolio) will bring onto IS Toolset. Integrating the Operations & Admin Home office functionalities from SWP to Toolset via workflows.  Migration involves to leverage the existing Toolset main page functionalities like Branch/FA searching, Account Type searching, Status searching, Pagination and functionalities like proposal, account maintenance and submit for approval options like edit/review, update profile, update allocation/rebalance, update options, change ownership, withdrawal, terminate, submit for approval, FA/BOM approval, home office options, billing, Vestmark for trading.    Responsibilities:  ? Exposure to Exception handling, Work Queue Configurations, Monitoring, Work Queue Actions, efficient use of stages, blocks, data types, session and environmental variables for processing of Business Process diagrams and Process flows.  ? Created automation with Excel File connector to read the data from batch and to load the data into application.  ? Implemented Microsoft Outlook connector to connect with outlook mail to send the Todo mails and notifications to admin Team.  ? Implementing BOTs using windows, web adapters.  ? Implementing the BOT to trigger the failure notifications for business intervention.    ? Interacted actively with the users in gathering requirements and delivered the presentations on the application flow.  ? Closely worked with the team to make sure all the stages of project achieved Quality Assurance.  ? Involved in trouble shooting and provide rapid resolution to critical problems before the code goes in the Production.  ? Involved unit testing and integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests and code reviews.  ? Experience in analyzing business requirements, current and future state process designs, translating them into process flows and Visual Business Objects.  ? Worked with workflow team to change the status in Home Office and to get the data from workflow team to change status.    Environment: Pega RPA(OpenSpan), Workflows, Webservices ( SOAP & Restful), JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Message Queuing (MQ). Sr. Developer & Coordinator State Street Corporation - Boston, MA June 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzing the business requirements and involving in design preparation and functional requirements and use acceptance cases for development.  ? Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring MVC framework and O/R mapping tool Hibernate for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  ? Lead the offshore team and involving in development of AIS applications using Java, Cassandra and Solr search.  ? Using Build tool Maven to generate development report and Clear case for continuous integration on Cloud Environment.  ? Integrated Automation scripts on Continuous Integration tools Jenkins for batch run of the Script.  ? Using the Dynatrace tool to monitor the application performance.  ? Designed and developed the Hibernate Classes and Mapping files required for all the database tables.  ? Developed multiple independent modules and avoid multiple configuration using Spring Boot.  ? Developed SQL Scripts for Backend to ensure that the data is updated as per the Business Rules.  ? Implemented Hibernate persistent classes and their corresponding xml mapping files for storage and retrieval of information to and from the persistent storage.  ? Generated DAO's to map with database tables using Hibernate. Using HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Criteria for database querying and retrieval of results.  ? Using Query rules to fetch data from Data Stores in process modules.    Environment: Java,Cloud,Spring MVC,Hibernate,JBPM (BRMS & drools),React-JS, Windows, IBM Message Queuing (MQ) , Active MQ,Oracle, Webservices (Restful) ,GIT, Maven, Jenkins, Cassandra, Solr Search. Senior Software Engineer SAMBA- Citi Group - RIYADH, SA May 2013 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Worked closely with the business and involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements.  ? Actively involved in requirement understanding discussion, technical architecture discussion, knowledge sharing and design discussion with business and vendor team members.  ? Development of front-end i.e. JSPs and server-side java components i.e. container managed entity beans, stateless session beans, Action classes, writing unit test cases and unit testing.  ? Developed Webservices for sending and getting data from different applications using SOAP1.1 messages, such as Account information, Credit Instruments like Credit Cards, Loans.  ? Created and run Functional Tests, LoadTests the webservices using SOAPUI.  ? Involved in implementing the Appian build in Dev, SIT and UAT the Environments  ? Responsible to prepare the implementation Schedule for Appian build and co-ordinate with production implementation team.  ? Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP code. Designed UI screens using JSP, CSS, XML, JSON, and HTML for client side validation.  ? Have worked with document management FileNet team to integrate and manage the docs.  ? Generated DAO's to map with database tables using Hibernate. Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Criteria for database querying and retrieval of results.  ? Developed front-end/presentation tier using JSP, Java Script , JQuery ,HTML, JSON and CSS.  ? Involved in writing the building front end frameworks, controller layer, service frameworks, Web service modules.  ? Responsible to prepare the implementation Schedule for Appian build and co-ordinate with production implementation team.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Appian BPM, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SOAPUI, WebLogic Application server10, Unix, Message Queuing (MQ), Sybase,Oracle, FileNet, Webservices ( SOAP & Restful) , Eclipse, DB2. Senior Java Developer Ford Motor Company August 2012 to April 2013 Geometric Ltd, India    Responsibilities:  ? Attended the client calls to gather the required information from the SMEs.  ? Desktop server configuration created for application and tested the CIS application (Both Provider and Client) with existing code in WAS6.1 Server and RSA7.5.  ? Desktop server configuration created for application and migrated the CIS application source and tested successfully in WAS8 server and RSA8.  ? Developed Webservices for sending and getting data from different applications using SOAP1.1 messages.  ? Experience in integrating TopLink with Backend and writing DAO layer to access database.    ? Designed and developed Data Access Object (DAO) tier using TopLink and Sruts (MVC).  ? Have incorporated the production source for WAS6.1 and WAS8 server, migrated and tested successfully both Provider and client modules.  ? Fixing bugs out of Unit testing and System independent Testing.  ? Involved in preparation of process and implementation Specification Documents.  ? Involved in tool based application performance tuning which includes identifying the bottlenecks and providing resolution in the architecture, application design, application code and database queries.  ? Developed front-end/presentation tier using JSP, Java Script , JQuery ,HTML, JSON and CSS.  ? Created and run Functional Tests, LoadTests the webservices using SOAPUI.  ? Responsible for developing and maintaining code to consume the application functionality through SOAP Webservices.  ? Engaged in day to day basis status reviews with the team members, identifying and prioritizing the issues with respect to requirement or technical and tracking those to closure.  ? Providing the status updates to management, in case of any deviation in original plan alerting the management upfront and take corrective actions.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring, JavaScript, SOAPUI, WebLogic Application server, TopLink,Unix, SOAP, webservices ( SOAP), RAD 6.0, Agile methodology -Scrum. Senior Java Developer Telstra - AU February 2011 to July 2012 Mphasis Ltd, India    Responsibilities:  ? Worked closely with the customers and involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements.  ? Development of front-end i.e. JSPs, HTML, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, Spring (MVC), and and server-side java components i.e. container managed entity beans, stateless session beans, Action classes.  ? Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring MVC framework and O/R mapping tool Hibernate for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  ? Written Spring Action classes to dispatch the request to the particular action.  ? SQL, Stored procedure development (PL/SQL) and programming using JAVA.  ? Extensively involved in writing Object relational mapping code using hibernate, developed Hibernate mapping files for configuring Hibernate POJOs for relational mapping  ? Deploying the application in WebLogic server in development environment and corresponding configurations in WebLogic Server.  ? Developed Webservices for sending and getting data from different applications using SOAP1.1 messages to get address details.  ? Prepared the design document for the merge, Delete and Re-parenting the address enhancement.    ? Used Spring Inversion of Control (IoC) for injecting the beans and reduced the coupling between the classes.  ? Used Spring MVC to implement the Model View Controller pattern. Used Spring DI to inject data into Java beans.  ? Involved in preparing the SESS and Technical Specification Document.  ? Analysed the business requirements and came up with the most appropriate solution.  ? Designed and developed the Hibernate Classes and Mapping files required for all the database tables.  ? Involved in developing Servlet based services for cross region system communication.  ? Developed server-side common utilities for the application and the front-end dynamic web pages.    Environment: Java, Spring (MVC), Hibernate, JavaScript, Message Queuing (MQ), HTML, JSON, CSS, WebSphere Application server, SOAP, webservices, Unix, DB2 ,Tibco, Agile methodology -Scrum. Java Developer CITI BANK- London and Jersey August 2008 to February 2011 Polaris Software Labs - India    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developments of various products like Brokerage, Mutual fund, saving and Current Accounts and Time deposits enhancements.  ? Developed the web pages to create the user, profile, role, groups, and search screens, using JSP, Servlets, struts (MVC), Beans, HTML and XML.  ? Deployed the application in WebLogic server in development environment and corresponding configurations in WebLogic Server.  ? Written Struts Action classes to dispatch the request to the particular action.  ? Written Generic Request Handlers to handle actions performed by a user on a JSP Page.  ? Used Toad for database details.  ? Involved in trouble shooting and provide rapid resolution to critical problems before the code goes in the Production.  ? Involved unit testing and integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests and code reviews.  ? Implemented both server side validations and client side validations (using JavaScript).  ? SQL, Stored procedure development (PL/SQL) and programming using JAVA.  ? Did performance tuning for web pages taking up longer time by finding out JVM memory leaks  ? Did performance tuning of the Database Sql queries by using explain plan and indexing in coordination with the DB team.  ? Involved in impacted analysis to customize the entire IPB for PLC branch.  ? Responding to service tickets within established time based requirements.  ? Provided hands-on technical governance on all aspects of production support.    Environment:  Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts (MVC), JavaScript, HTML, JSON, CSS, Putty, Weblogic Application server, UNIX, Eclipse, Edit Plus, Oracle. Java Developer CITI BANK- Hub & Market Maintenance June 2006 to July 2008 Felix Infomatix - India    Responsibilities:  ? Interacted with the business analysts to gather the requirements.  ? Involved in design and development the Hub and Market approach.  ? Developed the dynamic web pages to add, modify and delete the Hub and Market profiles using JSP, Servlets, struts (MVC), Beans, HTML, Java Script and XML.  ? Deployed the application in WebLogic server in development environment and corresponding configurations in WebLogic Server.  ? Written Struts Action classes to dispatch the request to the particular action.  ? Wrote Generic Request Handlers to handle actions performed by a user on a JSP Page.  ? Interacted actively with the users in gathering requirements and delivered the presentations on the application flow.  ? Involved in trouble shooting and provide rapid resolution to critical problems before the code goes in the Production.  ? Involved unit testing and integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests and code reviews.  ? Implemented both server side validations and client side validations (using JavaScript).  ? SQL, Stored procedure development (PL/SQL) and programming using JAVA.  ? Provided hands-on technical governance on all aspects of production support.    Environment:  Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts (MVC), JavaScript, Putty, WebLogic Application server, UNIX, Eclipse, Edit Plus, Oracle. Education B.E in Electronic and Communications in Electronic and Communications Anna University Chennai - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2001 to 2005 Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, XML, XSL