Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer Dallas, TX PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY    Over 9+ Years of experience as a Java/J2EE Developer in Design, Development, Integration, Application Analysis, Deployment and Support for Web, Standalone, and Client-server based software applications using Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Java, J2EE technologies such as Servlet's, JSP, JDBC, HTML, CSS, Spring, Web services (SOAP, WSDL, Restful), Java Beans, Java Script, AJAX and XML.    • Participation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding and testing and good experience with software development methodologies like agile and waterfall.  • Good Experience in MVC Frameworks like spring and experience in SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) by creating the web services using SOAP, Restful, and WSDL.  • Experience on developing applications using Eclipse IDE and NetBeans IDE.  • Experience in core java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, and Exception Handling.  • Experience in design and development of J2EE applications using Core java, Java Collections, JDBC, JSP, Spring MVC, EJB, Java Beans, XML, HTML, Servlets and Struts.  • Expertise in Design and Development of User Interfaces Using JSP, JSF and HTML and proficient in programming using JSP.  • Experience in developing data models using Hibernate POJO's and configuring Hibernate persistence layer.  • Good knowledge Hibernate mapping in JSP, JSF and configuration. Having good experience in backend development using Hibernate, Spring EJB in WebLogic application server.  • Experience in developing applications using ORM frameworks like Hibernate and MVC frameworks like Struts, Spring etc.  • Experience in using Oracle WebLogic Application Server, IBM WebSphere Application Server, JBoss and Apache Tomcat Web Server.  • Experience with middleware technologies like JMS.  • Experience in performing Unit/Integration & System testing using JUnit.  • Extensive experience in developing user interface using JSP, JAVA SCRIPT, CSS, and HTML.  • Having good work experience in RDMBS such as Oracle 9i, 10g, DB2, MySQL, PL/SQL and SQL server.  • Expertise in writing SQL queries and P/L SQL Stored procedures, functions, sequences, cursors, triggers, indexes etc. in different DBs like Oracle, DB2, MYSQL, PL/SQL and SQL Server.  • Experience using Hibernate for mapping Java classes with database using SQL.  • Experience in Hibernate which includes integrating legacy databases, writing custom CRUD statements.  • Good knowledge in Performance tuning of the Database.  • Ability to interact with the managers and clients to report project status, and deliverables. Communicate with IT staff members in performing complex testing, support and troubleshooting functions.  • Strong interpersonal skills, ability to interact with team members and good communication and presentation skills  • Comfortable working independently and also a good team player. Highly motivated to take independent responsibility as well as has the ability to contribute and be a productive team member.  • Very good self-starter, ability to do multitask and succeed in a dynamic environment.    INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITATIONS: Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Starwood Vacation Ownership - Orlando, FL November 2018 to Present Description: Starwood vacation ownership is one of the leaders in the industry, with vacation ownership resorts and fractional residential properties throughout the United States. Project is to maintain SVO brand sites for the customers to make a reservation. It's a web project giving ability to search the hotels across the world and making reservation. This is more of ongoing initiative to provide customers the best ability to making better decisions. Re-writing the page to provide more precise sell rate options to the customers.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development of e-bill payment system as well as account transfer system and developed specs that include use cases, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and activity diagrams.  • Involved in coding, building of Java applications using Core Java, Collections and Multithreading.  • Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom user interfaces.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs and Servlets.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML, CSS and Java script.  • Designed powerful JSF and JSP Tag libraries for reusable web interface components.  • Used XML, RESTful web services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Developed Web services using SOAP, WSDL, Spring MVC and developed DTD's schemas for XML (Parsing, Processing and Design) to communicate with active directory application using RESTful API.  • Involved in bringing the data from database to UI and sending the data from UI to database for create and update modules of the application.  • Developed application using Spring MVC framework.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Worked with a variety of issues involving multi-threading, server connectivity and user interface.  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures - database application scripts.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and created mapping classes required.  • Created Hibernate POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Involved in creating SQL scripts, worked on some of the core query operations using DB2.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server.  • Develop data patch scripts using SQL, PL/SQL for production support issues. Remedy is used for issue tracking and resolution.  • Created new connections through application coding for better access to DB2 database and involved in writing SQL and PL/SQL - stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc.  Environment: Java, Multithreading, J2EE, JSP 2.0, PL/SQL, JMS, Oracle, XML, RESTful Web service, UML, SOAP, Eclipse, WebLogic 7.0, Hibernate 2.0, MSSQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL, DB2 and SQL Java Developer BlueCross and Blue Shield of IL December 2016 to November 2018 Description: The application provides comprehensive information of the various types of Health Insurance coverage offered by BCBS. The website functionality was extended by providing the customers to login and performs online transactions like paying bills online and updating their insurance policy. The website was redesigned to provide customized information for the end users.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the enhancements, re-designing the existing application. Actively participated in interacting and gathering the requirements from the client for the new enhancements.  • Involved in coding, building of Java applications using Core Java, Multithreading, JSP, and Servlet.  • Used standard J2EE design patterns and Model-view-controller (Spring MVC) in application design.  • Implemented Restful Web Services and associated business module integration for getting status of claim report.  • Integrated and implemented GitHub API's to configure and list the existing project repositories by using Restful Webservices and SOAP.  • Created RESTful Web service for updating customer data sent from external systems.  • Developed JavaBeans to be used by JSP pages for presenting Web content.  • Designed and implemented the UI using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and Java.  • Involved in Design, Documentation, Coding and Testing of the application in Agile Methodology.  • Experience in using Hibernate as an ORM tool to maintain object relational persistence across front-end and Oracle Database, writing queries and creating hibernate mapping (.hbm) files.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all developed modules and performed Unit and Integration Testing.  • Used Log4J for message logging.  • Designed and developed re-usable web services and Java Utility classes to support XML, XML Schemas, and XSL.  • Implemented server side tasks using Servlets and XML.  • Implemented Struts Validation Framework for Server side validation.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analysing the project and created UML diagrams.  • Written and modified SQL queries and stored procedures for the application to communicate with Database. IBM DB2 used as backend, Worked on SQL queries for persistence of Business Objects.  • Involved in fixing the production issues on timely manner.  • Participated in code review meetings.  • Involved in receiving incidents and requests from end users, analyzing and responding to the end user with a solution.  • Involved in mapping data base tables with Business objects using Hibernate.  Environment: Struts2, Spring MVC, Multithreading, Hibernate, Restful Webservices, GitHub API, My Eclipse IDE, WebSphere Application Server, Java, JSP, HTML, Java script, SQL, DB2, and Log4j. Java/J2EE Developer Mutual Insurance, FL January 2014 to November 2016 Description: The project was to develop and enhance the existing online account transaction system which provides features such transfer funds between accounts, pay bills, paperless, bill, monthly statements online and access a customizable financial portal.  Responsibilities:  • Used WebSphere for developing use cases, sequence diagrams and preliminary class diagrams for the system in UML.  • Extensively used Web Sphere Studio Application Developer for building, testing and deploying applications.  • Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework in HTML, JSP and done validations on server-side.  • Involved in java code, which generated XML document, which in turn used XSLT to translate the content into HTML to present to GUI.  • Implemented XQuery for querying and node selection based on the client input XML files to create java objects.  • Used Web Sphere to develop the Entity Beans where transaction persistence is required and JDBC was used to connect to the MYSQL database.  • Design GUI screens by using HTML and JSP.  • Developed the user interface using the JSP pages and DHTML to design the dynamic HTML pages.  • Developed session Beans on Web Sphere for the transactions in the application.  • Utilized WSAD to create JSPs/Servlets/EJBs that pulled information from a DB2 database and sent to a front end GUI for end users.  • Written the SQL queries to retrieve the information from the database.  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures - database application scripts.  • Extensive involvement in database design, development and coding using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Written server side validations using Struts framework.  • In the database end, responsibilities included creation of tables, triggers, stored procedures, sub-queries, joins, integrity constraints and views.  • Worked on MQ series with J2EE technologies (EJB, Java Mail, JMS, etc.) on the Web Sphere server.  Environment: Java 1.6, EJB, IBM Web Sphere Application Server v5.1, Struts, JSP, Servlets, Junit, JDBC, XML, XSLT, CSS, DOM, HTML, MYSQL, JavaScript, Oracle, UML, Clear Case and ANT. Java Developer Tecnics IT Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2009 to November 2013 Project Description: This project is extension to redesign and implement the internet portal of Tatasky. Tatasky is a direct broadcast satellite television provider in India, using MPEG-2 and MPEG-4 only for HD channels digital compression technology, transmitting using INSAT. Incorporated in 2004, Tatasky is a joint venture between the Tata group and British Sky broadcasting.  In this project we developed the themes depends on the page styles. TV guide for customer perspective channel wise and time wise displaying the programs. We implemented the contact us and send mails with broacher functionalities. We implemented the same application for mobile with different types of styles and the content for mobile customers. In this project we created the content as per the client requirements.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the existing application using Core Java, JSP, Servlets and JDBC connections.  • Played major role in designing and developing JSP Pages and XML reports.  • Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern to this project.  • Developed user interface by creating at least one webpage for each component using Struts web MVC and ActionServlet as front controller for this application.  • Designed and developed the controller and view components using JSPs and Servlets.  • Used JavaScript and struts validation framework for performing back end and Server-side validations.  • Involved in developing the Routings and configured Routing Program as scheduled the concurrent request.  • Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute.  • Used REST and SOAP Web Services to exchange information.  • Developed RESTful Web Services to provide the communication between database and application and to provide the data to the front end.  • Used Hibernate as the ORM to connect database to the framework.  • Deployed application on WebSphere Application Server.  • Designed and implemented the database using E-R diagrams.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Bug fixing and Acceptance Testing with test cases.  • Involved in raising the Notifications to Oracle Users through Mailing Concept for intimating to start the next process using workflow.  • Extensively worked on Oracle for writing complex queries in the business logic layer. Used joins, debugging the SCM related packages and customization.  • Extensively worked on creating the setups for Organizations, Templates, Concurrent Requests, Cross Reference Types, User Creations, Assigning responsibilities, creating value sets, Descriptive Flex Fields etc. in Oracle Applications  • Coded SQL queries to access SQL Server database.  • Designed and implemented PL/SQL stored procedures to process messages.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, ORACLE 9i, JavaScript, HTML, SQL developer, WebSphere, RESTful web service, Net Beans. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JBOSS, JMS, JNDI, jQuery, JSF, JSP, JSTL, RMI, SERVLETS, STRUTS, DB2, JDBC, MYSQL, ORACLE, Java J2Ee Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: C, C++, Java, PHP, HTML, Shell Scripting and XML.  Java/ Java EE: Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSTL, JDBC, JUnit, JSP, JSF, EJB, JNDI, JMS, Java Mail, Applets, RMI, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Web services.  Webserver: WebSphere 7.0/6.x, WebLogic 6.1/8.1, JBoss, Tomcat.  Webservices: SOAP, Restful and WSDL (Web Services Description Language).  Databases: Oracle, IBM DB2, SQL, PL/SQL, MYSQL, and NoSQL.  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, DHTML, Ajax4JSF, and XML/XSL/XSLT  Design Tools & IDEs: RAD 7.5/6.0, Eclipse 3.x, Rational Rose, UML, Rational ClearCase, ClearQuest, RUP,  Visio 2000, Edit plus, Net Beans, and MS Front page  Source Control (SCM): CVS and Clear Case.  Logging Tools: Log4j  Build Tools: Maven, and ANT.  Operating Systems: UNIX (Solaris, HP-UX), RedHat Linux, Windows XP/2000/2003/2007, MS-Dos.  Others: JUnit, Log4J.