Data Engineer, Business Risk Analyst Data Engineer, Business Risk Analyst Lehi, UT CORE STRENGTHS  I impact areas by leveraging my business acumen, technical skills, analytical judgment, and excellent communication. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Engineer, Business Risk Analyst Progressive Leasing - The Help Card - Riverton, UT October 2017 to Present I enable data driven decision making for the executive leadership team and risk management group. I handle end-to-end data processes for the data science and reporting data warehouses.     - Solved complex business and technical problems involving large-scale data aggregation.  - Provided recommendations to the executive team and risk committee on topics such as risk reduction, profitability and projected decision/risk model performance.   - Redesigned the data architecture and successfully executed the migration of the data science warehouse into a new and more robust environment.  - Reverse engineered historical decision models and accounting data, resulting in accurate and previously unavailable What-If analysis.   - Member of the data warehouse steering committee—our purpose is to create and define key metrics and identify ways to encourage a more accessible data environment.  - Recommended the score value to be used by new and existing risk models that customers must clear to be provided credit  - Provided complex analysis and drew conclusions from otherwise unclear data.  - Mentor developers with less experience by performing thorough and constructive code reviews.  - Developed metadata and other technical documentation of assigned systems. ENTERPRISE BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE DEVELOPER Overstock.com - Midvale, UT September 2016 to October 2017 I used data to drive business strategies and decisions by consulting with end users and translating data into compelling stories.    - Gathered cross department reporting and analytic business requirements to build fully architected reports and dashboards.  - Created mobile reports and templates which became Overstocks standard in reporting practices.   - Automated reports using MicroStrategy and Virtual Insight for the merchandising group; focused on data  visualization; metric relevancy and accuracy of information  - Trained 12 analysts on how to develop meaningful self- service reporting and cross-trained analysts and merchants on topics such as pricing analytics and operational pricing.   - Developed fully automated, dynamic and interactive reports for both the desktop and mobile environments. Pricing Analyst Overstock.com - Midvale, UT September 2015 to September 2016 I balanced the requirements of multiple business groups and   technical teams, resulting in effective pricing and insight.     - Worked with the marketing, merchandising, and analytics groups to help reach category level pricing goals.  - Completed in-depth analysis of merchandising units’ performance from the perspective of pricing and cost.   - Analyzed pricing metrics to stabilize pricing from volatile transaction-level marketing channels.  - Improved existing strategy and techniques for visualizing and displaying data for pricing insight.  - Decreased the timeline of shipping-related cost processes from 3 days to 1 day, by analyzing the value and impact of the existing cost and price change structures. IT Business Analyst, Java Developer - Intern Williams Oil and Gas - Salt Lake City, UT May 2015 to September 2015 I successfully wireframed, coded and implemented the most difficult intern project to date at Williams. Code had to pass through rigorous regulatory and user requirements.     - Modeled and fully developed a transactional tool for both internal and external users.  - Wrote reliable, sustainable, object oriented code.  - Gathered requirements with key stakeholders to develop the scope of the new module—owned the project from mock ups to implementation within an Agile development environment.   - Created data flow diagrams and wireframes as a part of the design process of the energy transactional tool. This allowed for fast iteration with the customer and insured the module met regulation requirements.   - Accurately implemented the module without scope creep while bringing new perspective of how a user can interact with the system.  - Developed within an agile environment using Java, ActionScript, Microsoft SQL and the use of stored procedures. Education Master's in Information Systems University of Utah - Salt Lake City, UT January 2013 to August 2017 Bachelor's in Information Systems University of Utah - Salt Lake City, UT January 2013 to July 2017 Skills SQL, SQL Server, PostgresSQL, Teradata, Power BI, Tableau, Microstrategy, R, Java, PHP, Actionscript, Flex