Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Format North Brunswick, NJ Result-oriented Senior Software Engineer on analyzing complex business problems, designing  appropriate solutions to business needs and managing business application development.  Strong collaborative leadership coupled with "hands-on" IT experience from Ideation to  Implementation of any Data Intensive Web Project. Excellent communication skills, functional  and technical savvy and ability to easily adapt to environmental and organizational change, take  direction, and execute with precision. Work Experience Senior Java Developer Format - Union, NJ October 2014 to Present Role/Title  Project Name Currency Exchange/Conversion Micro Services    Bed Bath and Beyond(BBB) provides global  online shopping experience through its sites  hosting either from the US or Canada. With the  "Currency Exchange Services" a customer from The United Kingdom is not restricted to pay in  United States Dollar but also be able to enjoy  shopping experience through his/her local  Project Description currency that is, Pound sterling (GBP) during the checkout flow.    The "Currency Exchange Services" project is an enhancement of BBB's global online presence which facilitates customer to use their own local  currencies no matter wherever they are.    • Participated in design of Micro  Services of Currency Exchange  Responsibilities  Service(CES), Currency Conversion  Services(CCS), Cart & Checkout(CnC)  modules and external REST call to Cyber Source API.  • Participated in database and application design and architecture.  • Involved in Coding & Coordinating of the entire development phase of the  project so as to provide a quality  finished product  • Worked on preparing the user stories  and update in JIRA.  • Involved in daily stand up meeting  with clients for task updates.  • Built Micro Services using Spring boot  with continuous deployment and continuous integration using Docker and Pivotal Cloud Foundry  • Implemented Fiegn REST Client  Interface on CCS Module to invoke  CES and CES to retrieve updated  currency exchange rate through third  party API calls to Cybersource  • Implemented User Authentication and secured server resource & APIs with  Spring Security, JSON Web  Token(JWT) and Google's GSON  Library  • Implemented Ribbon for client side  load balancing.  • Implemented Spring Cloud Sleuth to add an unique ID to a REST call event  so as to track service calls status among dependent micro-services.  • Implemented Service Discovery in  Micro Services using Eureka Naming  Server and Zuul API Gateways.  • Used RabbiMQ as a message queue  server and Zipkin Distributed Tracing  Server to record the logs that are  generated during service invocations.  • Used Slf4J for application logging and the services/API Calls.  • Building and deploying applications  using Maven.  • Implementation of Git Flow Branching  Mechanism and triggering Jenkins of CI/CD Pipeline using Web hooks.  • Used JUnit Jupiter, MockMVC and Mockito for Unit testing.    Porch Micro Service Integration with Project Name eCommerce Platform    Bed Bath and Beyond(BBB) is also an online  retailer shop that sells hard-good merchandises.  With the integration of Porch with eCommerce  platform, BBB will be able to sell services as soft  goods as well. If a customer needs a ceiling fan, for instance, he/she will be given option if  installation/maintenance services is also Project Description required for the same item during the checkout  flow.    The service, if required, the customer would be  provided separately from the Porch side. With  the Porch integration to eCommerce platform, customer can have not only the hard-goods but also services needed as well.    • Involved in the design of Micro  Services of Porch, Product Detail  Page(PDP), Product Landing  Page(PLP), Cart & Checkout(CnC), Certona & Google's Product Landing  AdSense(PLA) modules.  • Participated in database and application design and architecture.  • Involved in Coding & Coordinating of the entire development phase of the  project so as to provide a quality  Responsibilities finished product  • Worked on preparing the user stories  and update in JIRA.  • Involved in daily stand up meeting  with clients for task updates.  • Built Micro Services using Spring boot  with continuous deployment and continuous integration using Docker and Pivotal Cloud Foundry  • Worked with Business Analyst in  translating business requirements into Functional Requirements Document and to Detailed Design Documents.  • Design and development of Porch API  for PDP and CnC modules.  • Implementation of Service Discovery  in Micro Services using Eureka and Zuul  • Used Ribbon for load balancing.  • Building and deploying applications  using Maven.  • Used Docker Containers for Continuous Deployment and testing.  • Spring framework security for building clients, authorization and  resource servers  • Implementation of Git Flow Branching  Mechanism and triggering Jenkins  using Web hooks.  • Used Java 1.8 Streams, Lambda  Expressions and Functional  Programming features  • Used JUnit and Mockito for Unit  testing.  • Implemented Log4j library to log and used Kafka messaging system to  spread event logs across the entire  application.  Windows, Linux, AWS  Operating Systems  Hardware I5 @ 2.5 GHz, 8 GB RAM, 64 bit OS  Software / Special Tools Maven, Git, Docker, Jenkins  JAVA 8, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Languages Netflix OSS, Spring MVC, Spring Cloud,  ReactJS.    Organization Name: HCL America  AT&T  Client Name:    Project Name: ePTT integration with Hardrock Platform  Project Duration: (From & To in Month/Year Application Developer Format - Bothell, WA April 2013 to September 2014 AT&T's National Consumer Instance (NCI)  initiative is the ability for customers to have one  account (and therefore one bill) that includes  Cellular Telephone Number (CTN) with Area  Codes (NPA: Numbering Plan Area) from markets that do not match the market of their  Project Description account. Moreover, for Individual Responsibility  User (IRU) new plan Enhanced Push to Talk  (ePTT) has been brought other than Family Talk  or Mobile Share. This project (Hardrock)  modules have a dependency on ATG out of the box modules and customized as per the business  requirements.    • Involved in different phases of Software Development Lifecycle  (SDLC) like Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and  Deployment of various modules like Account, Monitoring, Alerts  • Extensively used Spring Core (for Inversion of Control (IOC)), Spring  Security, Spring Transaction API and ORM modules of Spring Framework in the project.  • Implemented persistence layer using  Hibernate ORM (Spring + JPA  integration).  Responsibilities  • Involved in developing web tier using  Spring MVC, HTML, JSTL, JSP, Java  Script, AJAX, JQuery.  • Worked with Oracle to log the audit  logs for Account management  application.  • Developed the application using  Eclipse and deployed it on Web Logic and Apache Tomcat.  • Developed JUnit test cases to test all  possible business scenarios under the guide lines of Test First Methodology and Test-Driven Development(TDD).  • Worked with Developers and QA  Testing Team in tracking and resolving  defects, which arise in QA & production environments  • Used Log4j and Sl4log for logging  • Used Maven for building and deploying the application.    Operating Systems Linux, Windows  Hardware I5 @ 2.5 GHz, 8 GB RAM, 64 bit OS  Software / Special Tools Maven, Tortoise SVN, Jenkins  Java 7, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Languages Spring AOP, JDBC Template, JSP, Servlets,  JQuery, Oracle, Weblogic, JUnit    Tata Consultancy Services(TCS)  Organization Name    Client Name  State Farm Insurance    Project Name Auto Quote & Purchase(AQP)  Project Duration (From & To in Month/Year Java/JEE Developer Format - Bloomington, IL January 2010 to March 2013 State Farm is a large group of insurance and financial services companies throughout the  United States with corporate headquarters in Bloomington, Illinois(IL). The group's main  business is State Farm Mutual Automobile  Insurance Company, a mutual insurance firm  Project Description that also owns the other State Farm companies.  As an JEE Developer, I was one of the team  member in designing & implementing Web  Services for Auto Quote & Purchase(AQP) and exposing User Profiles to Other Banking, Life  Insurance Application.    • Involved in Business Analysis and developed Use Cases, Program  Responsibilities  Specifications to capture the business  functionality.  • Implemented various Design Patterns  like Singleton, Front Controller, data  transfer object (DTO).  • Developed user interface screens using  JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and JSP Custom Tag.  • The concepts of Objects, Classes and their relationships and how to model  them and good hand on experience on Spring framework.  • Implemented spring configuration files  for the beans defined and properties to be injected into them using spring's  Dependency Injection with Inversion of Control(IOC).  • Developed Spring services, DTOs and DAO's for data manipulation.  • Implemented Spring Hibernate ORM  tool mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate query language  (HQL).  • Performed application level logging  using Log4j for debugging purpose.  • Performed unit testing using Junit and monitored the error logs using Log4J and  fixed the problems.    Operating Systems Windows, Linux  Hardware I3 @ 2.0 GHz, 16 GB RAM, 64 bit OS  IBM Lotus Notes, TRAC, Tortoise SVN, Software / Special Tools  Maven, SOAP UI, Jenkins  Spring Framework 3.0, Hibernate ORM  3/3.5, Java 6, JSP, JQuery, Languages  Oracle/PostgreSQL, JBoss, JUnit Web Application Developer Saerom International Inc - Ridgefield Park, NJ July 2008 to December 2009 Saerom International Inc.(Cornerstone) is a leading developer, manufacturer, marketer and  distributor of sensibly priced fashion belts and Project Description  other accessory products for men, women, kids  and teens. The project dealt with designing, developing, maintaining and troubleshooting the entire web application.    • Created web pages using JSP and CSS for layout design  • Implemented the Application with MVC  Architecture using Servlets for Controlling User Interactions(via  doGet(), doPost()), JSPs & JSTL.  • Implemented Database connectivity with Responsibilities JDBC for communication between  application and MySQL  • Developed database with PowerDesigner  for MySQL  • Deployed the application in Apache  Tomcat5 container  • Used JUnit as a Test Driven Development    Operating Systems Windows  Hardware 1.8 GHz, 4 GB RAM, 32 bit OS  Java/JEE(Servlets, JSPs, JSTL, Languages JDBC/ODBC), CSS, JavaScript, HTML,  Apache Tomcat Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, jquery, Struts, C#, C++, Docker, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Reactjs, Redux, Svn, Jira, Rally, Database, Mysql, Oracle Additional Information Skills Profile    Operating System Red Hat Linux, Unix-based OS & Windows  Micro Services, Netflix Spring Cloud, Springboot, Docker, Struts, Hibernate, Log4j,  Environment  RabbitMQ, JMS, ActiveMQ, Kafka, Lombok, MapStruct  Database Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB    Internet Tools ReactJS, JQuery, Redux, JavaScript, HTML, CSS    Languages JAVA, C#, C, C++    Other Ant, Maven, Gradle, Tortoise SVN, GitHub, Bitbucket, CircleCI    Management Skills Agile, Rally, Scrum methodology, Waterfall, JIRA