Java Lead <span class="hl">Java</span> Lead Java Lead - Bank Data Importer (BDI) • 9+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, and implementation and testing of various Client/Server Applications, Web Based Applications using Java, J2EE Technologies, Object oriented programming Concepts and Database concepts  • Extensively worked with Banking and Card & Payments domain with good experience of developing complex projects and good management skills of the deliverables  • Have excellent exposure to all stages of Software Development Life Cycle and proficient with CMMi level processes  • Excellent work experience on Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSF, JSP, XML, XSLT, Javascript, Apache Camel, Spring Cloud Data Flow, Tag Libraries, MVC frameworks such as Struts2, Spring  • Experience in working on Jax-WS/Jax-RS Web Services, SOAP, WSDL implementation approaches  • Experience in working with Struts2 & Spring MVC integration projects  • Experience working extensively in all phases of a project development life cycle from Requirements analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, Documentation, Standard reviews and Maintenance support  • Sun Certification for Sun Certified Java Programmer Exam 1.5  • Experience in developing WebServices (Consumed) using SOAP, RESTFUL, microservices.  • Proficient in J2EE components such as Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans , struts and Hibernate  • Expertise in Object oriented analysis and design (OOAD) using Java/J2EE Design Patterns, Unified Modeling Language (UML), EAP.  • Experience in implementing security using Digital Signature certificate.  • Experience in working with Spring integration projects that uses most of the spring features  • Excellent Analytical /problem solving skills and extra ordinary in identifying the potential gaps and issues in the early stages of design phase itself  • Vast working experience in Version Managers like SVN, bitbucket, GitHub  • Expertise in developing the custom XML parsers and message services and queuing systems using Jaxb, JMS and IBM MQ, RabbitMQ  • Extensive work experience with various IDEs for development -Eclipse, IBM RAD and Netbeans, IntelliJ  • Ability to manage and lead the team in a professional and sound manner  • Experience in designing the model-view-controller (MVC) unified framework for building the web apps using Servlets, JSP custom tags, JSTL and message resources  • Experienced in Web applications development using Spring MVC.  • Experienced in Web application deployment on PCF, Bamboo.  • Excellent experience in software development methodologies including Scrum/Agile Model  • Excellent in writing SQL and understanding Oracle, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures,MangoDB.  • Experience in software development methodologies such as Waterfall Model and Agile (Scrum)  • Extensive experience in UNIX, LINUX and Windows  • Extensive work experience as a Team/Development Lead with complete ownership of end to end deliverables including requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, testing, launch and post production support with L3 support  • Experience on working on IDW for batch monitoring.  • Excellent team player with good communication, people and leadership skills with onshore-offshore experience  • Experience in working with multiple vendors and geographically distributed teams.  • Worked as onsite coordinator for leading bank in Sydney (Australia). And participate in different task as estimation, requirements elicitation, analysis, design, work planning, developer, testing QC updates and assign work. Work Experience Java Lead Bank Data Importer (BDI) - Fort Worth, TX December 2017 to Present Description  CRMS provides enhanced due diligence process through the application of a systematic customer due diligence workflow for all key stakeholders. By capturing all the information associated with customer due diligence, CRMS provides evidence of review and repository of a data supporting those processes. The information captured by CRMS will serve to assist with Monitoring and Surveillance programs administered by Financial Crime Analytics and the investigation done by the Financial Intelligence Unit.    Roles & Responsibilities  • This application is going under modularization with Spring cloud data flow.  • Involved in design, elicitation, analysis, requirement gathering.  • Preparing technical documentation such as FSD, TDD  • Delegating work to team mates and conduct status/scrum offshore meetings  • Existing designed communication with database using JDBC  • Developing the business logic using Java and Oracle DB  • Consumed the XML files from upstream and processed using SCDF module  • Involved closely in migration for legacy system to new system  • Worked on migrating the manual deployments to continuous Integration using PCF and Bamboo  • Task delegation and track the progress, managing scrum meeting for offshore team.  • Communicate with testing, infra team  • Integration Testing and Deployment  • Production support for legacy application - L3 support    Environment  Java 1.8, tomcat, XML, MangoDB, Oracle 11g, bitBucket, PCF, Spring cloud data flow, Confluence, JIRA Java Lead eCS - Omaha, NE January 2016 to November 2017 Description  eCS focuses on what a customer sees when a person logs into their accounts online. Usually when a card holder logs into their account they will be able to see the account information, user information like address, payment screens, online credit card manager, credit line increase, statements etc. eCS is responsible for showing this data to the user, eCS is also responsible for incorporating the changes in the display and content based on the clients' requirements.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Development using RAD 8.5/ IntelliJ IDE  • Creation Low level design documents which includes class and sequence diagram using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Participated in design reviews, code and also used check style tool for code quality improvements.  • Testing, QC updates and assign defects to team.  • It's an application management and enhancement-development project.  • Worked as on call production support person and was responsible for batch monitoring and fixing production high priority tickets in recent release - L3 support  • Monitor application through AppD and Splunk dashboard.  • Used oracle 11g database.  • Created store procedures and develop static data script.  • Build and Deployment of EAR using maven.  • Support Prod deployments.  • Version control using harvest and GIT.  • Performed code configurations using Check coding standard with checklist  • Coordinated with multiple vendors from geographically distributed teams for a successful development, testing and deployment of a single project.  • Preparing technical documentation such as FSD, TDD  • Delegating work to team mates and conduct status meetings    Environment  Java 1.7, IBM WebSphere, html, XML, Spring core & MVC, Oracle 11g, GIT, Jenkins, Confluence, JIRA Offshore Java Lead FamASB - ReturnMail - Pune, Maharashtra August 2014 to December 2015 Client: American Express, Pune, India  Description  Return Mail application, is to enhance the application capability to accept "Return Mail" account numbers systematically from CFN (Customer Fulfilment Network), process them on AR System and dial out the customer as per FCAC (Financial Consumer Agency of Canada) guidelines and ultimately generate the report for the same.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Development using Jboss Studio Developer 7.1  • Creation Low level design documents which includes class and sequence diagram using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Participated in design reviews, code and also used check style tool for code quality improvements.  • Testing, QC updates and assign defects to team.  • Using Camel framework and with spring dsl.  • It's a scratch development project.  • Created pojo classes, unmarshall SOAP message.  • Used Microsoft sql server 2008 R2 database.  • Created store procedures and develop static data script.  • Build and Deployment of EAR using maven.  • Version control using svn tortoise.  • Performed code configurations using Check coding standard with checklist  • Coordinated with multiple vendors from geographically distributed teams for a successful development, testing and deployment of a single project.  • Production warranty support for new application.    Environment  Java 1.7, Jboss Studio Developer 7.1, JBoss, XML, apache Camel, sql server 2008 R2, SVN, Jenkins, Rally. Application Analyst Java Profit Maximizer - Pune, Maharashtra February 2013 to July 2014 Client: Wells Fargo, Pune, India    Description  Profit Maximizer, a web application allows user to view and download reports about profitability related to Products, Officers, Offices etc. Profit Maximizer receives data from dozens of sources which is then processed using Oracle DB batch process and finally made available for users. ProfitMax has numerous Upstream and Downstream which they receive and share data with.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Understanding business requirements after discussion with Business Analysts and Business user team and implementation of business logic  • Participate in analysis, design, development, architectural meetings and testing phase  • Developed and implemented business logic using Struts2 MVC framework  • Developed the UI components using JSP, JavaScript and XSL  • Implemented logging using log4j  • Developed a debug Utility for speedy analysis of Front End issues  • Developed Master Module for the application which takes care of Role wise access  • Prepared the SQL statements required to render data on FE using .vm files  • Fine-tuned the slow running queries studying explain plan and SQL Tuning Advisor  • Preparing technical documentation such as FSD, TDD  • Delegating work to team mates and conduct status meetings  • Onsite-offshore co-ordination, setting up weekly meetings for tracking  • Performed complete application life cycle functions (SDLC) from requirement to final release to users including design & analysis, Implementation, Testing, Deployment, Maintenance and Production support  • Work with cross functional team to understand the business and implement the same  • Prepared technical artifacts including UML Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc., using MS Visio    Environment  Java 1.7/J2EE, Spring MVC, JavaScript, XML, Oracle 11g, Tomcat, Putty, ALM, JSP, Html Teller-Spider Onsite- Sydney Aus - Sydney NSW February 2012 to February 2013 Role: Application Analyst Java  Client: Westpac, Sydney, Aus and Pune, India    Description  Spider project is part of Teller application, this application mainly used by teller for their day today transaction in bank. She was part of transition in Sydney. She was involved in CR requirement analysis.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Understanding business requirements after discussion with Business Analysts and Business user team and implementation of business logic  • Participate in analysis, design, development, architectural meetings and testing phase  • Onsite-Offshore co-ordination, meetings, KT transfer.  • Developed and implemented business logic using Struts2 MVC framework  • Developed the UI components using JSP, JavaScript and XSL  • Implemented logging using log4j  • Developed a debug Utility for speedy analysis of Front End issues  • Developed Master Module for the application which takes care of Role wise access  • Fine-tuned the slow running queries studying explain plan and SQL Tuning Advisor  • Preparing technical documentation such as FSD, TDD  • Delegating work to team mates and conduct status meetings  • Onsite-offshore co-ordination, setting up weekly meetings for tracking  • Performed complete application life cycle functions (SDLC) from requirement to final release to users including design & analysis, Implementation, Testing, Deployment, Maintenance and Production support  • Work with cross functional team to understand the business and implement the same  • Prepared technical artifacts including UML Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc., using MS Visio    Environment  Java 1.5/J2EE, JavaScript, XML, Oracle 10g, Tomcat, Putty, HP-QC, JSP, servlet, Html Senior Java Developer Global Online Program Management - Pune, Maharashtra September 2010 to February 2012 Client: American Express, Pune, India    Description  GOPM application deals with the maintenance and functions related with Corporate Credit cards offered by the client. GOPM application caters to users with self or Program Administrator servicing such as: Apply for a Card, Cancel/Suspend a Card, View transaction history, view in process transactions.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Understanding business requirements after discussion with Business Analysts and Business user team and implementation of business logic  • Participate in analysis, design, development, architectural meetings and testing phase  • Developed and implemented business logic using Struts2 MVC framework  • Developed the UI components using JSP, JavaScript and XSL  • Implemented logging using log4j  • Developed a debug Utility for speedy analysis of Front End issues  • Developed Master Module for the application which takes care of Role wise access  • Fine-tuned the slow running queries studying explain plan and SQL Tuning Advisor  • Preparing technical documentation such as FSD, TDD  • Delegating work to team mates and conduct status meetings  • Onsite-offshore co-ordination, setting up weekly meetings for tracking  • Performed complete application life cycle functions (SDLC) from requirement to final release to users including design & analysis, Implementation, Testing, Deployment, Maintenance and Production support  • Work with cross functional team to understand the business and implement the same  • Prepared technical artifacts including UML Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc., using MS Visio    Environment  Java 1.5/J2EE, JavaScript, XML, Oracle 9g, Tomcat, Putty, HP-QC, JSP, servlet, Html Java Developer DRDO, Govt. of India July 2008 to August 2010 Description  This project is done using Jsp, Servlet, JDBC, HTML, java script, Oracle 10g. This project is done for  DRDO Material management group. DRDO have 56 labs all over India. And IMMS is running in all 36  Labs. If any lab needs any material for their need they do through IMMS software. And this project  handles from Budget, Demand, Tender, Supply order, Accounting, Bill. This project has 13 main  modules and around 150 sub modules. Main modules are Administrator, Master, Item Codification,  Budget, Demand, Tender, FE Release, Supply Order, Traffic, Cash Purchase, Cash Section Finance, Accounting, Bill and MMD Info.    Responsibilities  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, Form Bean and Action classes  • Developed Admin module of the application  • Developed a bulk file upload utility to upload and process bills for DRDO labs.  • Requirement gathering, providing best technical solution and implement the same  • SPOC for the project and responsible for timely delivery  • Prepared technical artifacts including UML Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc., using MS Visio    Environment  Java/J2EE, Struts, Tomcat, Oracle, Putty    Education Details: Education B.Tech in COMPUTER S.G.G.S. Institute Engineering and Technology 2008 Diploma in COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY STATE BOARD OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION - Mumbai, Maharashtra 2005 SSC PUNE SECONDARY, EDUCATION BOARD 2001 Skills JAVA (10+ years), ORACLE (9 years), VISIO (9 years), TESTING (8 years), XML (8 years) Additional Information Currently not holding any valid Canada visa.    Technical Skills  JAVA/J2EE Technologies Core Java, Servlets, JSP, Apache Struts, Spring , WebServices ,Javascript, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, REST , Microservices  Frameworks/Platforms Spring Integration framework, Struts MVC, Hibernate 3.2, JSP, Spring boot, Spring cloud data flow, apache camel.  Application & Web Servers IBM WAS, Tomcat, WebLogic, Jboss  Web Designing Tools Macromedia Dream weaver 8.0,HTML  Databases Oracle, PL/SQL,MangoDB  XML Parsers XML bean, Jaxb  Messaging System WebSphere MQ,RabbitMQ  Build scripts Maven  Testing Frameworks/Tools JUnit, Soap UI, Postman  Version and issue controls Tortoise SVN, bitbucket, ALM, GItHub  UML Tools MS Visio  Monitoring tools Putty, WinScp, Splunk, AppD.  Development Tools Eclipse, IBM RAD, Edit plus, NetBeans, IntelliJ, , jboss studio developer  Scheduling API/Tools Autosys    Operating Systems Windows, Linux  Domain Banking & Financial.  Other Tool Rally, Clarity, SharePoint, JIRA, Confluence, HP-QC, ALM, Toad, sql developer