Sr. Java Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - CareCentrix Tampa, FL • 10 plus years of extensive experience in Java, Core Java, UI development, Web UI analysis, Web design, Object oriented implementation and Support working with various projects.  • Expertise in analysis, design and development of Web Applications involving Core Java, J2EE Technologies for large enterprise customers in Banking, Financial, Retail.  • Expertise in designing and developing enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like EJB2.1/3.0, Struts 1.2/2.0, Spring 3.0 and 4.0, JDBC, JBPM, JNDI, JMS, JAXB, Drools, SAX/DOM, Web services  • Development using Angular JS, ExtJS, NodeJs, Mongo DB, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, bootstrap, JSON, MySQL, MSSQL.  • Experience in providing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions for Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) using JBOSS ESB, Web Service, and JMS.  • Expertise in OOA, OOD, SDLC, Software Development, Java Application Development, Distributed Application Development and Object Oriented Programming (OOP)  • Possess development skills using Struts, Spring & Hibernate frameworks.  • Expertise in developing Web Services using SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAX-RPC, JAXB, XML Beans.  • Experience in Message Oriented Middleware implementation using JMS  • Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming.  • Technical expertise in web technologies using Spring, Hibernate, WebServices, IceFaces 2.x and 3.x, Ice Mobile, jQuery. Worked with JSF 1.x, 2.x., Servlets.  • Possess strong knowledge on development of Web applications, Mobile Web and Hybrid applications and through understanding of the business model.  • Expertise in designing and developing in databases MS SQL, DB2, Oracle, Mongo DB writing and fine tuning queries, stored procedures, triggers  • Have explored Google & Amazon technologies like Google App Engine, GWT, S3, EC 2. Knowledge of analytics on Big Data solutions with Hadoop & No SQL.  • Proficient in Java/J2EE Design Patterns including singleton, command, Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), and Business Delegate. Well versed with core Java concepts like collections, Multithreading, serialization, Java beans.  • Expertise in Spring & Struts MVC frameworks for building the web layer.  • Expertise in Spring IOC design patterns to build the application services layer.  • Knowledge of shell scripting in UNIX, Perl, Python & Ruby.  • Experience in database access using Hibernate and JDBC.  • Extensive experience in developing server-side applications using Spring Framework 2.5/3.0, Hibernate 3.0, Struts Framework 2.0.  • Extensive experience in building the data layer using O/R mapping technology such as Hibernate.  • Extensively used Eclipse, RAD, and RSA as IDE for application development and support.  • Extensively used Maven & ANT as build script for application build and deployment.  • Extensively used Junit & log4j for unit testing and logging.  • Worked with Serena, VSS, CVS, Git, SVN and Clearcase for version control.  • Expertise in designing J2EE compliant systems for deployment on WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss application servers.  • Designed and coded application components in an agile environment.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOAD) using UML with Rational Rose, Astah professional, & net beans modeling. Good understanding of the Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC), have used the iterative software development methodologies and practices - RUP/Agile (Scrum methodology) . Used Rally tool for agile scrum.  • Good communication skills, interpersonal skills, leadership skills, self-motivated, quick learner and team player  • Extensive experience working / supporting applications in Production, QA and Dev. Sr. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer CareCentrix - Tampa, FL October 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on business, and persistence tier using the core java 1.7, Spring3.0 and Hibernate  • Created UI interfaces with Angular JS 1.2.27 and JavaScript.  • Implemented single page application utilizing AngularJS client-side framework, including form validations, routing techniques, services, http requests, SVG visualization, custom directives, filters, testing.  • Utilized HTML5 and CSS 3 for User Interface Aesthetics and front-end development.  • MongoDB installation and configuration.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Backbone.JS, Angular.JS and Ext JS.  • Designing and developing dynamic data table, Implemented JSF Custom component  • Wrote SOAP WebService clients for retrieving customers' pricing discounts, surcharges, shipment data and billing flags  • Implemented web services (SOAP) to invoke providers services from the client side through SSl (Secure Sockets Layer)  • Worked under Agile environment with Version One, two-week Sprints with daily Scrum meetings.  • Outlined Use Cases, Data Models, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams for multiple story designs with in the ePAT Project.  • Developed the persistence layer with optimized HQL queries and named queries for CRUD operations.  • Leveraged some of the features Spring Framework such as Dependency Injection, Persistence via spring + Hibernate integration and Transaction management.  • Created Stored procedures using PL-SQL for data modification (Using DML insert, update, delete) in Oracle Interaction with Oracle database is implemented using Hibernate.  • Involved in bug fixing for existing functionality  • Involved in writing the JUnit Test Cases  • Extensively used the LOG4j to log regular Debug and Exception statements  • Used Hibernate framework for the backend persistence  Environment: Angular Js, JavaScript, NodeJs, JSF 2.1.6, ICE faces, J2EE, SOAP, Web Services, Spring3, Hibernate, JUnit, log4j, Ext JS, Spring AOP, Oracle web logic 10.3.5, Oracle 11g, SVN, Soap UI Pro 4.5.1 and Hudson, Tools used are Jdk 1.7, Eclipse, SQL Developer and Maven, LOG4j. Sr. Java Developer Citi - Tampa, FL May 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed UML models consisting of Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using RAD and Rational Rose to model the application.  • Design, develop and test ESB infrastructure on the JBoss ESB platform.  • Developed services that are reusable and interoperable, based on Basic profile 1.0, SOAP, JAXRPC Web services using AXIS.  • Implementation using JBOSS ESB, Java, spring, JAXB, Hibernate, Oracle Database, Maven, and Serena.  • Diagnose and solve JBOSS ESB Application performance and stability issues.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC2 architecture using Struts Framework.  • Maintenance of access to users across the company by running batch loads.  • Developed various Service classes where in business logic is written and necessary service methods are defined.  • Designed various UI Screens using JSF 2 Framework and Icefaces 3 with RAD 8 IDE.  • Developed Server side components using Spring, Hibernate and implemented J2EE design patterns such as Intercepting Filter, Front Controller, session facade, Data Transfer Object, DAO's.  • Used EJBs (Stateless Session beans) to implement the business logic, MDBs (JMS) for asynchronous communication internal and external to the system.  • Wrote Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Backend application layer is implemented using EJB (Enterprise Java Bean) in WebSphere Application Server environment.  • Generated various XML schemas to support integration with JAXB  • Used Serena for application build and deployment in JBOSS server.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular Js, Node Js, Spring 2.5, Spring Batch 2.5, Hibernate 3.5, SOAP 1.2, REST Web services, JAXB2.0, JMS, Oracle 10g, JBoss 5.1, RAD 7.0, 8.x, ICEFACES 3.x, JSF 2.x, Ice Mobile, Ajax, JAX-WS and JAX-RS, EJB, Hibernate 3.3, Spring, Struts 2.0, JMS, Clear Case, MQ series, WebSphere Application Server 8.0.3, SQL, My sql Mongo DB, OAGIS specification. Sr. J2EE Developer FedEx Custom Critical - Akron, OH February 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle including Requirements  • Collection, Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development, Handling Change Request, Bug Fixing, Code Review and Customization of the Application.  • Developed the application using J2EE architecture specification and Design patterns.  • Involved in designing of the application following Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Implemented MVC architecture using spring3 frameworks combined with Hibernate for database persistence.  • Involved in Coding Server pages using JSP.  • Implemented User Interface (front-end) screens using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented asynchronous communication using AJAX.  • Using JQuery for event handling and AJAX interactions for rapid Web development.  • Developed screens using JSP, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQUERY, spring3 MVC, Java and XML.  • Created web services using Apache AXIS2, Jersy.  • Developed Various CRUD operations by using REST full web services.  • Developed Various Middleware Components by using SOAP full web services.  • Designed and developed RESTful Java APIs for the Brink gaming platform to obtain metrics like game statistics, content and relative scores with players in network.  • Developed similar API to expose back-end functionality that was consumed by the Atlantis mobile platform for usage metrics, and analytics.  • Developed DAO interfaces & implementations for database related operations using Hibernate and JAXB.  • Implemented SQL, PL/SQL Stored Procedures.  • Used Eclipse as the development environment with Weblogic Application Server was involved in analysis and resolution of various production IRs which required querying the BQT Oracle database. Wrote PL/SQL to improve performance and for exception handling.  • Continuous integration to build the project using Jenkins with Maven Builder  • Using Jboss application server based upon the project.  • Created various unit test cases and integration tests for the DAO and Service using JUnit.  • Using Junit for testing the application  • Using SVN version controller to manage the code versions.  • Using Maven build tool to build and deploy the application.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP 2.0, DB2 EJB, JMS, JSTL JNDI, JBPM, Spring 3.0, Multithreading, Oracle, DHTML, XML, DOM, SAX, ANT, JavaScript, Ajax, HTML, Junit, JBOSS application server7.1, Web logic, PL-SQL, SOAP web services, REST Web services, Tomcat server, Servlets, Rationale Rose, JSF, WSAD 5.1.2, JQuery, (Web Sphere Studio Application Developer), IBM Web Sphere Application Server 5.1, Hibernate 3.0, LOG4J, CVS. Java Developer Telecommute - San Antonio, TX December 2008 to January 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed and Implemented User Interface in Model-View-Controller Architecture, which accomplishes a tight and neat co-ordination of Spring MVC, JSP, Servlets, Custom Taglibs and JavaScript.  • Implemented the Design and developing modules using Agile Methodology. Planning iterations for effective design and development of the Modules.  • Prepares flowcharts and diagrams to illustrate sequence of steps program must follow and to describe logical operations involved.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Was involved in the preparation of the software requirements and Component design documents, Component Specification Document.  • Developed UML models consisting of Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose software  • Configured Hibernate to make use of second level EHcaching to display the static lookup data from the database  • Developed Web services modules based on SOA architecture to consume services.  • Developed services that are reusable and interoperable, based on Basic profile 1.0, SOAP, JAXRPC Web services using AXIS.  • Implemented various session beans (EJB) in business layers.  • Optimizing the Web Sphere Application server for maximum throughput. Involved in tweaking configuration and settings.  • Worked on the Test Drive Development to write the classes and test them using JUNIT and easy Mock and JProbe for profiling.  • Developed the necessary business logic by implementing J2EE design patterns like Session Facade, Singleton, Business Delegate, Data Access Object  • Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject dependency into objects and AOP is used for Logging.  • Developed MDB classes and the necessary business logic to be processed when the message has arrived from MQ.  • Continuous integration to build the project using Jenkins with Maven Builder  Environment: J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, JMS, WSDL, XML, XSLT, EJB 3.0, JUnit, Maven, Log4J, JMock, DB2, Web Sphere Application Server, RSA, Jprobe, Defect Trac, SVN, Jenkins, soap UI. Java Developer MCI - Ashburn, VA June 2006 to November 2008 Responsibilities:  • Developed high level functional specifications requirements  • Provided project estimation, risk analysis and schedule preparation  • Developed the DAO using Hibernate framework and Service Layer components using MVC, DAO and Business Delegate patterns  • Developed the asynchronous emailing solution for the User notifications.  • Performed the deployment on Websphere application server  • Developed Oracle SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and build scripts  • Designed and developed the reusable component for generating the Customer statements in CSV, Quicken formats and the custom audit logging functionality for event and error recording  • Coordinated with onsite client support teams and provided assistance to QA team and support personnel as needed to determine system problems.  Environment: JDK 1.5, Spring 3.0, JSP, Maven 2.0, JUnit, XSLT, WSAD 6.1, UDB DB2 8.2, Clear Case 7.0, Web services, Hibernate 3.0. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (10+ years), WEB SERVICES (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), JUNIT (9 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  J2ee Technologies: Servlets, JDBC, JBPM, JNDI, Java beans, Web Services, Hibernate JPA, JMS, EJB3, JMX, MQ Series, Drools.  UI Web Technologies: HTML5, XML, JavaScript, node JS, Angular JS, Backbone.js, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, Ice Faces, JSF, RESTful Services, SOAP based services. J2EE Framework Application Development Framework (Oracle ADF 11g)  Web Services: SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAX-RPC, JAXB, Tomcat 7.0  Languages: C, C++, JAVA 6, SQL, and PL/SQL 2.X.  Databases: SQL Server, IBM DB2, PL/SQL, Oracle, Mongo DB  Build Tools: ANT, Maven, JUnit, Log4J, SoapUI  IDE Tools: RAD, Eclipse, vim, RSA 9.0, RSA 9.0, Notepad++  Application Servers: Web Logic 11g, Web Sphere 6.1/7.0, JBOSS6.0  Frameworks: Struts, spring, JSF, Angular JS, Backbone.js and Hibernate