Sr. Android Developer Sr. Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Android Developer - GEICO Insurance Chicago, IL ? 7+ years of experience in Java and Android application development.  ? Experience in developing apps including the Design, Development and Testing smartphone and tablet. Developed and architected multiple Android applications across various versions.  ? Expertise in Android application development using Eclipse IDE, Android SDK, SQLite, Java, XML,JSON, Android emulator and ADT plug-in.  ? Experience in Android UI Toolkit and Layout Managers Proficient in Android application Framework. Experienced with Android SDK Tools.  ? Experience in Developing Applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, XML, Eclipse, JDBC, Node.js, JDK, Java Script, MySQL, SQL, HTML and CSS.  ? A self-driven, goal oriented, customer focused software professional with proven ability to successfully work in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Experience in using Design Patterns and Object Oriented Methodologies to design software for mobile phones.  ? Experience in Native Components of Android applications: Activities, Services, Broadcast Receiver, Content Provider, Web Services, Fragments and Support Libraries to create high quality and stable applications.  ? Experience in development of multithreaded application in interfacing with other systems.  ? Experience in working with SQLite Database, Google Maps API, GPS Location Data and Push Notifications.  ? Knowledge with Apache HTTP application server.  ? Experience in web service protocols such as JSON, SOAP, HTTP, Phonegap and XML.  ? Hands on experience using media frame work using Android API such as Google API, Facebook API and skills like multimedia usage video, audio, graphics.  ? Experienced in using analytics API including Flurry, Google Analytics.  ? Experience in Quality Assurance testing using Unit testing, functional testing and performance testing.  ? Created enterprise architecture/business functionality using Java, design pattern and OOPs concepts.  ? Experience in developing APIs for Middleware Framework modules for mobile platforms using C and Java.  ? Emphasized on adequate usage OOPs principles, modular and reusable components in coding using C++ and JAVA.  ? Experience in Continuous Integretion using version control and bug reporting tools like clear case, clear quest, svn, perforce and git etc  ? Experienced in working on Agile operations process and tools area (Code review, unit test automation, Build & Release automation, Environment, Service, Incident and Change Management).  ? Knowledge of project life cycle for web applications using various methodologies such as Waterfall model and Agile Scrum Model.  ? Responsibilities that include taking designs and turning them into fully functional, standards compliant, cross-browser HTML templates.  ? Worked on Android Access as a Network Drive in order to transfer & access files remotely. Build prototype UI for design spec with JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  ? Experience in testing using UIAutomator, Espresso and Appium.  ? Expertise in troubleshooting and debugging applications.  ? Undertaken full life cycle of Android Application Development which includes testing on device and simulator as well.  ? Highly capable in handling multiple tasks, prioritizing, and meeting deadlines.  ? Ability to coordinate with various team members involved in the project.  ? Self-motivated, hardworking, adaptive and team player.  ? Quick learner, excellent analytical, design and problem solving skills. Work Experience Sr. Android Developer GEICO Insurance - Chicago, IL July 2016 to Present Description: GEICO is an American Auto Insurance company headquartered in Chevy Chase, MD which is second largest auto insurer in the United States. This project included the development of an Android application for GEICO. The application has multiple features like policy information, claims processing, accident reports, roadside assistance, accident assistance, billing methods, nearest agent's location, coverage changes and extras such as finding the nearest gas station, car buying service, taxi/ride service and parking. Users could pay bills, update insurance coverage, add/remove vehicles and also get new quotes, apart from the extra features.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked in different phases of project life cycle like design, development and testing of application for Android mobile devices.  ? Involved in requirement gathering, UI design and development.  ? Implemented web views, list views & populated lists from database using simple adapters.  ? Implemented Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  ? Responsible for design of user interface using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes and edit boxes.  ? Designed downloading files and images by showing Progress Bar Activities and also implemented Status Bar.  ? Responsible for SERVICES, ASYNC tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  ? Strong experience with Android Framework APIs such as Google Maps, Camera, Resource Manager, Fragments, Location Manager, Notification Manager, Content Providers, Contact Manager, Telephony API and REST APIs.  ? Experience in using dependency injector called Dagger to test the classes  ? Experience in Android Integration framework tools like Espresso and Gradle.  ? Experience using AWS to store and retrieve huge data by Client-Server interaction.  ? Development access restriction features using Authentication and Authorization tokens.  ? Embedded Google Maps API, GPS Location Data into app with zooming controls.  ? Responsible for the Saved data in the SQLite database.  ? Modified Android manifest XML file to include all use permissions such as GPS, SMS READ /SEND / RECEIVE.  ? Experience in Android Networking Libraries like Volley and OkHttp.  ? Experience in integrating the application with analytics to log User Sessions and Touch Gestures.  ? Involved in development and enhancements of features to restrict the usage based on Authorization and Authentication tokens.  ? Understanding system requirements, test case planning and execution, Functional testing, Integration Testing, Track issue records and reporting by using bug tracking tool.  ? Experience in using communication protocols in a network using TCP IP and UDP protocols.  ? Experience in the required GUI by making modifications to the XML files.  ? Experience with REST and SOAP web services.  ? Worked on Continuous Integration and code version using GIT.  ? Debugged application using ADB, Trace View, DDMS and Log Cat.  ? Worked with JSON library to parse JSON files.  ? Experience with authenticated sessions using OAuth and authentication tokens.  ? Worked with business stakeholders, creative teams, offshore teams and technical teams at all levels of an organization  Environment: Android SDK 2.2, SQLite 3.6, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Android API's, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, GPS, ADT Plug-in, CVS (version control), JNI, Logcat, DDMS console. Android App Developer American Express - New York, NY September 2014 to June 2016 Description: Incorporate new functionalities to modify existing banking application which supported Customer/Account relationship, Loan Account profile, Transaction and Account Management and Funds Transfer functions. Customer can perform operations on all their account types. The customer by selecting each account can pay bills for respective account and transfer funds from one account to another account.  Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed American Express finance app where there are some of the features like Navigation, making payments and transfers, Transaction search and many features are implemented which are user friendly to the user.  ? Designing and developing user interfaces using Android XML.  ? Analyzed the project features, designed the application architecture and database, and UI designs with different layouts and widgets corresponding to various resolutions and different orientations.  ? Experience in Bluetooth Low Energy for data exchange.  ? Implemented Web views, List views & populated lists to display the lists from database using Simple Adapters.  ? Synchronizing the server for getting the credit and due balances of the customers.  ? Used RXJava library for composing asynchronous and event-based programs.  ? Responsible for getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  ? Added parser classes for tablet which involved parsing JSON feeds, use of Shared Preferences and SQLite.  ? Used TCP, IP and Http protocols to communicate with Internet on a private network.  ? Used Dagger to create reusable, interchangeable modules.  ? Responsible for constructing the specification documents including Unified Modeling Language  ? Responsible for getting backend/business logic data using JSON queries.  ? Used Bluetooth APIs to connect and communicate with another Android device.  ? Experience in using Cross Platform applications such as Phonegap, Ionic and Apache Cordova.  ? Experience using debugging tools such as DDMS, ADB, Logcat & Android device monitor  ? Engaged in constructing automated unit testing, performing usability testing on UI, ad hoc  Testing based on test and fault models.  ? Developed UI and functionality for the authentication and authorization features.  ? Tested the application using Espresso and UIAutomator automation tools.  ? Technical SOW reviews, estimation, planning and tracking for the Bluetooth work packages  ? Provided subsequent releases which included feature changes, enhancements and bug fixes.  ? Integrated location based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest banks.  ? Embedded Google Maps API, GPS Location Data into app with zooming controls.  ? Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  ? Implemented OAuth 2.0 along with Auth tokens using Firebase for secure authentication and communication.  ? Experience in providing security using HTTPs and SSL.  ? Experience in the required GUI by making modifications to the XML files.  ? Experience with REST and SOAP web services.  ? Integrated with different Android versions.  ? Used GIT for version control and Gradle as build tool.  ? Reporting on project status to senior managers on the weekly basis. Tested the app across various versions of Android and different android Mobile devices to assure quality and performance    Environment: Android SDK, Android DDMS, Eclipse, Java, web service, HTML, XML, JNI, Windows and MS SQL server, SQLite. Android Developer iTriage - Denver, CO January 2013 to August 2014 Description: iTriage LLC is a global health care technology company founded in 2008. It will help you find the most appropriate treatment, facility, doctor, find nearest hospitals with average wait time. It provides check in from your mobile to select Hospital Emergency rooms and urgent care facility.  Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed mobile health application for Android mobile devices with extensive user interface development.  ? Implemented web views, list views &populated lists to display the lists using simple adapters.  ? Implemented customized web view component to load an SWF file and HTML data.  ? Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the xml files.  ? Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  ? Developed Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc., from the app and designed suitable GUI for these applications.  ? Developed the app to adapt to different orientations (Landscape/Portrait) and various resolutions (ldpi/mdpi/hdpi) based on the device.  ? Loading, analyzing and extracting data from to and from AWS.  ? Responsible for UI creation where common UI components and the user events are being handled.  ? Responsible for consuming the web services of a REST API using Volley and Retrofit, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  ? Developed and Utilized AsyncTask, Thread, handler, services to provide smooth UI experience.  ? Used Gradle for managing the application dependencies.  ? Implemented the event reminder feature into the app using services, a sync tasks and alert notification API.  ? Expertise in Custom components like Dialogs, Views, Adapters and listviews.  ? Handling XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.  ? Worked on debugging the application using Logcat, DDMS and testing included emulator and device testing with multiple versions and sizes.  ? Experience in all the phases of SDLC from design, development through testing, reporting and support of application.  ? Tested the application on various Android devices.  ? Experience in using Sensors such as Proximity, gyroscope and Accelerometers etc  ? Helped in maintaining the code quality, organization, and automation.  ? Helped in planning and estimating stories in an Agile environment.  Environment: Android SDK 4.x, SQLite 3.6, Eclipse IDE 3.8, Android API's, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, HTML, CSS, SQLite, GPS service Sr. Java Developer DTDC - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2010 to October 2012 This project was mainly dependent on user interfaced web Applications used for encapsulating data access mechanisms. We used Struts and IBM WSAD for developing the applications. Multiple modules were involved like EJBS and EAR modules.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development.  • Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in Java, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOPs) concepts such as Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism and Abstraction  • Prepared System Requirement Specification and Technical Requirement Specifications as per the client requirements.  • Involved in the development of user-interface based on JavaScript.  • Used IBM WSAD 4.5/5.0 IDE to develop the different J2EE components like EJBS, client jars, web modules and Application EAR modules.  • Developed Micro Services to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Apache's Jakarta STRUTS1.0/1.1 as MVC framework for designing the complete web tier.  • Developed Data Access Object pattern to abstract and encapsulate data access mechanism.  • Deployed EAR files on IBM WebSphere Application server 4.5/5.0 running on HP-UX.  • Used Oracle as backend database.  • Wrote stored procedures and did performance tuning of complex queries.  • Implemented multithreading.  • Integrate the different parts of the application and test.  • Conducted weekly code walk through    Environment/Tools: IBM WebSphere 4.5/5.0, IBM WSAD 4.5/5.0, JSP 1.2, EJB 2.0, JDBC 2.0, Rational Rose Enterprise, C++, Java Script, Apache Struts 1.1, Oracle, PL/SQL, Windows NT Java Developer IDBI - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2009 to June 2010 DESCRIPTION:  Benefit Illustration System is Insurance based web application which helps the user to select the product and get the quote illustration for the details given by them. The Product can be created by the Sales/Partner from the Product Configuration section. While declaring Product from admin section, need to map the data elements and section details which correspond to it. Version Management, Channel Management, Cloning Product, Role Management are the additional features available in application.  Responsibilities:    ? Writing custom tag handlers for Insurance Quote page to calculate the age of the person using the date of birth information entered.  ? Developing Action Classes, Service Classes for Resident Insurance Premium payment module.  ? Developed reusable web components, JSP, Servlets and Java Beans that use the MVC pattern to access EJB (Entity Beans) for the modules of user registration.  ? Developed Enterprise Java Beans like Entity Beans, Session Beans (both Stateless and State Full Session beans) and Message Driven Beans.  ? Religiously implemented OOPs concept to maintain reusability and to avoid data leakage.  ? Writing PL/SQL Queries to get schedule of policy payment and defaults.  ? Developing Session beans, Entity for Insurance Quotes.  ? Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller and EJB as model in the Struts Framework.  ? Writing JSP for Online Quote for Resident Insurance.  ? Developing CMP read only Entity beans to get Insurance quotes.  ? Fixing the bugs identified in test phase.  ? Writing JUnit Test cases for Unit testing in Pension Manager Module.  ? Documenting CR impact analysis and prepared implementation documents.  ? Created and maintained data using Oracle database and used JDBC for database connectivity.  ? Created and implemented Oracle stored procedures and triggers.  ? Hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework.  ? Developed, Tested and Debugged the Java, JSP and EJB components using Eclipse.  ? Installed WebLogic Server for handling HTTP Request/Response. The request and response from the client are controlled using Session Tracking in JSP.  ? Used Test Driven Development (TDD)Methodology to write test cases and test the modules based on the same followed by rewriting/ refactoring the code with iterative development (Agile).  ENVIRONMENT: J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB 2.0, Struts 1.1, JDBC 2.1, UML, JMS, XML, WebLogic 7.0, MVC Design Pattern, Eclipse 2.1, Log4j and Junit. Education Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2008 Bachelor's Skills Android (4 years), Android SDK (4 years), Eclipse (6 years), Java (5 years), JSON (4 years), Android SDK 2.2, SQLite 3.6, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Android API’s, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, GPS, ADT Plug-in, CVS (version control), JNI, Logcat, DDMS console. Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages C, C++, JAVA,C# .NET, JavaScript, Angular JS, JSON, JQuery, Node.js  Application Servers WebSphere 6.0  IDE Android Studio, Eclipse 3.x ,4.x, Net Beans 5.x/6.x, Visual Studio  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, Phonegap  OS Android, Windows (NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/Server 2008), UNIX  RDBMS SQLite 3.6, MySQL 4.0/5.0/5.5  Concepts OOPS, Design Patterns  Web Servers Tomcat 6.0 Apache HTTP Server    Methodologies Agile Methodology ,Waterfall Model  Android Skills  Android SDK, ADT, Android NDK, DDMS, Logcat debugging, ADB  Logcat, SQLite, ADB tools, Android Virtual Device, Android Emulator,  GoogleAPIs, Google Analytics, Volley, Retrofit, GSON, Google Maps Location  Services, Open Sources Web APIs.