Sr. Salesforce Developer/Admin Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Sr. Salesforce Developer/Admin - The Kroger Co Cincinnati, OH Experienced Certified Salesforce professional with 8 years of diverse IT experience and hands-on experience in Salesforce.com CRM and Force.com platform as Salesforce Developer and Administrator. Comprehensive understanding of CRM Business processes spanning across Banking/Finance, Health and Retail domains, also involved in various SFDC implementations covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call center and App-Exchange applications. Constantly learning new software development technologies through industry seminars, professional organizations and published materials. Ambitious and motivated worker who is known as an efficient problem-solver when working independently or within a team.  Well acquainted with all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) with expertise in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Designing, Development and Testing.  Experience in salesforce.com Development using Force.com, Visual Force, and APEX.    Complete understanding of the Salesforce.com CRM business process and its phases for translation of business requirements into systems design.    Proficient in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Users, Roles, Profiles, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Validation rules, Reports and Dashboards.    Experience in modifying visual force pages to be supported in Lightning Experience and good understanding of lightning mode and its features.    Good experience in developing Salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers and Events.    Experience in implementing Apex Classes, Triggers, Batch Apex, Test Classes, Visual force pages, Web Service APIs etc. to achieve complex business functionalities.    Professional in Salesforce.com/Force.com development and configuration including advanced Apex / Visualforce as well as API Integrations, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, jQuery Mobile, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, PHP, MySQL.    Working experience with JavaScript, JQuery, JSON (HTML 5, CSS, CSS3).Experience in Salesforce.com Configuration in creating the Custom Objects, Custom fields, buttons, links, Record types, Page layouts, User Profiles, Permission sets, Roles, Custom Labels, Custom Settings, Static resources, Assignment and Validating Rules.  Experience in creating Workflow Rules, Approval Processes to automate business process.  Expertise in using tools like Apex Data Loader, Apex Explorer, Eclipse IDE.  Good knowledge on SOQL and SOSL queries in Apex.  Experience in Data migration and cleansing using Import Wizard, Apex Data Loader and demand tools.  Hands on experience in implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization.  Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, and Workflows, sharing rules and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  Good understanding of the Business logic, programs and systems that could lead the effort for planning, developing and implementing changes in the design and code pattern.  Proficiency in Object Oriented Programming like Java and C++.  Experience in wide range of languages and technologies such as HTML, CSS, JSP/JSF, AJAX, and Spring MVC Framework.  Good experience in working on Eclipse IDE for writing business logic in Apex programming language.  Used Force.com REST API Web services and outbound messaging for implementing web services to integrate External systems and websites.  Administered Salesforce.com setup, which involves modifying roles and profiles, creating/modifying dashboards/reports and managing users.  Ability to independently perform implementation, documentation, testing and updating as it relates to the SalesForce.com business requirements.  Ability to effectively communicate technical issues and resolve problems at all levels of the organization both internally and externally.  Strong Database (RDBMS) development experience in writing queries, functions, stored procedures, triggers, and views in Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL and MS Access.  Capability of learning new technologies and implementing them in the project successfully.  Team player with good Interpersonal skills, strong understanding of fundamental business process, excellent communication and problem-solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer/Admin The Kroger Co - Cincinnati, OH July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  Implemented the Salesforce.com applications using Agile SCRUM Methodology that involves the iterative development.  Closely worked with Business users, Business Analysts and large team for Analysis of the existing system and specifications.  Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports, and Dashboards.  Developed Lightning components and Lightning apps to provide better and more interactive interfaces to end users, which help in sales enhancements  Created Impressive designs with Custom styling to bring dynamic versions of the components when setting up in lightning App builder.  Tested Apps by appending multiple components to a Lightning Application thereby deployed Applications from Sandbox to Production.  Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications.  Have worked on Apex classes, Visualforce Pages, Controller classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the website.  Created custom Report types and Dashboards so that users can generate reports and visualize data on dashboards.  Involved in various activities of the project, like information gathering, analyzing the information documenting the functional and non-functional requirements.  Designed, developed and deployed Custom Objects consisting of validation rules with effective formulae fields, Workflow rules necessary to suit the needs of the application.  Used Lightning process builder for visualizing and creating automated business processes  Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  Designed and Developed the mobile UI screens using JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, JSP, Html and CSS.  Developed and configured dashboards, ad hoc reports and report folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  Developed Triggers, Apex classes and visual force pages as per the needs of the application.  Created VF Components used repeatedly in VF pages to reduce the redundancy when needed.  Developed various Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes.  Developed Test Classes for unit testing and Apex Triggers for various DML events and functional needs in the application.  Worked on SOQL & SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com objects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  Giving production support for Integration part and at the same time performing some security update to salesforce.  Integrated salesforce data with external systems by writing salesforce REST Web Services for Inbound classes and used Http Request methods to call external application REST API endpoint.  Involved in minor corrections and enhancements to SFDC application required by business users from time to time.  Debug Apex scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute Governors and Limits.  Reviewed the code and other components developed by the team and also performed functional Testing.  Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  Coordinating with the UAT teams and making the necessary development changes and follow-up with UAT team thereby providing UAT support.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Dashboards, Aura Framework, Apex Language, Lightning, Visual force (Pages, Component & Controllers), REST API, JSON, JavaScript, Angular JS, Apex Data Loader, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP Salesforce Developer/Administrator Cerner - Kansas City, MO December 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  Implemented and created users with permissions, about 2000 users nationwide on the CRM platform and provided go live support by agile methodology.  Created Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, and Entity-Relationship Data Model, validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Processes, Auto-Response Rules and Page layouts and Data import and export.  Designed, developed and deployed Visual Force Page, Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers based on the business requirements in agile manner.  Managed all objects used in their organizations in a unified & streamlined manner; collaborate with researchers to discover use cases & patterns, & integrate the findings to build an improved, data-informed product.  Implemented Security and Sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also created profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy using permission Sets.  Designed various WebPages in Visual Force for customers to select a variety of services offered by the org and integrate them with the pricing team.  Used Sales Cloud in Preparing and getting approval of design, functional and technical specifications from business.  Used Service Cloud to allow users to automate service processes, streamline workflows.  Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  Worked on data integration, data clearing, data transfer from third party API's with requested permission sets using APEX data loader.  Worked on SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles and Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks and actions.  Defined Lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  Involved in creating and customizing Email template and configuring them to the Email alert within the workflow rule for a standard/custom object.  Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems, and used the Sandbox for testing to ensure minimum code coverage for the application to be migrated to production.  Organized Daily Scrum meetings with all the team members to check whether we are in same page.  Participated in the bug review meetings, updated requirements document as per business user feedback and change in functionality of the application.  Environment:SaleForce.com platform, Visual Force, Apex Language, Data Loader, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Sandbox Testing, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE.  Equifax- Atlanta, GA Sr. Salesforce Developer Salesforce.com September 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and created solutions by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com API, and Web Services.  Extend or build new apps with the Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components.  Developed Lightning apps using Lightning Components and made them compatible with Salesforce1 mobile app.  Worked on Approval process, Lightning Process builder and workflows to automate business process without depending on custom code development.    Developed Apex triggers, classes to achieve user's desired functionality and have written the dependent test classes.  Agile Development Methodology was followed for the implementation  Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC).  Created custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Angular JS.  Customized the dashboards to track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  Designed and deployed Custom tabs, Validation rules, and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, and Apex Controllers to develop custom business logic.  Developed various Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes.  Developed Visual force pages and dynamic pages using JavaScript, Ajax toolkit and JQuery.  Worked with SOQL, SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  Configured Data Loader and uploaded data in CSV files into Salesforce, checking for the correctness of the data.  Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.com  Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  Performed code review of the application to make sure the source code confirms to industrial coding standard sand followed good programming practices.  Developed Custom Report Types, Custom Reports, and Dashboards to meet the reporting needs of the organization.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Lightning, Apex Language, Visual force (Pages, Component & Controllers), JavaScript, Angular JS, JSON, Apex Data Loader, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP Salesforce Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC July 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  Involved in identifying, planning and implementing new salesforce.com features and functions (new screens, workflow, force.com objects, and reports, apex code) to meet business requirements.  Performed a key role in building and planning the capabilities of the SFDC team.  Created custom objects and Customized standard sales force objects like Accounts, Contacts, case management and solutions.  Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  Used field level security along with page layout to manage the visibility and accessibility of fields for different profiles.  Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation Rules and formula fields to the custom objects.  Developed APEX Classes, Visual force pages and APEX Triggers to develop the custom functionality as per the requirements.  Created Apex schedule jobs to perform the same operations in a scheduled time.  Developed Test Classes for unit testing.  Developed Visual force pages, Components, Controllers for displaying documents in Content.  Created custom controllers implementing complex code for retrieval from salesforce to Visual Force pages.  Used CSS style sheets for formatting the Visual force user interface.  Developed Reports and Dashboards as per the business requirements.  Execute the Apex Unit Tests and Deploy code from Sandbox to Production using Eclipse / Force.com IDE.  Created various Reports and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize salesforce as a sales tool and various Reports and for different user profiles.  Worked with Salesforce premier support to short out technical challenges and governor limits  Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.com.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, JavaScript, Apex, Visual force, Force.com IDE, SOQL, Email Services Triggers, HTML, CSS, Apex Data Loader, Eclipse. Salesforce Developer Pleasanton, CA May 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  Interacted with various Business User Groups to gather the document requirements.  Designed and deployed Custom tabs, Custom Objects, Components, Visual Force Pages, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  Worked with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases and Opportunities.  Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  Created several Record Types, page layouts.  Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application  Created Batch Apex classes and scheduled Batch jobs.  Created Triggers like sending emails to the portal users whenever they update their account information comparing their new information with their old information.  Developed Visual force pages, Visual force custom components.  Used Visual force in development mode to change the behavior and appearance of Visual force components.  Written Test Classes to meet Unit testing before migrating from Sandbox to Production environment.  Deployed the changes from Sandbox to Production.  Environment: APEX, Force.com IDE, Import Wizard, Java Script, Visual Force Pages, Workflows and Approvals, Data Loader, Eclipse Force, Excel Connector. Java Developer BBVA Compass - Atlanta, GA October 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  Involved in creation of use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, deployment diagrams.  Assisted in analysis and design of the several modules in the Project.  Involved to designed and developed technical specifications using design patterns and OO methodology.  Participating requirement gathering and client interaction.  Involved in design and development if Interface components like dropdown and data table.  Created reports using SQL queries for all issued Action items.  Developed presentation tire using HTML, JSP, Java Script, and JSF.  Developed Web components using Servlets, tag Libraries, XML, XSL, Tiles Framework, Struts and UML.  Used Eclipse as an IDE and Apache Tomcat as an application Server.Responsible for developing the OS specific scripts (Shell Scripts) for automating the closing doc Process.  Used java Script front end Validations.  Develop Session beans and entity Beans representing business logic abstractions.  Responsible for testing of application on various levels like integration and System testing by utilizing various methodologies.  Testing and debugging the project for proper functionality and documenting modules.Developed Client request validations and processing using JavaScript.Developed application code using Core Java and J2EE (Servlets, XML) in Eclipse tool. Used JNDI realms to authenticate users in a web application.  Environment: MS Visio, MS Project, Java, J2EE, JSP, Swing, Servlets, Tomcat, MS SQL Server, Java Script, CSS, HTML, Web logic 8.1, SQL Navigator. Java Developer Knack Systems - Township of Woodbridge, NJ May 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  Part of the team which was responsible for designing and developing the application in n-tier fashion as per struts based MVC architecture standards.  Designed and developed the web-based user interface on Jakarta Struts Framework using Java Beans, Servlets, JSP and JavaScript.  Responsible for developing the registration modules of the wholesale application.  Utilize various Java Design patterns to develop business modules based on the required functionality.  Responsible for developing the application level flow by utilizing Java, JSP and Struts.  Responsible for developing the OS specific scripts (Shell Scripts) for automating the closing doc Process.  Used java script front end validations.  Maintained the source code versions in CVS repository.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, JDBC, Oracle 8i, Pl/SQL, CVS, JUnit, multi-threading. Education Bachelor's Bachelor's Skills Apex (5 years), Html (7 years), Java (5 years), Loader (5 years), Workflow (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Salesforce Technologies:  Salesforce CRM, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management, Automation, Workflow & Approval processes, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects, SOQL, SOSL.    ETL/Integration Tools: Force.com Data Loader, Connect for Outlook, Force.com Explorer and Force.com Workbench  Programming & Data Analysis: Java, C, C++, HTML, DHTML, XML  Databases: Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2005/ 2008, MS Access, Oracle 8i/ 9i/ 10g/ 11g and DB2  Web Services: SOAP, REST    Operating Systems: Windows NT/2000/XP/Vista/7, Windows Server 2000/2003/2008, Linux, Unix.