Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Comcast Edison, NJ • A Certified Java professional with over nine years of experience in analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of object oriented, functional, web centric, intranet/Internet enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies and Scala.  • Strong working experience in SDLC methodologies like Agile, Waterfall, Test Driven Development Methodologies (TDD).  • Skilled in handling and managing projects for Telecom, Banking & Business Solutions.  • Proficient in technologies Java, J2EE, Scala, Play Framework, Ruby, Apache Camel, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Junit, Log4j, Ant, Maven, SBT, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, XML, JSON, Custom Tag Libraries.  • Experience in Message based systems using JMS API, RabbitMQ and Message Driven Beans.  • Proficient in UI Development using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, jQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Strong experience with web/application servers like Apache Tomcat, Jetty, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic and WEBrick.  • Good working knowledge of Databases like Oracle, Sybase, DB2, MySQL and Cassandra.  • Involved in SQL Query Optimizations and performance tuning of frequently used SQL Queries.  • Created PL/SQL triggers, SQL views, stored procedures functions and packages.  • Proficient in Visual Basic and VBA.Good knowledge of developing UNIX Shell Scripts.  • Proficient in Data Structures, Collections and Design of Algorithms.  • Extensive development experience in object oriented analysis, design and programming (OOA/OOD/OOP)  • Experience in using Continues Integration tool, Jenkins.  • Good Knowledge of Design Patterns like GOF/ Java Design Patterns, Transfer Object, Value object, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Intercepting Filter, Front controller, DAO, MVC, etc.  • Strong experience in developing web services using Restlet, Jersey, Apache Camel, Scala, Play Framework and Ruby.  • Experience in Enterprise Integration Development using Apache Camel Framework.  • Experience in designing Use Case, Class, and Sequence diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Experience in developing applications using IDEs like Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite (STS) and IntelliJ.  • Experience in using CodePro, Checkstyle and FindBugs to write code efficiently that ease maintenance and reduces code reviews.  • Experience in writing Developer test cases.  • Experience in Peer and Lead level design and code reviews.  • Experience in Global Delivery Model, handling teams of up to 20 people across diverse geographical locations/time zones. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA January 2017 to Present Accuracy Assurance  Comcast is one of the leading players in the high-speed internet sector. Comcast offers data plans in some markets, to audit the data measurement system, Comcast wanted a device(s) monitoring system which measures data consumed by the device(s) accurately by using three different channels, IPDR, DPI and SNMP.    Key Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, documentation, development, UAT and production.  • Discussed with business and finalized requirement. Incorporated follow up changes and enhancements.  • Developed REST APIs using Scala and Play framework to retrieve processed data from Cassandra database.  • Used Scala collection framework to store and process complex device metadata and other related information.  • Created configuration files and self-signed certificates.  • Created/Updated Cassandra tables.  • Updated LDAP authentication from HTTP to HTTPS.  • Involved in setting up QA environment and configuration.  • Configured Sensu monitoring system for email and Slack alerts.  • Used AngularJS, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript for designing the UI.  • Used sbt (Scala Build Tool) for building the application.  • Used Chart.js library to plot line and bar charts using JSON data returned by the REST APIs.  • Used Ruby, Sinatra and WEBrick to develop HTTPS REST API that takes device MAC address as input and returns usage from SNMP channel for the device.  • Developed script to start Ruby REST API as service.  • Used Ruby, RabbitMQ and the above REST API to poll the monitoring devices every 15 minutes and store the usage info into the Cassandra database  • Used HTTPS for connecting to UI, Cassandra nodes and the processing servers.  • Used Jenkins for building, deploying and automating.  • Configured Jenkins jobs in the dashboard.  • Used Git for version control.  • Used Rally for project management.  • Used IntelliJ Ultimate Edition for development, integration and testing.    Environment: Scala 2.11, Play Framework 2.3, sbt 0.13, Cassandra 3, AngularJS 1.5, HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Ruby, Sinatra, WEBrick, Git, HTTPS, Sensu. Sr. Java Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA July 2015 to December 2016 Unlock - Cyber Security Informative Game  Comcast is one of the leading players in the high-speed internet sector. To bring cyber security awareness to consumers and employees, Comcast wanted a game which will be informative and fun.    Key Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, documentation, development, UAT and production.  • Discussed with business and UI team and finalized requirement.  • Involved in designing MySQL relational database.  • Used Hibernate as ORM to map Java classes to data base tables.  • Used Spring Frame work for IOC, AOP, and DAO layer design patterns.  • Used Spring Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database.  • Developed REST APIs using JAX-RS and Jersey to retrieve and persist data to MySQL database. These APIs are consumed by the UI team using AngularJS.  • Coordinated with front end and design team in coming up with API contracts and integration with the back end.  • Involved in setting up QA environment and configuration.  • Created configuration files and self-signed certificates.  • Configured Sensu monitoring system for email and Slack (Team Messaging Tool) alerts.  • Deployed application to the cloud using puppet.  • Usedmaven for building the application.  • Used Apache POI library to generate daily leaderboard and All time leaderboard reports.  • Used Git for version control.  • Used Jenkins for building, deploying and automating.  • Configured Jenkins jobs in the dashboard.  • Used Trello for project management.  • Used IntelliJ Ultimate Edition for development, integration and testing.    Environment: Java 1.7, JAX-RS, Jersey, Tomcat 7, MySQL 5.7, Hibernate 4, Spring Framework 3, AngularJS 1.5, HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Git, Sensu, Slack, Trello. Sr. Software Engineer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA November 2013 to July 2015 Athena Commercial CMS to IMS migration  Comcast is one of the leading players in the business class telephone sector. Comcast wanted a platform to migrate all legacy CMS (Call Management Server)business telephone systems to single IP based system, IMS (IP Multimedia Subsystem).In addition to migrating to new system, the platform provides on demand addition of features, upgrading existing features and removing features.  The migration process involves consuming backend SOAP and REST API to get information about the device, device owner, features on the device, device location, class of service, device make and model, LERG(Local Exchange Routing Guide), DOCSIS (Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification), BACC (Broadband Access Center for Cable), etc. and on successful retrieval of information, the device is upgraded by calling backend REST APIs. On successful migration, the customer gets an automated message on the line.    Key Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, documentation, development, UAT and production.  • Discussed with business and finalized requirement. Incorporated follow up changes and enhancements.  • Worked on segregation of markets and chalked out a detailed time table for the migrations. Created batches of accounts that are to be migrated on a particular day.  • Blacklisted accounts/devices with incomplete data and chalked out a detailed time table for truck roll (manual migration).  • Worked with billers to stop changes to account during the migration time frame.  • Worked with offshore team, which monitored the batch migration process.  • Involved in documenting error codes and respective messages.  • Used Apache Camel to route SOAP, REST requests and parallel processing of accounts with multiple lines.  • Used Spring and Restlet component to create Apache Camel-Restlet end point, which takes account number as input and migrates the account.  • Used Log4j for logging  • Developed script to initiate Batch-jobs to migrate CMS legacy accounts to IMS.  • Deployed application to Apache Tomcat.  • Used Apache POI library to generate excel, csv daily and cumulative reports for the migration.  • Implemented retry logic to increase success rate, mainly helpful for accounts with multiple lines and where failure in one line resulted in rollback of the entire account.  • Used SVN and later Git for version control.  • Used JDBC query to retrieve legacy features and rate codes from Oracle database.  • Used STS (Spring Tool Suite) for development, integration and testing.  • Developed script to SCP reports to business and other related teams.  • Used Rally for project management.    Environment: Java 6, Servlets, Apache Camel, Spring 3, Apache Maven, Apache Tomcat 7, Oracle DB, JDBC, SQL, SOAP, REST, XML, JSON, Apache POI, Log4j, Spring Tool Suite, Git. Sr. Java Developer Dow Jones, NJ March 2012 to November 2013 Commerce Gateway Service  Commerce Gateway Service is a light-weight service abstraction and orchestration layer providing a platform to integrate with various Dow Jones commerce WSDL based and RESTful services from various backend services like Provisioning, Billing, Marketplace etc.    Key Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile - Sprint methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning, development & testing.Involved in Agile scrum meetings, updating the tasks based on the user stories in Rally.  • Prepared prototype of the project and presented to the client to check that it meets their requirements.  • Discussed and finalized the requirements with Business/Sales Assistants team and gone through BRD, FDN and wire frames to understand the requirements.  • Involved in creating High & Low level designs using Microsoft Visio tool.  • Involved in project estimations using Function point & 3P estimations and in peer & lead level code/design reviews.  • Developed the GUI that is used by sales assistants for performing various activities on the system using JSP, HTML, DHTML, JS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, XSLT and Taglibs.  • Developed message driven beans using JMS to listen for trades and breakdowns which are persisted to database. Code written in Java with features like Collections, Exception Handling, Serialization, IO and multithreading.  • Involved in the Configuration of Spring services in applicationContext.xml.  • Implemented the Hibernate Domain Model.  • Involved in the writing of HQL Queries in Persistence Layer.  • Worked on complex hibernate mappings with sub classes and joined sub classes.  • Developed Controllers for request handling using Spring MVC.  • Involved in the development of Java components by using Hibernate and spring to persist the data in DB  • Involved in ORM mappings for associations, Inheritance & fetching strategy, performing CRUD operations and managing second level cache using Hibernate.  • Implemented business logic components using POJOs  • Implemented REST Web Services for other applications to communicate.  • Used Eclipse IDE for coding, testing and integrating.  • Developed Struts interceptors.  • Used Subversion as source code version control.  • Created developer test cases and then scope & traceability matrix.  • Developed Data Access layer using Hibernate.  • Added session IDs to SOAP headers using SOAP API.  • Used Spring AspectJ programming for managing transactions across JMS Queues and Database Management System resources.  • Used JProfiler to fix memory leaks and improve performance.    Environment: Java, spring, EJB, JMS, Hibernate,Servlets, Sybase ASE 12.5, JSP, Web Sphere Server 8.1, WSAD 5.1, IBM Clear Case, clear quest, Maven, XML, XSD, XML Spy, JAXP, JAXB, Spring IOC, AspectJ programming, WSDL, SOAP, RESTful, CXF, Apache Tomcat, Log4J, Eclipse 3.5, JavaScript, DHTML, HTML, and CSS. Sr. Java Developer ETS - Princeton, NJ December 2010 to March 2012 ngTOEFL  ngTOEFL is an intra company web system used by the TOEFL service centers to register/reschedule/cancel test appointments, manage additional score reports and payments. This system is comprised of Order and Profile, Payment and Score management applications.    Key Responsibilities:  • Analysis and understanding of business requirements and implement the process using Agile methodology.  • Communicated with the Leads and BA's for better understanding of the design requirements.  • Prepared UML diagrams and mock ups using MS Visio.  • Worked on application center screens and developed interactive professional and dynamic user interfaces using CSS3, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript and J Query.  • Designed and developed various modules and services application with J2EE design architecture and frameworks like Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Implemented JAVA/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, DAO, Session Façade, and Singleton.  • Used Hibernate in persistence layer and developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) to handle all database operations.  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module.  • Developed server-side services using Java, spring, Restful Web Services.  • Involved in making responsive pages using HTML5.  • Code written to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Used WSDL, SOAP, AXIS and JAX-WS technologies to create web services by generating stubs and consuming the existing services.  • Used extensive JavaScript for creating the Global templates that can be used across the JSP Pages.  • Developed code for generating the XML requests required for calling the web services.  • Developed code for processing the web service response obtained in XML as a String after calling the web Services using SAX parser  • Designed UI pages using HTML, Java Script, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, JSP and Tag libraries.  • Used SVN for source code version control.  • Developed ANT scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT.  • Implemented coarse grained authorization using spring security.  • Done with WebLogic application server configurations that includes data sources, JDBC providers, Queues set up and the application deployment.  • Developed JDBC and SQL queries and PL/SQL-Stored procedures, functions, triggers, sequences, indexes etc.  • Used Eclipse IDE for coding, testing and integrating.  • Extensively Used Spring Inversion of control and Programmatic Transaction Management features.  • Designed Hibernate configuration file for making database connection.  • Created developer test cases, followed coding guidelines while developing and involved in peer level code & design reviews.  • Involved in fixing QA and production defects and tracked them using Q    Environment: Java, J2EE- JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, Ant, Maven, HTML5/4, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Java Script, XHTML, MS Visio, XML, XSLT, DTD, WSDL, SOAP, AXIS, JERSEY, JAXP, SVN, Web logic, Oracle10g. Java Developer Sony Pictures & Entertainment - Culver City, CA October 2008 to December 2010 IFDS  The IFDS system is the International film distribution system for Sony Pictures & Entertainment to carry out film distribution booking and accounting business processes using E- commerce. It is a web based application that follows J2EE standards and Design Patterns for all components.    Key Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements, analysis, design and implementation of the project.  • Involved in preparation of High & Low level design documents.  • Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form.  • Involved in writing developer test cases and preparation of scope & traceability matrix.  • Developed Action Classes which are part of controller are used to move data into and out of JSP pages by invoking EJB Session Beans.  • Used Eclipse IDE for coding, testing and integrating POJOs.  • Performed client side validation using JavaScript and server side validation using Struts validation framework.  • Involved in design and development of server side layer using XML, XSD, SOAP, JAXB, JDBC, JMS, JDK, JNDI, EJB and DAO patterns using Eclipse IDE  • Implemented Service layers using Spring MVC and Spring Web Flow  • Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  • Designed Hibernate configuration file for making database connection.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans which access DAO's to retrieve & update data into Database.  • Used FindBugs and PMD to check defects before checking in code, unit tested using JUnit test cases and verified code coverage using EMMA tool.  • Used Value Objects to store data as the data enters and exits out of the database.  • Used Maven to build the application.  • Used Various Design patterns like Singleton, Front Controller, DAO, MVC etc.  • Involved in fixing defects tracked through QC.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.4, JSP, Servlets, EJB-Session Beans, Hibernate, Entity Beans, Struts, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, JDBC, WebLogic 8.1, JNDI, Oracle 9i, UML, HTML, JavaScript, CVS, Maven, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, UNIX, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, JMS. J2EE Developer Key Bank - Cleveland, OH May 2007 to October 2008 Account Management System  Key Bank is one of the secured financial institutions that serves huge domain of customers. The bank provides online banking to support its renowned customers. This application is a part of online banking that a customer leverages to set up their e-bills payment as well as inter bank account transfers. The application also supports intra bank transfer for a given customer.    Key Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development of e-bill payment system as well as account transfer system.  • Developed UML diagrams like state, sequence and class diagrams in Rational Rose.  • Developed the user interface with HTML, JavaScript, JSP and Tag Libraries using Struts framework.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Data Access Object, Singleton and Factory  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) and RMI for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report with a Queue as destination.  • Used Eclipse IDE for coding, testing and integrating POJOs.  • Designed Hibernate configuration file for making database connection.  • Used Hibernate for maintaining OR Mapping (ORM). Developed hibernate mapping file and hql queries for retrieving data from the database.  • Configured logging for the entire application using Log4J to get a clear picture of the status of the application.  • Developed stored procedures in PL/SQL on Oracle database.  • Developed Ant scripts to configure and deploy the application.  • Used Rational Clear Case for configuration management.  • Involved in designing the workflow and screen workflow.  • Involved in Troubleshooting and Bug fixing.    Environment: Java 1.4, J2EE 1.3, JSP 2.0, Servlets, EJB, JMS, RMI, JavaScript, AJAX, Struts 1.2, Log4J, Ant, Rational clear Case, Hibernate, IBM WebSphere Application Server, Apache Tomcat, HTML, XML, WSDL, SOAP, Oracle, WSAD 4.0, Eclipse. Programmer Analyst Synetics Computers Inc - Richland Hills, TX February 2007 to May 2007 Order Management System  This application has been developed for Synetics Computers Inc., a reseller of Compaq brands along with other assembled brands. Their products are sold over the net. This project was to develop a web site, which is e-commerce compliant. It involved maintaining good backend inventory and order processing system. The project involved different modules like database designing, static content designing, dynamic product displaying, invoice generation and administrator's interface for the remote maintenance of database objects in HTML forms through Java Servlets.    Key Responsibilities:  • Developed Servlets for generating dynamic HTML pages.  • Used Visual Age for Java as IDE.  • Designed UI pages using HTML and JavaScript.  • Used Struts Framework based on (MVC) Model View Controller architecture in WebSphere Application Development.  • Used PL/SQL for writing stored procedures.  • Generated Hibernate mapping file and Designed Hibernate configuration file for making database connection.  • Used Eclipse IDE for coding, testing and integrating POJOs.  • Involved in writing developer test cases, unit & integration testing, preparing scope & traceability matrix.  • Followed coding/design guidelines while developing & designing the application respectively.  • Followed design patterns while developing order management system.  • Involved in DB design, normalization and creating DB tables, views, stored procedures, triggers, sequences etc. Involved in build, deployment and integration.  • Involved in Unit Testing using JUnit test cases and ran code coverage using EMMA tool.    Environment: Java 1.4, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat, Ant, Cruise control, Visual Age for Java, JDBC, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, CSS, AJAX, Java Script, HTML, XML, XSD, DOM etc. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:  Languages: Java, JavaScript, Scala, Ruby, PL/SQL, VB  J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, EJB, Struts, JDBC, JSP Custom Tag Libraries, XML  (SAX & DOM), JNDI, JMS, Applets, Log4J, JSTL, JUnit, Mockito  Frameworks: Struts, JSF, Spring, and Hibernate.  Web Technologies: AngularJS, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, XML, XSD,  XSLT, Ajax.  Databases: Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL, Cassandra.  Web/Application Servers: IBM WebSphere, Tomcat, JBoss, Apache, WebLogic, WEBrick, Jetty.  Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux.  IDE Tools: Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite (STS), IntelliJ.  ORM: Hibernate, iBatis, JPA  Source Control: GIT, SVN, Clear Case, CVS.  OOAD Tools: MS Visio  Messaging Systems: JMS, IBM-MQ series, RabbitMQ  Build Tools: ANT, Maven, SBT  Job Scheduler: Quartz, Ctrl-M  Network Protocols: TCP/IP, FTP, HTTP, HTTPS, SOAP