Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Charlotte, NC Over 8 years of experience as a Java Full Stack Developer in IT industry. Extensively experienced in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object Oriented Applications and Web based Enterprise Applications using java/J2EE.  • Experience in working in environments using Agile (SCRUM) and Test Driven Development (TDD) development methodologies.    • Proficient in UI design, developed Front End using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2.0, NodeJs, ReactJs and have knowledge on BackboneJs.  • Hands on experiences with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, File Handling I/O, Generics, Data Structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.  • Experience in java8 features like Parallel Streams, Lambdas, functional interfaces and filters.  • Experience in developing, deploying, and managing N-tier, server-centric J2EE enterprise class projects using Eclipse IDE 3.x/4.x, My Eclipse 6.5, [ ] ( Java 2, Applets, Swing, JDBC 3.0, RMI), J2EE 1.5 Web application technologies (Servlets 2.x, JSP 1.x/2.x, JSTL 1.2, JSF 1.x, JNDI), Enterprise application technologies (EJB 2.x/3.0, JMS)  • Good experience on Design Patterns (J2EE) like Singleton, Factory, DAO, Session Facade, Front Controller, and Delegate Pattern.  • Experienced in developing messaging module by using Spring JMS, Apache Camel and Rabbit MQ.  • Experience in Spring framework (MVC/IOC/ORM/JDBC/AOP/BATCH/WEBFLOW/Context) and Struts (MVC, architecture, interceptors, actionmappings and resource bundles)  • Experience in developing Microservices using Spring-Boot.  • Experience in development and deployment of applications using JBoss, Web LogicApplication Server, IBM WebSphere Application and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in developing SOAP based Web Services using Apache CXF and JAX-WS.  • Experienced in developing Restful Services using JAX-RS specification like Jersey and Rest Easy to implement REST based Application.  • Experience in using Socket Programming.  • Experience in using bug/issue tracking, project Tracking and Management tool JIRA.  • Experience working on Web Services SOAP & REST, JAX-WS, JAXB, WSDL and UDDI registry.  • Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) using XML based Web Service such as SOAP, UDDI and WSDL.  • Experience with Cloud Computing Service environment like (AWS) Amazon Web Services (EC2,  • EBS, S3 and ELASTIC SEARCH)  • Involved in designed fully distributed system with the use of Restful API and Micro Services.  • Complete understanding of the DevOps process with continuous integration using Jenkins, JIRA, GIT, CHEF.  • Expertise in developing model components using ORM technologies like MyBatis, Hibernate  • (Caching, Hibernate Template, DAO) to write Database independent persistence logic and to  • maintain portable relationships between the databases.  • Have developed the micro services framework prototype with guidelines, the developers have followed as skeleton model and developed their interfaces on top of the baseline prototype.  • Good experience in J2EE Testing in developing test cases with JUnit, MOCKITO for Unit testing, and logging using Log4j.  • Good Experience in Mock Testing.  • Experienced with RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle, My SQL, MSSQL and DB2.  • Expertise in database modeling and development using No SQL Database such as MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like GIT, SVN and CVS.  • Experience in using the tools like Ant and Maven for build automation.  • Extensive experience in testing on multiple operating systems including Linux, Unix, Sun Solaris, and Windows.  • Domain knowledge and business expertise in Banking, Healthcare, E-Commerce, Insurance, finance, Telecom. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer wipro - Charlotte, NC August 2016 to Present Description: Inspiredge provides the best multi-channel services - Systems Engineering, Expense Management, Call Monitoring, and Helpdesk Services for Unified Communications, Telecom, Health Care, Financial Services and Entertainment Industries. We also offer Software License Compliance Services and Application Development Solutions across the industry.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the functionalities using Agile Scrum Methodology.  • Extensive experience in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Involved in developing UI using Spring MVC framework, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX and AngularJS.  • Created Reusable Modules and Custom Directives in Angular2.0 which got used in various places of application.  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory tested all application controllers extensively with AngularJS built-in testing facilities.  • Extensively used core java concepts like Multithreading, Collections Framework, File I/o and concurrency.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, and Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC, Generics.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Used design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Objects, Factory and MVC patterns.  • Testing and production support of core java based multithreading ETL tool for distributed loading XML data into Oracle database using JPA/Hibernate.  • Created POJO's and DAO's for the database entities using Spring JDBC annotation mappings  • Integrated with Spring Cloud projects to provide distributed tracing and other features.  • Developed microservices with Spring and tested the application using Spring Boot.  • Used Spring Core annotations for Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC for Rest API's and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Development of cloud hosted web applications and REST APIs using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat.  • Developed GSA, LSS and SDL using C++, Multi-threading and socket programming.  • Deployed the application on Amazon Web services (AWS) and used it to provide a large computing capacity for scalable solutions.  • Deployed applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing.  • Implemented Rest based web service using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider implementation.  • Integrated ActiveMQ and spring JMS API to send and receive message for the application's restfulAPI.  • Experience in design and development of Web services, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, RMI, JTA, JMS and XML, XSD, XSLT, X-Path.  • Wrote build scripts using Maven.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the 1:1/1:M/M:M mappings in hibernate files and created DAO and POJO.  • Experience in NoSQL database like MongoDB installation, configuration and in designing MongoDB multi- shared cluster and monitoring with MMS.  • Installed the WebSphere MQ and involved in configuring MDB listeners, JMS resources, and queues and integrating with the WebSphere Application Server.  • Configuring WebSphere Application Server on multiple platforms for both horizontal and vertical scaling for Work Load Management.  • Experience in working with NoSQL Database like MongoDB to manage extremely large data sets.  • Used log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info statements.  • Implemented Selenium Web Drivers and Protractor For testing the UI componenets.  • Involved in setting up Test automation and developed cucumber feature files and used Selenium for automated testing with TestNG.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system.  • Experience on implementation of version control software GIT repositories.    Environment: Agile, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and Angular 2, XML, DAO, POJO, JPA, JAVA, Java8, Springs (IOC, AOP, JDBC) Frameworks, Spring Boot, Microservices, JSP, Hibernate Framework, AWS, , RESTful Web services, SOAP, Maven, WebSphere Application Server, Mongo DB, NoSql, Log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, Selenium Web Drivers, Protractor, GIT, Socket Programming. Java Full Stack Developer Torana Inc - Stamford, CT September 2015 to August 2016 Description: Healthcare industries are experiencing increase in completion, regulations and compliances. Adjusting to all of these fast paced changes not only from business side but from IT services side is very tedious and time consuming. We work with healthcare companies to build a single source of trust for their business intelligence platforms. We have successfully implemented enterprise data warehouse from mod-size to large companies.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on AGILE methodology  • Used agile practices and Test Driven Development techniques to provide reliable, working software early and often.  • Analyzed and designed a scalable system based on Object Oriented Concepts, OOAD and the various J2EE design patterns.  • Developed java scripts for all client side validation and developed User Interface (GUI) using JSP, CSS, JSTL, and XSL.  • Used JSTL tags for communicating between controller and JSP.  • Design and implementing Model view controller (MVC) architecture using spring framework.  • Wrote Hibernate classes, DAO's to retrieve & store data, configured hibernate files.  • Used Eclipse IDE for application Development. Used Jenkins Jobs for build automation to compile and generate EAR and WAR files.  • Fixed defects Identified in Production/ QA environments; Defects were tracked in Jira tracking Portal.  • Developed SNMP Manager in WinCE. At the time of development due to the scarcity of the Hardware configuration, the SNMP support was not ported in the Board-Support Package's configuration. And hence, the SNMP was supported using the Socket Programming and C++ and following the SNMP RFC 1157 and Printer MIB 1759 specifications.  • Involved in raising questions for business, getting answers from them, bug fixing, and tracking is done by JIRA.  • Developed RESTful web services using JAX-RS, Apache CXF and spring frameworks and persistence using Hibernate and JPA ORM frameworks.  • Jersey implementation of JAX-RS is utilized to develop RESTful Web services.  • Consumed RESTful Web services (JAX-RS) provided by different vendor to use for Address verification and validation.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, and packages on Oracle database.  • Used HP Quality Center for defect tracking  • Provided the technical assistance to resolve Issues identified in production and demonstrate appropriate solution to the end users.  • Connected to Linux servers to view application logs in order to trouble shoot application issues using putty as an interface.  • Assisted Oracle DB development team in developing stored procedures and designing the database.  • Used Maven for build, cruise control is used continuous building; Used SVN as version control system for source code and project documents.  • Involved in developing of test procedures for unit testing and testing of the module    Environment: Agile, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and Angular JS, Socket Programming, XML, JSTL JSP, JPA, JAVA8, Spring Frameworks, Hibernate, RESTful Web services, SOAP, Maven, HP Quality center, WebSphereApplication, LOadRunner, Mongo DB, NoSql, Log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, LINUX, SVN. Java Full Stack Developer CVS Caremark - Chicago, IL August 2013 to August 2015 Description: It is an exhaustive product that addresses entire gamut of automation needs of the Hospital and comprises of the following activities: In-Patient & Out-Patient Administration, Lab and other Clinical Investigations Pharmacy, General Inventory and Purchasing, Pay-Roll & HR Administration tenancy of General and Biomedical equipment, Financial Accounting and Billing House-Keeping, Ward management, ICU and OT administration, Marketing Health Services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing production of application using Waterfall model.  • Developed web applications with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Used JQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes. Also used CSS pre- processors (SASS)  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Angular JS and HTML.  • Involved in rendering additional components with custom HTML tags using React.js  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX and Angular resources.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js, React.js  • Used the CollectionsAPI, Generics, multi-threading while developing code.  • Method references are used provided in Java8 to make use of methods already named  • Database development required creation of new tables PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Involved in the struts upgrade to 2.X which involved in changes to action class.  • Experience in developing LINUX shell scripts for automating deployment of applications  • Developed Spring middleware components for implementing business logic andImplemented SOA based architecture using web services to build a loosely coupled system.  • Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with Spring framework and also developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes, which are used across all the modules of the application.  • Used RESTful for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services  • Deployed the java application using Maven build script.    • Used Log4j for logging various levels of information like error, info, and debug into the log files.    • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns such as Singleton, Service Locater, DAO etc. and Spring IOC pattern and responses.    • Performed GitHub/GitHub-Desktop bash and Terminal commands to clone, fetch, merge and push the code and created pull requests for changes that are made.    • Designed enterprise API's and involved in developing the API's. Involved in testing API's using SoapUI and Postman.    • Implemented Swagger for the microservices for Documenting Rest API.    • Implemented Rest API Design Guidelines for the microservices.    • Involved in writing Maven scripts for automated deployment of the application and managed GitHub Projects and migrated from SVN to GitHub with merge and version and used Jenkins for continuous integration    • Involved in working with the QA to assist in writing test code and debugging the defects in the application.    • Responsible for making sure that all system upgrade logs were current and creating a report for management.  • Assisted in designing several significant Cisco network upgrades for larger clients.    Environment: Agile waterfall, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and Angular JS, XML, JSTL JSP, Java, Spring Frameworks, Hibernate, JDBC, RESTful Web services, SOAP, Jenkkins, Maven, Mongo DB, NoSql, Log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, LINUX, UNIX, SVN, GIT. Java/J2EE Developer Washington Financials - San Jose, CA August 2012 to July 2013 Description:  Washington Financials is a decidedly different kind of investment firm. Our mission is to help Individuals reach their serious, long-term financial goals. The web application provides functionalities such as policy management, profile management and claim reporting. The customer can access complete account information, policy information, receive instant auto insurance quote and report a claim.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and Development.  • Developed the application using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in writing the action classes and from beans for different modules using Spring MVC.  • Involved in developing the applications using Spring Framework for Dependency Injection.  • Involved in writing the validation rules classes for general sever side validations for implementing validation rules as per the design.  • Developed back-end logic with Core Java using technologies including Collection Framework, Multi- Threading.  • Worked on enhancements using JSP, Struts, database stored procedures and wrote SQL queries.  • Used UI components, Angular JS directives, controllers, view and routing, service modules, validations using HTML5, applying styles using CSS, used JQuery to make Ajax calls.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) data store for storing the records, prescriptions, bills etc. and accessed them using AWS SDK for Java utilizing NoSQL queries.  • Created SOAP Web Services using WSDL, XML and SOAP for transferring data.  • Configured the deployment descriptors in Hibernate to achieve object relational mapping.  • Used Hibernate Cache for query to improve the application performance.  • Wrote backend scripts that performed maintenance tasks on the contract data using JDBC.  • Developed Stored Procedures and Triggers on Oracle Database.  • Deployed AJAX call for asynchronous data retrieval from back-end.  • Used Maven to build the J2EE application.  • Build & Deployment in WebSphere Application Server.  • Understanding server configuration and diagnose problems in a time sensitive manner.  • Code walk through, modules integration and unit testing.  • Fix problems discovered that are within the existing system functionality (Preventive Maintenance)  • Used Log4j for logging purposes.  • Designed use cases, sequence and class diagrams, activities, states, objects and components. Used UML (MS Visio) for software design.    Environment: Java 1.7, Servlets, JSP, JUNIT, Spring 2.5.6/3.0, Spring ORM, Spring Form tags, JSTL, Hibernate 3.0, Oracle11g, Maven, Apache Tomcat Server, SOA, Eclipse IDE 3.7, Jasper, Log4J, Ajax, SOAP, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Swing, JSON, SVN. Java/J2EE Developer VSoft Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2010 to July 2012 Description: LM Benefits Client GUI An Intranet web application designed and developed to create a workspace for Highmark Business users to create Insurance Claim codes and associate various health diagnosis categories to each code. These claim codes are in turn used by Highmark Insurance Customers to claim their Benefits while claiming their insurance. Each Diagnosis code (or Product Service Component) is composed of several health related diagnosis attributes that are fetched from database (pre-loaded) . The main functionalities involves creating new PSCOs, Searching PSCOs, PSCo Copy, Combining two or more PSCOs based on class/Type modifiers and displaying attributes for PSCo creation from Database, based on Business Rules.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology, designed use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase.  • Developed UI using Swing, JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Developed of XML files, Schema's and parsing them by using both SAX and DOM parser's.  • Designed and Developed XSL style sheets using XSLT to transform XML and display the information on the UI screens.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML, Bootstrap and worked on Multithreading and Collections Framework including List, Map etc. Added interactivity to the UI pages using JavaScript.  • Worked with Core Java technologies Collections, Serialization, Generics, Annotations and Exception Handling to implement Back-End Business Logic including Entity Beans and Session Beans.  • Configured Spring security in the application to secure the method calls and RESTful webservices.  • Implemented JDBC API for communicating with database layer.  • Responsible for installing JBoss, administering and support of staging, QA and Production environment and performed failover test. Deployed application in JBoss on UNIX.  • Coding using core java, Servlets and JSP using Eclipse IDE.  • Developed Request Handlers using Servlets as Controlling mechanism.  • Implemented CORS (Cross Origin Resource Sharing) using Node JS and developed REST services using Node and Express, Mongoose modules.  • Developed Apache Camel middleware routes, JMS endpoints, Spring service endpoints and used Camel free marker to customize REST responses.  • Used Log4j and commons-logging frameworks for logging the application flow.  • Used Rational Clear Quest for tracking the changes in the application.  • Involved in Unit Testing using JUnit and Integration of Use Cases.  • Used version tools like SVN for source code and project documents Java/J2EE Developer Byte Alpha Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to August 2010 Environment: Agile, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and Angular JS, XML, SWING, Nodejs, JSP, JAVA, Spring Frameworks, Hibernate, RESTful Web services, SOAP, Servlets, JBoss, JMS, Maven, , Log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, Apache camel, SVN, ANT, Rational Clear Case.    Description: This was a web-enabled application acting as online voucher system for employees. It enabled the employees of the company to fill the voucher form with their login. Filled voucher forms could be viewed by authorized signatories who were responsible for giving verdict. Finally, approved voucher forms along with their details were sent to authorize accountant for clearance.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding Use requirements participating in design discussions, implementation feasibility analysis both at front-end and backend level, documenting requirements.  ? Coded Action classes, Java Beans, Service layers, Business delegates, to implement business logic with latest features of JDK1.5 such as Annotations and Generics.  ? Designed and developed User Interface with JSP, HTML, CSS, XHTML, JSTL, JavaScript, Custom Tags, Struts Tiles and Struts Tag library.  ? Used Validator framework for validation of client side data and exception handling using Struts exception handler.  ? Worked on Web services using standard Web protocols such as XML, SOAP, and HTTP.  ? Involved in the Struts upgrade to 2.X which involved in changes to action class.  ? Migrated Jsp's from Struts1 to Struts2 eliminating custom tags.  ? Developing Java Web Services for different phases. Used Struts2 framework to handle application requests using SOAP web services. Implemented the data persistence using Hibernate.  ? Used JDBC driver to connect to the Oracle database for all data transactions  ? Developed the application using Intellij IDE and used WebLogic server to deploy the applications and worked on the JMS queues and configured on WebLogic server.  ? Used SVN to manage the versions and Merge the code. Used Log back for writing the logs including errors, warnings, info.    Environment: Java, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JSTL, Javascript, JSP, Servlets, Java Script, Custom Tags, JDBC, SOAP, HTTP, XML, Intellij IDE, WebSphere, JMS, Oracle, Log4j, SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), Java (8 years), Javascript (8 years), JQuery (8 years), Agile, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and Angular 2, XML, DAO, POJO, JPA, JAVA, Java8, Springs (IOC, AOP, JDBC) Frameworks, Spring Boot, Microservices, JSP, Hibernate Framework, AWS, , RESTful Web services, SOAP, Maven, WebSphere Application Server, Mongo DB, NoSql, Log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, Selenium Web Drivers, Protractor, GIT, Socket Programming. Additional Information SKILLS    CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), jQuery (8 years)    Technical Skills:  Programming Languages C, C++, Java, SQL, PLSQL, Socket Programming.  Scripting Languages XML, XHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Angular2.0, Bootstrap, NodesJS, backboneJS, reactJS.  Tools Junit, Selenium web Driver, TestNG, Protractor, Mockito.  Frame Works Struts, Spring, JSF, JPA, EJB and Hibernate, iBatis, JMS.  Web Services SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, RESTful Web services, AWS, Microservices. Databases Oracle 11g, MySQL, PostGreSQL, DB2, MongoDB, Cassandra  Debugging Tools& CI/CD JIRA, Jenkins, CHEFF. Version Control Git, Tortoise SVN, CVS, Bamboo.  IDE Tools Eclipse, Net beans, IntelliJ, IBM RAD, ANT, Maven, STS Web/App/DB Servers IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.