Technology Lead Technology Lead Technology Lead - Northwestern Mutual Over 9 years of IT experience in Requirements gathering and elicitation, Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation using Object Oriented Techniques with relational databases.  Over 5 years of experience in working at client location in US.    Technical skills:  • Technical experience includes developing front-end Web, Client/Server and Distributed applications using Java/J2EE integration and back-end technologies.  • Strong exposure to J2EE design patterns like MVC, Data Access Object and thorough understanding of Object Oriented Methodology.  • Strong SQL knowledge - experienced in designing and implementing PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, triggers, functions and packages.  • Technologies extensively worked on include Java, J2EE, Struts, JavaScript, Spring, HTML, XML, JMS, MQ Series, JSP, JNDI, JDBC, Hibernate, Web services, SOAP, Oracle Forms, Oracle Reports and various Databases like Sybase, Oracle, DB2.  • Highly skilled in working with Java/J2EE on IDE's like RSA and Eclipse.  • Experienced in developing ANT scripts to automate the compilation, deployment and testing of web applications.  • Have development experience in data warehousing tool - Informatica which includes components like Power Center, Designer, Workflow Manager, Workflow Monitor and Repository Manager.  • Extensive experience in batch cycle development and support - with job scheduling tools like Autosys and Unix shell scripting.  • Have experience of Agile and waterfall models.  • Excellent knowledge on various SDLC phases like requirements elicitation, prototyping, design decision processes, development, documentation, production support processes, Unit testing, Regression testing, and Client Acceptance testing.    Domain skills:  • Over 4 years of extensive experience with Trading platforms like NetX360, Envestnet etc.  • Have extensively worked on ITIL processes like- Business continuity Planning, Knowledge Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service level Management, Configuration Management and Change Management.  • Extensive experience in industry domains like Investment Products and Services, Life Insurance, Compliance, Managed Investments, Vision & Dental insurance, Property & Casualty Insurance etc.    Soft skills:  • Good in handling business level communication translating business specs into technical solutions for delivery.  • Ability to quickly adapt to new technologies and different project environments.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills with an ability to interact with individuals at various levels like - Systems, Business, Vendors, Architecture, and Quality and Testing teams. Work Experience Technology Lead Northwestern Mutual - Milwaukee, WI September 2011 to Present Currently working as a Team/Technology Lead for Northwestern Mutual client in IPS (Investment Product Services) Department.    Description: Investment Products and Services (IPS OPS) provide Investment products, expert guidance and service to help ensure the long term financial security to Clients. Different technology platforms are used to provide field assistance and provide owner services for Annuity products, Mutual funds, Separately Managed Accounts and Retirement Market plans. Bulk of the processing is done in Java and Informatica where the data is received or sent from or to different systems. I was responsible for support and enhancements in IPS space.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the Business Partners to understand the business, gather requirements, analyze and put into technical design documents.  • Preparations of requirement traceability documents and mapping them to the code and test cases to make sure the requirements are fully addressed.  • Worked on impact analysis, test strategy and test planning, bug fixing and testing of the trading and wealth management applications, and knowledge documentation of the requests.  • Developed Java client component to call Web services for Service Request Center application. The purpose of the client component was to pass over the Bank account details to get validated through an Automated Clearing House.  • Enhanced Envestnet Entitlement utility to include the new product - Advisory Signature Choice Plus and Retirement Market. The application development involved extensive front-end work in Struts and back-end development in XML, file transfer etc.  • Java development of a Household Report and made it available in the Field Reporting application. The report automated earlier manual work being done by financial reps.  • Worked on production code deployment activities.  • Migration of objects in all phases (DEV and QA) of project and trained other developers in the team on all the perspectives.  • Involved in Data modeling for various applications.  • Developed Shell scripting for processing, extracting and directing the feeds to multiple other Systems/Vendors. Enhanced security on existing feeds by implementation PGP/GPG encryption.  • ITIL processes like BCP planning, defect management, change management, problem and incident management etc.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Struts, JDBC, JNDI, Web Services, HTML, JavaScript, Autosys, MQ Series, Sybase and DB2 database, RAD, Rapid SQL, UNIX, Informatica Powercenter 9.1, Business Objects, VB, MS Access DB, TFS, Open Exceed 14 Java and ETL Developer Northwestern Mutual September 2010 to September 2011 Sep 2010 - Sep 2011  Project Name OTC (Over the Counter Derivatives) Group 2 Project  Role Java and ETL Developer    Description of the project    The OTC G2 project involved requirements analysis, design, build, testing and implementation of the Hedge Accounting, Hedge Effectiveness, CSA Limits and Non-Derivative Assets requests that came from the Information Systems business partners at Northwestern Mutual Institutional Investments. Extensively worked on data feeds from Calypso and PAM during this project.    Responsibilities: Requirement/Impact Analysis Java, ETL and Unix Development Data Modelling Testing and Implementation Job Flow Diagram Creation Warranty and documentation Client interaction Change Management, Incident Management  Environment: Informatica Power center 8.0/9.0 for ETL development, MQ Series, Sybase, DB2, Rapid SQL, UNIX, Java, J2EE, DB2, HP Service Client, Autosys Scheduling Tool, JDBC, JNDI Java Developer/ Technical Analyst Northwestern Mutual January 2010 to September 2011 Jan 2010 - Sep 2011  Project Institutional Investments Application support and small projects  Role: Java Developer/ Technical Analyst    Description of the project    The small projects implementation in Managed Investments area involved requirements gathering, design, build and testing of the enhancements in application online Java applications like Matrix pricing tool for Private placements and Real estate & Tax Reporting and Planning tool. This also involved BCP planning, Knowledge management, change management and incident management.    Responsibilities: Requirement Gathering /Impact Analysis Software Development, Sequence & Class Diagram creation Bug fixing Worked on data feeds Process and data flow diagram creation Testing and documentation Client interaction  Environment: Java, J2EE, JNDI, JDBC, CSS, JavaScript, RSA, Sybase, Rapid SQL, Open Exceed, MQ Series, JMS, HTML, JSP, Servlets, Autosys, HP Service Client. Northwestern Mutual September 2009 to December 2009 Java Developer Insurmark Enhancements and Support June 2007 to September 2009 Role Java Developer  Description of the project  The client is AON Underwriting Managers, an insurance brokerage company. The project catered to maintaining the client's online Insurmark application. The maintenance of the application included providing production support and major enhancements to the Insurmark application. One of the major enhancements included implementation of receivables and payables modules. Extensively worked on java, Stored procedures, packages & functions, Oracle Forms/Reports in this project.    Responsibilities: Requirement Gathering , Analysis and Estimation Impact Analysis Solution Designing Software Development Bug fixing and support Testing Documentation  Environments: Java , J2EE , Struts, JDBC, MQ Series, Macromedia Dreamweaver, Eclipse, Oracle database, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 10 g Forms builder, Oracle 10 g Reports builder, TOAD, Citrix, Putty, UNIX , Surround SCM. Java Developer Project Name 2009 to 2009 Description of the project    SMART Java web tool is used in Compliance area by field agents and home office users to monitor & review securities and to make sure best practices are followed by field agents with respect to selling insurance and investments products. The project implemented a new report and controlled access to it through various entitlements in SMART application.    Responsibilities: Client interaction Requirements Analysis Impact Analysis Designing solution Java Development Testing and Defect Tracking Implementation and documentation    Environment: Java, Ant, JDBC, JNDI, J2EE, MVC, DAO, RSA, Sybase, Rapid SQL, Serena PVCS Java Developer LONG TERM CARE PARTNERS April 2007 to May 2007 Apr 2007 - May 2007  Project Name BENFEDS Maintenance Project  Role Java Developer    Description of the project    The Federal government of the United States is structured around various agencies responsible for functions like Internal Revenue Service, Postal Services, etc. Federal employees are provided voluntary benefits / insurance programs. The Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) Program provides the health care needs for Federal employees, retirees and their survivors.    As a part of this project the required front end Applications such as the Portal Application and Customer Service Representative Application were developed. Individual modules target on development of the Federal Family Portal Application, design and development of the Customer Service Representative Application, unit and integration testing.    Responsibilities: Developing HTMLs/ JSPs from Wireframe design. Developing the individual module in java. Unit Testing  Environment: J2EE, Macromedia Dreamweaver, Rational Application Developer. Java Developer/Tester Northwestern Mutual November 2005 to March 2007 Description of the project  The client Northwestern Mutual is leading insurance company. The project scope pertained to independent development and testing of the Downtown E-Files solution. The e-Files project focused on realizing efficiencies by eliminating paper based process and work flow. My role involved development and testing of Subscriber Java components in E-Files.    Responsibilities: Analysis of requirements Design and Development Functional test planning and Execution System test planning and Execution Documentation  Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Log4j, HTML, JavaScript, EJBs, CSS, SQL, Mercury defect tracking Tool, RAD, DB2 Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communications Engineering JNTU 2005 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages JAVA, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX, Oracle Forms and Reports, C, C++, VB 6.0, SAP Business Objects, ETL (Data Warehousing)  Web/XML Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Servlets, XML, EJB, AJAX, JSP, SOAP, REST API, Web Services, MQ Series  Frameworks Spring , Struts, Hibernate  Databases Sybase, Oracle, DB2, MS Access, SQL Server  Other Components JDBC, JNDI.  Tools & Utilities  Eclipse, RSA(RAD), Informatica Powercenter 9.1, Embarcadero Rapid SQL, DreamWeaver, TOAD, TFS, Serena PVCS, Surround SCM, HP Service Manager, Autosys    Application/Web Servers Websphere 8.5/7.0  Design Patterns MVC, Singleton, DAO, Factory, Session Facade    Operating Systems Windows 7/ XP, UNIX