Sr. Full Stack Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Developer Columbus, OH ? More than 10 Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  ? Proficiency in Java, J2EE and the latest frameworks like JSF, Oracle ADF components.  ? Extensive experience in developing various web based applications using Hibernate and Spring frameworks.  ? Experience with WEB 2.0 technologies like DWR, Ajax and CSS.  ? Strong interpersonal and communication skills with an ability to lead a team and keep them motivated.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) Programming.  ? Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  ? Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  ? Experience in design and development of JUNIT test cases, load balancing and failovers with cache servers and application servers.  ? Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  ? Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  ? Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP, WSDL  ? Good at Documenting and User requirements and System Specifications.  ? Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.  CORE TECH SKILLS  ? Java, Ruby, Python, PHP, PHPUnit, J2EE, Laravel, Symfony, Spring, Hibernate, GoLang, Ibatis, Struts, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, Docker, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JDBC, C, C++. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Developer Bank Of America - New York, NY August 2015 to Present Bank of America is one of the world's leading financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small and middle-market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services.    Accountabilities:  ? Worked on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Architect and testing of web application and integration projects using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE, Multi-threading, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, Web Services (REST/SOAP)  ? Architect applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Java Server Faces, EJB, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, MVC Architecture, Web Services, AJAX, RMI, UML, HTML, Java Beans, JavaScript and DHTML.  ? Architect hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  ? Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Ember.js, and Celery.  ? Developed organized SQL and MySQL databases optimized for Laravel use.  ? Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  ? Developed Ruby on Rails apps, deployed to Amazon Web Services ElasticBeanstalk and internally on a Linux server using Ansible.  ? Used Laravel Middleware to implement authentication checks for accessing any resource in the application.  ? Implemented language localization using Mcamara package and Laravel middleware.  ? Developed web applications with W3C XHTML, HTML5, CSS3 standards and using Ruby, Rails, Git and Heroku.  ? Architect web-based maintenance application to maintain complex specification documents. Used JQuery, Wicket, and iBatis against a MySQL database  ? Created Snapshots and Amazon Machine Images (AMI's) of EC2 Instance for snapshots and creating clone instances.  ? Designed and developed lots of custom Laravel and Symfony codes, themes and plugins.  ? Designed, developed, and deployed Symfony, Laravel, WordPress, Drupal and opencart site.  ? Automated the cloud deployments using chef, python (boto & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  ? Test PHP business logic that makes SQL queries using PHPUnit testing.  ? Writing scripts, front end configuration and code in JavaScript, Python, PHP, SASS and CSS.  ? Architect a scalable distributed data solution using Hadoop  ? Used GoLang to create backend servers.  ? Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins.  ? Architected and developed a Golang API using TDD to aggregate data to show application server alignment  ? Used GIT for version control. Wrote Automated Unit Tests for new and existing features with PHPUnit.  ? Architect Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  ? Used Cloud Watch for monitoring AWS cloud resources and the applications that deployed on AWS by creating new alarm, enable notification service.  ? Implemented automated Unit Tests for new and existing features with PHPUnit.  ? Developed Golang API and chat-bot using TDD to automate software deployments and rollbacks using Github webhooks  ? Responsible for Docker Compose environment deployment for Ruby on Rails, Elixir and Node.JS apps running on a stack with Postgresql, ElasticSearch, OrientDB and Nginx.  ? Played a key role in installation and configuration of the various Hadoop ecosystem tools such as Sqoop, Flume, Pig and Hbase.  ? Used Symfony in a set of PHP Components as a Web Application framework  ? Architect front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  ? Worked on continuous integration and automated deployment and management using Jenkins, Puppet, Chef, Maven, Ant, Docker, or comparable tools.  ? Used Symfony in a set of PHP Components as a Web Application framework.  ? Worked on various no. of frameworks such as Wordpress, Joomla, symfony, and codeignitor, smarty.  ? Architect a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  ? Implemented CI/CD process, CIT automated testing, deployment using Hg/GIT, REST API, Ansible & Puppet.  ? Continuous integration and automated deployment and management using Jenkins, Puppet, Chef, Maven, Ant, Docker, or comparable tools.  ? Wrote the entire admin from scratch(PHP), rewrote the main API(PHP), and fixed issues in our slot API(Coffeescript).  ? Worked on end-to-end design, setup, integration and maintenance of CI/CD pipeline from source-control to production.  ? Worked on building jquery modules and vue.js apps.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  ? Configuring, automation and maintaining build and deployment CI/CD tools Git/GitLab, Docker registry/dFon, Nexus and JIRA for Multi-Environment.  ? Used Github repository for version control.  ? Custom HTML markup was written in combination with Vue.js to stream-line JavaScript development.  ? Data was bound to the components with MVVM using Kendo and Vue.JS, and was retrieved, created, updated, & deleted using REST.  ? Performed Benchmarking and Load testing using Cassandra-stress tool.  ? Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  ? Architect Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  ? Worked on stored procedures, triggers, cursors, DB scheduler, PL/SQL, MySQL and SQL queries  ? Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.    Background Skills: Java, Ruby, Python, PHP, PHPUnit, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Symfony, Laravel, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, Ibatis, HTML, Vue, CI/CD, Javascript, CSS, XML, AWS, Docker, GoLang, WebServices, SOAP, Cassandra, Hadoop, PL/SQL, Junit, Oracle, MySql, REST, SOA, Git, Github, Selenium, RAD, Agile, scrum, Eclipse Sr. Full Stack Developer Met Life Insurance - San Antonio, TX August 2013 to July 2015 MetLife, Inc. is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs, serving 90 million customers. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife holds leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.    Accountabilities:  ? Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  ? Developed WordPress plugins and modules to embed into the active pages using PHP.  ? Architect and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  ? Used PHPUnit, Postman to test the API.  ? Maintain and make changes to the exam portal website under Laravel MVC framework, using PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS and Javascript.  ? Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  ? Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  ? Used PHPUnit to test individual report test cases.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  ? Carried out exhaustive testing on the API using PHPUnit.  ? Used Python to pull Docker images of analysis tools from Docker hub and containerizing those tools.  ? Successfully integrated and tested Fast QC and Dtox analysis Docker containers into Orange.  ? Developed CI/CD solutions for running an AngularJS application from a Tomcat container using Jenkins and Sonatype Nexus.  ? Deployed infrastructure on AWS utilizing services such as EC2, RDS, VPC and Managed Network and Security, Route 53, Direct Connect, IAM, Cloud Formation, AWS OpsWorks (Automate operations), Elastic Beanstalk, AWS S3, Glacier and Cloud Watch Monitoring Management.  ? Built web application using Vue.js and Firebase.  ? Develop custom drag and drop tree view, web application to transfer and arrange HL7 data using Angular, html5, Vue.js.  ? Automated the cloud Deployments using Chef and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  ? Conceived, Designed, Installed and Implemented CI/ CD automation system.  ? Worked on Deploying a Gatling Docker Image into the Mesos Cluster with help of Docker swarm.  ? Developed Laravel based Dashboard application's login page integrating Laravel framework's authentication.  ? Performed maintenance/addition to PlayerAPIs written in Laravel/Lumen.  ? Used npm commands to mix the CSS and JAVASCRIPT files in Laravel.  ? Implemented static and dynamic UI pages in Symfony framework.  ? Created CRUD classes using Symfony command line tools.  ? Utilized agile methodology with JIRA and supporting CI/CD tools such as Bamboo to deploy to Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  ? Constructed powerful and modern frontend architecture, involving React, Redux  ? Created my own standards while being in symfony along with using some complex applicatons that highly costomized requirements for symfony.  ? Developed custom consumers and producers for Apache Kafka in Go (golang) for cars monitoring system.  ? Building a Command line tool to interact with RESTful API using in Golang.  ? Worked on Python Ruby, Perl, Bash Scripts for on Middleware tools for deployment.  ? Architect HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Architect various Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and Oracle JDeveloper  ? Architect Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQL.  ? Architect and implemented four Agile Scrum teams for product development.  ? Architect a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  ? Embedded Python and R with Tcl using C wrappers to allow developers to perform data analytics as well as Implement applications in a single language i.e. PHP.  ? Created the Application using React.JS and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  ? Design, develop and implement ColdFusion and PHP based Spiderlink Web Services online billing application.  ? Created and modified code within a Ruby based application.  ? Used WSAD WebSphere Studio Application Devloper for writing code for JSP, Servlets, and Struts.  ? Architect user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  ? OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities.  ? Architect SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite  ? Architect the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  ? Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  ? Developed SQL queries with PHP Doctrine and Propel to create, retrieve and update data and programming SQL sentences based on CRUD.  ? Development work is also done to the legacy system using WebSphere Studio Application Devloper WSAD IDE. The modified application is deployed on websphere using ANT and javascripts for use by interface project.  ? Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  ? Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  ? Involved in UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose  ? Architect interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  ? Wrote JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional quality.  ? Architect Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Background Skills: Java, Ruby, Python, PHP, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JDBC, Websphere, Angular.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JSP, HTML, Vue, CSS, PHPUnit, JQuery, Javascript, GoLang, XML, SOAP, PL/SQL, AWS, Junit, Docker, CRUD, MongoDB, MySQL, CI/CD, MS SQL, Oracle, Apache CXF, REST, SOA, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Eclipse, Scrum, Subversion SVN, UML, Class diagram, JSTL, Maven. Sr. Java Developer Costco - Brooklyn, NY March 2011 to July 2013 Costco Wholesale Corporation operates an international chain of membership warehouses, mainly under the "Costco Wholesale" name, that carry quality, brand name merchandise at substantially lower prices than are typically found at conventional wholesale or retail sources.    Accountabilities:  ? Architect application which uses J2EE architecture model and Struts Framework first on Weblogic and helped in migrating to JBoss Application server.  ? Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  ? Architect Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, Spring, JSF frameworks and SOAP/REST web services, Web Sphere Integration Developer (WID) Tool to develop WPS components.  ? Used JSF messages for handling the error messages for the applications  ? Preparation of the framework classes for communication between portal to EJB and Hibernate  ? Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, JQuery, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  ? Architect Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  ? Worked on multiple projects based on Oracle ADF framework and Oracle WebCenter  ? Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  ? Used J2EE based App Servers like Jboss WebSphere Weblogic and Web servers like Apache Tomcat  ? Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  ? Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  ? Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat  ? Architect packages for Transforming and Loading of Data from Sybase, Oracle to MS SQL Server by using SQL Server Integration Services  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSF, Marionette.js, Swing/AWT, JSON, Java Script and HTML5, Bootstrap and Backbone.js, Flex, ASP and Extjs.  ? Used JDBC, JavaScript, Servlet, and JDBC and used SQL Server for backend. Interaction with business users to gather requirements.  ? Architect web presentation layer using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  ? Architect components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML.  ? Design of the process flow in Oracle BPM and jBPM to evaluate the difference between the behavior of different BPM tools  ? Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  ? Rewrote code for enabling download as .pdf with new iText library for Java  ? Worked with Rational ClearCase to provide sophisticated version control, workspace management and parallel development support. Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Wrote complex sql statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  ? Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  ? Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  ? Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe  ? Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  ? Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems.  ? Developed code usinf C, C++ for secure transaction  Background Skills: Java, J2EE, Spring, Struts, JSF, JSP, EJB, DOJO, JQuery, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript, GWT, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, Tomcat, WSDL, JBoss, Netbeans, Jasper report, Unix, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model,Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, JRules, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, Web 2.0, Linux, IBM MQ Series, Ruby, Z, ASP, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS VB Java Developer IBM - New York, NY February 2009 to February 2011 IBM manufactures and markets computer hardware, middleware and software, and provides hosting and consulting services in areas ranging from mainframe computers to nanotechnology.  Accountabilities:  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  ? Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  ? Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  ? Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  ? Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  ? Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  ? Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  ? Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  ? Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  ? Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  ? Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  ? Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Background Skills: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, JavaScript, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis , tcpmon, Ant, WinCVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix Software Developer Atnt, OH July 2007 to January 2009 AT&T, Inc. is a holding company, which engages in the provision of telecommunications and digital entertainment services. It operates through the following segments: Business Solutions, Entertainment Group, Consumer Mobility, and International. The company was founded in 1983 and is headquartered in Dallas, TX.    Accountabilities:  ? Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  ? Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  ? Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  ? Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  ? Generic Tree Navigation control).  ? Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  ? Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  ? Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  ? Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  ? Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  ? Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  ? Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  ? Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  ? Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  ? Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  ? Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  ? Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  ? Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  ? Development of GUI using AWT  ? Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  ? Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  ? Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.    Background Skills: J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix. Education Master's Skills Linux (7 years), MySQL (7 years), Oracle (9 years), SQL (10+ years), WebSphere (8 years), Java (10+ years), Javascript (8 years), PHP (7 years), ruby (7 years), rails (7 years), HTML (7 years), CSS (7 years), IOS (6 years), Android (6 years), Python (6 years) Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  ? Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, Eclipse, Flex, RSA, NetBeans, Windows, Linux , Unix.