Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - Intermountain Healthcare Edison, NJ • Over 10 years of industrial experience in web application development, object-oriented programming, design, development using Java and J2EE Technologies.  • Experience in developing applications using Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Struts, Spring framework (Spring JDBC, Spring MVC/ Spring Boot), Hibernate.  • Hands on experience in Atlassian tools JIRA, Confluence.  • Expertise in client-side design and validations using HTML 4/5, XHTML, Bootstrap, Java Script, JSP, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, React JS.  • Experienced in writing Components, Pipes and Services to separate concern and handle different situations by using Angular2 and Worked on Angular4 Enhancements.  • Experience of JUNIT and Mackito. Understanding of Jasmine and Karma Frameworks.  • Extensive experience in Deploying Application in Web Servers such as Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBOSS and Apache Tomcat Web Server and used Jenkins.  • Good Experience in using Build tools like Maven, Ant and Log4J. Good at using IDEs like Eclipse, Spring Tools Suite and Visual Studio Code. Experience using Postman and SoapUI.  • Worked on design patterns and industry best practices such as MVC, Factory, and singleton.  • Hands on experience of exposing and consuming web services using SOAP, REST, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, and also in Apache Camel.  • Understanding on big data technologies like Apache Hive, Kafka, Hadoop and Apache Spark.  • Experience using Node JS for non-blocking design operation for server-side code, Angular4 for developing UI components.  • Expertise in Object Oriented and Concurrent programming using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Strong understanding of Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Event Handling, Exception Handling and Generics.  • Expertise in designing POJO classes using Hibernate Annotations using EJB/JPA API.  • Experience in working with DevOps/Continuous integration tools like GITHUB, Jenkins, Nexus, Jira and SonarQube.  • Working experience of control version/ SCM tools like GIT, SVN, CVS and Clear Case.  • Experience in writing SQL, PL/SQL queries, Stored Procedures for accessing and managing databases such as Oracle11g/10g/9i/8i, SQL Server, MySQL, and DB2 and knowledge of NoSQL database like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Involved and developed various phases of security implementation using Spring Security system against all types of authentications like LDAP authentication, Database authentication and Pre-Authentication.  • Strong experience with MongoDB and migrations from SQL relational databases to NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMIs to run the war, AMI and deploy jobs in Jenkins brew master instance, which reduces the time for the deployment of micro services.  • Experience in AWS (EC2, EC2 Container Services/Docker, VPC with Security Groups, S3, IAM, SNS, Lambda, Route53, Cloud Formation, CloudWatch, Services), DevOps tools and Microservice architecture.  • Ability to work in tight schedules and efficient in meeting deadlines. Good experience in developing applications using Agile Scrum, waterfall methodology. Very good at Using Version One and JIRA agile project Management Tools. Very good at understanding the stories. Good at estimating the time. Ability to deliver the stories on time.  • Involved in all different phases of SDLC including Strategic Systems Planning, Designing, Programming, Testing, Documentation, and Presentation to clients and preparing customer specifications as part of software technical requirements and Customer support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Intermountain Healthcare - Salt Lake City, UT September 2018 to Present Description: Help2 Clinical Desktop (CD) is a web application based on J2EE architecture. It provides web-based access to inpatient and outpatient data from the IHC Clinical Data Repository (CDR). Users can review as well as update or enter new data through CD. Many clinicians use CD daily for accessing patient data, which aids in making important clinical decisions. CD is mainly composed of a "shell" or "core", and various modules running inside of the "shell".    Responsibilities:  • Developed web GUI involving HTML, Node JS, Java Script under MVC architecture.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, CSS, and JQuery Scripting.  • Designed and implemented front end applications using Adobe Dreamweaver. Designed and developed the UI using JSP, Spring, Servlets, HTML, CSS and JavaScript, JQuery.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  • Implemented various design patterns like Singleton, DAO, Factory pattern etc.  • Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, Web Service call and JSON.  • Used Custom Tag libraries for XML parsing and XSL transformations.  • Used Filenet for Content Management and for streamlining Business Processes.  • Involved in the development of web application using Spring MVC architecture. Configured Bean properties using setter injection and Implanted JSP for the presentation layer.  • Developed Message based systems using JMS API and Message Driven Beans (EJB 3.0).  • Configured Hibernate for storing objects in the DB2 database, retrieving objects, querying objects and persisting relationships between objects.  • Experience with basic WebSphere Administration- like JMS, Data Source Configurations, Listener port configurations, JVM Property Configuration, Certificates Configuration, deploying EAR's into various environments through Admin Console, Hudson etc.  • Written Web Services (JAX-WS) for external system via SOAP/HTTP call.  • Implemented REST Web Services for other applications to communicate.  • Worked on UNIX, LINUX to move the project into production environment.  • Implemented logging mechanism using Log4j Framework, Used Log4j framework to log/track application.  • Used Maven automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j.  • Used JUnit for unit testing of the application, Rational Clear Case for Version Control.  • Deployed EAR files using the build tools in the Web Logic application server.    Environment: Ajax, Jquery, FileNet, Java 1.5, JSP, Servlets, Core Java, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NodeJs, UNIX, Jms, Web Services- SOAP, WAS 6.1, DB2, XML, IBM WebSphere 6.1, Rational Clear Case, Log 4j. Jr. Java Developer US Bank - Portland, OR August 2016 to September 2018 Description:  The application is used to track the assets of a company right from the day of purchase to the day when it is either sold or scrapped. The depreciation of an asset for a particular period can be taken in the form of a report. All the relational, transactions like Invoice, Sales, Loan, Lease, Insurance policy, issued assets etc., are also maintained in this application.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze the requirements based on business data and user requirements.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, Jquery and Java script.  • Implemented the modules using Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Develop GUI related changes using JSP, HTML and client validations using Java script.  • Developed Java beans, helper classes and Servlets for interacting with UI written in JSP.  • Wrote a controller Servlet that dispatched requests to appropriate classes.  • Developed Dispatch Action classes to define several business methods.  • Developed value object mainly used to wrap the data and pass across the layers.  • Developed business logic using Stateless session beans for calculating asset depreciation on Straight line and written down value approaches.  • Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features  • Designed database Queries for updating, insertion and retrieval of asset information and rates.  • Involved coding SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Involved in Designing the Database Schema and writing the complex SQL queries.  • Created java classes to communicate with database using JDBC.  • Accessed stored procedures and functions using JDBC Callable statements.  • Involved in unit testing, troubleshooting and debugging. Modifying existing programs with enhancements.  • Involved in fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application.    Environment: Java 1.4, Servlets, JSP, EJB, J2EE 1.4, STRUTS, XML, XSLT, Java Script, Oracle 8i, SQL, PL/SQL, Ms Visio, Eclipse, JDBC, Win CVS, Windows 2003 Server. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Macy's Inc - San Francisco, CA July 2014 to August 2016 Description: This application supports all the Macys experiments set up and analytics and deployed in Heroku server. Developing a portal where they can access all the Clients and their business using SSO application. Integrated with different applications like Billing, Book of Business, and quote and Ordering ID cards.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented innovative systems for data collection, storage and management of customer orders.  • Designed and developed transactional and analytical data structures.  • Implemented REST based web services for the communication between web applications.  • Following safe agile methodology, adopted to fast paced development environment, where focusing on frequent deployments to production.  • Working in different environments, developed different components, services.  • Working on developing Spring Boot Micro services and consuming other Micro services.  • Experience deploying and maintaining multi-container applications through Docker.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services using Micro Services and JSON.  • Used Angular JS and Node JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC model (Model-View-Controller).  • Worked on developing Microservices using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud were developed, test and documented scalable and high-quality business applications according to business requirements.  • Used Spring core annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API's and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Extensively Used Jenkins as Continuous Integration tool to deploy Spring Boot Micro services to Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) using build pack. Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to quickly build, deploy & update the applications.  • Working Knowledge on creating reusable UI components using Angular4.  • Developed stored procedures and queries to work with millions of records in SQL Server database environment. Extensively used PL/SQL to write complex queries and stored procedures on customer detail database.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery and Angular4.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry(PCF) for developing RESTful APIs in the spring boot framework.  • Involved in unit testing, troubleshooting and debugging. Modifying existing programs with enhancements.  • Used Java 1.8Lambdas to make anonymous inline function calls and used Streams to work effectively with collection objects, array operations and Enhanced concurrency methods.  • Developing single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular.  • Extensively used Atlassian tools like Bit bucket, Bamboo, Jira and Confluence for CI/CD.  • Working knowledge on React and Client-side validation.  • Implemented client-side Interface using Node JS and used for creating reusable UI components.  • Used Docker for creating Docker images for launching containers on AWS EC2.  • Experience working on multiple AWS instances.  • Used Spark Streaming to perform necessary transformations and actions for building the model which gets data from Kafka and persists into Cassandra.  • Designed, built, and deployed a multitude application utilizing almost all of the AWS stack (Including EC2, MongoDB focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling).  • Working with No SQL Database (Mongo DB), where consolidated data from different sources using Hadoop/Spark.  • Involved in PROD activities regular intervals.    Environment: Java 8, HTML5, CSS3, java script, Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular4, gulp, web pack, React JS, Jest, Micro Services, Node JS, Spring boot 1.5.x, Mongo DB, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Eclipse, Postman, Kafka, AWS, Docker, Visual Studio, Atom. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Blackhawk Network - Pleasanton, CA June 2012 to July 2014 Description: The SetIt is an Admin tool which is mainly used to install plans for the several clients with the specific work order. SetIt integrates several applications internally. It feeds multiple applications and uses the data served by few applications. It also uses multiple databases (SETIT, OLTP, and OMNI). SetIt is a key internal application of the organization. It is a web application developed in java that reads/stores data on an oracle data base. It captures the plan data that is eventually extracted to other plan maintenance applications.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented the Struts MVC framework, JSP/Servlets for designing and developing the user interface and AJAX is used for asynchronous server calls.  • Developed and enhanced middleware components using Collections, Generics, Object Serialization, and Multithreading.  • Followed agile methodology for the project development.  • Used Java multi-threaded API for processing large number of index files.  • Used Spring framework including Spring core/IoC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, Spring Batch, Spring Security and implemented the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Implemented the Spring AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming) for Logging, declarative transaction Management, creating and applying transaction advices and configuring the joint points.  • Developed SOAP web services using JAX-WS.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups.  • Deployed Spring Boot based micro services Docker container using AmazonEC2 container using AWS admin console.  • Implemented security in SOAP web services using axis.  • Experience with Developing Web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Built spring-based Java and Scala micro services to support enterprise web application.  • Deployed Spring Boot based micro services Docker container using AmazonEC2 container using AWS admin console.  • Developed microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster.  • Developed shell scripts for running the batch programs using cron job.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, procedures and functions.  • Used Angular JS, Node JS and Bootstrap in effective web design.  • Setup the continuous Integration (CI) process and continuous deployment (CD) jobs in Jenkins brew master instance, which reduces the time for the deployment of micro services.  • Developed web GUI involving HTML, Node JS, Java Script under MVC architecture.  • Experience in Integration of Amazon Web Services, AWS with other applications infrastructure.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to role-based access controls, applying and enforcing roles and permissions to ensure that users can only view and affect the spaces for which they have been granted access.  • Developed EJS access layer and components using JPA/Hibernate frameworks for object persistence to Derby database for mock domain and in Oracle for real domains.  • Created BSON Data and stored as documents comprising documents, data types and conversions in MongoDB.  • Composed and executed Mongo DB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database and reporting.  • Prepared SQL/PL-SQL scripts and Stored Procedures to implement design get it fine-tuned from DBAs if needed.  • Designed and implemented Unit Testing using JUNIT Framework.  • Used Rational Clear Case Explorer for creating/managing views and delivering the code of Integration stream on daily basis.  • Used IBM Rational Clear Quest to keep track of the defects and activities.  • Responsible for updating the defects status in a daily based QA status meeting.    Environment: J2EE, Spring, Struts, PL/SQL, Eclipse, JMS, HTML, AJAX, JAX-WS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, Node JS, JSON, MongoDB, UNIX, SOAP, Clear Case, AWS, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Scala, Micro Services, Oracle 11g, MVC, Shell Scripts, CSS, Window. Jr. Java/J2EE Developer New York State Division of Criminal Justice Services - Albany, NY May 2011 to June 2012 Description: The Project describes the Admission, Discharge & Transfer ADT module of the patients. The primary function of the ADT module is to admit the patient in a hospital, allocate the appropriate room and define the tariff applicable to the patient. It also updates the current room status by interacting with the other modules of his like Billing, Maintenance, and Ward's etc. The system captures all demographic details of the patient, insurance details, basic clinical conditions etc.    Responsibilities:  • Used agile methodology to develop the application.  • Responsible for maintaining the code quality, coding and implementation standards by code reviews.  • Created MVC architecture built on struts framework.  • Provided services to third party clients through Restful architecture.  • Used Oracle Database for persisting the data.  • Implemented persistence mechanism using Hibernate (ORM Mapping). Responsible for mapping the database model into persistence objects using Hibernate Annotations.  • Integrated log4j for logging the messages at debug and error level.  • Used Web logic workshop, Eclipse IDE to develop the application.  • Used SVN version controller to maintain the code versions.  • Used Maven build tool to build the application.  Environment: Java, Oracle, SQL, Eclipse, log4j, Maven, REST, SVN. Java/UI Developer BCBS - Chicago, IL April 2009 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, development, testing, integration and deployment of the web services.  • Involved in Agile methodology to get updated with team.  • Involved in development of User Interface using HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and JSON.  • Used spring framework to implement the MVC design pattern.  • Used hibernate to map the domain elements and Criteria API, named query for querying.  • Hibernate has been used as the ORM framework to persist the data and Hibernate xml mapping has been used to map the java objects to Database tables.  • Developed the REST web service using Spring IOC to provide user a way to run the job and generate daily status report on loans.  • Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized xml documents using Spring framework.  • Developed ORM persistence layer using JPA, Hibernate framework.  • Worked on advanced Hibernate associations with multiple levels of Caching, lazy loading.  • Extensively involved in developing and consuming Restful webservices using JAX-RS.  • Used WebLogic to deploy the changes and to test on local machine.  • Committed the code changes to SVN using Tortoise SVN.    Environment: Java, Struts, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Oracle, Hibernate, JavaScript, jQuery, Web Logic, SQL, HTML, CSS, XML, Agile, Restful Web services, ANT, Junit, SQL Developer, JMS, Eclipse, Log4j, JNDI, SOAP, WSDL, CVS, Log4j, JAXB, Eclipse, Rational Rose, JUnit, Oracle 10g. Education Bachelor's Skills database (10+ years), Eclipse (9 years), Java (10+ years), SQL (9 years), testing (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages C, C++, Java 6/7/8, HTML, JavaScript, SQL and PL/SQL  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking  Application/Web Servers Oracle/BEA WebLogic 8.1/9.1, IBM WebSphere 5.1/6.0/6.1/7.0, JBoss, Tomcat 5.0.28/6.0  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 4.x/3.x, Hibernate 4.x/3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0, iBatis  IDEs Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA, Spring Tool Suite (STS)  Web Technologies  HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, NodeJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, ExtJS, Bootstrap, Servlets, JSPs, JNDI, JMS, XML, XSLT, XSD, JSF    Web Services SOAP, RESTful, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-P, JAX-B, AXIS  Messaging Tools Rabbit MQ, Apache Kafka, Apache Spark, JMS  Cloud environments Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka, Mesos  Version Control Tools GIT, CVS, SVN, Rational Clear Case  Testing technologies/tools Junit, Jasmine, Karma, Selenium, Soap UI  Database Servers Oracle 10g/11g/12C, SQL server 2012/2014/2016, MySQL 5.7, DB2 11.1  Build tools ANT, Log4j, Jenkins 2.x, Gradle and Drools