Sr. JAVA / JEE Developer Sr.<span class="hl">JAVA</span> / JEE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. JAVA / JEE Developer - Priceline Norwalk, CT ? Over 8 years of professional IT experience with full project lifecycle development in J2EE technologies Requirements analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of software applications  ? Experienced in leading and managing project team members in various stages of SDLC like requirement gathering, analyzing and designing optimal architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment.  ? Experience in working with different SDLC methodologies like Waterfall, RUP, Agile (TDD, SCRUM)  ? Experienced in requirement analysis, and preparing High Level and Low Level design (HLD and LLD).  ? Expertise in developing web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap with webpage cross browser compatibility and responsive web design and Server scripting language like Node JS.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Java, JEE/J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, Web Services like SOAP and RESTful services, MVC frameworks like Struts, Spring MVC, and database like oracle 10g/11g, MySQL, DB2.  ? Expert in Core Java and implementing concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics and Java collections in various projects  ? Developed Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based J2EE applications that confirm SOA standards  ? Skilled on implementing project using both core and advanced Java technologies like Servlets, JSP, JSF, Hibernate, Spring, EJB, JNDI, JMS, JDBC, RMI  ? Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elastic search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  ? Experience in implementing client - server business applications using Microservices.  ? Have extensive working knowledge on Linux and various versions of UNIX such as Sun-Solaris, IBM-AIX, HP-UX  ? Proficient in XML technologies like XSL/XSLT, SAX, DOM, XPath, DTD, XSD, JAXB, JAXP, Apache Axis  ? Good hands on experience in various databases like DB2, Oracle, and MySQL and DB side scripting using PL/SQL DB tools such as TOAD, MySQL Workbench, Mongo DB  ? Experienced with deploying applications on to production servers, configuring various parameters of servers like Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web sphere and Web Logic  ? Experienced with debugging issues during deployment of applications and provide support to meet user requirements during acceptance test.  ? Well versed with UNIX shell scripting to automate various process of development and testing  ? Experience with test driven development (TDD) using a unit testing framework Junit and knowledge of ANT, Maven and Log4j tools  ? Excellent working experience in developing applications using J2EE Design Patterns like creational, structural and behavioral design patterns (MVC Architecture, Singleton, Factory, Facade, Service Locator etc)  ? Used version controller tools like Tortoise Subversion(SVN), CVS and Git  ? Experienced with RAD Iterative development methodologies  ? Ability to learn and use new systems and paradigms in considerably less time  ? Quick Learner, highly motivated team player with excellent organizational and analytical skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. JAVA / JEE Developer Priceline - Norwalk, CT December 2016 to Present Description: Priceline is a leading online travel agency (OTA) offering customers the products/services like Air travel reservations, Hotel bookings , Rental cars booking , Vacation package, Cruises. Priceline has been acquiring hotel/airline retailers from around the world that is expected to increase its market value and market share in the online travel related service industries. The customer base includes travelers looking for hotels, air tickets, car rentals, cruises and travel suppliers.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements gathering, Design , Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the application  ? Adapted Agile Methodology from specification, Analysis, Design, System integration, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance  ? Involved in daily standup meetings to provide regular updates on individual tasks and progress of user stories  ? Developed UI components using Angular JS, Node JS, JavaScript, JSP, Html tags, CSS, Ajax and JQuery  ? Used Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto Tomcat application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process  ? Developed user-friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing login system by using AngularJS  ? Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture and frameworks like Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts  ? Used REST methodology using HTTP Handlers in developing Web Service replication interface for setting up data feeds for content transportation in XML and JSON formats  ? Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application  ? Achieved synchronization of multiple threads through Multithreading and Exception Handling  ? Developed interfaces/APIs in Java to interact with various backend systems  ? Maintained Interface compatibility and concurrency in the project using Java8 new features like default, static methods and Concurrency API  ? Created web services using Spring @Rest Controller to return JSON to the frontend  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern  ? Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security  ? Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class  ? Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using  Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management  ? Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry  ? Implemented and maintained monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers such as EC2 and storage such as S3 buckets using AWS  ? Used Amazon S3 to backup database instances periodically to save snapshots of data  ? Implemented service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS  ? Developed queries to perform CRUD operations.  ? Extensively used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue  ? Configured and used Log4J for logging all the debugging and error information  ? Implemented log4j logging framework by creating various Splunk monitoring tools dashboards for easy t racking and debugging  ? Looking into the Splunk logs for hidden application errors  ? Used LDAP Authentication for single sign and authentication, logging and Validating User Credentials  ? Used JIRA extensively to log all issues and track development status  ? Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing  ? Developed the build scripts using Maven  ? Used GIT Version Controller to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code  merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts    Environment: Core Java, Java/J2EE, JDK 1.8, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Hibernate(ORM), Tomcat, Agile methodology, RESTful Web Services, JSP, MySQL, MongoDB, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, AWS EC2, S3, Micro Services, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Splunk, Maven, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, JIRA, RAD, Log4j, JUnit, SVN , Git Sr. JAVA / JEE Developer Maritz Inc - Fenton, MO October 2015 to November 2016 Project: Nissan VPP (Vehicle Purchase Program), Nissan/Infiniti AOE (Award of Excellence)    Description: Nissan is a sales client of Maritz Inc. where we do the customizations and other client specific enhancements. Nissan Project includes several web applications like Nissan Admin portal, VPP US Consumer, VPP US Dealer, VPP CA Consumer, VPP CA Dealer, Nissan AOE, Infiniti AOE. Vehicle Purchase Program (VPP) is a great opportunity for Nissan and Infiniti dealerships to increase sales and expand their customer base. Nissan AOE and Infiniti AOE are the recognition programs that awards the individual dealerships and dealership employees for their exceptional performance in sales and service    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development and testing  ? Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM' to meet customer expectation, timelines with quality deliverables and tested the application in each iteration  ? Promoted good implementation practices, design, coding standard, testing, etc.  ? Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Bootstrap with AngularJS interaction  ? Developing the Single Page Web Application for various modules like Usage Monitoring, Accounting, Registration, and Storage Management using AngularJS frameworks and HTML, JavaScript single handedly  ? AngularJS Ajax module is used to handle RESTful calls to enable communication between view components and server  ? Experience with service based integration methodologies, including SOAP and REST services using OAuth 2.0 and API Design  ? Analyze business requirements and develop various business delegates to integrate with Middleware services using SOAP, REST and queues  ? Providing support for implementation, troubleshooting and updates of applications on Linux/UNIX servers  ? Implemented Business Logic using Java, OOPs concepts, multi-threading, Java Concurrency, spring, Spring Boot, Spring Batch and Hibernate. Experience with reporting frameworks like Jasper  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate  ? Involved in writing the associations for the query in mapping xml files in Hibernate  ? Developed the application using WAF custom Framework  ? Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS (EC2/EBS)  ? Utilized Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 to deploy Docker containers with both monolith and Microservice architecture  ? Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in JBOSS. Experience in Web/Application Servers such as Jetty and Glassfish  ? Created DDL and DML SQL scripts for creation of database objects in Oracle DB. Wrote SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from database  ? Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs and SVN for version control  ? Deployed and tested the application in Unix on JBOSS Application Server  ? Involved in production support, resolving the production job failures, interacting with the operations support group for resuming the failed jobs  ? Involved in resolving issues raised in QA, UAT and Production Issues  ? Developed and executed Test cases using unit testing (JUnit) and integration testing  ? Helped in developing the complete business flow and helped incorporate form validations and error handling in the application  ? Involved in the design team for designing the Java Process Flow architecture  ? Responsible for communicating with registered clients to resolve the requirements issues and to deliver the best results more than what they expect  ? Worked on various new enhancements on the system that involved requirements analysis  ? Involved in Code Review with Team and task assignments  ? Guided the new team members to quickly start working on the project development    Environment: Core Java, Java/J2EE, JDK, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Hibernate(ORM), JBoss Application Server, Agile methodology, RESTful Web Services, JSP, MySQL, MongoDB, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microservices, Docker, Oracle, MS SQL Server , RAD, Log4j, JUnit, SVN Sr. JAVA / JEE Developer Enterprise Rent-A-Car - O'Fallon, MO December 2013 to September 2015 Project: Enterprise.com  Description: Enterpirse.com is a rental car website where customer can make car reservation through online. It has more than 5000 locations in US and more than 3000 locations worldwide. This website is developed in multi languages English, French and Germany. Customer can reserve and modify and cancel reservation through online.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in meetings with clients, management and project team during different SDLC stages like requirement gathering, high level design and implementation, functional testing, and deployment of application on servers  ? Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software  ? Led a team of 3 developers and managed team meetings, and communication at all levels.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, Angular JS, Node JS, JQuery, Ajax and Java script.  ? Used AngularJS to create and test Single Page Application (SPA) and Bootstrap for styling and layout of the application.  ? Developed custom AngularJS directives to build custom reusable modules to use across the application.  ? Spring Controllers were used with Angular JS to route the control to desired Java services  ? Designed and Developed Web Services to allow communication between application based on RESTful Web Services  ? Implemented Spring MVC Framework according to client requirement. Used various components of Spring such as Spring AOP for implementing cross cutting functionalities like Caching, transaction management and logging  ? Analysis and Design of various modules using SOA and J2EE stack  ? Involved in developing Class diagram in UML showing generalization and other relationships, Sequence diagram describing the interaction of objects over time  ? Used Spring Dependency Injection (IOC) to inject required services  ? Implemented as well as exposed web services using Apache Axis  ? Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control  ? Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate framework like HQL queries, Criteria, projections etc  ? Carried out bug fixing by rigorous testing using JUnit test cases  ? Used JSON strings to transfer java object data to Angular JS and vice versa  ? JIRA was used for bug-tracking  ? Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 9i/10g Database  ? Analyzed AWR reports to find performance issues in DB with queries for multiple transactions. Tuned various queries based on this to get optimal performance of application in real time.  ? Documented all stages of the project, generated documentation using Java API Documentation Generator ( Java doc)  ? Provided support to deploy the application on production servers on UNIX environment  ? Automated testing process using shell scripting    Environment: Core Java, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, AngularJS, IBM Web Sphere Application Server, Apache Axis, Spring Hibernate, AGILE/SCRUM Methodology, JMS, JNDI, XML, XSL, XSLT, WSDL, Log4J, JUnit, RESTful Web Services, Maven, Oracle, PL/SQL. Java/JEE Developer JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH August 2012 to November 2013 Project: Mobile swat    Description:  The move money services help general users and investment users, to carry monetary transactions among friends, family and to manage loans and pay bills. The project consisted of developing and maintaining services of chase move money services like quick pay, bill pay, home loan accounts, mortgage accounts etc. the services were developed maintained and tested for the devices and the web. We worked on the architectures, services and the front-end UI for each of the applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for discussing and understanding the requirements received from the client and preparing design document with approach details for the implementation of the enhancement  ? Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application  ? Integrated Spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application  ? Consumed WSDL provided by Web Service using SOAP protocol to communicate with external applications and vendor  ? Used Soap UI to manually connect to the web service and check data  ? Used Spring MVC framework controllers for Controllers part of the MVC  ? Created rich client using Ajax to pull the data from database  ? Developed User- Interface screens involving Servlets, JSP and XML DOM parser  ? Implemented various Java design patterns like Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate and Data Access Object, Factory Pattern, Session Façade etc  ? Implemented various complex SQL queries  ? Developed various JUnit, test cases for Unit and Functional Testing respectively  ? Worked with Testers in resolving various defects in the application and was an integral part of the team  ? Used J Profiler and Java Performance Analysis Tool for performance tuning.  ? Implemented Hibernate for data persistence in Workflow screens  ? Implemented JDBC for Non-workflow screens, Alerts and batches  ? Implemented Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate  ? Used RAD6, WSAD as IDE for development of the application  ? Worked with Web logic as the server and JMS(MQ) as the message Server  ? Performed Clear Quest defects, Database change requests logging using Clear Quest  ? Used Perforce as versioning system  ? Used Maven Cruise-Control for project builds  ? Used SQL Developer, TOAD, XML, Ultra-Edit as tools in building the application  ? Provided additional server side and client side validations  ? Wrote Shell scripts for automatic database startup/shutdown  ? Wrote Spring Configuration and Hibernate mapping XML files  ? Used LDAP Authentication for single sign and authentication, logging and Validating User Credentials  ? Client-side validations using JavaScript  ? Used JIRA for the issues reported by the testing team  ? Did unit testing and integration testing for the stop and transfer modules    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, JNDI, JSP, Servlets, JMS, AJAX, HTML, XML, WSDL, Web logic Application Server, SOAP Web Services, Apache Axis, Unix Shell Scripting, Log4J, JUnit, Maven, UML, Eclipse, DB2, Java Performance Analysis Tool, Mongo DB Eclipse Memory Analyzer. Java Developer Intermountain Health Care - Salt Lake City, UT January 2011 to July 2012 Project: Help-2    Description: The Health Evaluation System is developed for the doctors who can use the system and give the details to the patients by the printout. This system will have all the information regarding the health-related issues. Using this system doctor will get all the types of medicines for any type of health issues. The system will store all the information regarding health issues and their medications for different ages.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in preparing High Level /Low Level Design documents  ? The Application is designed using Struts MVC architecture  ? Implemented Service tier and Data access tier using Spring  ? Developed various Test cases for Unit-Testing the code using JUNIT  ? Wrote Base Test classes for individual modules for reducing redundancy in Test code and also greater maintainability  ? Implemented Mock Objects using Easy Mock for reducing dependency and complete isolation for unit testing  ? Designed message formats in XML  ? Design and Development of XSL  ? Backend Stored procedures development with PL/SQL  ? Used Clover for validating the tests efficiency (effective code-coverage) and also to find possible areas for code bugs  ? Implemented Integration Testing for the application  ? Developed DAO objects to mock persistence implementation to test Business Logic  ? Used CVS as versioning system  ? Involved in bug fixing for other modules    Environment: JAVA, Struts, JUnit, Spring, JavaScript, JQuery, Web logic Application server, Eclipse, XML, XSL, XSLT, CVS, PL/SQL, DB2, TOAD, Shell Scripting Java Portal Developer Verizon Telecom - Irving, TX September 2009 to November 2010 Project: VIBE (Version Information Business Enterprise)  Description: Vibe is internal call center project for Verizon Telecom. It provides information about landlines and mobile calling plans. Basically, vibe having four modules like On call, Authoring, Admin. On call module give information customer related questions.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on design and implementation of Market Place application  ? Worked in Agile development environment  ? Role based application monitoring and recording audit history, activity of different roles accessing the site  ? Deliver technical solutions utilizing defined technology stack  ? Design, implement and define components of the architecture strategy  ? Used JSF, Struts, and AJAX for highly interactive and graphic user interface  ? Implement JUnit test cases for Struts/Spring components  ? Developed Action classes, Action Forms and Struts Configuration file to handle required UI actions, JSPs for Views  ? Developed server side presentation layer using Struts MVC Framework  ? Used various design patterns like Business delegate, Singleton, Factory and DAO  ? Performed Inheritance based OR mappings in tables to simplify the data in Hibernate  ? Involved in implementation of web services (top-down and bottom-up)  ? Angular Js was used to develop declarative User Interface  ? Interact with offshore team to coordinate and guide for the development happening in offshore.  ? JUnit is used to perform the Unit Test Cases.  ? Used Oracle database for SQL, PL/SQL scripts, stored procedures, functions, triggers, Oracle forms/Reports.  ? Performance Tuning and Optimization with Java Performance Analysis Tool using LoadRunner.  ? Worked on Installing and configured Web Sphere Application Server.  ? Made use of CVS for checkout and check in operations.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Web Sphere, Hibernate, JSP, Angular JS, HTML, XML, XSL/XSLT, JavaScript, JavaBeans, AJAX, Oracle 10g, CVS, Windows XP, J Profiler, Java Performance Analysis Tool, Eclipse Memory Analyzer, Spring MVC, LoadRunner. Java Developer HSBC India - IN May 2008 to August 2009 Project: Employee Referral Program  Description: This Project aims to help the employees of HSBC GLT to refer candidates for open positions in the organization. Through this application admin can post new referral schemes for open positions in the organization and accordingly the employees can refer candidates and can get the benefit of cash rewards or gifts that are available under a particular referral scheme. This project also has various reports, which helps the admin to do a detailed analysis as per his criteria.    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern to this project  ? Developed user interface by creating at least one webpage for each component using Struts web MVC and Action Servlet as front controller for this application  ? Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file  ? Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML like one form for each functionality user interface, standard validations using the JavaScript, Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc using MVC.  ? Developed Single Sign On (SSO) functionality, through which we can run SCM from Oracle Applications.  ? Involved in developing the Routings and configured Routing Program as scheduled the concurrent request.  ? Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute.  ? Involved in raising the Notifications to Oracle Users through Mailing Concept for intimating to start the next process using workflow.  ? Extensively worked on Oracle for writing complex queries in the business logic layer. Used joins, debugging the SCM related packages and customization.  ? Extensively worked on creating the setups for Organizations, Templates, Concurrent Requests, Cross Reference Types, User Creations, assigning responsibilities, creating value sets, Descriptive Flex Fields etc in Oracle Applications.    Environment: Java, JDBC, Servlets, Struts, JSP, Hibernate, Java Mail API, AJAX, HTML, XML, ANT, Log4J, CVS, RAD, Putty, Oracle 10g, Web Sphere, TOAD Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (9 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (9 years), MVC (9 years), Linux, jQuery, HTML, SQL, XML, SQL Server Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, C++, Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, EJB, Design Patterns, JNDI, JMS, JPA, Log4J API, RMI, POJOs, Java security  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, JSON  Tools & Framework Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JSF, JUnit, Jasper reports, SOAP UI, Groovy  Web services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2, CFX, AWS, Micro services  Web/App Servers WebSphere, Apache, Tomcat, JBoss EAP, Web Logic Server  Database Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL, DB2  IDE tools Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM Web Sphere Rational Architect  Modeling/ CASE Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio Professional  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, TOAD, Soap UI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest, RTC, StarTeam, Mockito.  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS, Rational Clear case, Git  OS & Environment Windows, UNIX, Linux  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns