Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Comcast West Chester, PA • Over 8+ years of extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Web Application Design, Web Service Development, Programming, Testing, Support Maintenance, and End-User support using java/J2EE technologies.  • Extensive work Experience and Knowledge of all phases of Software development life cycle (SDLC), Which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis and Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Integration, Documentation, Coding, Testing, Deployment and developing applications using Agile and SCRUM methodologies.  • Expertise in building Enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JDBC, JMS) and XML. Experience in designing Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) with JQuery and AJAX.  • Strong Hands on Spring, Hibernate and JPA.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML based SOAP/RESTful web services. Knowledge of Software as a Service (SaaS).  • Strong hands-on experience with Spring MVC Controllers, Spring boot, Validators, Spring Annotations, Spring tag library, Inversion Of Control (IOC), Spring LDAP, Spring Batch, Spring Scheduler, Application Context configuration, Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), Spring DAO, Hibernate, Spring Security along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Extensively worked with ORM tools (Hibernate (HQL), JPA, and OJB) and JPA annotations.  • Extensive experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using J2EE design patterns and AngularJS.  • Experience in Consuming REST Services inAngular2 using http methods.  • Experience in designing and developingUser Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML5, XHTML XML, XSL, XSLT, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript and CSS3, JSF, JSP, JSTL Servlets and Angular JSwithclient scripting and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, JSF, JSP.  • Expertise in n-tier Architecture, object oriented Enterprise Java web applications using J2EE technologies/frameworks which includes JSP, Servlets, EJB (Entity Beans, Session Beans, MDB, Transactions, Security), JMS, Struts,WebSocket, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, JavaScript, SOAP/Rest Web services.  • Good working experience inSpring Security and Spring batch.  • Expertise in using IDEs like Eclipse,My Eclipse, and IntelliJ IDEA in various Configurations with version control tools likeCVS, GIT, and SVN.  • Experience in server side messaging using Camel and JMS (Active MQ implementation).  • Experience in deploying and configuring applications onto application servers like Web Sphere, Web logic, JBOSS and Web server Apache Tomcat.  • Experienced in implementing SOAP based web services using Apache CXF, Axis, and Spring CXF inhandling HTTP, JMS transports.  • Experience in developing Restful Web Service using Jersey framework.  • Experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/WSDL) using Top down Approach and Bottom up Approach. Developed ANT scripts, and used Maven tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Experience of Database design in Oracle/ DB2/ MySQL/ SQLServer query based programming and PL/SQL procedure programming and proficient in Database programming using JDBC and SQL.  • Experience in writing database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, PL/SQL packages and Cursors for Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, and MySQL.  • Expertise in MVC2 Architecture using Struts, Spring with features like the Validation Framework, Tiles Framework, and Internationalization.  • Extensive knowledge of MVC architecture and J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Session Facade, Service locator, DAO, DTO and Business Delegate in the development of web based and distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience in log management tools like log4j, Splunk generating the application usage reports.  • Strong Knowledge and extensive experience using automated build and testing utilities such as Jenkins, JUnitand Maven.  • Hands on Experience in UMLdesigningUse Case diagrams, State Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams with Rational Rose 4.0.  • Excellent communication and Analytical, Inter-personnel and presentation skills, Capable to meet tight deadlines and Team Spirit.  Authorized to work in the US for any employer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Comcast - West Chester, PA March 2016 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of project development following Agile Software Development Methodology and Test Driven Development (TDD) to build the application.  • Involved in implementing the changes in user interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX , Ember JS.  • Used AngularJS to create Single Page Applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Implemented the Project structure based on spring MVC pattern using Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture using Spring, JSP &Java beans to migrate from Struts Framework.  • Developed different modules using Java, Apache Camel, Spring and Hibernate.  • Involved in development of services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM with JPA Annotations and Spring MVC Framework.  • Developed the REST based Microservices using spring Boot.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control and Transaction Management for processingbatch files  • Worked on migrating Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.  • Developed web layer using Springs framework and to manage the project in MVC pattern.  • Designed and Developed Representational state transfer (REST) based services and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based services as part of the requirement.  • Worked on creating business logic in controllers, directives and routers, developed routing through webpages and achieved single page application  • Designed and Developed new User Interactive Web pages with the help of HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS/LESS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap and AJAX.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Used multiple in-built directives in AngularJS & Node.js such as filters, rootscope, childscope, modal, template, and state in the application development.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services.  • Used AngularJS for Custom Directives, Custom Filters and Node.JS for back-end support with APIs.  • Used VAGRANT (virtual machine ) for developing the application in virtual machine.  • Created angular modules to separate various functionalities. The code was kept DRY by Injecting other services and modules as dependencies.  • Added new services to interact with REST API using AngularJs.  • Working with Active MQ for the messaging queue solution  • Configured and deployed the application using jetty Server.  • Created application on Spring Batch framework and Multithreading to improve performance.  • Used Multithreading for faster and parallel processing of documents.  • Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle11g database.  • Defined XML documents for input and output sources of Web Services. Created schema documents for XML validation and developed XML schemas.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries, also used JUnit for unit testing and Mockito for mock based testing.  • Used Git for Version Control.  • Used log4j with Splunk Logging for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Actively involved in code reviews and bug fixing using ClearQuest as bug tracking tool.  Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.0, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Hibernate 4.3, REST Web Services, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, Apache Tomcat 8.0, Apache Maven, Postman 2.0, JUnit, Log4j, GIT , JIRA, Jenkins, Oracle 11g, Mac OS, Windows. Full StackJava Developer Essent Guaranty Inc - Irvine, CA May 2015 to February 2016 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the client requirements and functional areas of the existing system, client interactions, coordinating with the team members on critical problems and solving.  • Implemented core functionalities across the web pages by using Spring Tiles with JavaScript, JQuery and JSP to render web page content and form validations.  • Implemented the Spring Acegi Security for authenticating the customers.  • Used security framework with ACL in declarative manner.  • Defined the UI, business layer component beans and their dependencies in spring application framework (spring mvc, orm, AOP) using RAD.  • Implemented database access layer using DAO design pattern and JPA, Hibernate framework. Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/ cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API  • Developed applications using AngularJS single page applications SPAs to improve page performance. Used XML and JSON for transferring/retrieving data between different Applications.  • Involved in High Level Design Document (HLD) preparation.  • Developed reusable components using Custom Directives in AngularJS. Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services.  • Using AngularJS factory and services for dependency injection.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls. Implemented DAO layer using JPA (Hibernate framework) to interact with Oracle 11g database.  • Used Java1.7 with generics, for loop, static import, annotations et., J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring3 .1 RC1, Hibernate, Web services (Axis, JAX-WS, JAXP, JAXB) JavaScript Framework (DOJO, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Schema).  • Developed the persistence layer (DAL) and the presentation layer.  • Developed SQL queries to interact with oracle database and also involved in writing PL/SQLstored procedures and triggers.  • Extensively used the J2EE design patterns like Session Façade, Business Object (BO), Service Locator, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton, Factory. Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat and Web Sphere in UNIX environment.  • Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component projects and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration. Involved in writing the JUnit test cases as part of unit testing used Mocking frameworks EasyMock, PowerMock Objects and Spring Datasets in TDD approach.  • Designed and developed customized ESB to integrate and govern SOA services.  • Used Log4j along with Splunk for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Used SVN for Version Control tool and Clear Quest for bug tracking tool.  • Used Java Messaging artifacts using JMS for sending out automated notification emails to respective users of the application.    Environment: Java, JEE, JSP, HTML5, CSS, Angular Js, JavaScript, JSON, Spring, MVC, Node.js, Restful, SOAP, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, Web Sphere, Tomcat, JUNIT, Mockito, log4J, UML, Rational Rose, Maven, SVN, SOA, Design patterns, Eclipse IDE, Windows. Sr. Full Stack Java Developer PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA August 2013 to April 2015 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of SDLC and followed Agile methodology in the development of the project.  • Used Rational Rose for the Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  • Front-end is designed by using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JSF, Servlets, SWING, JSTL, Ajax, React JS and Struts.  • Integrated B2B interface with BPEL flows.  • Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules.  • Developed various EJB components to fulfill the business functionality.Developed Client side UI changes using JSP, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSTL, JQuery, JCP, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC and Web services.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection, to make application easy to test and integrate.  • Configured beans in spring configuration file with Spring IOC, Spring Core, Spring AOP and MVC for enhanced modules  • Business logic of the application is developed using POJOs.  • Used Apache CXF, WSDL, and XML for Creating SOAP web service.  • Unit Testing of Web Services using SOAP UI.  • Developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB and MQ Series.  • Wrote Web Services using REST, SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface using JSON, XML data.  • Consumed RESTful web services using AngularJS HTTP service and rendered the JSON data on the screen.  • Designed and developed custom MongoDB applications specific to clients' needs.  • Used Design patterns such as Business delegate, Service locator, Model View Controller, Session facade, DAO.  • Used SOAP-based Web Servicesand Web Service Clients (JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAXB)  • Worked on XML Technologies like XML Parsers, JAXB for binding data to java objects  • Used Gradle for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Responsible for implementation of java integration components for JBPM.  • Worked on process JBPM workflow process.  • Used Spring DAO concept in order to interact with database (DB2) using JDBC template.  • Developed MongoDB query based on aggregation framework.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Used CVS version controller to maintain the code.  • Involved in implementing the JMS ( Java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Involved in using JMS Queues and JMS Topics for one-to-one and one-to-may communication.  • Used Eclipse with Tomcat application server for development and application deployment.  • Used JIRA for Project Management, Bug Tracking and Issue Tracking.  • Used JUnit to Unit test the modules &Log4j along with Splunk for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  Environment: Spring MVC Framework, Business delegate, Service locator, Model View Controller, Session facade, DAO, JSP, JSF 2.0, Unix, Servlets, Gradle, Jenkins Web Services (REST, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-WS, Apache CXF), JMS, JBPM, MDB, MQ Series, POJOs, Log4j, Splunk, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, XML/XSLT, AJAX, Angular Js, JSON, JUnit, JMS, JIRA CSS, Tomcat, TILES, JNDI, Jasper, JIRA, MongoDB, CVS and Rally. Java/J2EE Developer Allianz Life Insurance Company December 2011 to August 2013 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in the full life cycle of software design process of a project, to develop Model View controller based application using Spring MVC, hibernate and Restful Services.  • Developed interactive and user friendly web pages for patient registration system using XML, JSP, CSS, HTML, JavaScript.  • Developed Servlets for user Authentication and request handling.  • Designing the database and coding of SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Views using IBM DB2.Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  • Used Ant for building from SVN and to track promotion status.  • Extensively used JavaScript, DOJO, AngularJS, and AJAX to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, BusinessDelegate and SessionFacade.  • Write front end code for developing new pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Involved in preparing Ant builds scripts (XML based), deployments, integrationand configurationmanagement of the entire application modules.  • Used spring, Hibernate module as an Object Relational mapping tool for back end operations over Oracle 10g database.  • Performed Tuning, Load Balancing and optimization of WebLogic Application Server  • Worked on Eclipsefor development and deployment of application in Web Logic Application Server.  • Used WebLogic for deploying application.  • Used MavenLinkfor Bug Tracking and Issue Tracking.  • Developed the business components using EJB Session Beans.  • Designed and developed reports using Jasper Reports and provided integration points for services written in Java.  • Developing application usingWebSockets to provide full duplex communication between client and server.  • Involved in Database design for new modules and developed the persistence layer based on Hibernate.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and Log4Net for logging.  Environment: SDLC, DOJO, AngularJS, Java, spring, Hibernate, JSP, Eclipse, WebSocket, WebLogic, JUnit, Jenkins, HTML, CSS, XML, XSD, JNDI, Jasper JavaScript, Spring MVC, JSTL, AJAX, EJB Session Beans, Ant, JQuery, JMS, Spring ORM, Log4Net, Oracle10g, MavenLink. Java Developer Ascena retail Group January 2011 to November 2011 Roles and Responsibilities  • Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements.  • Actively participated in Requirement Analysis and Documentation as per SDLC methodologies using Agile model.  • Developed Customs tags to display dynamic contents and to avoid large amounts of java code in JSP pages.  • Developed the User Interface Templates using JSP, JavaScript, CSS, and HTML.  • Developed the Java Code using Eclipse as IDE.  • Developed complete Web tier of the application with Struts MVC framework.  • Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework.  • Implemented validation with Struts framework.  • Implemented new business logic in filter class.  • Analyzed the EJB performance in terms of scalability by various Loads, Stress tests using Bean test tool.  • Developed Session Beans as the clients of Entity Beans to maintain the Client state.  • Implemented Named and Native queries to be used in DAO layer.  • Created Stored procedures using SQL for data modification (Using DML insert, update, delete) in MySQL Server.  • Worked with MySQL queries, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  • Used Rest Web Services on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and JavaScript for client side validations.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Implemented SOAP for data transfer to Web Service.  • Tested SOAP web service using SOAPUI.  • Developed AntScripts to build and deploy on to WebLogic Application Server 7.0.  • Developed JUnit test classes.  • Use of SAX and DOM parser for XML creation/reading.  • Created XML based schemas.  • Actively involved in configuring the JBoss 6.0 applicationServer and deployed all the modules like Web modules and Business modules.  • Log4j for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Used Git for Version Control and Used JIRA for Project Management and Bug Tracking.  • Worked on creating UML (Use Case diagrams, State Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams) using Rational Rose.  Environment: Java, J2EE1.4, SDLC, Agile, Eclipse, Servlets, JSP 1.1, JDBC, EJB, Struts MVC, Windows, Unix, XML, HTML & JavaScript, JSP, Ant, UML, MySQL, JBoss 6.0, SAX, DOM, Git, SAX and DOM parser. Jr. Java Developer Global Trust Bank - Bangalore, Karnataka April 2009 to December 2010 Roles and Responsibilities  • Optimized the code and database for maximum performance.  • Designed Enterprise Application using MVC architecture.  • Created Web Pages using XML, JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed Servlets for user Authentication and request handling.  • Gathered requirements from Client and made Client Requirement Document(CRD). Configured Hibernate second level cache using EHCache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.  • Used Ant for building from Gitrepository.  • Developed views for JSP pages using AJAX.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used Git for Version Control.  • Code development using Eclipse, HTML, JAVA, JSP, SWING, Servlet and SQL.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL (Procedures/Functions/Packages/Triggers) to handle business functionality.  • Worked on Tomcat Application Serverfor and deployment.  • Used XML SAX parser to simulate xml file which has simulated test data.  • Code review and function testing for better client interface and usability.  Environment: Java, Ant, JSP, Servlet, SQL, Oracle9i, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, Eclipse, HTML, SDLC, MS Office, Windows, AJAX, WSDL, UDDI, SAX, DOM, Eclipse, SWING, Git. Education Bachelor's Skills Java