Sr. Consultant Sr. Consultant Sr. Consultant - Capgemini America LLC Bloomington, IL Experienced Senior Consultant with a 10+ year background in Guidewire/ Java consulting. Strong client handling and interpersonal talents. Skilled in managing, delegating and assigning complex timelines and projects.    Possess strong analytical, problem-solving, logical, coding and testing skills. Excellent communication skills, good interpersonal skills and a very good team player, capable of working independently and enthusiastic to learn new technologies, committed to learn and expand professional and technical knowledge. Work Experience Sr. Consultant Capgemini America LLC - Bloomington, IL November 2016 to Present Working as Lead Guidewire Developer at Statefarm Insurance    Identified business issues through careful collaboration with key stakeholders.  Evaluated clients' needs and created plan of action to provide solutions.  Monitored technology use and program functionality, updating programs and making changes to enhance output. Sr. Consultant Capgemini America LLC - Philadelphia, PA August 2015 to October 2016 Worked as Guidewire Configuration Developer at Radian Mortgage Insurance    Prioritized projects and project tasks depending upon key milestones and deadline dates.  Developed Automated solutions based upon clients' strict requirements.  Developed service plans in consultation with clients, and perform follow-ups assessing quantity and quality of services provided. Lead Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Bloomington, IL March 2013 to August 2015 Worked as Lead Developer at Statefarm Insurance    Provided guidance to team members. Onshore/Offshore Coordination.  Wrote highly maintainable, solid code in Struts/Spring for system that formed core framework and has won consistent praise from subsequent developers since initial version.  Provided computer programming subject matter expertise to project team members.  Maintained existing applications and designed and delivered new applications. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services Gurgaon, HRY - IN November 2008 to February 2013 Worked as Java Developer for Matson Logistics    Participated in requirement discussions with Business Analyst & Business Users  Developed the components with Java Page Flow, portlets and portals and the Application is based on Struts MVC framework.  Developed the presentation layer in JSP with cross-browser compatibility with the help of JQuery and also used AJAX for request response handling to develop highly interactive application.  Implemented User Interface (UI) using JSP, JavaScript (Client side validations), HTML, AJAX, JQuery and CSS.  Used Hibernate3 framework for the back end persistence Education Bachelor's in Computer Science And Technology Lingaya's Institute of Management & Technology India - India September 2003 to June 2007 High school or equivalent Apeejay School - India Skills Guidewire Configuration (3 years), Guidewire Integration (1 year), Systems Analysis, Business Analysis, Javascript/Java (5 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/iamkunalmehra Certifications/Licenses AWS Solution Architect - Associate June 2019 to June 2022 Self studied for AWS Certified Solution Architect. Got hands on experience in AWS console in designing available, cost-efficient, fault-tolerant, and scalable distributed systems on AWS. Guidewire Configuration Fundamentals September 2015 Guidewire Integration Specialist October 2015 SCJP and SCWCD Agile Safe Certified