Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Chicago Tribune I am Amit Vakodkar boasting more than 15 years of strong IT experience; 14+ years of Java, J2EE and related frameworks like Spring, Hibernate, etc. with 4 years as Gydewyre consultant.  • Have the Big picture perspective while solving Business problems using information technology.  • Passionate about solving problems and ability to adapt quickly and apply the emerging tools and technology.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Design, Development, Implementation, Maintaining and Testing of web applications on Windows, Unix, Linux platforms.  • Knowledgeable in development methodologies such as Agile, Extreme Programming (XP), Test Driven Development, Continuous Integration and Waterfall.  • Hands on Experience in creating RFP, SRS related documents. Have submitted a RFP for a US Government Project & a project based on MarkLogic Server (NoSQL).  • Hands on Experience in Application Software Designing, Development, Testing Implementation in Banking, Insurance, Digital Media, E---Learning, Travel, CMS/CRM, Enterprise Search, etc.  • Quick learner, versatile, adaptable, process---oriented with a high customer orientation.  • Excellent verbal, written communication & interpersonal skills, strong analytical abilities, organizational and leadership skills.  • Ability to perform well both independently and as a team player. Work Experience Senior Java Developer Chicago Tribune March 2015 to Present Project: NGUX and DSS/SSOR - Backend (User Registration and Subscription)    • Subject Matter Expert (SME) for SSOR-Backend project while working on Agile environment with multiple teams across the globe to build application using Java/J2EE, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Postgres, EhCache, JPA, Microservice Architecture using RESTful Webservices (JAX-RS/Jersey), for multiple markets with Chicago Tribune, New York Daily News, Orlando Sentinel, Baltimore Sun, etc.  • Work with Gigya Integration for user authentication for Social Login and on their enhancements and support the same from backend perspective.  • Authentication flow optimization and normalize production logs to adhere to GDPR compliance.  • Enhance and Secure backend app from side-channel attack by implementing IP Filtering/Blocking and IP Throttling, Bot Prevention mechanism using mod-evasive techniques to identify suspicious calls.  • Assist in Dockerizing Backend app so it can be moved to Amazon ECS (Elastic Container Service)  • Work with Internal and External team to support Apple Pay integration.  • Move out from CheetahMail integration to migrate to Amazon SES/SNS services.  • Develop backend code to support and control A/B testing for Experience Optimization (Exop) to target 10% desktop users.  • Customize Sitemesh API to include the SVG content inline and thus referencing subsequent calls in the HTML DOM based on priority.  • Assist frontend team to support Google AMP (Accelerated Mobile Pages) to whitelist/blacklist elements using JSoup API and for Adobe Analytics by providing contents via JSON, work on Cube Video and Inform Embed player integration for frontend, etc.  • Creating production and pre-production stacks using Cloudformation scripts supporting multi-factor authentication (MFA) written in Python initiated via Docker, update Route53 entries, store files in S3 storage, monitor Load Balancer and Instances in EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud), scale up/down instances by Auto-Scaling Group (ASG) as required.  • Write Integration Test, Unit Test, Performance Test to adhere to TDD methodology and application profiling using EasyMock, JUnit, VisualVM and JMeter for custom modules and functionalities.  • Package and Release production and pre-production snapshot artifacts to JFrog's Artifactory.  • Implement SLF4J logging to propagate logs from RabbitMQ client (Lyra).  • Support Production deployment and to Pre-Production environment by using CI/CD tool such as Jenkins, Docker, ECS.  • Monitor New Relic, Kibana, DataDog for application metrics and performance post production release, CentOS (Linux/Unix) boxes to monitor production and pre-production logs, etc.  • Work with other team to adapt implementation of RESTful APIs using Spring AOP, Spring Security, Postgres, EhCache, etc.    Environment:  Java 8, J2EE, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Maven, GIT, Jenkins, JIRA, JMeter, JSoup, Memcached, JSON, RabbitMQ (AMQP), Docker, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Apache Tomcat 7, JUnit, VisualVM, New Relic, Kibana, DataDog, MySQL, Mac OS, CentOS (Linux), HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, XML, SLF4J, Oracle, MySQL, Postgres, EhCache, RESTful Webservices, JAX-RS/Jersey, Jackson, Git, Postman, etc. Senior Java Developer Global Data Management, Inc July 2014 to March 2015 Client: Chicago Tribune, Tribune Group.  Project: NGUXII (Next Generation User Experience - II)    • Worked as part of Java Backend Team in an Agile environment to develop and enhance digital user experience via JSP, JSTL, Java, etc. for Tribune Group for multiple markets.  • Developed a module to read through RSS contents to convert them into content as per the given specification, Subject Matter Expert (SME) for asset generation.  • Worked towards streamlining and refactoring of existing asset compression and minifying process with help of Java Maven Plugin (MOJO).  • Developed Maven plugins in Java (MOJOs) and their Unit test cases and Custom tag libraries and their corresponding integration test cases.  • Prepare Javascript and CSS files for compression, minification and gzipping.  • Worked with Site Search Team to support UI and Java backend for ElasticSearch APIs and execution of Query Templates via Marvel.  • Participated as a Build master on rotating basis and in Code-Reviews.  Environment:  Java 1.7, J2EE, Maven, Subversion, Jenkins, memcached, json, Mac OS Yosemite, Tomcat, Oracle, ElasticSearch via Marvel (REST client), JAX---B, XML, JUnit, YUICompressor, Google Closure Compiler. Internal Practice, Insurance Channel February 2014 to July 2014 • Prepared a product capability document showcasing comparative ability of Gydewyre Policy Ctr, Accenture DuckCreek and CSC Exceed.  • Created accelerators such as Usecases (CNA Surety), Rating Functional Matrix (Kemper), etc. for Policy Ctr 8.  • Showcased a PoC on Rating Module as per client (CNA Surety) customization on Policy Ctr 8.  • Create Rate Book, Rate Worksheet, Rate Routines for the purpose of creating a Rating Module.  • Involved in changing Product Model using the Product Designer/Studio.  Environment:  Gydewyre Policy Ctr 8.0, Gosu, Java 1.5, Gydewyre Studio, Gydewyre Product Designer, Jetty  Server, H2 Database, SVN, Windows 7, etc. Senior Consultant Capgemini Financial Services, North America August 2010 to July 2014 Discover Financial Services - Chicago, IL May 2013 to February 2014 • Involved in supporting development and fixes for banking application with Java Rich Client plugin for Deposits Project.  • Participated in daily calls to find and fix defects during the UAT and Regression phase to identify and provide solution on raised defect.  • Co-ordinate with offshore to propagate the fix to be delivered for defects mentioned in the QC.  • Worked directly with project stakeholders and subject matter experts to elicit Business Requirements, formally documented these requirements for project prioritization and system development.  • Worked directly with IT resources to assist in the design of solutions that satisfy all business requirements.  • Using SOAP-UI to confirm the response for a particular Webservice call.  • Involved in development using Java implementing Decorator Design Pattern along with other technologies such as Spring, Restful WebServices, Rich Client Plugin, etc.  • Identify and capture all project related issues and escalate to the Project Manager for mitigation/resolution.  • Provide implementation support in terms of procedure / process flow documentation and coordination of any required training.  Environment:  Java 1.5, J2EE, Spring, Eclipse Rich Client Plugin, Soap---UI, Websphere 6.1, SVN, Windows 7, MyEclipse, RESTful Webservices, etc. American Family Insurance - Madison, WI January 2013 to May 2013 • Primarily worked in Policy Ctr 7.0 configuration module, coding for new enhancement, defect fixes, etc.  • Extended Renewal framework for new Line of Business and reuse methods common from previous implementation.  • Virtualized Policy Ctr using LISA Service Virtualization Tool to capture XML pairs for Submission, Quote, Renewal, Cancellation, Reinstatement, etc.  • Facilitated in developing a Training & Education Environment for New Users and mitigate dependency and availability of other Live Services.  • Attended daily Scrum stand-up meeting, log work estimate in RALLY and update JIRA for assigned issues.    Environment:  Java 1.5, J2EE, Gydewyre Policy Ctr 7.0, Websphere 6.1, Gosu, Gydewyre Studio, Rally, JIRA, GIT, Windows 7, Unix, etc. CNA Insurance - Chicago, IL July 2012 to December 2012 • Enterprise Rating Service provides Policy Rating functionality for the enterprise.  • Rapidly adapt to the changing business environment, i.e.; Introduction of new and updated rates & its services to the enterprise with minimal time and effort.  • Involved in working on Java based module that will process the input and output XML files from/to Oracle Insbridge and process individual rates per coverage.  • Involved in writing unit test for each Layer test for each input XML and compare output XMLs to check data validity.    Environment:  Java 1.4, J2EE, JAX---B, JMS, Oracle Insbridge, XML, Websphere 5.1, Eclipse IDE, Hudson, SVN, Windows XP, Notepad++, Beyond Compare etc. CNA Insurance - Chicago, IL August 2011 to July 2012 • Involved in upgrading Policy Ctr 2.0(PC) and associated Java Batch and Services (18 incl. PC) apart from other infrastructure upgrades as part of upgrading Websphere Application Server (WAS).  • Worked closely with IBM infrastructure team to get the detailed information about the configuration to be replicated into Policy Ctr.  • Upgraded application server brings changes to be performed to the current application which includes changes not limited to upgrading jar files, coding changes, etc.  • Worked on upgrading Java Batch component to be included within the JVM which involved changing the standalone Java program to be changed as EJB layer.  • Configured each component as per the serving environment and carefully change the parameters to reflect in the builds, such as property file changes, WSDL endpoint change, etc.  • Worked closely with offshore team to provide round the clock development support to apply changes on a strict timeline to CUT 1, 2, 3, 4; ETE: 2, 3, 5, DR 1, 2 channels.  • Migrated 18 components from WAS 5.1 (32 bit) to WAS 6.1 (64 bit) which facilitated a 45% performance increase.    Environment:  Java 1.4, J2EE, Policy Ctr 2.0, JMS, WSDL, XML, IBM Websphere 5.1, Eclipse IDE, Hudson, SVN, Windows XP, etc. CNA Insurance - Chicago, IL June 2011 to August 2011 • Designed and developed XML mapping for Claim Ctr 5.0 entity model, xml was used for generating pdf documents with pre-filled information.  • Involved in changing the Data model (XMLs) as per the requirement which is later read by an engine to interpret and pre-fill the Forms with the data.  • Involved in understanding of entire Claim Ctr data model and entity relationship.  Environment:  Java 1.4, J2EE, Claim Ctr 5.0, XML, IBM Websphere 5.1, Eclipse IDE, SVN, Windows XP, etc. CNA Insurance - Chicago, IL February 2011 to June 2011 • Involved in developing Java Module for Emailing of Journal Files to the concerned vendors using their custom "Bridje Email Component" and "Voltage SecureMail Service" and Unix Scripts for Transfer and Decryption of ACH File from SFTP Server to WAS 5.1 AIX server.  • Involved in a POC to determine the scope of initiating a Workflow without a Job in Policy Ctr 2.0.  • Involved in integrating this Java Service Module to the Policy Ctr module to assist 3rd party transfer payments with respect to Worker's Compensation.  • Involved in development using Java, Spring, Webservices, etc.  Environment:  Java 1.4, J2EE, Spring, Policy Ctr 2.0, Unix Batch, Unix Scripting, IBM Websphere 5.1, RESTful  Webservices, Eclipse IDE, Hudson, SVN, Windows XP, etc. CNA Insurance - Chicago, IL September 2010 to January 2011 • Involved in identifying Integration Points and developing high level approach documents.  • Involved in documenting the Usecase & High Level Functional Matrix, adhering to business requirement.  • Involved in setting up the PRE---CUT box with Policy Ctr 4.0.  Environment:  Java, J2EE, Tomcat 6, Eclipse IDE 3.5, MS SQL Server 2008. Senior Software Engineer Compusoft Integrated Solution February 2010 to August 2010 Client: The World Bank, Washington D.C.  Project: BetaSearch --- The World Bank    • Involved in working on Java, JRuby module enhancing service layer and the user interface by implementing JQuery plugins, etc. with the existing JRuby source code.  • Involved in researching & hence looking for the portability of JRuby profiler tool with the existing project, hence enabling to track the bottlenecks in the application.  • Involved in enhancing the Look & Feel of the project UI by implementing JQuery plugins, etc. with the existing JRuby source code.  • Involved in researching & hence looking for the portability of JRuby profiler tool with the existing project, hence enabling to track the bottlenecks in the application.  • Involved in creating MAVEN scripts to facilitate Project Automation according to the project environment.  • Involved in exploring portability of HUDSON tool with the current project for Continuous Build Management, hence bolstering the build process to have an up---to---date build.  • Worked on Apache Solr to get an instance of it to search & communicate through the database to retrieve the result---set for a particular module.  • Involved in weekly Client meetings to get the overall project status & deliverables, etc.  Environment:  JRuby 1.4, Rails 2.3.8, Solr 1.4, JQuery 1.4, WEBBrick server (Inbuilt in JRuby on Rails) , MySQL 5, EasyEclipse 1.3, Maven, HUDSON 1.35, MS Office, Editplus, Notepad++, Windows Vista , Agile Methodology. Senior Software Engineer IT Integrated Solutions August 2009 to January 2010 Client: JP Morgan Asset Mgmt., India. Project: JPMPower  • Participated as a Team Lead involved in brainstorming session with Team Mates, Project Lead and Project Manager for designing the JPMAM architecture according to the SOW.  • Responsible for mentoring team for henceforth development & guiding them in case of any intricate scenario using Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, etc.  • Responsible for implementing initial Project configuration with Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Maven, Eclipse.  • Design and implement project structure to accommodate different layers such as View, Service, Data Access Layer, etc.  • Configured Eclipse IDE to facilitate developers to adhere to the Standard Coding Policy & Format Style made mandatory by JP Morgan Chase for all development standards.  • Extensively used Hibernate 3.0 for data persistence with Oracle 10g database.  • Developed a generic DAO superclass to facilitate & cut down the repetitive call in the subclass.  • Participated in Code review sessions to enhance the developed application.  • Designed Database structure in sync with the E-R Diagram after the approval from the Client.  Environment:  Java 1.5, Spring Framework 2.5, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Oracle 10g, Websphere Application Server, TOAD, Subversion, SubEclipse plugin, Maven, JUnit, LOG4J, DBDesigner, Case Studio, MS Project, MS Visio, AJAX, JQuery, Windows NT, Agile Methodology, Test Driven Development. Java Developer M & R Consultants Corp October 2008 to March 2009 Client: Cengage Learning.  Project: Eduspace  • Integrating customized code with the Learning Management System (LMS) Blackboard.  • Involved in developing and enhancing source code using Java, Spring, Hibernate, etc.  • Actively involved in designing front---end to be Cross Platform Browser compatible, involved more in research work on the working & rendering of each browser.  • Responsible in Debugging the application & resolving bugs as allocated in the JIRA.  • Developed complex Oracle SQL queries and stored procedures depending on the logic and called them through JDBC to retrieve the resultant data and display it on the front end in the required format.  • Actively involved in designing front-end to be Cross Platform Browser compatible, involved more in research work on the working & rendering of each browser. Based on the research CSS & DOCTYPE were altered to make it compatible across the system.  Environment:  Java 1.4, Spring Framework 2.5, Hibernate 3, JDBC, Eclipse 3.2, Oracle 9i, XML, Apache Tomcat  5.0, Perforce, ANT, JUnit, LOG4J, Windows NT, Waterfall Methodology. Software Engineer Synergy Technology Services February 2007 to October 2008 Project: Oryx --- Amsoft  • Responsible in understanding the project workflow & hence creating a Data Flow diagram to send it across to the client.  • Developing & Enhancing modules using CFML as per the Client specifications.  Environment:  Java 1.4, ColdFusion Markup Language, JDBC, Eclipse 3.2, MS SQL Server 2000, ColdFusion 7.0.2  MX Application Server, Macromedia JRun, Subversion, JUnit, LOG4J, MS Office, MS Visio, Editplus, Windows XP, Macromedia Dreamweaver.    Project: GPX Tire - GPX International Tire Corp  • Responsible for Internationalizing the application & hence introducing new property files for different languages.  • Responsible in debugging the application & resolving bugs as allocated in the Bugzilla.  • Manually testing the entire application & the module developed to verify for any backdoor entry if present.    Environment:  Java 1.5, JSP 2.0, Spring Core 2.5, Struts 1.2, Hibernate 3, SQL Server 2005, SVN, Eclipse 3.2, JBoss Web Server 1.0.1, Windows XP.    Project: ALICO - American Life Insurance Corp  • Implement the integration of JMeter to check application performance & hence get the metrics for Application Load Test.  • Responsible in creating Bug Report & forwarding it to immediate superior to maintain the Project Status report.  • Developed Custom tag libraries to be used with the user interface utilizing Java Server Pages.  • Responsible for reviewing and merging the source code from various developers before the final commit to the SVN.  Environment:  Java 1.4, Struts 1.1, JDBC, Eclipse 3.2, MS SQL Server 2000, JSTL, ANT, CVS, Apache Tomcat 5.5, JUnit, LOG4J, JMeter, MS Office, MS Visio, Windows XP. Trainee - Intern Dott Computers June 2004 to January 2007 Project: Apsiva Storefront  • Using this system, the company can create an account, select the products from various categories or sections like rent details, resource allocation, resource details.  • Responsible for creating Backend Tables for applications.  • Create & Manage ODBC connection with the MS Access  • Responsible in Manually Testing the application & hence creating a Bug Report.  • The solution will guide claims handlers at every step of complex operations, providing required information at their fingertips, enabling them to take appropriate decisions.  • Involved in developing, testing & enhancing the modules for Inventory Control for Retail Store management.  Environment:  VB 6.0, MS Access, Crystal Reports, Windows 98, etc. Education Maharashtra University May 2006 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology Godavari College of Engineering Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jrun, Jsf, Struts, Application server, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Ms project, Rails Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Languages: Java 8, J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, JRuby on Rails, JQuery, AJAX, Visual Basic. Web/Application Server: JBoss 4.2, Apache Tomcat 8, Macromedia JRun, Apache Solr. Frameworks: Struts 1.1 & 2, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 5, Tapestry 4.0, ColdFusion MX, JPA, Jersey.  Databases: SQL Server 2000 & 2005, Oracle 9i & 10g, MySQL 5, Postgres, Toad.  Versioning System: CVS, SVN, Perforce, GIT.  IDE: Eclipse, MyEclipse 5.0, NetBeans, Macromedia 7 MX.  Operating Systems: Windows 7, MS---DOS, Ubuntu, Fedora, MAC OSX, Unix, Linux, CentOS.  Explored Technologies: Salesforce.com, Mark Logic, JSF, FLEX, WebServices, JMS, etc. Products: Gydewyre's Policy Ctr 4.0/7.0/8.0, Claim Ctr 5.0  Tools: Jenkins, Oracle Insbridge, Lisa Service Virtualization Tool, LOG4J, BIRT Tool, Rational Rose, MS Visio, DBDesigner, MS Project, MS Office, Beyond Compare, Tortoise SVN, JMeter, Bugzilla, JIRA, Gosu, Crystal Reports, Rally, HP Quality Center, ElasticSearch (Marvel), YUICompressor, Google Closure Compiler, JUnit, Gigya, New Relic, Kibana, DataDog, VisualVM, Docker, SLF4J, DevOps, XML, Charles, Fiddler, Jackson, JAX-RS, Postman, etc.