Project/BI Technology Lead Project/BI Technology Lead Project/BI Technology Lead - Fleet Data Management Cincinnati, OH Accomplished Professional with 12+ years of experience in BI Solutions with specialization in Data Transfer from heterogeneous systems, Source, Target Analysis. Design and implement Web applications. Understand the Business process, work in a team environment with other architects, business/system analysts and developers and Business teams. Proven design & implementation solutions for Data platforms. Self-starter seeking to implement solutions. Expertise in enterprise solutions from design, application configuration, Ability to implement programs that decrease costs, increase performance, Ability to provide the solutions to business needs and lead the team to meet the business goals and positively affect the bottom line.    Proficiencies  Database Programming: SQL, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL  Languages: VB.NET, Java, Python, Unix, Java and Iron Python Scripting and Rest API's  Technologies: Data ware housing, Modeling and Web Application development ( Java/J2EE)  ETL experience: Talend and Informatica  Modeling: Erwin  Report generation Tools: Spotfire, Cognos  Scheduling Tools: AppWorx and Talend Administration Control  Domain Knowledge: Finance Account Receivables and Factoring, Services in Manufacturing  Source Code Maintenance: CVS, GitHub  Project Management: Water fall and Agile Frameworks    Professional Highlights    • Certified SQL Developer from Oracle  • Six Sigma certified with green belt  • Certified Professional Scrum Master  • Won Prize at AWS Hackathon  • Won Prize at Predix Hackathon  • Won a Project and executed the same which was published at company Magazine  • Got Technical Excellence award Work Experience Project/BI Technology Lead Fleet Data Management - GE Aviation October 2017 to Present * This application enables the business to track their assets and their corresponding services to their customers.    * Gathered the business requirements, Designed and implemented the BI solution for the GE Aviation Services business    * Managing a team of 7 members and act as a consultant to translate business requirements into technical solutions    * BI solution here comprises of Greenplum as Database with source data coming from Oracle, Talend as ETL tool and Spotfire as reporting layer Project/BI Technology Lead Finance Data Lake - GE Aviation January 2014 to September 2017 * Responsible to redesign an implement the AR and Factoring legacy application (oracle, informatica, Cognos) into Data lake enabled BI solution (Talend, Greenplum and Spotfire) with more flexible and effective reporting for GE Aviation    * Performed the Data analysis, Data lineage and report consolidation    * Created the new data model with more effective and avoiding redundant data    * Designed and implemented ETL through Talend with better performance    * Consolidated reports and minimized the number of reports to full fill the business needs, improve the performance of report by enabling cache in Spotfire this is a huge benefit for business    * Implemented the reports to drive the cash collection team for Account Receivables collections    * Managed a team of 10 members in onshore and offshore model Analyst/ETL Developer ARDW - GE Aviation February 2011 to December 2013 * Implemented the bug fixes and new enhancements to the ARDW application    * Analyzed the data to identify the root cause and fixing the same    * Implemented integrating data from new sources into ARDW application    * Implemented the SQL queries/Stored procedures to fulfill the business requirement Java Developer Automated Design FMEA - GE Aviation June 2009 to January 2011 * Implemented the Automated DFMEA application functionalities (UI using JSF and Rich Faces, Java Action, Service, DAO's using Spring and Oracle queries/procedures) like.  ? Create DFMEA  ? Clone DFMEA  ? Update DFMEA  ? Export DFMEA (both excel and pdf formats)    * Documented the functional requirements, Technical Design doc, Test plans and User guide.    * Supported the application after the go-live and provided the bug fixes for the defects Java Developer eServices CSX B2B - GE Transportation September 2008 to May 2009 * Implemented the eServices B2B application functionalities like.  ? Read the incident details in XML format from MQ series  ? Validate the XML against XSD and send notification email in case of errors  ? Parse the XML and load into database  ? Post the XML message back to outbound MQ with success/failure message  ? Creating UNIX script to call Java program  ? Scheduling UNIX script through AppWorx scheduler to continuously listens to MQ Queue    * Documented the functional requirements, Technical Design doc, Test plans and User guide. Java Developer Live CSR - GE Aviation October 2007 to August 2008 Java Developer    * Implemented the Live CSR application functionalities (UI using JSF, Java Action, Service, DAO's using Spring and Oracle queries/procedures) like.  ? Fetching the contract data and loading into database  ? Maintaining the customer reviews for a service  ? Maintaining the services provided for an engine family for a customer    * Documented the functional requirements, Technical Design doc, Test plans and User guide. Education B. Tech JNT University 2006 Skills Java J2Ee (4 years), Spotfire (6 years), Talend (6 years), informatica (2 years), Data Modeling (2 years), Cognos (1 year), Appworx (2 years)