Sr. Full stack Java Developer Sr. Full stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full stack Java Developer - Caterpillar Florham Park, NJ ? Over 9+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing and testing of web using Java and J2EE, Springs Framework, Struts Framework, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP, Restful), JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Angular JS, AJAX and XML.  ? Solid background in Core Java concepts like Exception handling, Multi-threading, Synchronization,  ? Serialization, IO, Collections framework, Java Beans, Executor Services, Thread pools.  ? Experience in working with open source frameworks like Spring, Struts and ORM frameworks like Hibernate and Spring JPA.  ? Extensive experience using JSF, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, JSTL and JNDI.  ? SDLC: Software development experience in object oriented programming, design and development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications.  ? Experienced with hands on development in various Spring components like Spring MVC, AOP, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring JPA, Spring Securities and Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, and swagger apis.  ? Expertise in IDEs for software development like NetBeans, Eclipse, Eclipse STS, RAD, and JDeveloper.  ? Experience in working with various Application Servers like IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat Servers.  ? Expert in frontend technologies such as HTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, JSTL and JSON.  ? Experience in defining CAMEL content based switches for flow deviation  ? Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  ? Possess work experience with middleware technologies like MQ-Series, Oracle Fusion (BPEL and OSB), and Apache CAMEL.  ? Knowledge of Node.js and frameworks available for it  ? Hands-on experience with control tools like CVS, SVN, VSS (Visual SourceSafe) and data modeling.  ? Implemented RESTFUL web services using NodeJS.  ? Experience in defining integration using Apache Camel routes and Message channels.  ? Proficient in OOAD Technologies developing Use Cases, Activity diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class  ? Diagrams using case tools like Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose.  ? Good experience in working with Spring Boot, Spring Microservice, discovery server like Netflix Eureka Server.  ? Experience working as a JAVA/J2EE developer and with Java to J2EE standards and technologies including but not limited to Struts 2.0.  ? Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms.  ? Experienced with Docker container service  ? Expertise in integrating the Spring framework with Hibernate using Application Context configuration  ? Experience in working with AWS (Amazon Web Services), EC2, RDS, Dynamo DB, S3, Cloud Formation Templates.  ? Experienced in performance dealing and server scaling using tools like Wily Interscope, JProfiler, JMeter, VisualVM.  ? Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming.  ? Involved in building and deploying Apache ANT/ MAVEN scripts, debugging through logging frameworks like log4j, automated build tool with Jenkins.  ? Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development, Incremental & Iteration methodology and Pair Programming as well as implementing Waterfall model. To track the progress of Agile process used JIRA.  ? Experience in web services technologies like REST, SOAP, WSDL, JMS and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  ? Experience in PostgreSQL. Database Administrator, Database Programming.  ? Closely worked with SME to understand requirements.  ? Worked on changing distribution keys to avoid data skew and improve performance.  ? Created UML models, technical specs and XML configurations for state-driven, document-centric application.  ? Good experience in developing the multi-threaded applications  ? Developed several features for the software including initial client-server release, application class hierarchies, platform independent GUI libraries, a full auditing package and graphics retrieval.  ? Provided training in various technologies to our new programmer.  ? Experience in developing web application using test driven methodologies (TDD) and Junit as a testing framework.  ? Expertise in various version control tools such as SVN, CVS, Git and Clear Case  ? Fully understand the Software Development Life Cycle. Worked with Agile and Waterfall systems.  ? Strong project management skills.  ? Very strong in Object Oriented Design, and Java with software experience in building industrial strength products in these languages.  ? Very good with numbers, and algorithms and data structures.  ? Over 3 years of experience working within agile development environments using SCRUM methodology.  ? Participated in Architect and design of the components using a distributed architecture on AWS cloud platform.  ? Developed a scalable queuing system to accommodate the ever growing message flows across the systems using Amazon Simple Queuing System  ? This consisted of parsing the data and converting the data to JSON format and pushing it to the outbound queue.  ? All the incoming messages were handling by using play framework MVC framework and separate child actors were initiated to identify the type of messages and push the messages to appropriate queues.  ? Excellent communication, negotiation, and analytical skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full stack Java Developer Caterpillar - Mossville, IL April 2017 to Present Assembly Quality Events is a Caterpillar-developed, web-based application used primarily in the assembly/machining operations of a shop floor. The software enables shop floor and associated support personnel to record and analyze assembly/machining quality events that occur during the assembly process.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked as a Full-Stack developer in Struts to Spring migration project (customer service application).  ? Implemented WASAPI technique to reduce the threat of software vulnerabilities with cross-site scripting, cross site request forgery, click Jacking.  ? Designed and developed Application based on JSF framework using MVC design patterns.  ? Involved in Implementation and Unit testing of the product  ? The application flow is designed and developed using JSF, spring framework and Tiles  ? Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  ? JSP Content is configured in XML Files.  ? Implemented session beans using EJB 3.0.  ? Deployed the web components into the web Sphere application server.  ? Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  ? Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages. Creating a responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with Angular JS and media queries.  ? Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using ReactJS, JQuery and CSS/LESS and HTML5.  ? Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module  ? Developed server-side services using Java5.0, Spring 2.5, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL)  ? Wrote application front end with HTML, JSP, Ajax JQuery, Spring Web Flow, XHTML, DHTML and CSS  ? Hibernate is used as persistent at middle tire for providing object model over relational data model  ? Code Reviews, customization and maintenance of code across applications  ? Using CVS version control tools to manage source repository  ? Creating environment for user-acceptance testing and facilitating Integration and User Acceptance Testing with JUNIT  ? Developing web Applications using Spring MVC framework implementing Controllers, spring Forms, Spring Validation Framework and Spring Tag Libraries.  ? Converting XSL to JSP'S and implemented Tiles configuration.  ? Working on Web Logic and Jetty servers to deploy and debug the application.  ? Invoked Webservices to generate Java classes from XML schema.  ? Exposed and consumed SOAP based Web Services to communicate between systems.  ? Responsible for release of code into production and its integration with other Applications  ? Identifying and developing test cases and test scripts to perform load tests for Performance and regression testing  ? Developed build Scripts using Maven to build and deploy the application  ? Used Wireshark to know the communication between local and remote machine. Captured local TCP protocols to know the number of round trips, in order to improve the performance.  ? Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.  ? Used WinScp to copy the files between remote and local machines.  ? Worked on VuGen, to validate the XML scripts and to perform smoke test.  ? Worked on performance center environment to run the scripts and to collect the load runner results, also involved in monitoring the CPU utilization and memory utilization by load generators and validating performance tuning results.  ? Used HP Load Runner, to modify the load runner results, and to analyze the graphs generated.  ? Worked on Axman, to generate the graphs and to compare the results taken from the log files.  ? Used Putty, to check the server instances and log files.  ? Wrote ANT scripts to automatically save files from remote to local machine.  ? Worked on MySQL statement caching and database connectors  Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.7/1.8, RCP, JBOSS, AWS SDK, Ext JS, Git, Swing, JFC, Perl 5.6, Spring 4.x, AWS SNS/SQS, hibernate4.x, Core Java, SOAP/Rest, Web Services, Python 2.7, JavaScript, UML, Web Services, HTML5, CSS, SASS, RAD 7, WAS 8 WSDL, SDK's, JIRA 5.x/6.x, JAXB, Linux, JAX-WS, JAX RPC, JMS, JSF, UNIX, Ruby1.9.3, AKKA, NOSQL(MongoDB), Angular JS, ReactJS, Node JS,AJAX, Apache JMeter, JQuery, JUnit, Maven, Oracle 10g. Sr. Java FullStack Developer PWC - Austin, TX February 2015 to March 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers (doing business as PwC) is a multinational professional services network headquartered in London, United Kingdom. It is the second largest professional services firm in the world, and is one of the Big Four auditors, along with Deloitte, EY and KPMG. Vault Accounting 50 has ranked PwC as the most prestigious accounting firm in the world for seven consecutive years, as well as the top firm to work for in North America for three consecutive years.    Responsibilities:  • Developed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS 2.0.  • Used JQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Developed creative intuitive user interfaces that address business and end-user needs, while considering the technical, physical and temporal constraints of the users.  • Developed internationalized multi-tenant SaaS solutions with responsive UI's using Java or ReactJS, and CSS.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js and Ext.js.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Angular JS and HTML.  • Built different modules, controllers, templates, custom filters and directives in Angular JS.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Involved in rendering additional components with custom HTML.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs,Web Services using AJAX and Angular resources.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js..  • Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js and Node.js.  • Used Knockout.js to simply the complex database for user interfaces.  • Used groovy and Spring boot to collecting the data from users and packaged the data as JSON distributed to applications.  • Implemented Grails Services and controllers to perform actions.  • Install configure Jboss Application server for the VPDC environment and currently working on the Prod environment setup in Cloud environment.  • JBoss configuration is done in thoroughly firewalled environment using TCP.  • Used CSS pre-processors (SASS).  • Experience working withRedux for maintaining the consistency to run the application in different environments (client, server, and native) which are easy to test.  • Used Grunt for building the project.  • Reported bugs and tracked defects using JIRA.  • Proficiency with front-end development such as HTML, CSS, Sass, JavaScript. Familiarity with JS frameworks should include one of the following: angular, EXT JS, Express Js.  • Involved in Developer Testing, Review and Trouble shooting.  • Rest API or front end development experience Java as primary language.  • Responsible for OpenStack project core infrastructure including code review, continuous integration systems, and developer tools.  • Established OpenStack project Infrastructure Program and served as tech lead.  • Demonstrated understanding of Core java concepts like OOPS, OOAD, ORM, and REST.  • Developed UI tests with Protractor and Java tests in JUnit.  • Designed and Developed automation script using Selenium Web Driver in Eclipse.  • Used LAMP to suitable for building dynamic web sites and web applications.  • Handled response data from RESTFUL webservices using XML, JSON and JQuery to update UI Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Created GET/PUT request and response using RESTFUL web services.  Environment: Java,J2EE, Swing, Oracle 11g, JDK 1.4/1.5,MySQL, Eclipse 3.4, WebLogic 9.2,GUI, Spring, Hibernate,OOPS,HTML,HTML5,CSS3,JavaScript,JUnit,Jboss,Angularjs2.0,.NET,React.js,Backbone.js,node.js,JQuery,Struts 2.0,Web services ,Maven, Jenkins, Redux Toad, Node JS, Grunt, Tortoise SVN, Putty, LAMP, Visio, Team track, Quality Center. Sr. Java Developer SAIC, Kansas City August 2013 to January 2015 SAIC Motor Corporation Limited (SAIC) an automotive design and manufacturing company. SAIC passenger vehicles being with commercial vans. SAIC products sell under a variety of brand names, including those of its joint venture partners.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in business requirements gathering and Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules  • Used different design patterns to implement the application which includes Data Access Object, Business  • Delegate, Value Object and Service Locator etc.  • Used Eclipse as the Integrated Development Environment for developing and debugging the Java applications,  • Involved in building own PaaS with Docker; deployed various applications through Dockers containers.  • Used different user interface technologies JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript for developing the application  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Used AJAX, DOJO libraries for developing the Rich Internet Application and widgets  • Designed and developed the Cascaded Style Sheets(CSS) for designing the application layouts  • Used HTML5 and CSS3 for website development and build on Bootstrap 3.0.Data binding using AngularJS.  • Used Web Service component to access the data from another application e-Audit Net which is running on the Mac OS server.  • Deploy application to AWS and monitored the load balancing of different EC2 instances.  • Extensively used core java concepts such as OOP, Collections and exception handling  • Developed the Servlets for generating the grids for displaying the customer data  • Extensively worked on Struts framework for developing the business logic and interacts with Domain model components such as Spring  • Developed Notifications to invoke the automatic e-mails and tasks to the registered customers using Struts properties and stored procedures.  • Developed user interfaces using JavaScript, JQuery, HTML 5, XHTML, CSS custom tags.  • Used Spring framework for invoking the application service components at runtime  • Worked on Spring Core layer, Spring ORM, Spring AOP in developing the application components  • Implemented Transactions and Batch Updates using Spring framework  • Extensively worked on Hibernate Object relational mapping tool for persisting the data to the database  • Have worked on Oracle 10g data base for storing and retrieving the application data  • Implemented procedures, packages, and different Joins to retrieve the data base using PL/SQL, SQL and worked on PL/SQL Developer  • Configured and deployed the Web Services in to the application server and published as the Web Service.  • Used Jboss server to redeploy and un deploy C3 application.  • Used LISA Dev test for WebServices mocking.  • Implemented the application using Agile development methodology  • Developed Maven Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in Web Logic server  • Written unit test cases for testing the application modules using JUnit framework.  Environment: Java/J2ee, JSP, Servlets, Struts 1.3.10, Spring 2.5, Hibernate, JPA, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, NodeJS, JavaScript, Angular JS, DOJO, AJAX, AWS, Docker, Rational Clearcase, Eclipse, Log4J, Gradle, WebLogic 10.1, Oracle 10g, JUnit, UML, Unix, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL Developer, JSTL, SOA, Apache Axis 2.1, JMS, Webservices, Beyond Compare, SoapUI, LISA Java/J2EE Developer Rockwell Automation - San Jose, CA November 2011 to July 2013 Rockwell Automation, the world's largest company dedicated to industrial automation and information, makes its customers more productive and the world more sustainable.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and development applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML and OOAD.  • Created Use cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose. Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern.  • Developed user management screens using JSF framework, business components using Spring framework and DAO classes using Hibernate framework for persistence management and involved in integrating the frameworks for the project.  • Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using JSF, JSP's, Prime Faces, Ajax4JSF framework (Ajax), JavaScript and Backing Beans.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO, DTO, and MVC.  • Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework.  • Hibernate used as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Wrote Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Developed the presentation n-Tier using JSP, Java Script and HTML.  • Worked on advanced Hibernate associations with multiple levels of Caching, lazy loading.  • Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validations.  • Implemented Ajax using Ajax4JSF Framework and nested taglibs API along with other standard taglibs in the application, as a better approach for screen development and reusability of visual components in the JSP pages.  • Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized xml documents using Spring framework.  • Consumed restful web services using apache HttpClient for the data coming from external systems.  • Involved in designing data schema and development of SOAP web services with Axis implementation and REST web services with JAX-RS.  • Consumed SOAP/ JAX-WS based web services using Spring framework and used SOAP UI for testing these services.  • Created Logging aspects for auditing and logging purposes using Spring AOP and implemented security for the application using Spring Security.  • Consumed SOAP and REST web services to get the persisted data from different databases.  • REST (JAX-RS) web services have been developed to be consumed by middleware module to push the communication center messages into web module.  • Was responsible for deployments using IBM WebSphere application server.  • Configured and Integrated JSF, Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Responsible for writing Java code to convert HTML files to PDF file using Apache FOP.  • Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from IBM MQ Series using JMS.  • Involved in UI testing using Cucumber and Selenium.  • Rational Clear Quest used for defects, change tracking across the application.  • Designed and developed direct live interfaces to handle multiple systems within the bank to subscribe the data in real-time.  • Involved in the performance tuning of PL/SQL statements.  • Developed database triggers and procedures to update the real-time cash balances.  • Worked closely with the testing team in creating new test cases and also created the use cases for the module before the testing phase.  • Involved in writing JUNIT test cases and day to day builds and deployments using GRADLE.  • Implemented web services API using HTTP.  • Coordinated work with DB team, QA team, Business Analysts and Client Reps to complete the client requirements efficiently.  Environment: Java, Hibernate, spring (AOP, Dependency Injection), XML, Tortoise SVN, JSP, Spring MVC, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, Web Sphere, UML, SOA, SOAP, Log4J, Oracle, JavaScript, AJAX, JIRA and RAD. Software Engineer Cybertech Systems and Software - IN June 2009 to October 2011 Payroll Management System is an application program which is used by the company to manage the records of the employees working in the company. Using Payroll Management System, Payroll can be generated based on employee's job type, pay rate and hours worked. Employees can log on to the system to see their current status. Payroll system is to create records, delete records and save records for employees according to their information given to the administration of the company..    Responsibilities:  • Understanding Use requirements participating in design discussions, implementation feasibility analysis both at front-end and backend level, documenting requirements.  • Using RUP and Rational Rose, developed Use Cases, created Class, Sequence and UML diagrams.  • Application Modeling, developing Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Architecture / Deployment diagrams using IBM Rational Software Modeler and publishing them to web perspective with Java Doc.  • Participation did in Design Review sessions for development / implementation discussions.  • Designed & coded Presentation (GUI) JSP's with Struts tag libraries for Creating Product Service Components (Health Care Codes) using RAD.  • Developing Test Cases and unit testing using JUnit  • Coded Action classes, Java Beans, Service layers, Business delegates, to implement business logic with latest features of JDK1.5 such as Annotations and Generics.  • Extensive use of AJAX and JavaScript for front-end validations, and JavaScript based component development using Framework with cross browser support.  • Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs and Involved in the developing functions to acquire data from API server using AJAX  • Integrating Spring injections for DAOs to achieve Inversion of Control, updating Spring Configurations for managing Java objects using callbacks.  • Involved in making Spring and Hibernate enhancements to existing applications.  • Wrote authentication and authorization classes and manage it in the front controller for all the users according to their entitlements using Spring security.  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Spring.  • Application integration with Spring Web Services to fetch data from external Benefits application using SOA architecture, configuring WSDL based on SOAP specifications and marshalling and un-marshalling using JAXB  • Prepared and executed JUNIT test cases to test the application service layer operations before DAO integration  • Creating test environments with WAS for local testing using test profile. And interacting with Software Quality Assurance (SQA) end to report and fix defects using Rational Clear Quest.  • Creating views and updating code to IBM Rational Clear case for Source code control.  • Solving QA defects, scheduling fixes, providing support to production application.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, HTML, JSP, JDBC, EJB, ANT, XML, IBM Web Sphere, JUNIT, DB2, Rational Rose, CVS, UNIX, Clear Case. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), HIBERNATE (9 years), SPRING (9 years), HTML (9 years), Javascript, Angular, Node, PHP, React Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages JAVA, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++  J2EE Technologies EJB, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JSF, RMI, JNDI, JMS  Web Technologies  HTML, DHTML, AngularJS, JQuery, XML, XSLT, CSS, JSON, JSON-DTD, AJAX, Bootstrap, NodeJS, ReactJS, IDE IBM RAD, RSA, Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, IntelliJ Application/Web Server IBM WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat and Glassfish    Databases Oracle 8.x/9.x/10g/11g/12c, Toad, MS Access, MySQL 5.x, MS SQL Server 2008/2012, MongoDB, Cassandra, DB2 Forac  XML Technologies XML, XSLT, XPATH, SAX, DOM, JDOM, AXIS, JAXB  Web Services SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS  Methodologies RUP (Rational Unified Process), Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM, Rapid Application Development.  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, UNIX, XP/Vista/7/10  Application Frameworks  Struts 1.x/2.x, Spring (Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Factory Pattern, Core, Spring Context, Spring DAO,Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch,Spring with Hibernate) ORM Frameworks JPA, Hibernate, Spring JPA, DAO OO Modeling Rational Rose, MS Visio Version Control Clear Case, SVN (Apache Subversion), CVS, Git    Other Tools  NT, Maven, Log4j, Jenkins, Junit, JIRA, Selenium Cloud Computing AWS (Amazon Web Services), EC2, RDS, DynamoDB, S3 Micro services Swagger, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Spring Micro Services, Springboot, Netflix Eureka    Build Tools Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins  Version Control SVN, CVS, JIRA, Clear Case, GIT, Bitbucket, GitHub