Appian Developer Appian <span class="hl">Developer</span> Appian Developer - CHASE Lansing, MI • BPM Consultant with around 8 years of experience in IT Industry, with 4 years of experience in Appian Developer and 4 years of experience in Java Developer, exclusively in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Maintenance and Support of BPM applications using PEGA & Appian BPM technologies.  • Design applications using Appian Process Designer & Pega PRPC Designer Studio.  • Worked with Business to understand their requirement and design and develop them into to Workflows / process flows and models.  • Proficient in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) achieving milestone using Agile (Scrum)  • Participated in designing security applications, created a process modular  • Involved in validations, Flows and Process Modular design using Appian  • Integrating with other services, using Web services&HTTP method  • Created various expressions and logic for handle the Process variables&Globalvariables  • Expertise in SAIL Forms, SAIL Dashboards, SAIL Reports, Service and Entity Backed Records.  • Knowledge of Appian best practices and design principals.  • Expertise in analysis, design, development and managing Work Flows, Class Structure design, User Interface (UI).  • Designed and Created Work Flows, Class structures, Rule sets, Rule set Versions, Activities, Activity Step Methods, Flow Shapes, Harness rules, Layout and Sections.  • Implemented business rules by using Decision Rules, Declarative Rules.  • Experience in using Services and Connectors SOAP Services, Connect-SOAP, and JM Sand Connect-SQL to integrate with external systems.  • Experience on Developing SQL Script, PL/SQLStored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Packages (Oracle XLSX).  • Created Agents for batch jobs, Correspondence rules for communication, Reports and Data processing.  • Proficient in using the Construction and debugging tools like Tracer, Rules Inspector, SMA and Clipboard.  • Experience in using System Management Application (SMA) for Administrative work.  • Experience in working with the PEGA Process API's and Engine API'sOOTB features.  • Expertise with Report definitions, List view reports and Summary view reports.  • Conducted Detailed Analysis to support designing and development of BPM applications.  • Provided Technical assistance for troubleshooting and resolution of workflow system problems  • Supported technical team members in testing changes for user interface and Application functionality  • Participated in development of analytical and computational methods for problem solutions  • Assisted in designing, developing and modifications to support efficiency. Worked on creating database Tables, Views, Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Sequences.  • Experienced in handling XSD validated xml document request and responses.  • Excellent communication and presentation skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Appian Developer CHASE - Wilmington, DE September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Works with other business technology teams to understand requirements and patterns and ensure consistency in design across applications built on the Appian platform  • Hands on coding and development experience on Appian BPM platform.  • Define, design, and develop Appian / BPM shared components by doing a quick POC to prove the value add  • Perform the detailed analysis of the business requirements provided, for Appiandevelopment  • Helps define and drive application standards and best practices across the Appian/BPM platform.  • Handled the Approval form workflow and notifications.  • Provided the Dashboards and to track the measure the impact of external innovation activities.  • Requested the form for dynamic content rules  • Design and Development of Appian applications  • Unit Testing of application components  • Help on-board new Appian applications in Appian platform  • Build and deploy of applications Help Review application design and code review  • Defect Fixing & issue resolution for the application developed.  • Created different areas to be displayed in the form, for each user group, depending upon the contract category in the Form.  • Involved in the different types of Reports, Rules and Interfaces.  • Involved in different type of validations in the WorkFlow Process  • Developed the SAIL form interfaces.  • Involved in adding the members in different type of User Groups.  • Created and modified CDT's. Involved in data migration from traditional apps to salesforce using data loader utility.  • I have handled the requests, collected the specific information by contract typed categories.  • Handled the Approval form workflow and notifications.  Environment: Appian V16.2, Microsoft Management studio, GIT, Version One Appian Developer Capital One - Charlotte, NC September 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Works with Product owner& team to understand requirements and ensure consistency in design across applications built on the Appian platform  • Developing MRT (Model Risk Tool) for Freddie Mac  • Design the UI effectively from the information in the user stories  • Design and develop complex process models  • Develop Query rules, Expression rules, and SAIL (Self-Assembling Interface Layer)  • Create Appian Records, Tempo Reports, and Portal Report  • Work on Document management and Data Management  • Deploy Application to different environments and help test the application  • Fixing & issue resolution for the application  • Create CDTs using XSDs and link them to Database  • Notifications are sent to different user groups  • Create tables and complex views in Microsoft Management studio.  • Good experience in version control SW like GIT,  • Handling Appian Packaging and deployment  • Take Part in all the Agile activities  • Take part inversion One for user stories ting visual workflows to automate field updates and new record creation  • Experience with Appian product administration activities and implementation of Appian SAIL components.  • Developed web components in SAIL and gained experience in working with plug-ins for digital signature that are embedded in PDF format  Environment: BPM Appian7.7, Java 1.6, Struts 1.2, Jboss 5.1, Eclipse, Web Sphere, Oracle 10g, Windows Server 2003/2008. BPM Developer SWBC - New York, NY January 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Business Requirement Analysis - Implemented procedures for gathering of requirements from clients for solution demonstrations.  • Assisted in designing, architecture and modifications to support efficiency.  • Participated in designing security applications, Created a process modular,  • Prepared the Design approach.  • Involved in validations, Flows and Process Modular design using Appian.  • Integrating with other services, using Web services & Send Http method  • Development of various sub process.  • Prepared the XSDs for Integration  • CDTs creation for various complex types in Data Management  • Debugged in Steam line issues and worked in validation rules.  • Front end and back end programming and Business Logic Implementation.  • Created various expressions and logic for handle the Process variables & Global Variable.  • Involved in Tempo, Reports&SAIL  • Strong analytical and problemsolvingskills and a demonstrated aptitude for learning new technologies.  • Knowledge of Appian best practices and design principals  • Supported technical team members in testing changes for user interfaces and application functionality.  • Dashboard, Page, Records, XSD, CDT and database table creation.  • Create and modify existing reports and dashboards to generate data for the Chief Development Officer to distribute to the organization's top grant funders.  • Responsible for developing mediation components using Web Sphere Enterprise Service Bus  • Strong object-oriented programming knowledge in these related fields: Java, J2EE, XML  • Configured the application Actions and Action Forms in struts-config.xml  • Test case generation, preparing test strategies and test plans.  • Analyze information to determine, recommend and plan installation of a new system or modification of an existing system.  • Develop and direct software system testing and validation procedures.  Consult with customers or other departments on project status, proposals and technical issues such as software system design and maintenance  Environment: BPM 8.5.6, Web Sphere Portlets, Web Services SOAP/REST, JSON, XML, DOJO, CSS, JavaScript, DB2, Rational Application Developer 8.5 Java State Farm - Plano, TX April 2012 to December 2013 developer    Responsibilities:  • This project is to provide Web Services to clients and vendors.  • Involved in design and development of a multi module java, Scala, Spring and Hibernate project in developing components, services, rules and workflows.  • Designed and developed application using Data Structures and algorithms.  • Used the Agile methodology iterative process for each of the module in the project.  • Developed application in Spring Boot Framework.  • Design of application components using java collections and providing concurrent database access using multithreading.  • Bean configuration has been performed using Spring context.  • Hibernate has been used as the ORM framework in the project using JPA for connecting to MYSQL.  • Developed advance stored procedure, functions and custom on MYSQL DB.  • Module management using Maven and POM configuration.  • Written Test Cases, Scripts for Testing.  • Used GitHub repository to submit code changes that are in turn reviewed by the dev leads before they are merged to the branch before production.  • Used Jira to capture and assign the issues and to follow-up on team activity.  • Used elastic search java API through maven dependency.  • Developing Web Services Using REST.  • Write unit tests after the development of a feature has been done to check for any build fails and reduce Bugs in new features or the existing features.  • Worked extensively with Data Structures and Collections framework.  • Added logging and debugging capabilities using Log4j and Junit.  • Involved in the design of test plans with QA to ensure functional, usability, and performance requirements  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Components, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Data Migration, Controllers & Extensions, Data Loader, Eclipse IDE, HTML, JavaScript. Java Developer STAG Software Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application.  • Installation and configuration of Tomcat 6.0.35 and deployment of WARs on Tomcat.  • Implemented concurrency and multi-threading related projects.  • Developed the integration workflows using an ESB framework.  • Written JavaScript to auto populate values in APEX Text Items.  • Created check printing template using HTML in APEX.    Environment: Java, J2EE, WebSphere, Tomcat, Oracle 8i, SOAP, REST, JDBC, Selenium, HTML, DHTML, My Eclipse, JIRA. Java Developer Intergraph - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2009 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Responsible from requirement gathering to design, development, testing and release.  • Responsible for creating the presentation logic which was implemented in JSP, CSS.  • Used Bugzilla for Task/issue tracking.  • Responsible for quality and fix of issues/bugs.  • JQuery was used for the client side validations.  • Used EJB as the entry point of the service and also handles the transactions.  • Implemented Ajax calls in some places start background functionality, while user enters data.  • Responsible for creating tags for each release.  • Written procedures, functions, triggers and views.  • Used MVC framework for the development of multitier J2EE application.  • Used Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Design and Modify UI and adding functionality using HTML, JSP, JQuery, Javascript.  • Used tiles framework to design the JSP pages.  • Database design and SQL creation as needed in project development.  Environment: JSP, Servlets, EJB, Webservices, XML Beans, Maven, XMLSchemas, Weblogic 10.3, JUnit, Spring DAO and Oracle Education Bachelor's Skills Database (7 years), J2EE (5 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (7 years), Oracle (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Operating System: UNIX, Windows - NT, 2000Professional, And XP, Linux  • BPM: Enterprise Suitev7.x, Pega PRPC v7.x, v6.x, v5.x  • Programming Languages: C, C++, Java 1.4, 1.5, J2EE, VB.Net, VisualBasic6, JavaScript  • Database: Microsoft Access, IBM DB2 7.0, 9.5, SQL Server 2008 Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g, 9i, 8i, MySQL, MS Access  • Document Management: StarTeam, MS SharePoint  • Development Methodologies: RUP, Waterfall, Agile