Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - IBM Watson Health Aurora, CO Energetic software engineer offering 10 years in all aspects of SDLC. Specialized in Java, Spring  ecosystem, RESTful services, MongoDB, Oracle PL/SQL, and Cloud environment. Improved  performance of applications, reduced database response times by 53%, increased code coverage  from 35% to 76% and achieved 24/7 mission-critical systems. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer IBM Watson Health - Greenwood Village, CO March 2010 to Present Project: SIAM  SIAM stands for Secure Identity and Access Management. SIAM is a gateway to over 100  applications across the company. SIAM provides single common identity and access management  service.    * Designed and developed document management RESTful microservice using Spring Boot and MongoDB.  * Wrote RESTful APIs to provision users, groups and orgs in OpenDJ and Active Directory.  * Involved in the development of consumer-facing web applications using AngularJS.  * Wrote unit and integration tests for RESTful services using JUnit, Mockito and Spring Test.  * Secured Restful APIs using Spring Boot and OAuth2.  * Implemented authentication for IBM Watson applications using OpenAM.  * Configured Apache web server to act as a proxy server and load balancer.  * Involved in implementation of TR Business Rules Technology using Rule Engine.  * Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, and packages. Used external tables to load raw  data into the Data Factory.  * Involved in online content publishing using PL/SQL and SQL*Loader calling UNIX scripts.  * Involved in the automated deployment process using Ansible. Used cloud for deployments.    Environment:  Java8, J2EE, REST, Restful API, Postman, AngularJS, GIT, OpenAM, cloud, microservices, Ansible, JSON, Spring, Spring Boot, OAuth2, JUnit, Oracle, PL/SQL, SQL, Windows, Linux, Unix. Senior Java/J2EE Developer US Bank - Denver, CO June 2009 to February 2010 Project: S.T.A.R.T  S.T.A.R.T is a distributed application with US Banks standard J2EE technologies. This application  sends requests to Tibco Services and process responses using JAXB and Axis Tools. This application  provides banker services to US Bank customers where they can get proper assistance in purchasing  homes, calculations involved in mortgage and the associated interest rates.    * Implemented S.T.A.R.T web application using Spring MVC framework and incorporated  spring security.  * Implemented presentation layer using Spring MVC components like Dispatcher Servlet, Handler Mappings, Controllers, Model Object and View Resolvers.  * Extensively used spring IOC module, Spring Core Container module to develop business  layer and implemented scheduled batch jobs using Spring Framework.  * Worked extensively with SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) technologies like WSDL, XSD, SOAP over HTTP, and SOAP over JMS, REST and JAXB.  * Implemented various Java design patterns such as Factory, Singleton, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Data Access Object, and Model View Controller.  * Implemented Spring Web Flow 2.5 Principles to support user-level, application-directed  control flows.  * Implemented Hibernate 3.0 and Dynamic SQL queries to access the database layer and implemented migration of Dynamic SQL queries to Stored Procedures.  * Coordinated deployment of web application on UNIX prod environment.    Environment: JDK1.6, Hibernate3.0, ANT, WebSphere 6.1 Application Server, POJO, Spring 3.0  MVC, AXIS, JMS, JAXB, JAXP, JDBC, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.4, XML, SOAP, WSDL, SAX, DOM, Log4j, JUnit, SQL, PL/SQL, Windows XP, UNIX. Senior Java/J2EE Developer TMG Health Insurance - Scranton, PA January 2009 to May 2009 Project: TMG Enroll  TMG Health offers BPO services to the Medicare, Medicaid and retiree health plan markets. The  TMG Enroll is a distributed application with TMG's standard J2EE technologies. Its processes reside on many server (virtual and physical) machines. TMG Enroll process the enrollment data that gets  from nine different clients against certain rules and save those data in databases  * Implemented TMG Enroll presentation tier using Jakarta Struts 2.0 Framework.  Implemented TMG Business Rules Technology using Drools files and Drools Rule Engine.  * Involved in Parsing XML's using DOM and SAX.  * Extensively used Eclipse 7.1 IDE for writing code.  * Used MAVEN for building the application and deployed on JBoss 4.0 Application Server.  * Implemented the TMG Enroll Data Source (DS) Interceptor architecture using Struts 2.0 and Hibernate 3.0.  * Involved in the implementation of Secondary Level Caching in Hibernate using Ehcache to cache the static data of the application using spring AOP cache interceptor module.  * Developed views, indexes, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and functions using SQL and PL-SQL for TMG Enroll Oracle database Java/J2EE Developer CNA Insurance Headquarters - Chicago, IL May 2008 to December 2008 Project: RST  The RST (Risk Support Tool) is an MVC application built with CNA's standard J2EE technologies and running on a Microsoft server Platform. RST was developed using Agile Methodology methods and  Test-Driven Programming techniques in a Continuous Integration environment.    * Involved in setting up the Web Services (SOA) using XML, SOAP, WSDL, and Apache Axis  and created Consumers and Stubs to get the required information for policies.  * Used MQ Series for insurance claim reports and status information exchange between current and legacy system.  * Involved in Parsing XML's using DOM, SAX, and JAXB for data binding and conversion.  * Used Hibernate 3.0 in the data access layer to access and update information in the database.  * Extensively used RAD 7.0 for writing code.  * Involving in design meetings and worked on performance issues for high visibility RST  application.  * Extensively used SQL, PL-SQL in constructing views, indexes, stored procedures, triggers, cursors, functions, relational database models.  * Designed various tables required for the RST application in Oracle 10g database, created  various insert and update scripts and used Stored Procedures in the application.  * Used Oracle SQL Developer and Toad to access the database layer and created various  tables required for the application.  * Used Log4j for logging and tracing the messages.  * Experiences with FileNet P8 Platform where the requirements are placed in Excel Sheets.    Environment: IBM RAD 7.0, DOJO, MAVEN, Apache Axis, JMS-MQ Series, WebSphere Application  Server 6.1, JDBC, Spring MVC, SOA, Web Services, Hibernate 3.0, J2EE 1.4, JSP 2.0, Ajax, Servlets  2.4, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, SAX, DOM, Log4j, JUnit, ANT, JavaScript, SVN, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, Visio, Windows XP, UNIX. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science Cleveland State University August 2007 to February 2009 Skills Oracle (5 years), Stored procedures (5 years), Java (10+ years), Spring (5 years), Linux (5 years), Shell scripting (5 years), Unix, Junit (5 years), Selenium, Design patterns (10+ years), Gradle (2 years), Object-oriented (10+ years), Object-oriented programming (10+ years), Mongodb (4 years), Restful API (5 years), Ansible (4 years), AngularJS (2 years), Spring Boot (4 years), Javascript Additional Information SKILLS    * Excellent working experience in Core Java that includes object-oriented programming, multi-  threading, design patterns, data structures, and algorithms.  * Strong experience in building Restful web services using Spring Boot.  * Extensive experience in Spring Data to access NoSQL databases MongoDB.  * Experience in securing microservices with Spring Security and OAuth2.  * Experience in identity access management system.  * Experience in developing stored procedures, performing optimization, query tuning, and  designing databases using Oracle.  * Experience in Agile approaches including Extreme Programming, TDD and Scrum.  * Experience in UNIX and Linux shell scripting.  * Experience with cloud platforms IBM Bluemix and VMWare cloud.  * Experience in automated testing using JUnit, Selenium, and Postman.  * Experience in build and deploy tools such as Ansible, Maven, and Gradle.  * Have knowledge and taken training in Hadoop MapReduce and Hadoop Ecosystem.