Senior J2EE Developer Senior J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> ? 15 years of professional work experience in object-oriented programming with Java/J2EE for large enterprise customers.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process including analysis, design, development, implementation, integration, testing, maintenance and support of Web-based enterprise applications.  ? Experience in developing server-side applications using Struts , Spring and Hibernate applications.  ? Experience in developing Web Application UI applications using JSP,Servlets, Weblogic Portal, Java Script, Ajax, Dojo, JQuery, Angular JS and Spring MVC.  ? Experience in various Spring technologies such as Spring Core, Spring MVC and Spring Integration  ? Experience in various XML technologies such as XML, XSD, JAXB and JAXP.  ? Very good understanding of Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Core Java and J2EE Design Patterns, MVC, Multi-tier architecture.  ? Experience in Java framework for Enterprise Application Integration(EAI) such as Apache FUSE , Apache Karaf and Fabric Container  ? Learning BigData framework such as Hadoop , Apache Hbase and Apache Spark technologies.  ? Experience in Web services using SOAP and REST architecture (Apache CXF).  ? Experience in developing and deploying applications on WebLogic Application Server, JBOSS and Tomcat.  ? Experience in CEP technologies such as Oracle Complex Event Processing  ? Experience in JMS and JavaMail API.  ? Worked with RDBMS such as Oracle, SQL Server 2000 and Mysql  ? Good working knowledge on Source control management tools like WinCVS, SVN,GIT and Stash Repository.  ? Other tools like JIRA Issue tracking and SONAR.  ? Experience in working build tools such as Ant, Hudson and Jenkins build tools.  ? Experience in software development methodologies such as Agile and Waterfall.  ? Experience in developing test cases for Unit Testing using JUnit, Mockito  ? Experience in Designing Tools such as Rational XDE, MS Visio  ? Good analytical skills with ability to quickly understand client's business needs. Work Experience Senior J2EE Developer November 2018 to Present Senior J2EE Developer US Department of Veteran Affairs January 2018 to October 2018 USA    PDFManager is a REST API based application which provides services for digital signing, electronic signing and other pdf related services such as PDF to Image Conversion, Extraction of text from PDF and other PDF related features etc.    Responsibilities:  • Estimation for the development tasks in the application.  • Identifying technology stack for the development of new application.  • POC's done for the implementation (Web services) technology stack.  • Technical Design, Architecture for this application, Development and Unit Testing.  • Develop, test, Implement and maintain application software working with established processes.    Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, JPA, Hibernate, Apache PDFBox, GIT, Jenkins Build, Sonar, Maven, JUNIT.    Duration: Jan 2018 - Oct 2018  Project: Sys2Sys  Senior J2EE Developer LSA (Loan Selling Advisor) application Freddie Mac(Virginia) August 2017 to December 2017 Customer purchases home loans from primary bank and sell as securities to Investors in the capital markets. Sys2sys is one of the modules in LSA (Loan Selling Advisor) application. Selling UI application developed using Struts framework to purchase cash and guarantor contracts from primary banks. Currently Selling UI application functionalities were migrated into web services architecture in the name of Sys2Sys.    Responsibilities:  • Reverse engineering the existing legacy application and identify the business functionalities involved in the application.  • Estimation for the development tasks in the application.  • Identifying technology stack for the development of new application.  • POC's done for the implemention(Web services) technology stack.  • Develop technical design for application development using UML tools with output of diagrams such as Class Diagram and Sequence Diagrams.  • Develop , test , Implement and maintain application software working with established processes.  • Develop application code for java programs ,queries and stored procedures for database.  • Develop and execute unit test plan and unit testing with existing JAVA frameworks such as JUNIT.  • Mentor and support the team members during the development of the application.  • Support Testing in higher environments like SIT, PREPROD and resolve test defects  • Running SONAR scripts against source code to identify code quality validations and fixing them.    Environment: Java 6, Weblogic , Eclipse NEON, GIT, Jenkins Build, Sonar, Apache Maven, JUNIT.    Duration: Aug 2017 - Dec 2017  Project: Payment Experience  Senior Spring Boot Developer  Client: Tesla(Fremont, California)    Currently Customer allows its customers to buy its products such as CARS, its accessories and Customer's branded products in online. Payment Experience is a migration project of payment functionalities of tesla which is in .NET to Spring Boot Application running on Docker and Kubernetes.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in proposing technology stack for migration.  • Involved in requirements gathering from customer , Design and Development of Payment related functionality.  • Involved in development of complex functionalities in payment such as Account Credit and Invoice Payment etc.  • Involved in helping the team members technically and also in understanding the business functionality.  • Involved in doing POC such as MONGODB and Spring Boot Technologies.  • Worked in Agile Sprint methodology for development activities in terms of stories which will extend for 2 weeks.  • Interaction with clients to discuss about design and requirements and its implementation.  • Developed Unit Test Cases with JUNIT framework.  • Involved in Self review code review using SONAR and build using JENKINS job.  • Performed the code build and deployment using MAVEN.  • Involved in documentation update using SWAGGER interface.  • Participated in daily Scrum status calls and updates regarding stories about progress or any blockers.    Environment: Java 6, Spring Boot , Docker , Eclipse STS, GIT, Stash, Jenkins Build, Sonar, Apache Maven, JUNIT, Swagger interface. Senior JAVA FUSE Developer April 2016 to June 2017 Senior Java Developer cum Lead Aviva Insurance - UK September 2014 to March 2016 UK    Aviva sells products such as motor insurance to its customers, so when the customer's request for quote for motor , these request comes to rating enrichment and this application does enrichment and gives necessary parameters to calculate the quoted insurance value for motor request.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile Sprint methodology for development activities in terms of stories which will extend for 2 weeks.  • Involved in development of various stories which involved around components such as PersonalMotoQuote, Enrichment, PricingFactorStore and MiPricingData.  • Involved in Design of RTPO factors enrichment and creation of sequence diagrams depicting various flows in design.  • Involved in the Code merging and deployment in DEV and SPRINT environments and also involved in raising deployment requests for deployment in environments such as RUNWAY, PREPROD and PROD environments.  • Developed Unit Test Cases with JUNIT framework.  • Involved in performing Internal Code Reviews.  • Involved in Self review code review using SONAR and build using JENKINS job.  • Involved in Writing Component end to end integration test cases using junit and using mocked or stubbed endpoints.  • Performed the code build and deployment using MAVEN.  • Involved in documentation update using SWAGGER interface.  • Participated in daily Scrum status calls and updates regarding stories about progress or any blockers.  • Support for team members technically.    Environment: Java 6, Apache Fuse framework, Apache Fabric and Karaf Container, JBOSS developer Studio, GIT, Stash, Jenkins Build, Sonar, Apache Maven, JUNIT, Swagger interface.    Duration: Sep 2014 - Mar 2016  Project: Legal Entity Front Office Sourcing Team  Senior Java Developer cum Lead  Client: Credit Suisse, UK    LE Front office Sourcing is a project where different types of data related to equity should be on boarded to a system called myriad. It has around 6 high level components, so these data has to process across these components to on board to myriad. Necessary developments have to be done across all these components in myriad so that the data for LE Front office Sourcing gets on boarded into myriad.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding of MYRIAD components such as FTP, ADP, MDP, CDP, SDP and PDP modules and involved in design and developments of the above modules  • Each component is built upon difference J2EE technologies such as Spring Integration and Oracle OCEP  • As a Dev lead, involved in design and its implementation.  • Involved in code reviews for team members to adhere to credit Suisse coding quality standards.  • Interaction with clients to discuss about design and requirements and its implementation.  • Involved in requirements gathering, design and development of Legal entity front office sourcing feeds in FTP component, ADP component and MDP components.  • Development is done using Spring Integration framework  • Involved in HLD and LLD documents creation.  • Used JIRA for logging efforts for development activities and code reviews using CRUCIBLE and FISHEYE.  • JUNIT framework is used for testing independent components.  • Build and Applications deployed in UNIX servers.  • Used Hudson build for continuous integration and building the application.  • Worked in Agile methodology in terms of Sprints duration for development    Environment: Java 1.6, Spring Integration framework, Weblogic Oracle Complex Event Processing, Weblogic 10 , Apache Maven, JUNIT Senior Java Developer cum Lead July 2013 to September 2014 Senior J2EE Developer Equinix - Singapore January 2012 to July 2013 Singapore    Equinix is one of the leading world's largest IBX data center and collocation provider. Equinix customer portal is a online application in which customers of equinix can place online orders for products such as cross connect, smart hands etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in discussion with clients for requirements gathering and design discussions.  • Involved in doing internal code reviews for team members.  • Involved in development of JSP, Backing Beans and DAO classes.  • Used JUNIT framework for creating unit test cases and individual testing.  • Used Jenkins build for building the application.  • Equinix Custom components built on top of JSF such as FileUploader component, Panel components were reused in JSP pages wherever required.  • Involved in deployment requests and its approvals and also deployments in various environments.  • Involved in High level and Low level design.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSF 2.0, Spring , Weblogic 10, Oracle 10g    Duration: Jan 2012 Jul 2013  Project: Hotels Product  Senior J2EE Developer  Client: Cleartrip, India    Cleartrip Travel Services Private Ltd is one of the leading travel service providers in India offering Hotel services and predominantly flight reservations business domain mainly. It also offers combo packages like flight and hotel with discounted best price for its customers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and development for Property Configurator.  • Extranet API (Inventory Update, Rate Update, Rate Status Update)  • Integrated APIGATEWAY framework and CT-LOGGER framework for Extranet API  • Involved in critical bug fixes related to Hotel Discounts and Hotel Rates Merging Issues.  • Involved in Design and coding for SimilarHotelsFeature functionality  • Implemented Multi-Threading concept for making parallel calls to a specific connector to achieve less response time.  • Used GO build for continuous integration and building the application.  • Spring MVC framework is used to develop the application.  • Clustered TOMCAT servers were used to run the application.  • Tortoise SVN is used for code checkins and code repository.  • Developed Webpages using JSP and Spring controller classes and spring DAO classes    Environment: JAVA 1.6, Spring 2.5, JAXB 2.1, XML, XSD, Jackson API, Go Build, Tomcat, Oracle 10g Senior J2EE Developer Budget.com October 2010 to October 2011 Client: Budget Rental Services(USA)    Avis Budget Group, Inc. is a leading global provider of vehicle rental services, both through its Avis and Budget brands, which have more than 11,000 rental locations in approximately 180 countries around the world, and through its Zipcar brand. The project Budget prepay enhancements involved, changes to existing prepay business charges inclusion changes for Budget cars.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating LLD document for Budget.com prepay enhancements project.  • Involved in creation of sequence diagrams for the code flow changes.  • Involved in development and testing of JUNIT test cases for flows involving create reservation and modify reservation for avis and budget cabs.  • Struts2 framework is used for development of this application.  • Involved in development of UI using JSP  • Involved in development of Struts Action Classes, DAO  • Deployed and tested in Weblogic Server.  • Involved in writing unit test cases using JUNIT framework.    Environment: Java 1.5, Struts 2.0, Weblogic Server 9.2, Oracle 10g Senior Java Developer July 2010 to August 2010 Senior Java Developer Office for National Statistics(UK) August 2009 to June 2010 for National Statistics statistical department for UK.  It's main responsibility for calculating and publishing Consumer Price Index (CPI) and Retail Price Index (RPI) every year in UK. ONS used a legacy application to calculate and publish CPI/RPI. ONS Reengineering project is focused to replace that legacy application as client felt it had some problems in maintainablility and also in calculating those indexes.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis and Design.  • Involved in POC for Spring Batch Admin module for batch management.  • Involved in design and development in CPI page flows.  • Involved in bug fixes in this application.  • Involved in development of hibernate mapping files for interacting with DB.  • Deployed in and tested in Weblogic Server.  • Involved in writing unit test cases using JUNIT framework.  • Involved in development of JSP , Backing Beans and DAO classes    Environment: JSF 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 3.0, Weblogic 10, Oracle 10g  Duration: Aug 2009 Jun 2010  Project: SOE - Capman  Role: Senior Java Developer  Client: British Telecom(UK)    SOE - CapMan is one of the sales tools applications used by BT sales people to view information about BT networks across the globe, view the products offered by its supplier, perform capacity check operations in a port, can able to find the nearest BT pop locations next to customer place, can able to see custom locations using Google maps.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in enhancements for this application and it is developed on Apache wicket framework which is similar to SWING as wicket is meant for creating web applications based on event programming model,  • Involved in bug fixes in this application.  • Change Request for Application.  • Involved in Application deployment in Weblogic server.  • Involved in creating hibernate mapping files in application.  • Involved in discussions with client for understand requirements and clarifications.  • Involved in writing unit test cases using JUNIT framework.    Environment: Apache Wicket, Hibernate 3, JMS, Weblogic 10 and Oracle 10g Senior Java Developer British Telecom(UK) March 2009 to July 2009 UI Configurator is one of the modules in Sales Quote Engine (SQE). This module is used to define the workflow for SQE. Features: Dynamic UI and Ajax calls using DOJO. UI controls were created dynamically and its is Database driven, based on the workflow like if its new scenario, its controls were fetched from DB and UI controls were created dynamically in front end.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering and analysis of the application.  • Involved in POC in DOJO technology(Wrapper over Ajax).  • Involved in integration of DOJO in Struts2 and Spring framework application.  • Involved in POC for presentation framework such as FREEMARKER instead of dynamic UI.  • Used Struts2 MVC to develop Controller, Services and DAO.  • Involved in Deployment Phase for deploying applications in Weblogic server for testing team.  • Involved in supporting team members technically as well as functionally.  • Involved in integration of submodules in this module.  • Involved in code reviews to adhere to BT coding standards.  • Performed code build using MAVEN script.    Environment: Struts 2, Spring , DOJO, Weblogic 9.2, Oracle 10g Senior J2EE Developer November 2008 to February 2009 Controller, Services and DAO Nordstrom(UK) June 2008 to November 2008 Customer list application is a migration project from Blue martini to J2EE.  It is a part of personal Book Application by which the employees of retail store can  extract a list of customer records based upon some predefined criteria's and they can further contact them for having personal relationship with customers to ensure continual business with Nordstrom retail stores    Responsibilities:  • Developed using Struts2 MVC to develop Controller, Services and DAO  • Developed Java Persistence classes using JPA.  • Support team members in development of the application.  • Deployed and tested in Apache Tomcat Server.  • Involved in writing unit test cases using JUNIT framework.  • Involved in Analysis and design and discussions about migrating from bluemartini to struts2 framework.  • Performed code build using ANT script.  • Worked in Waterfall methodology in this project.    Environment: Struts 2, Spring, JPA, Tomcat, Oracle 10g  Duration: Jun 2008 Nov 2008  Project: REDAR  Role: Senior J2EE Developer  Client: Nordstrom(UK)    REDAR is a portlet application aiming to record the day to day attendance, activity data of all employees of the organisation.Payroll will be calculated based on the entered data through this application. All employees holiday balance, toil balance, over time will be maintained through this REDAR application.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering and analysis of the application.  • Developed using Struts MVC to develop Controller, Services and DAO.  • Involved in development of UI components such as JSP and controller classes.  • Involved in Internal code reviews.  • Developed Java Persistence classes using JPA.  • Involved in writing unit test cases using TESTNG framework.  • Support team members in delivering the tasks.  • Performed code build using ANT script.    Environment: Struts 1, Spring, JPA, Websphere, Oracle 10g J2EE Developer January 2007 to October 2007 Controller and DAO JPMorganChase August 2006 to January 2007 USA    Transaction Approval system is a decisioning system used by employees of JPMorganChase Bank to take decisioning on overdrafts whether to approve an overdraft or reject an overdraft based on client's history with the bank and also based upon other factors.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and creation of sequence diagrams using Rational XDE to depict new flows in application.  • Involved in development of UI components such as JSP, Controller and DAO clases using Weblogic Portal 8.1.  • Involved in development of DAL classes for persistence.  • Involved in bug fixes in the application.  • Involved in writing unit test cases using JUNIT framework.  • Support for team members during development.  • Deployed and tested in Weblogic Server.  • Worked in waterfall methodology in SDLC.    Environment: Weblogic Portal 8.1, DAL(Wrapper over hibernate), Weblogic 8.1, Oracle10g  Duration: Aug 2006 Jan 2007  Project: Sales Rolodex  Role: J2EE Developer  Client: GE HealthCare, USA    Employer: Tata Consultancy Services, Bangalore, India  Sales Rolodex is an intranet search tool for sales team in USA for GE Health care. Using this tool the users can find the sales representative's information by entering the states in USA, zip code, sales representative last name, sales representative first name. Additionally the user can also select sales channel hierarchies also to find the exact sales representative by selecting the region, business segment, zone and sales area, sales owner last name and first name.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering and analysis of the application.  • Developed using Struts to develop UI components such as JSP, Controller, Services and DAO  • Support team members in development of the application.  • Deployed and tested in Apache Tomcat Server.  • Involved in development of client side validation using JavaScript.  • Coordination with onshore team member during development.  • Involved in bug fixes in the application.  • Involved in writing unit test cases using JUNIT framework.  • Build and Applications deployed in UNIX servers.    Environment: Struts 1.x, Javascript, Oracle10g, Tomcat Java Developer October 2005 to July 2006 J2EE Developer Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Pvt Ltd March 2005 to September 2005 Malaysia    Cover notes were allocated to Agents of MSI, and these information has to be extracted from Financial Link (SQL SERVER) and moved to GEN400 (DB2). Before moving, status of cover note in Financial Link is compared with status in GEN400. Based on both statuses, records from Financial Link are inserted, updated in GEN400.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis and design of Covernotes Allocation requirement.  • Used Core Java and JDBC API for the development of Covernotes Allocation in GEN400.  • Involved in crucial bug fixes at client site(Malaysia).  • Support for team members during development.  • Involved in requirements gathering and preparation of HLD, LLD document creation.  • Developed as a simple batch extraction program.  • Run once daily batch program at scheduled intervals.  • Worked in waterfall methodology in SDLC.    Environment: Java, JDBC, SQL Server 2000, DB2  Duration: Mar 2005 Sep 2005  Project: Census Analysis  Role: J2EE Developer J2EE Developer CRMPortals November 2004 to March 2005 USA    Census Analysis is website developed for CRMPortals, USA for selling Census Data of United States. With this website, the client can able to preview sample data of any state of United States and can place an online order for the required data of any state of United States.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis and Design.  • Development of UI components such as HTML, JSP and Controllers.  • Development of DAO classes using JDBC API.  • Involved in development of client side validation using Javascript.  • Involved in writing SQL queries for DAO classes.  • Involved in creating logos using Adobe Photoshop.  • Cascading style sheets were used in UI components.  • Deployment is done in Apache Tomcat Servers.  • Build and Applications deployed in UNIX servers.    Environment: JSP, Servlets, JDBC, CSS, HTML and Javascript, Tomcat, SQL server 2000.  Duration: Nov 2004 Mar 2005  Project: I-Ma (IL) rketing  Role: J2EE Developer JSP Developer CRM Portals Inc January 2004 to November 2004 USA    I-Ma (IL) rketing is a internet tool for marketing via email. The client should create a contact list, which will contain all the email id's to which marketing mails should be sent to. A contact list can be created by the client either manually or upload a database of email id's. The client should create a campaign, which can be created either by uploading a html file or by creating a text message .After creation of campaign and on selecting contact list, client can able to preview the campaign and the campaign can be sent to all the email id's available in the contact list    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis and Design.  • Involved in creating logos using Adobe Photoshop.  • Development of UI components such as HTML, JSP and Controllers.  • Involved in development of client side validation using Javascript.  • Development of DAO classes using JDBC API.  • Cascading style sheets were used in UI components.  • Deployment is done in Apache Tomcat Servers.  • Build and Applications deployed in UNIX servers.  • Involved in writing SQL queries for DAO classes.    Environment: JSP, Servlets, JDBC, HTML and Javascript, Tomcat, MySQL  Duration: Jan 2004 Nov 2004  Project: Attendance System  Role: JSP Developer  Client: CRM Portals Inc, USA    ATTENDANCE SYSTEM is a web application designed and developed for managing company employee's data. This system comprises of 2 areas. 1. Employee 2.Admin.  In Employee Area, a employee can Sign In & Sign Out for Marking Attendance, Send Email, Change Password, View Current Month Attendance Timing Chart, Current Month Salary Report, View Messages Posted by Admin.  In Admin Area, the admin can Add a New Employee, Department, Designation, Message, Salary, View Current Month Salary Chart of all employees, View Current Month Timing Chart of all employees, View Salary Report for Previous Months, View Particular Employee's Attendance, View Previous Month's Employee's Salary, Change Password & Send Email.    Responsibilities:  • Development of UI components such as HTML, JSP and Controllers.  • Development of DAO classes using JDBC API.  • Involved in development of client side validation using Javascript.  • Involved in creating logos using Adobe Photoshop.  • Involved in writing SQL queries for DAO classes.  • Deployment is done in Apache Tomcat Servers.  • Build and Applications deployed in UNIX servers.  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis and Design    Environment: JSP, Servlets, JDBC, HTML and Javascript, Tomcat, MySQL Education Bachelors in Engineering Computer Science & Engineering University of Madras - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2003 Skills Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jaxp, Jboss, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Apache, Tomcat, Web server, Weblogic, Ant, Maven, Dbms, Jdbc Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages Java 1.7  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, DOJO, Dojo, Weblogic Portal 8.1 XML, XSD, JAXB, JAXP.  Frameworks Struts2, Spring 2.5 ,Spring Integration, Apache Wicket , JSF 2.0, JBOSS Fuse framework, Spring Boot Microservices  Client Scripting JavaScript  RDBMS/DBMS SQL Server 2000, MS Access, MySQL,Oracle  DB Connectivity ODBC, JDBC  ORM Hibernate  Application Server Jboss 3.0, Weblogic 10.0, Apache Karaf and Fabric  Web Server Apache Tomcat 5.0  IDE Eclipse 3.1, BEA Weblogic Workshop 8.1,Jboss Developer Studio  Modeling Rational XDE. MS Visio  FrontEndTools DB SQLyog, Toad, SQL Developer  CEP Oracle Complex Event Processing  Messaging Java Messaging Service  Code Review Tools Sonar  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Hudson and Go, Jenkins    Project Profile: