AWS Solution Architect Associate AWS Solution Architect Associate AWS Solution Architect Associate - United Services Automobile Association (USAA) Houston, TX • 12 + years of experience in IT industry this includes 4+years of experience in Cloud computing.  • Designed an Architectural Diagram for different applications before migrating into amazon cloud for flexible, cost-effective, reliable, scalable, high-performance and secured.  • Experience in architecture, design and implementation of On-Prem, Off-Prem and Hybrid cloud solutions utilizing AWS.  • Good experience in conducting proof-of-concept, developing prototypes and reference models.  • AWS (Amazon Web Services): EC2, VPC, IAM, S3, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, Glacier, RDSConfig, Route53, SNS, SQS, Kinesis, APIGateway, ElasticCache, RedShift, DynamoDB, AutoScaling, Aurora, Lamda, Direct Connect, EMR, Elastic Beanstalk, Elastic File System (EFS) and focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling in AWS.  • Utilized Cloud Watch to monitor resources such as EC2, CPU memory, Amazon RDS DB Services, EBS volumes; to set alarm for Notification or Automated actions, and to monitor logs for better understanding and operation of the system.  • Deep understanding of system development in cloud environments, including Software as Service (SaaS), Platform as Service (PaaS), or Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)  • Expertise in RDBMS (MySQL, AWS Aurora, Oracle, SQL Server, and Postgres) and/or NoSQL (AWS DynamoDB, MongoDB, and Cassandra) data stores.  • Experienced with installation of AWS CLI to control various AWS services through SHELL/BASH scripting.  • Experience in implementing a CI/CD pipeline.  • Experience in designing and architecting serverless computing and implementation using AWS Lamda.  • Possess working knowledge with Python to automate software configuration.  • Experienced in creating multiple VPC's and public, private subnets as per requirement and distributed them as groups into various availability zones of the VPC.  • Created and configured elastic load balancers and auto scaling groups to distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient, fault tolerant and highly available environment.  • Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static content for a web application.  • Configured S3 buckets with various life cycle policies to archive the infrequently accessed data storage classes based on requirement.  • Used IAM for creating roles, users, and groups to provide additional security to AWS account and its resources.  • Experienced in creating RDS instances to serve data through servers for responding to requests.  • Provided support for java applications by collaborating with java development team using the agile methodology  • Assist in designing, automating, implementing and sustainment of Amazon Machine Images (AMI) across the AWS Cloud environment  • Experience with AWS API Gateway and Rest APIs, XML/SOAP.  • Created and modified Cloud Formation templates to create/upgrade EC2 instances to support specific needs  • Working experience on Windows Active Directory and LDAP.  • Experience on File, Block and Object storage.  • Knowledge on tools such as Git, Jira, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, Bamboo, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, SaltStack, Nagios, Splunk.  • Built out Infrastructure as a Service (IAAS) private cloud OpenStack and managed deployment of Microservices using Kubernetes, Docker and etc to production environment  • Experience in container based solutions, and its orchestration with OpenShift, Kubernetes or Docker SWARM and Docker datacentre components.  • Troubleshooting skills with network protocols such as DNS, TCP/IP, SMTP, and SNMP.  • Expertise in troubleshooting and resolving issues, disaster recovery.  • Good knowledge on Big Data.  • Hands-on experience in analysing workloads, debugging and tuning performance at system level.  • Used Agile methodologies like Scrum and Kanban for the development process.  • Committed to excellence, self-motivator, team-player, and a far-sighted developer with strong problem-solving skills and with zeal to learn new technologies  • Strengths include good team player, excellent communication interpersonal and analytical skills and ability to work effectively in a fast-paced, high volume, deadline-driven environment. Work Experience AWS Solution Architect Associate United Services Automobile Association (USAA) - San Antonio, TX August 2016 to Present Description: The United Services Automobile Association (USAA) is a Texas based Fortune 500 diversified financial services group of companies including a Texas Department of Insurance regulated reciprocal inter-insurance exchange and subsidiaries offering banking, investing, and insurance to people and families that serve, or served, in the United States military.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for architecting, designing, implementing and supporting of cloud based infrastructure and its solutions.  • Proficient in AWS services like VPC, EC2, S3, ELB, Auto Scaling Groups (ASG), EBS, RDS, IAM, Cloud Formation, Route 53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, Cloud Trail.  • Experienced in creating multiple VPC's and public, private subnets as per requirement and distributed them as groups into various availability zones of the VPC.  • Created NAT gateways and instances to allow communication from the private instances to the internet through bastion hosts.  • Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Created Microservices applications with integrations to AWS services by using Amazon EKS, while providing access to the full suite of Kubernetes functionality.  • Used security groups, network ACL's, internet gateways and route tables to ensure a secure zone for organization in AWS public cloud.  • Created and configured elastic load balancers and auto scaling groups to distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient, fault tolerant and highly available environment.  • Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static content for a web application.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  • Configured S3 buckets with various life cycle policies to archive the infrequently accessed data to storage classes based on requirement.  • Possess good knowledge in creating and launching EC2 instances using AMI's of Linux, RHEL, and Windows.  • Implemented domain name service (DNS) through route 53 to have highly available and scalable applications.  • Maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers using Cloud Watch service.  • Created EBS volumes for storing application files for use with EC2 instances whenever they are mounted to them.  • Experienced in creating RDS instances to serve data through servers for responding to requests.  • Created snapshots to take backups of the volumes and also images to store launch configurations of the EC2 instances.  • Designing and implementing CI (Continuous Integration) system: configuring Jenkins servers, Jenkins nodes, creating required scripts, and creating/configuring VMs (Windows/Linux)  • Focus on continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD), promoting Enterprise Solutions to target environments.  • Experience in CI/CD pipelines, strong background in Build and Release Management and Cloud Implementation all within that suites the needs of an environment under DevOps Culture.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using Cloud Watch.  • Experience in Configuring and deploying micro services on cloud leveraging high scalability and high availability design patterns    Environment: AWS (EC2, VPC, ELB, S3, EBS, RDS, Route53, ELB, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, AWS Auto Scaling, Lambda), SQL, Unix/Linux, Shell scripting, Git, Jenkins, CI/CD pipeline. AWS Cloud Engineer United Services Automobile Association (USAA) - San Antonio, TX March 2014 to July 2016 Description: The United Services Automobile Association (USAA) is a Texas based Fortune 500 diversified financial services group of companies including a Texas Department of Insurance regulated reciprocal inter-insurance exchange and subsidiaries offering banking, investing, and insurance to people and families that serve, or served, in the United States military.  Responsibilities:  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Data center migration to Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure and provided initial support to Applications and Database teams.  • Created AWS RDS database instances consisting of Oracle, SQL Server and AWS RDS Oracle database clusters.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Designed, configured and managed public/private cloud infrastructures utilizing Amazon Web Services (AWS), including EC2, S3, Cloud Front, Elastic File system, RDS, VPC, Direct Connect, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, IAM, and Elastic Search which allowed automated operations.  • Handled streaming and live content over Amazon Cloud Front.  • Configured an AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Database Subnet Group for isolation of resources within the Amazon RDS Oracle DB cluster.  • Performed database SQL queries to address connectivity and integration activities.  • Implemented AWS High-Availability using AWS Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), which performed a balance across instances in multiple Availability Zones.  • Assigned AWS Elastic IP Addresses used to work around host or availability zone failures by quickly remapping the address to another running instance or a replacement instance that was just started.  • Configured and managed AWS Glacier, to move old data to archives based on retention policy of databases/ applications (AWS Glacier Vaults)  • Deployed and configured Git repositories with branching, forks, tagging, and notifications.  • Experienced and proficient deploying and administering GitHub, GitLab for CI.  • Implementing a Continuous delivery (CD) pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's.  • Developed proof of concept implementations of distributed frameworks using Docker.  • Deploy builds to production and work with the teams to identify and troubleshoot any issues.    Environment: AWS, EC2, Shell Scripting, Glacier, VPC, Windows 2012 Server, SQL, Git, Jenkins, Docker Lead Java/J2EE Developer United Services Automobile Association (USAA) - San Antonio, TX January 2012 to February 2014 Description: The United Services Automobile Association (USAA) is a Texas based Fortune 500 diversified financial services group of companies including a Texas Department of Insurance regulated reciprocal inter-insurance exchange and subsidiaries offering banking, investing, and insurance to people and families that serve, or served, in the United States military.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for implementing Use cases and Design document and coordinating with the development and QA teams.  • Developed the application based on Spring MVC architecture.  • Implemented MVC Controllers, Handlers and DAO patterns to securely access data from databases.  • Involved in creating MVC skeleton, Data Modelling.  • Implemented message driven and subscriber to receive the payload from vendor.  • Involved in creating and invoking the Webservices REST and SOAP.  • Involved in designing and developing the front end of the application using JSP, java script, HTML and CSS.  • Used MQ gateways to receive the data from vendor.  • Involved in code Reviews with Client tech leads.  • Worked with CCC vendor to get total loss evaluation for creating the offer for the member.  • Extensively worked on J2EE components and Services.  • Implementing the microservices using Java/J2EE.  • Solid experience on JavaScript Frameworks like MVC/MVVM JavaScript frameworks and Exposure to Node.js  • Made use of Data Access Object (DAO) design pattern for designing data access layer.  • Worked on SQL Server and IBM DB2 as databases as backend.  • Created and configured the point to point queue in my application server.  • Created Listnerport for new Message Driven Bean in application server.  • Designed the hbm, cfg and POJO class need for Hibernate.  • Provided Environment support during TI and ST testing.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Web Services for J2EE, RSA, Star Team, PS Framework, WAS, IPMS, EPMS, Web Sphere Application Servers Windows 2000/NT, IBM UDB-DB2, Star Team, Shell & PERL Scripting. Java/J2EE Developer State Farm Insurance - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2009 to December 2011 Description: State Farm is an American group of insurance and financial services companies in the United States. The group's main business is State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company, a mutual insurance firm that also owns the other State Farm companies.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile & Scrum methodology for development of project.  • Used Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern for building this application.  • Developed application on RAD 8.0 and used DB2 database.  • Used Hibernate ORM frame work to access the database.  • Designed the hbm, cfg and POJO classes need for Hibernate.  • Worked with Google team to get the contract to use the google maps.  • Involved in creating Spring Controllers, Handlers, Model and Views.  • Involved to invoke the SOAP based Webservices implemented in java to get the geographical location based on latitude and longitude.  • Involved in DAO layer using Hibernate to connect to database.  • Develop various java objects as part of persistence classes to map with databases.  • Involved in RAC sessions with Business Team and capturing the high-level System Requirements.  • Provided environment support during the Integration and system testing.  • Involved in deploying and configuring the application using IBM WebSphere application server 7  • Monitor the logs through Splunk tool during test and production environments.  • Involved in bug fixing during Integration and System testing.    Environment: Java, RAD, Springs framework, Spring MVC, JDBC, Hibernate, IBM WebSphere application server 7, UNIX, SOAP, SOAP UI, WSDL, IBM DB2, XML, Smartbear, Splunk, Putty, Outlook and Windows. Developer Indian Development Co-operative Bank Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2006 to September 2009 Description: This system is used to keep track of the details of each and every member in the society like membership details, Deposited amount details, checking amount details, loan details and various accounts maintained in the society and makes a report to be sent to different branches describing the status of the members. The society uses this system to easily identify the different member details, the transactions involved in their accounts and makes a way to decide on the cash flow in the society by means of various accounting heads.  Responsibilities:  • Analysis of Business Requirements and System Requirements.  • Developed star schema and snow flake schema.  • Identifying suitable dimensions and facts for schema.  • Used Data Stage Manager for importing metadata into repository and also used for importing and exporting jobs into different projects.  • Used the Data Stage Designer to develop jobs for extracting, cleaning, transforming, integrating, and loading data into data warehouse database.  • Used the Data Stage Director for scheduling, validating, running and monitoring the jobs.  • Used Administrator for creating projects and managing the users.  • Used almost all stages like Sequential file, hash file, odbc stage etc. and also extensively involved in creating custom routines and transforms.  • Used the Meta Stage for synchronizing and integrating Meta data from warehouse related tools, automatically gathering process data from operational systems. History of an item of data, data lineage and history of process, process analysis and how an object in the directory is related to the other objects, Impact analysis.  • Worked on programs for scheduling Data loading and transformations using Data Stage from legacy systems to Oracle.  • Involved in Designing and developing catalogs for report generation from warehouse databases.  • Developed shell scripts to automate file manipulation and data loading procedures.  • Preparation of the estimates, time lines of the deliverables and project execution plan.    Environment: Data Stage 7.0/7.5, UNIX, Windows 2000/NT, IBM UDB-DB2, Star Team, Shell & PERL Scripting. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Acharya Nagarjuna University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh Skills DATABASES (10+ years), UNIX (8 years), DB2 (7 years), SQL (7 years), JAVA (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Cloud AWS (EC2, VPC, ELB, S3, EBS, RDS, Route53, ELB, Cloud Watch,  Cloud Formation, Auto Scaling, Lambda, RedShift, Aurora, DynamoDB)  DWH Technologies IBM Web Sphere Data stage 7.0/7.5/8.0/8.1/8.5/8.7/9.1, Informatica  Languages Java, J2EE, C++, C, PL/SQL, JSON, Python  Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, DB2, My Sql, Teradata, Netezza  IDE/Tools Eclipse, IBM Rational Software Architect  OLAP Tools Business Objects, Crystal Reports, Cognos, Lumira  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux and Windows  Version Control Tools IBM Borland Star team, RTC  Project Methodologies Agile, Waterfall