Job Seeker Java Developer with Core Media New York, NY ? 11 years of experience in the analysis, development, testing and maintenance of Java/JEE applications with emphasis on integration of web content management solutions.  ? Strong experience in deisgning and developing large scale Java Enterprise Applications using CoreMedia9 and CoreMedia5Experienced in CMS integrating using CoreMedia9using Coremedia 9 CMS and Web Services.  ? Full Stack Development with Spring, CoreMediaSpring Boot, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Struts, Spring Security, Micro Services, AWS  ? Extensive experience in Core Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring,Hibernate,Web Services,Kubernetes, Swagger, Docker  ? Extensive experience with TDD using JUNIT, Mockito, TestNG, EasyMock using Jococo Reports for test coverage  ? Extensive experience with Angular, React, Redux Bootstrap Node.js 8, jQuery, Javascript, Express.js, Enzyme  ? Extensive experience writing queries and stored procedures using Oracle 12c.  ? Experience using MongoDB, Apache Hadoop Big Data using Apache Spark, Kafka, Oozie, HDFS in Java 8  ? Extensive domain experience in Equities, Derivatives and Fixed Income(Fixed Income Pricing and Analytics)  ? Experience in Middleware technologies (JMS, ActiveMQ) and integration frameworks like Apache Camel.  ? Extensive experience with Soap and Restful Web Services using JAX-WS and JAX-RS, RestController  ? Extensive experience with JavaScript library frameworks primarily usingAngular, React, AngularJS, TypeScript,Karma, jQuery and Node.js and component-based Java frameworks like Apache JSF, Apache Tapestry and GWT.  ? Extensive experience in database programming and writing SQL and PL/SQL Stored Procedures.  ? Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XQuery, XPATH, DOM and SAX,  ? Hands on experience in Information exchange protocols like Financial Information Exchange (FIX).  ? Extensive experience working with Unix platforms and Bash Shell Scripting.  ? In-depth experience working with Oracle, Maven, Ant, SVN, Jenkins, Apache Tomcat and JBoss.  ? Performance testing using Apache JMeter, JProfiler and web testing using SoapUI and Web Selenium. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Federal Reserve Bank - New York, NY, US November 2017 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Developed a POC for reading Bloomberg NewsFeed dataCMS team using primarily Core Java, CoreMedia9 and Spring Restful WebServices, Java/WebSphere  ? Worked on creating integration interfaces with the CoreMedia CMS9 Modules worked on creating CMS front-end templates.  ? Worked on Java Spring security for LDAP security and Javascript for the front-end.  ? Worked extensively with Docker, AWS and Kubernetes, Swagger, ActiveMQ, Spring Cloud  ? Extensively worked with Oracle 12c, Spring Security  ? Improved test coverage using JUNIT, Mockito and Jococo Reports.  ? Worked extensively with React and Redux  ? Worked extensively with Hibernate, writing stored Procedures PL/SQL using Oracle 12G  ? Converted data from XML to Parquet using Java Spark, Kafka and Oozie Workflows.  ? Worked with Express.js and Node 8+  ? Worked extensively with Angular4 to build UI components  ? Built hive tables on top of this for querying the data in Hadoop.  ? Design, develop, and maintain full-stack internet-scale web applications on AWS  ? Worked with Docker and Kubernetes Microservices.  ? Focus on creating RESTful APIs, infrastructure and test automation.  ? Extensive experience with CI/CD Jenkins. Java Web Contenent Management Developer Core Media Morgan Stanley - New York, NY, US January 2017 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Worked within the Treasury Capital Markets Group on a Global Liquidity Reserves Platform that manages the firm's unsecured debt, current liquidity and its funding needs.  ? Worked Extensively with CoreMedia9 to create a CMS management system for the trading platform.  ? Worked extensively with Spring MVC, jQuery, Angular  ? Worked extensively with AngularJS, Bootstrap and React for front end projects.  ? Worked extensively on deployments using Kubernetes, Docker.  ? Worked with Spring Security Bootstrap and Hibernate  ? Worked with Express.js and Node 8+  ? Worked extensively with Redis in-memory cache database  ? Worked on UI components using React and Redux  ? Worked with Angular to developer UI Components.  ? Worked on integration using Apache Spark Apache Oozie.  ? Worked on web applications implemented using Node.JS  ? Integration of UI into Tableau worked on deployment into AWS  ? Worked extensively with Angular2 to build UI components  ? Worked extensively with MongoDB  ? Wrote stored procedures using MySQL  ? Implemented using Spring Boot. Worked with Docker and Kubernetes Microservices.  ? Implemented server side components and front-end components primarily leveraging Java 8, Spring-Boot, Core Java, Hibernate, Restful Web Service and Angular using GIT Agile Teams  ? Worked with Scala and Python for backend services  ? Monitor MySQL Database Backup on AWS cloud S3 (CLI).  ? Migration of code from AngularJS Javascript to Angular TypeScript  ? Implemented ETL operations for transformation of historical data into Hadoop environment using Apache Spark and Oozie Workflows.  ? Configured Kuberenetes files worked with Docker.  ? The platform reports current and historical liquidity risks used by regional desks and Treasury Senior Management and provides key metrics such as unsecured debt, annual maturity profile, liquidity coverage ratio.  ? Implemented the back-end Restful Service for a Rules Engine Systemthat maintains a set of rules and trade deals  ? Developed a Rules Maintenance screen that provides a user interface to navigate real-time data flow (bookings, FX rates, intercompany loans) using Angularbest practices.  ? Using AWS, Docker and Kubernetes for deployments.  ? Provided second level support to a system that provides a workflow to issue debt within the firm worked on FIX, Apache Camel, GWTand was involved in trouble shooting server side issues and writing JUnit test cases.    Environment: CoreMedia 9, Spring-Boot, Hibernate, Java 8, Java Multi-threading, Angular ,JavaScript, Typescript,Hibernate, Fix, Apache Camel, JUnit, Git, AWS, Docker, Kubernetes Java CMS Core Media Developer Bunge Limited - New York, NY, US June 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the end-to-end development of JEE applications using Java Spring, Java concurrency, Restful Web Services, AngularJS and JMS deployed on IBM Websphere using TDD and Agile practices.  ? Was exposed to working with CoreMedia 5 for the CMS system built for the data marketing team.  ? Worked extensively with AngularJS and jQuery to build UI components  ? Worked extensively with Redis.  ? Worked extensively with Docker AWS cloud deployment Microservices and Docker.  ? Extensively utilized Spring-Boot and Spring MVC and Spring REST  ? Worked with Docker and Kubernetes Microservices.  ? Developed an Event Scheduler using Quartz that interfaces with an order management system, using JAX-RS Restful Web Servicesand AngularJS.  ? Worked on CI/CD for production servers using AWS.  ? Worked with PostgreSQL  ? Worked on implementing a Bloomberg Adapter component that aggregates and routes trade messages to the Back office systems.  ? Implemented a system that captures the performance metrics of production plants, using AngularJS, Ejb 3.0, Spring, Restful Web Services with RestControllers, Oracle deployed on Websphere Application Server.  ? Implemented a MailProcessor that filters emails that are retrieved from IMAP and publishes onto TibcoEMS Queues.    Environment: Core Java, Java Multithreading, Java Spring, Restful Web Services (JAX-RS and RestController), Spring-Boot, Spring JDBCTemplate, EJB 3.0, AngularJS, Javascript, Java JMS, Tibco, IBM Websphere, JUnit, Oracle, AWS, Docker, Kubernetes Senior Fullstack Java Developer Western Asset Management - Pasadena, California, US January 2016 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Worked for the Fixed Income on the Benchmark Loader application. This application is responsible for loading daily and monthly securities and indexes into the application from different vendors.  ? Worked extensively with Struts framework to build UI components.  ? Extensively worked with Kubernetes and Docker  ? Worked extensively with AngularJS to build UI components  ? Worked in a highly Agile development team using TDD and Continuous Integration and deployment.  ? Worked extensively on Core Java, low latency side using Java Concurrencyon the back-end of the application.  ? Primarily utilized Java, Java Spring-Boot, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Web Services and Perl.  ? Responsible for the end-to-end implementation of features for the Benchmark Loader using AngularJS.  ? Features included adding and calculating new derived database fieldsto the database schema and the loading of constituent details for securities.  ? Extensively used Jenkins and AWS tools for devops tasks.  ? Used JMS to connect to ActiveMQ to retrieve trading messages and performed ETL operations on these messages.  ? Worked on the Stats Loader project the data migration, modified database schema and procedures to support the loading of aggregated month end data loads on a daily basis.  ? Integrated with restful web services and involved in writing unit and integration tests and deployment scripts.  ? Independently responsible for the end-to-end development, testing and deployment to production of releases using Autosys.  Environment:Core Java, Java Multithreading, Java Spring-Boot, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Sybase,Linux, Web Services, AnthillPro, Autosys Senior FullStack Java Developer Apple - Sunnyvale, California, US December 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Worked for the Identity Management Directory Services (IDMS) that handles Apple's internal and external applications such as Apple Directory, iCloud, iTunes and iForgot. IDMS manages the access needs of Apple personnel to internal applications by providing Single Sign On Token Verification services for Mac OS X clients.  ? Implemented server side components primarily using Core Java, Multithreading, Spring, Hibernate and Web Services.  ? Worked extensively with AngularJS to build UI components  ? Worked extensively with Spring MVC.  ? Extensively worked with Kubernetes and Docker.  ? Wrote unit and integration tests using JUnit, TestNG and EasyMock.  ? Extensively used Jenkins and AWS tools for devops tasks. Worked with Chef CI/CD.  ? Developed infrastructure using Spring-Boot.  ? Worked extensively with writing SQL and PL/SQL using Sybase.  ? Wrote user interface components for IDMS using AngularJS.  ? Heavily involved in DevOps activities such as setting up IDMS components such as Hadoopusing Linux, automation scripting with Bash and Java and doing continuous integration with Jenkins.  ? Worked with and provided knowledge transfer sessions to offshore teams.    Environment: Core Java, Java Multithreading, Java JEE, Maven, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, AngularJS, Linux, Sybase, Jenkins, Spring-Boot, Apache Tomcat, Couchbase, AngularJS JUnit, TestNG, EasyMock Senior Java Fullstack Developer, Fixed Income YieldBook - New York, NY, US November 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on the developmentof YieldBook's Fixed Income analytical tool usingJava, Spring and Hibernate.  ? Worked closely with Portfolio Managers for requirement analysis and implementation of business modules.  ? Devloped UI components usings jquery and Bootstrap  ? Supported applications written in Struts and Spring MVC  ? Developed MBS Pass-Through pricing, trading and allocation systems using Core Java, Java Concurrency and FIX.  ? Worked on Yield Book's Structuring Tool for CMOs (pricing of cashflows, generating price/yield reports).  ? Used Core Spring for dependency injection of services and Hibernate for the mapping and querying of data.  ? Developed engines that serve as the backbone of a Portfolio and Risk (Market, Credit) Analysis.  ? Developed MBS Trading Systems providing Trade Entry, Trade Blotter, Risk Blotter and P&L calculations.  ? Involved in front-end development for portfolio analysis using AngularJS and jQuery.  ? Worked on the back-end data processing systems of Yieldbook and the generation of yield curves and cash flows.  ? Performed stress tests to analyze credit risk of the loan portfolios primarily using JProfiler and JMeter.  ? Created and modified SQL and PL/SQL scripts for data conversions and performance improvement using Sybase.  ? Day to day production support and troubleshooting of issues related to the trading system, FIX protocol errors.  ? Design and coding of communication module with JMS and FIX Protocol for information exchange between FIX Engine (FIX Adaptor) and Intitutional Investors(Mutual Funds,Hedge Funds).    Environment: Core Java, Java Spring, AngularJS, jQuery, XML, XSLT, JProfiler, JMeter, SQL, JMS, FIX, Sybase Java Developer, Portfolio Management Fidessa - New York, NY, US July 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Designed, developed and provided continued support to Portfolio Analytics team (for trading fixed income instruments), and P&L systems serving large and small Wall Street clients using Core Java and Java Spring.  ? Worked on Minerva Order Management System (portfolio analysis, order management workflows and post trade).  ? Connected with exchange and brokers using FIX.  ? Extensively used Hibernate to generate entity classes and schemas for persisting data onto SQL servers.  ? Developed presentation tier for the portfolio system using Spring MVC, JSP, Javascript and JSTL.  ? Worked extensively with Spring Core, Spring AOP and Spring DAO modules.  ? Wrote unit and integration tests using JUnit and Mockito for the post trade part of the Qtrade application.  ? Extensively used XSLT for the transformation and enrichment of raw trade messages.  ? Designed and implemented SOAP and RESTful services for associated business module integration for P&L reports.  ? Day to day production support and troubleshooting of issues working closely with the Quality Assurance team.    Environment: Core Java, spring, Hibernate, Oracle, Web Services, JUnit, spring, Spring MVC, XSLT Java Developer London, UK May 2008 to July 2010 Trade STP    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on a post-trade messaging system that aggregates, transforms and routes trading messages.  ? Implemented an FX collections matcher allowing traders to classify types of trades using Core Java and Java Multithreading.  ? Wrote JUnit tests to validate the functionality of the input/output adaptors, matching collections and aggregation collections  ? Wrote XSLT and XPATH transformations to transform trade messages into different data formats  ? Used JSF to create UI Components for the Trading application.    Environment: Core Java, Java Multithreading, XML, XSLT, JUnit, JSF, Linux Bash, Confluence, JIRA. Java Software Engineer, TPMX IBM, Glasgow Greenock December 2007 to December 2008 Responsibilities:  ? IBM TPMX inventory management system based on Java Struts  ? Improved purchase order manager, software packages, managing schedules developed in core java  ? Improved the user interface by adding AJAX capabilities integrated a Javascript data grid  ? Wrote bash scripts to retrieve system data and stored data into IBM DB2 and deployed on Websphere.    Environment: Java Struts, Core Java, Multithreading, AJAX, Javascript, IBM DB2, Websphere, Bash, Linux Education MSc in Computer Science University of Southern California 2009 BSc in Software Engineering University of Glasgow 2006 Skills JAVA (10+ years), HIBERNATE (6 years), SPRING (7 years), JUNIT (7 years), MVC (6 years) Additional Information Technical Expertise:    Languages: Core Java 8, CoreMedia9, Java Multithreading, Java Spring, SQL, Bash and Perl scripting  DBMS: Sybase, Oracle 11G, SQL Server  Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, Java Web Services (JAX-WS, JAX-RS), EJB 3.0, JUnit, EasyMock, TestNG  Front-end: AngularJS, jQuery, Node.js, Spring MVC, Javascript, JSF, GWT, Tapestry  Tools and Servers: Redhat EAP, IBM Websphere, Apache Tomcat, Ant, Maven, Apache Camel, JIRA, JBOSS Eclipse, SVN