Release Delivery Manager Release Delivery Manager Release Delivery Manager - Wipro Limited Mercer Island, WA Experience in ITIL, ITSM Process, Compliance, Agile Methodology, Data Integrator Oracle Java  Certified Software Engineer (December 2017) and with proven expertise in object-oriented  analysis and design and exceptional record overseeing all facets of Software Development Life  Cycle, from analysis and design to implementation and maintenance. Work Experience Release Delivery Manager Wipro Limited - Richardson, WA January 2019 to Present - T-Mobile Release Management.    • Enable the gating of releases through the build, test, and production environments.  Communicate with test managers, development managers, IT operations, and the PMO on a daily basis.  • Evaluate the projects listed by PMO and assigning resources to support release  enablement.  • Supporting the release by evaluating customer journey, architecture walk through and mapping work flows for NPE environment readiness.  • Define platform solution and strategy for improving release management experience for DevOps teams.  • Impact Analysis of various projects of applications with the focus on the Code and Config  changes.  • Create the SIS Document and coordinating the production activities.  • Develop common strategies for release governance across multiple departments.  • Establish consistent release management processes.  • Facilitate cross-department coordination of release management functions.  • Track an enterprise-wide release calendar.  • Inform senior management of enterprise-wide exposure to release risk and effectively  mitigate it.  • Measure release cadence and effectiveness using common metrics across the entire  software portfolio.  • Create common standards and formats for release playbooks and work with production  control to standardize release decision-making.  • Define common mechanisms for rollback and standards for capturing release-related  performance indicators.  • Forecast demand for release resources and identify opportunities for greater efficiency  across the enterprise. Sr. Analyst - T-Mobile Release Engineering Transformation & Delivery Wipro Limited - Richardson, WA June 2018 to December 2018 Manage and drive adoption for automation products and services within Release  Engineering Team.  • Creating the strategy for execution and KPI that align with automation, transformation and company initiatives.  • Acting subject matter expert on CA agile tool Rally for agile coaching aligned to T-Mobile  Automation and Transformation Efforts with in Non Production Environment.  • Modernized and automate the deployment pipelines.  • Bridge the difference between ITIL and Agile by transformation of Release Management  and Change Management Process.  • Implementation / evaluation of difference tools and technologies like XL Release and Deploy and Plutora for NPE Release Management. Product Manager and Founder May 2015 to September 2017 Direct organizational operations, policies, and objectives to maximize productivity and returns.  • Coordinate and approve budgets for product development, marketing, overhead, and growth.  • Implement adoption in cloud technologies by implementing the technology stack on AWS  EC2 server.  • Manage Operations and environment support delivery for AWS cloud infrastructure.  • Develop Road Maps and product strategy.  • Analyze complex scenarios and use creative problem-solving to turn challenges into profitable opportunities. Senior Java developer and System Analyst MIQ Logistics- Kansas May 2008 to September 2011 • Team Lead for Enterprise Integration Program for MIQ Logistics (previously known as Yellow Transportation).  • Developing and reviewing ETL or ELT solutions and providing best practices. This  includes translating complex business requirement into technical design.  • Implementing real-time integrated data logistics and simple event processing framework  and automating the movement of data between disparate data sources and business  units.  • Key responsibilities include setting up the new customers / applications in to the system, defining data migration strategy for existing customers, data profiling, data address  standardization etc  • Experience with 852, 846, 867, 850, 856 and 810 EDI transactions.  • Reviewing client specifications describing how they will present data or how they want  data presented, understanding how that information will be used in the context of our  business and proprietary systems, and distilling it into a mapping document used to create the code that transforms the data.  • Creating maps and developing the Business processes and routing the data to the various systems,  • Responsibilities also include setting up the new configuration of inbound / outbound  queues and topics, inbound and outbound data routing and transformations using Bizlink, IBM Gentran Integrator and Hadoop HDFS, Spark, Hive, Flume, Kafka and other related  eco system.  • Performance monitoring of Gentran Server and SQL Database.  • Assisting the test team with test cases with TDD and BDD process (Mockito Framework)  • Working with the business units to coordinate data flow during the major release  • Assisting with the implementation of the dev-ops values by using CI/CD using Jenkins  and GIT.  • On call production support rotation Java Developer Department Defense March 2006 to June 2007 Project: Discrepancy Identification System  The GFM suite is designed to handle the freight transportation requirements of Department of Defense. It consists of different applications that can be used to create and execute shipments  utilizing DoD approved commercial carriers.  Responsibilities:  • Served integral role in 7-member team working for Transportation based project for Department of Defense  • Assisted in designing, building, and maintaining database to analyze life cycle order  management system.  • Responsible for daily quality checks on each phase of the process.  • Worked closely with management to develop more efficient ways to utilize company  resources.    Environment: Weblogic Application Server 8.1, Java 5, J2EE 1.4, EJB 2.0, Servlet, XML, JSP, JUnit, Jasper Reports, Oracle and CVS, Design Pattern Java Developer FREDDIE MAC- Virginia September 2005 to January 2006 Project: Mission Data Quality  The process allows to improve the data quality of Seller delivered mission data. It helps to improve the first time homebuyer rate, improve the operational efficiency and user experience of  a current data correction process.  Responsibilities:  • Design / Development and coding of the Screens/ Reports.  • OOAD Design and development and documentation using Rational Rose.  • Monitored release and stability testing  • Initiated QC specifications and bill of test and documented stability testing program for products  • Consistently coordinate with the upper management and generated project related  monthly and weekly QC schedule and assigned responsibilities to a team  • Work collaboratively with quality control management  • Maintain strict compliance  Environment: Weblogic Application Server 8.1, Java 5, J2EE 1.4, EJB 2.0, Servlet, JSP, Oracle and CVS Java Developer Evergreen Investments (Wachovia)-PA June 2004 to May 2005 Projects:  Auto Refresh  The process allowed for the timely, accurate and automated refresh of ICR reporting data from PORTIA. It provided job status, error logs and portfolios associated with the job.  CAPRI  CAPRI was a Legacy, ColdFusion and SQL Server application, which was converted into a J2EE  application with Sybase as the backend. It was developed to provide portfolio managers and other users the ability to monitor and view online reports of balances and transactions. Reports  were generated as PDF files.  Responsibilities:  • Created functional specifications for reports and online screens.  • Used Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), development and documentation.  • Created JSPs, message driven EJBs and DAO classes for the application using JBuilder.  • Analyzed stored procedures and the Hibernate framework.  • Used Eclipse with ANT for development and deployment.  • Environment: JSP, EJB, JBoss 6.1, Hibernate, Actuate 6, SQL Server 7.0. Windows NT, CVS, Sybase, ColdFusion, UML, Design patterns  • Responsible for daily quality checks on each phase of the process.  • Worked closely with management to develop more efficient ways to utilize company  resources. Java Developer Deutche Bank - New York, NY January 2003 to June 2004 Global Account System  The Global Account Information project was developed to provide global customers the ability to monitor and view their balances and transactions.  Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and coded online jsp based inquiry screens  • Created functional specifications for reports and online screens.  • Used Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), development and documentation.  • Created JSP, Service Locater, Business Delegate, EJB and DAO classes for the application using JBuilder.  Environment: WebLogic 6.1, LDAP, Informatica 6.0/6.1, Actuate 6, Oracle 9.0/8, Windows NT, Rational Rose, UML,J2EE Pattern Java Developer Quantum Markets New Jersey May 2001 to December 2002 Contract Management  The MAS-CM solution provided the method and system to enable, streamline and enhance the Developed the contract management module using the Struts framework and session beans. Java Consultant Innosphire Systems - New York, NY March 1998 to May 2001 Portal for Bristol Meyers Squibb - New Jersey Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA, SPRING, JSP, JavaServer Pages, STRUTS, OOZIE, SQOOP, DATA INTEGRATION, HADOOP, API, Avro, Hadoop, Hive, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, Pig, SWIFT, XML, DATA ANALYSIS, Scrum Master