Sr. Mobile Developer Sr. Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Mobile Developer Philadelphia, PA ? Around 9+ years of experience as Software Developer including 5 years of experience on Designing, Development, Testing and Implementation of Android and iOS Applications for Smartphone, tableExpertise in SDLC full life cycle in Mobile Development using Android and IOS.  ? Expert in iPhone, iPad, Objective-C, Cocoa/Cocoa Touch, XCode, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Dojo Mobile, Jquery mobile with rich understanding of frameworks, memory management, multi-threading, best practices, and development tools.  ? Expertise in developing apps using SQLite, Java, XML, Google Maps API and GPS Location Data.  ? Worked on Angular JS of Scopes, Models, Services, Dependency Injection, Routing and Prototyping.  ? Experience in developing mobile applications in hybrid and native platforms which includes Cordova, Phone Gap and Ionic.  ? Design and development of controller module to interact with underlying android Wi-Fi framework.  ? Work with quality assurance team to properly test and deliver android modules.  ? Designed and developed application with Struts 2 Controller, Core Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlet), HTML, CCS, JQuery, JavaScript and Java Tag Library, restful web service, spring web flow.  ? Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  ? Leveraged Angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Used Phonegap build and Ionic package to build hybrid applications for both iOS and Android.  ? Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build MVC Architecture with AngularJS.  ? Implemented Android native module to integrate Google push notification in Appcelerator based application.  ? Developing a cross platform application on AngularJS, PhoneGap, KendoUI, Telerik and Ionic Frameworks with native and cross-platform experience.  ? Professional experienced of working on IOS platform and frameworks and customizing it as per requirements.  ? Experienced in Testing across Mobile App, Mobile Web Testing for iOS and Android Platforms.  ? Experienced in developing and publishing iPhone/iPad Applications using Objective-C and Cocoa Touch.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  ? Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  ? Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  ? Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL  ? Good at Documenting and Understanding User requirements and System Specifications.  ? Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.  ? Experienced in Creating Domain Model, Activity Diagrams, Use Case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and Object Model.Expertise in working with public APIs, such as Twitter, Facebook, Google, YouTube.  ? Design and Develop programs in C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  ? Compiling C-library and generating .SO library file, integrating the library to app and communicating using JNI.  ? Implemented the application using Java object oriented principles.  ? Designed and developed the individual components of the system using C++ and CORBA.  ? Creating Clients and Server for Java to establish communications between 'Online' client windows and different servers created using both C++ and Java.  ? Expertise with iOS frameworks such as Core Data, Core Animation, Core Graphics and Core Text  ? Expertise in Objective-C, Java, Cocoa/Cocoa Touch with rich understanding of frameworks, memory management, multi-threading, best practices, and development tools  ? Strong front-end UI development skills using scripting languages like JSP, PHP, AJAX, HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Mobile Developer Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Involved in developing hybrid mobile applications in iOS development  ? Architected a customized network protocol used by client applications including iOS  ? Using Swift iOS as a programming language to develop the application.   ? Taking charge of the user interface for the development of iOS applications by using Objective ¬C, Xcode Swift, JQUERY mobile, JAVASCRIPT and Backbone.js.  ? Created custom internal iOS framework utilized by all iOS apps of the company.   ? Implemented Mobile Application for both iPhone iOS and iPad using Swift  ? Worked on Angular JS of Scopes, Models, Services, Dependency Injection, Routing and Prototyping.  ? Experience in developing mobile applications in hybrid and native platforms which includes Cordova, Phone Gap and Ionic.   ? Design and development of controller module to interact with underlying android Wi-Fi framework.   ? Work with quality assurance team to properly test and deliver android modules.  ? Designed and developed application with Struts 2 Controller, Core Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlet), HTML, CCS, JQuery, JavaScript and Java Tag Library, restful web service, spring web flow.  ? Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.   ? Leveraged Angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Used Phonegap build and Ionic package to build hybrid applications for both iOS and Android.   ? Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build MVC Architecture with AngularJS.   ? Implemented Android native module to integrate Google push notification in Appcelerator based application.   ? Developing a cross platform application on AngularJS, PhoneGap, KendoUI, Telerik and Ionic Frameworks with native and cross-platform experience.  ? Building client and server technology using, Objective ¬C, Xcode and Swift  ? Development mobile web application for iOS.  ? Full redesigned of the Mobile App from Objective C to Swift.  ? Repurposed the Content of web for Mobile using jQuery mobile & launched a Mobile Application.  ? Cooperated with R&D team for developing front end solutions using JQuery Mobile  ? Developing iOS application and networking API features for iOS using Xcode, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, iOS SDK, Core Data  ? Designed Interfaces and GUI with services for mobile applications, Asynchronous programming in Xamarin.Forms and Xamarin.Android.   ? Applied Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts (including UML use cases, class diagrams, and interaction diagrams).   ? Design and implementation of Object Oriented concepts (OOP) and J2EE design patterns.   ? Used c# with combination of Entity framework and CSLA Architecture to develop the product.   ? Integrated three third-party API's using C#, JavaScript and PowerShell scripts.   ? Developed C++, SOAP web services on UNIX and Linux platforms using soap.   ? Designed, developed and implemented new classes and objects in C++ for handling various applications.   ? Worked on implementation of EAI, B2B integration, EDI and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) applications using technologies J2EE, XML, DB2, RedHat Linux.   ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  ? Implemented and administered VMware ESX.1 for running the Solaris X86 and Redhat LinuxServers and performed migration activities from p2v.  ? Expertise on Mobile Application Development Using Xamarin.Forms and Traditional Approach.   ? Extensive skills in creating UI using Android SDK, iOS by using Xamarin.Forms for designing UI using framework APIs and XAML with different available layouts and controls.   ? Created mockups using web technologies like HTML/HTML 5, CSS/CSS3, Sass, JQuery & JavaScript, Git, GitHub.  ? Developed Cross Platform application using Xamarin.Forms and deployed on both IOS and Android Platforms.   ? Developed for Universal Windows Platform using XAMARIN.FORMS.   ? Proficient with version control systems (VSS, SVN, GIT), scripting languages (JavaScript, JQuery and OScript), frameworks (Struts, COBRA), web services (REST, SOAP) and windows application development.  ? Created AWS EC2 Linux instances and BASH scripts to run post processing. Used Jenkins to run the deployment process.  ? Worked extensively with Objective-C and iOS SDK.   ? Worked closely with UI team in designing user interface of the application optimized for all iPhone and iPad devices running with iOS and above using Auto layout.   ? Developing a multi platform phone app for iOS, Android, and Windows Phone 7  ? Developed applications using a combination of Java with Android SDK, and Java .  ? Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library  ? Used Sencha Touch and EXT JS for the Mobile web interface development. Also used JSON and JQuery for Mobile application development.   ? Developed UI components using ASP.NET and C#.NET.     Technologies : IOS, Iphone, Ipad, Objective C, Swift, Ionic, Xcode, Android, Sencha Touch, JQTouch, Angular.js, Asp.Net, C#, HTML, CSS, JSON, Ruby on Rails, bin, bash, Xamarin, Git, Github Jquery Mobile, Eclipse, RAD, Java, Oracle, PL/SQL, MySql, MS-Sql, JDBC, Oracle Coherence, MongoDB, Web Services, SOAP, REST, SOA, Ant, Agile, Scrum, Linux, Unix. Sr. Mobile Developer Aflac - Columbus, GA November 2013 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Designed mobile websites and apps for iOS.  ? Mobile application development utilizing Sencha Touch Javascript API Framework  ? Creation of mobile applications utilizing Objective C on iOS platforms  ? Mobile-Web, Enyo R&D, created iOS, Window-Mobile plug-in.  ? Coded Angular JS controllers and directives for application functionality.  ? Experience in developing hybrid applications using the Angular/Ionic stack.  ? Proficient with common Android framework APIs (Bluetooth, Location, Camera, Notifications, Maps, Accelerometer, media player).  ? Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using JAVA/J2EE (spring framework)  ? Developed server side REST web services and called them from angular controllers.  ? In-depth knowledge of Android Operating system, interactive application development and memory management.  ? Experience in developing mobile applications in hybrid and native platforms which includes Cordova, Phone Gap, Ionic, Titanium, Monaca, Sencha Touch and Xamarin.  ? Web application development for backend system on using Angular with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  ? Developing Webpages by using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript and working knowledge of Node JS, bootstrap.js, and Angular.js.  ? Excellent experience in developing Advanced Web-Based applications design and development using Eclipse and Android Studio.  ? Worked in team to develop iOS application.  ? Architected and built iOS interfacing with external RESTful and SOAP-based web services, interacting with external design group for UX and transforming/translating design-level requirements into functional requirements for same.  ? Designed, Developed and maintained iOS applications using Cocoa Touch and Objective C.  ? Worked extensively in Core JAVA Concepts like OOP, Exception Handling , Collections , Multi Threading and java.lang Packages.  ? Automation of existing manual test cases using PowerShell and C#.  ? Used C# with combination of Entity framework and MVC architecture to develop the applications.  ? Developed new C++ encapsulation wrapper classes for OCCI classes.  ? Involved in writing optimization techniques for more accuracy of Macros in C and C++ routines and Oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Deploy applications on Linux based server - RedHat Enterprise Server.  ? Conceptualized, designed, developed and deployed mobile applications using iOS SDK, Xcode.  ? Used Sencha Touch to create Android and iOS applications to support RoR app.  ? Worked on full software development cycle from concept through deployment for iOS.  ? Developed .NET components using C# and involved in the deployment of those components.  ? Co-developed a new tool on the Express nodeJS/backBone.js MVC platform that allows marketers to sert dynamic content in email sends based on location and temporal factors    Technologies: IOS, Iphone, IPad, Xcode, Jqtouch, ionic, J2EE, Sencha Touch, Objective C, Angular.js, Android, Cordova, C#, ASP.Net, JQuery Mobile, Ruby on Rails, bin, bash, Xamarin, Silverlight, Actionscript, Windowsphone7, HTML, CSS, Dojo Mobile, Agile, Scrum, Eclipse, RAD, DB2 Java, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MongoDB, SOAP, Web Services, Linux, Unix, Eclipse, Git, Github, UML. Software Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX November 2010 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex.  ? Designed and developed Enterprise Eligibility business objects and domain objects with Object Relational Mapping framework such as Hibernate.  ? Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  ? Involved in creation of web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in hibernate, Implemented Web Services in JAXP based on SOAP protocols using XML and XSLT  ? Worked on JNDI lookup for stateless session bean and used design patterns like Session Façade, Singleton, and Business Delegate and DAO patterns.  ? Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, using MS SQL Server  ? Worked with ILog Jrule engine, to trigger the business rules in the rules execution engine configured in WebLogic application server.  ? Developed a custom MVC architecture upon inspiration from open source libraries such as Backbone.js and Bootstrap.js  ? Used RUP methodology for developing iteratively, manage requirements and reuses components, used Rational Rose to model visually.  ? Ported an iPhone iOS application to Android to include SQLite database management and several data entry views and GUIs.  ? Publishing the application in production for all platforms (Android, IOS)  ? Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  ? Developed Coding the presentation layer using WPF and Silverlight.  ? Developed prototypes using Flex, ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java  ? Responsible for building the application front end UI in Flex, ActionScript, FlashBuilder4 and Parsley.  ? Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  ? Implemented custom search solutions using Coveo (an enterprise search engine), Backbone.js, and .NET web services (see Goodwin Procter's site for an example).  ? Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library  ? Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework  ? Using sencha touch for development to find relevant people for the same social Networking Websites  ? Assisted in the logistical parameters of the iPad deployment process by keeping a daily count of total iPads and monitoring the shipping methods.  ? Involved in updating the application UI and application data structure for both Iphone/Ipad.  ? Using JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery Mobile and EJS developed UI for a J2EE web application.  ? Redesign part of an existing web application that was meant for desktops to work on mobile phones using JQuery Mobile  ? Developed code usinf C, C++ for secure transaction.    Technologies: Android, IOS, Phonegap, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Java, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS, VB Java Software Developer US Cellular - Chicago, IL April 2009 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Designed screens using MVC pattern for the application with Android Studio IDE.  ? Debugged and solved problems with Eclipse, IntelliJIDEA, Android Studio and RAD.  ? Tested the app across different versions of Android and different android phones to assure quality and performance.  ? Involved in porting the exciting application, which was on Blackberry device to Android.  ? Designed UI using views provided by Android and created custom views when required.  ? Sizeable amount of work has been done on memory management, push notifications, multiple screen support, data offline usage, content providers and sync on Android.  ? Used standard Android components, activities, services, database, various UI widgets types, etc. as well as created custom views for the application.  ? Ported aniPhone iOS application to Android to include SQLite database management and several data entry views and GUIs.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  ? Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  ? Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  ? Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  ? Design, Development and testing of Java framework to transfer data from application to CIS and also from CIS to application.  ? Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  ? Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  ? Wrote complex sql statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  ? Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  ? Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer.    Technologies: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, DHTML, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, SQL Developer, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis , tcpmon, Ant, WinCVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix. Software Developer IBM - Armonk, NY October 2008 to March 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and implemented many PhoneGap and Titanium applications along with Java and Objective-C plug-ins for iPad, iPhone and Android platforms.  ? Developed share view using Sencha Touch for non flash supporting devices.  ? Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  ? Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  ? Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  ? Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  ? Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  ? Generic Tree Navigation control).  ? Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  ? Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  ? Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  ? Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  ? Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and eb content.  ? Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  ? Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  ? Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  ? Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  ? Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  ? Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  ? Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  ? Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  ? Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  ? Development of GUI using AWT  ? Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  ? Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  ? Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.    Technologies: J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix. Java Developer Wipro August 2007 to September 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Using Java script prototyping and it will hold the data in java script objects so that this data will be used by both ExtJS and HTML components.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  ? Worked on analysis, design and implementation phases for developing UI screens, Service integration and creating templates for each application.    Technologies: Spring, Java, Java Script, JavaScript, Hibernate, Weblogic, Oracle Education Bachelor's Skills Swift, Xcode, Objective C, Android, Xamarin