Salesforce Admin/ Developer Salesforce Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Admin/ Developer - New Commercial Pricing - Advance Auto Parts Clifton Park, NY • Over 8 years of IT experience that includes 4 years' experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform and 4 years of experience with Java technologies. Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis and development of applications using salesforce.com CRM, Force.com platform as an administrator and developer.  • Certified Salesforce Developer (Dev401)  • Well versed in analyzing CRM business processes that include Forecasting, Campaign management, Lead Management, Role Hierarchy, Territory Management, Order Management, Account Management, Case Management and merging management in a multi-tier environment.  • Extensive experience in Saleforce.com setup, Configuration, Customization, Administration, Data Migration, Mapping and Integration.  • Extensive experience in salesforce.com implementation cycle in Sales, Marketing, Service and Support modules.  • Extensive experience in creating Roles, Profiles, Page Layouts, Record Type, Assignment rule, Workflow Alerts and Actions, Reports, Dashboards, Outbound messaging, and Approval Workflows.  • Proficient in designing of Custom objects, Custom components, Custom fields, Role based page layouts, Custom Tabs & Custom Application  • Strong exposure to Security and sharing rules implementation at object, field and record level for different users at different levels of organization and also Single Sign-On (SSO) setup.  • Experienced on force.com platform using apex classes and triggers, web service integration using SOAP, REST, force.com IDE, and validation rules.  • Developed custom Reports and Dashboards, for management using Tabular, Summary, Matrix and Joined reports.  • Having worked on salesforce.com Sandbox and Production environments which include creating and refreshing sandbox from time to time and deployment in between sandbox and production by using Eclipse, Force.com Migration Tool and Change set.  • Experience in implementing Web-to-Case, Email-to-Case to generate cases for Case objects.  • Strong Database (RDBMS) development experience in writing queries, functions, stored procedures, triggers, and views in Oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  • Having good experience on customizing applications using ECLIPSE IDE with force.com plug-in and force.com IDE.  • Expertise in design and development of use cases and class diagrams using UML/Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Interacted with Customers for requirement gathering and effective analysis  • Capable of rapidly learning new technologies and successfully applying them to projects and operations. Work Experience Salesforce Admin/ Developer New Commercial Pricing - Advance Auto Parts October 2014 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Design and configure applications that leverage the Force.com development platform.  • Manage Onsite and offshore team and distribute of work in team.    • Capture business processes in automation solutions using the Salesforce platform and the Force.com development architecture  • Maintain technical documentation. Create and lead solution design documents, integrations designs, configuration information, developed API and other interface documentations, etc.  • Create and Customize Custom Objects, Formula Fields, Cross Object Formulas, Roll up summary fields, validation rules, dependent picklists and complex page layouts  • Designed and implemented Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns and Cases.  • Developed and maintained validation rules and custom workflow.  • Created Workflows, Email alerts and Field updates as required.  • Implemented Data segregation through Record Types and Field level security.  • Create complex workflows and Approval processes.  • Create Functional Specification document and Low level design document  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages  • Used eclipse Force.com toolkit for creating Apex Classes and Apex Triggers to develop custom logic and objects and Lightning components.  • Worked on SOAP and REST API web service calls.  • My role as the Build Manager on the devOps team is to build a continuous devOps process following the agile methodology  • Configure deployment flow with Github branches to enable a continuous devOps process.  • Created number of users and assigned respective role and profile.  • Audited, uncovered and resolved data integrity issues with legacy systems.  • Complete bulk import of data from legacy System to Salesforce. Analyzing the data and making necessary changes.  • Used series of Ant Scripts to commit and pull files from github.  • Worked on Sales Cloud and Service Cloud.  • Validated and deployed code to production through Change Set.  • Made thorough testing of requirements before deploying to production.  • Created Dashboards for service representatives and Developed and maintained custom reports  • Batch reassignment of accounts and opportunities based on organizational changes.  • Analyzing the current requirement process, identifying problems and making recommendations to improve the process. Interact with Business users and gather high Level business requirements  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined the approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access for different users.  • Manage Onsite and offshore team and distribute of work in team.  • Hosting daily status meeting with the client manager and business users to provide the progress of the project, Coordinating reviews and take necessary sign-offs  • Providing Effort estimation and perform On-boarding of new resources.  • Managing dependencies, risks and planning for contingencies to ensure minimal effect on deliverables.  • Writing progress reports & presenting them to directors.  • Prepared training materials for business use.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual force (Pages, Lightning Component & Controllers), JavaScript, Apex Data Loader, Web Services, SOAP, REST, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug- in, Windows XP. Salesforce Admin/ Developer Health Care System - Glaxo January 2013 to August 2014 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Performed detail analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC). Managing the day-to-day operational aspects of the project.  • Designed and implemented Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns and Cases.  • Customized several Validation Rules, tasks, Workflow rules, Triggers, Apex classes to achieve the complex business functionality.  • Experience in creating page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links and related lists.  • Used field level security along with the page layouts to manage the visibility and accessibility of fields for different profiles.  • Designed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application using the Eclipse IDE.  • Develop Visual Force Pages, Visual Force Custom Controllers Components, Custom Objects, Tabs and Components.  • Arranging and managing all project related meetings.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Attending client meetings & guiding them through processes.  • Used Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access data from external systems and web sites.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the helpsalesforce.com support.  • Worked with management and other developers to translate marketing needs into design requirements.  • Worked on Sales cloud and Service cloud.  • Creating Custom Objects and defining lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic.  • Involved in Data Mapping and Migration of data between legacy systems and Salesforce.com Objects and fields.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Producing timing, costing and scoping documentation.  • Coordinated integration tests with various groups and generated/documented test cases and deployment plans.  • Establishing the overall success criteria for a project, including time, cost, technical and performance parameters.  • Load/Manage the data using Apex Data Loader.  • Profile based permissions on fields and objects are enforced.  • Shifting among differing technical and project roles as required. Keep focus on Integration service team's success, supports collaborative efforts with others.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Components, Controllers & Extensions), Data Loader, Web Services, SOAP, REST, WSDL, Apex Triggers, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer/Administrator WeFixNow HYD September 2011 to December 2012 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Prepare Team Charter; define Roles & Responsibilities and Rotation & Backup Plan.    • Interacted with various business user groups, SMEs for gathering requirements for Salesforce implementation & developed and documented the Business and Software Requirements  • Lead and develop strategy for enhancing systems to meet business needs, and mapped client business process and requirements onto the capabilities of Salesforce.com and the Force.com platform.  • Participated in cross-functional teams to address strategic and operational issues involving CRM and Salesforce instance.  • Administered Salesforce setup functions for new users, roles, profiles, enforced security controls, permission settings and data access across fields, objects and at record levels, and maintained overall Salesforce configurations.  • Identified Salesforce usage problems and crafted technical / communication plans for remedial initiatives.  • Implemented break fixes, business enhancements support, feasibility requests and administrative needs to Salesforce application users.  • Maintained system metrics and logs to track trends in usage & adoption, data quality & integrity, and application failures.  • Created different Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles.  • Utilized SOQL and SOSL to query and search for business data.  • Identified process flaws in the current system and recommended business process automation in the new system after analyzing and documenting AS-IS system and TO-BE system  • Participate in project communications management includes meetings with various stakeholders to discuss on progress of project work products/ deliverables & issues on weekly basis.  • Managing dependencies, risks and planning for contingencies to ensure minimal effect on deliverables.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com subjects.  • Used Data Loader to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Created Custom objects and fields- Leads, Marketing, Campaign, Dashboard, Sales and Account etc.  • Configured Logo, Salesforce Org Company Profile, User Interface Settings and Login Restrictions. Attending client meetings & provide status update.  • Monitoring all work in accordance with schedules.  • Developing and reviewing study protocols.  • Performing Requirement feasibility, Development, Handling User Acceptance Testing Deployment to live/ Production environment.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual force (Pages, Component & Controllers), JavaScript, Apex Data Loader, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP. Java Developer WATSON - T-Mobile USA Inc., HYD June 2010 to August 2011 RESPONSIBILITIES  • Capturing customer information.  • Credit history verification.  • Rate plan and Packages relationship.  • Creating Billing Account Number (BAN) and activates Subscriber.  • Worked on enhancements for an existing WATSON application.  • Developed different SOAP services and Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and AXIS  • Worked as a Java Developer for T-Mobile retail activation systems.  • Was responsible for delivering the projects from the inception to deployment.  • Supported the retail activations systems 24x7.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Axis and Oracle App Server Java Developer July 2009 to May 2010 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Attending service design sessions for implement/change the existing flow to fit in new requirements.  • Developed different SOAP services and Web Services using XSD, WSDL and SOAP  • Created Web services using Advanced J2EE technologies to communicate with external systems.  • Working on XSDs for handling XML data manipulations between systems.  • Enhancements to the existing Remend application.  • Involved in the enhancement of stage-2 production.  • Developed JSP's and Action classes.    Environment: JSP, Servlets, Struts, Hibernate, Sql Server, Web logic 10.3.1 (Oracle App server), Apache Axis 2.x, Web Services Java Developer Enterprise Systems Group, IEG HYD April 2008 to June 2009 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in coding for required Java classes using struts framework.  • Developed the form beans using the Validation Frame Work in Struts along with Form Validations.  • Configured the JDBC data sources for Oracle.  • Involved in Unit testing to some data accessing modules.  • Analysis and Designing the Travel Module and preparing Use Case document.  • Developed the complete business logic for Leave module as per the Use Case Documents.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Oracle, Tomcat6.0. Education B.Tech in Computer Science in Sales Acharya Nagarjuna University 2007 Skills Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual force (Pages, Lightning Component & Controllers), JavaScript, Apex Data Loader, Web Services, SOAP, REST, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug- in, Windows XP,Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Components, Controllers & Extensions), Data Loader, Web Services, SOAP, REST, WSDL, Apex Triggers, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. (8 years)