Full stack Developer/UI Developer Full stack <span class="hl">Developer</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full stack Developer/UI Developer - US Department of Education Washington, DC • 8 years of experience in software development as a JAVA/UI Application Developer. Involved in almost all the phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and experienced to work as a team member as well as an individual performer under the large development groups.  • Good experience with databases, database concepts, normalizations etc. and proficient in using SQL and PLSQL.  • Excellent Experience in JavaScript Framework (Angular JS, Node.js, D3.js)  • Experienced with General Web Technology (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax)  • Experienced with testing frameworks Mockito and Jasmine  • Excellent Understanding of Distributed Version Control GIT.  • Good experience with Continuous Integration and continuous deployment pipeline using Jenkins, Sonarqube  • Strong experience in UI & client side validations using HTML 5, CSS3, Java script, JSP, Struts tag libraries, AJAX, JSON, XML, XSLT and java script frameworks like DOJO and JQuery.  • Experience in developing Web Applications with various Open Source frameworks Struts1.x/2.x Framework, Spring Framework [ ] (Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, and JDBC Templates), JSF, Angular JS and Hibernate 3.0 for persistence.  • Experience with major databases such as Oracle [ ] SQL Server [ ] MYSQL, DB2.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML/HTML5, DHTML, XHTML,XML, Angular JS, BackBone.js, Node.JS, CSS/CSS3, DOJO and JavaScript, AJAX, IDE & Tool Eclipse, Aptana Studio, CODA, Spring Tool Suite, Firebug Notepad++, XML and JSON, JQuery that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Experienced in using Application Servers like Web logic 11g and Apache Tomcat7, JBOSS, Fuse.  • Excellent experience using Docker, AWS EC2 and AWS Elastic Beans StalkGood understanding of Object oriented analysis Design & UML notation and experience in using design tools like Relational Rose for creating class, use cases and sequence diagrams.  • Expertise in Unit testing using JUnit & Mockito, Integration testing &smoke testing etc. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full stack Developer/UI Developer US Department of Education May 2016 to Present Project: Common Origination and Disbursement  Common Origination and Disbursement (COD) is a streamlined method for processing, storing, and reconciling Pell Grant and Direct Loan financial aid data. The COD System was implemented in and has been processing records since April 2002 for Pell Grant and Direct Loan records. The COD System integrated the origination and disbursement processes for Pell Grants and Direct Loans that were previously performed by the Recipient Financial Management System (RFMS) and the Direct Loan Origination System (DLOS).    Responsibilities:  • AGILE development process has been followed. Experienced with stand-up, Retrospective, Demo, Planning and Code review meetings.  • Used AJAX for request response processing without reloading the complete page.  • Developed UI screens using Angular JS (Custom Directives, Validation and Promises)  • Developed Angular Controllers, Services, Filters and HTML templates using Angular Directives  • Developed UI Routers using Angular JS Route Library  • Developed HTML 5, CSS3 components to the UI Screen  • Developed and Designed Angular JS Migration to Angular 2  • Developed custom templates, components, and widgets using AEM and integrated Components with AngularJS.  • Optimizing MongoDB CRUD Operations.  • Written JQuery Validations for the User Front-ends.  • Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool.  • Involved in developing object oriented JavaScript and experienced with HTML, AJAX, JSON, Angular.JS, Node.JS and Bootstrap JS.  • Developed responsive web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap JS.  • Design and Implemented XML/WSDL/SOAP/RESTFUL Web Services to provide the interface to the various clients running on both Java and Non Java applications.  • Extensively used Angular UI (Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components.  • Web application development for backend system using Node.js, Rapid.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Experienced with AngularJS directives ng-app, ng-init, ng-model for initialization of AngularJS application data, implemented AngularJS Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters.  • Designed single page MVC using AngularJS libraries, UI routers, angular custom directives and filters by linking the database with AJAX.  • Implemented the service using Node.JS for performance, development, maintenance and deployment reasons.  • Tested Java Components using JUNIT and Mockito during the development.  • Tested JavaScript using Jasmine.js and Grunt during development.  • Used Angular JS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  • Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse IDE, Ant, Web Logic and Maven for development.    Environment: Java1.7/J2EE, Spring, SpringMVC, Spring AOP, Angular JS, NodeJS, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, Web Services, JDBC, RequireJS, Sencha, Hibernate, JPA, HTML5, JavaScript, ExtJS, JQUERY, Oracle11g, MongoDB, JSON, EclipseIDE, Java Beans, log4j, CVS, WebLogic, Rational Rose, JUnit, Maven. Java/UI Developer Common Origination and Disbursement (COD) November 2015 to April 2016 Patent End-to-End (PE2E) is a new way of processing patent applications with a single software platform to manage examination activities and integrate with existing systems. The PE2E vision is to improve quality of IT tools for applicants and examiners and provide Integrated user-oriented tools that help examiners act on applications. Text-based (XML) filing and examination to support analytics & automated processing.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development, testing and maintenance process of the application.  • Involved in preparing High & low level design docs with UML diagrams.  • Involved in the development of various use cases, sequence diagrams using UML.  • Understood current processes and actions from the legacy code.  • Worked on JavaScript to validate input, manipulated HTML elements using JavaScript, developed external JavaScript codes that can be used in several different web pages.  • Used AngularJS, HTML5, and CSS3; all HTML and DHTML was accomplished through AngularJS directives  • Developed Web pages using JSP, HTML, CSS, Struts Taglibs and AJAX for the Credit Risk module.  • Documenting MongoDB installation, operations, security, and environments.  • I have in-depth knowledge of Apache Tomcat and Oracle Glassfish Application server and how they work in given environment.  • Involved in logging, exception handling and validations using Interceptors.  • Involved in creating internal & external services, Entity services and handlers.  • Involved in writing SQL queries & PL SQL - Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes  • Involved in producing & consuming SOAP based web services.  • Involved in creating JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool.  • Developed Ant scripts to build and deploy project onto the tomcat server.  • Worked on design and creation of JSPs that are responsible for presentation layer and used the struts/html/bean/logic Tag libraries in the JSPs  • Developed user interface using JSP JQuery, and AJAX to speed the application.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) API to create, send, receive, and read messages.  • Tested components using JUNIT & Mockito during development.  • Involved in deploying the application in UNIX and to connect to see logs for fixing UAT/Production defects.    Environment: Java 1.7, Agile, J2EE, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, AngularJS, Jboss 6.3, Fuse, JSP, JNDI, XML, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JMS, JSTL, DB2 UDB, JUnit, ANT, Log4J. Java web Developer Common Origination and Disbursement (COD) June 2015 to November 2015 A government agency that produces economic data that reflects the state of the U.S. economy. This data includes the Consumer Price Index, the unemployment rate and the Producer Price Index. This arm of the U.S. Department of Labor researches and publishes a range of data, from inflation and consumer spending to employment, productivity and wages, as well as other economic measures. These reports can have a significant effect on market sentiment.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle using Agile including design, development, implementation, verification and validation.  • Develop various Web Application using Angular.js frameworks such as AngularUI BootStrap, Iconic and Foundation, and Node.js UI Boot Interaction pages and Generated User interface Templates.  • Developed Sequence, Use case Diagrams and Process Flow diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Experience in developing Java and J2EE applications using Rapid Application Development (RAD), Eclipse  • MVC architecture is implemented by struts framework.  • Implementation of Spring IOC container, Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  • Involved in doing Unit testing using JUNIT and also Integration testing.  • Involved in writing SQL queries & PL/SQL - Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, Cursors, sequences, indexes etc.  • Used JavaScript, JQuery and AnugularJS for the client end data validations  • Design and development of user Interfaces using JSP, HTML, CSS and AJAX. Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.  • Part of a team to work on implementing concepts in multi-threading, multitasking, synchronization, virtual memory and file management.  • Used spring and interacted with backend database using Hibernate framework.  • Designed and Developed presentation layer using JSP, Html and CSS using Angular JS, Common JS.  • Implemented business tier using Spring AOP and spring IOC.  • Involved in fixing the defects simultaneously when pushing individual modules to Production.  • Parsed the XML based responses using JAXB Parser and validated XML against the schema.  • Extensively participated in conversion from Sybase to oracle databases.  • Implemented and used Web Services with the help of WSDL and SOAP to get updates from the third parties.  • Implement GitHub and SVN as a Source Control tool for merging the code.  • Experience in Object Oriented analysis and design using MVC, JavaScript, UML, and Rational Rose.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Identified check style, PMD and Find bugs and fixed them.  Environment: Java 1.6, RAD, Web Sphere 8.1, Angular.js, Node.js, Spring Framework 3.2, Hibernate3.0, Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, Jboss GWT (Google Web Toolkit), HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, AJAX, JAXP, JAXB, XSLT, WSDL, SOAP, AXIS 2, DB2, Rally, IBM Clear Case, Agile, File Zilla, SFTP, JProfiler, JUnit, JMS, ANT, EMMA. Java/UI Developer Common Origination and Disbursement (COD) - Bothell, WA January 2014 to June 2015 The AT & T web site allows customers to shop in a virtual shopping mall, checkout items from different shops, manage accounts for each shop separately etc. AT & T reports provide in-depth analysis for evaluating business relationships, making decisions about important transactions, researching competitors and suppliers and planning for sales calls.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Managed the planning of work tasks and delegation to developers assigned to use cases, setting clear objectives, recognizing issues, monitoring progress and reporting status of work tasks to the project manager.  • Designed the architecture based on the popular J2EE Model 2 approach of Model-View-Controller design paradigm.  • Front end View designed with HTML, CSS, JAVA Swing, JSP and Tag libraries.  • Developed Test Cases using EasyMock and used POSTMAN to test REST Calls  • Developed Unit Test Case for UI Screens using Jasmine and Karma  • Used Node.js to run Grunt Tasks and to build the project (Compile, Minify)  • Created MongoDB Collections and Wrote Services to Store and Retrieve user data from the application  • Developed a core component of Analytics with Node.js, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, and Socket Stream  • Implementation of Spring IOC container, Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  • Used Flex clients alongside Spring MVC Controllers and Spring-managed Destinations, SOA from the Flex Client.  • Resolved critical production issues, applied hot fixes for current production releases, enhancements.  • Involved in development of User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery, AJAX, JSON , RequireJS and AngularJS.  • Developed Web services modules based on SOA architecture.  • Developed and consumed SOAP based web services using WSDL, SOAP, CXF, and JAX-WS.  • Used DOJO Toolkit for UI development and sending asynchronous AJAX requests to the server.  • Involved in creating JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool.  • Involved in writing SQL queries & PL/SQL - Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, Cursors, sequences, indexes etc.  • Used SVN to track and maintain the different versions of the application and create different views in big EAR Projects.  • Developed configuration files corresponding to beans mapped and backend database tables.  • Involved in doing Unit testing using MOKITO and also Integration testing.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.    Environment: JAVA 1.6, Java EE 6, JNDI, JAXB , HTML 5, Java Script, XML, CSS 3, Ajax, JSP 3.0, JSTL, DOM, XSD, XSLT, Spring 3.2-MVC, IOC, AOP, Web services, JDBC Template, Bootstrap, Angular JS, DOJO, Web Logic server 10.3.3, Oracle 11g, Log4J, Eclipse 3.5, CVS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, CXF, SOAP UI, UNIX, NodeJS, Maven 1.x, JUNIT, Mockito Full stack Developer Common Origination and Disbursement (COD) - Columbia, SC November 2012 to December 2013 Description: Palmetto GBA has administered Medicare health insurance for the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) throughout the US and its territories since the inception of the program. Services include transaction processing, technological connectivity, customer service call centers, professional education and training, clinical decision management and e-commerce as well as actuarial and accounting models. The Palmetto GBA clinical team is recognized nationally for our work in going beyond the diagnosis with next generation health care classification systems    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and Scrum framework.  • Development UI modules using JSP, JSF, Prime Faces, JQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS and CSS.  • Created Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams as part of the application design using Microsoft Visio tool.  • Designed pages using Angular JS Forms, Validations, Modules, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters and Http Request.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations and Struts 2.0 &AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Designed UI pages using HTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JQUERY, JSP, JSON and Tag libraries.  • Implemented business tier using Spring IOC, AOP and MVC.  • Utilized Spring annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection  • Involved in implementing logging, exception handling and transaction management using spring AOP.  • Performed User Interface Design and coding using Java, Spring framework and web technologies.  • Wrote Page level code using JavaScript with Angular JS framework along with JQUERY and other JavaScript libraries.  • Tested SOAP web services using SoapUI and REST web services using REST Client  • Involved in ORM mappings for associations, Inheritance & fetching strategy, performing CRUD operations and managing second level cache using Hibernate.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  • Used the functionalities to write code in HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Angular.js, Node.js JavaScript, JQUERY, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • Worked on RAD (Rational Application Developer) 6.0 IDE for developing portlets and business logic  • Involved in the configurations set for Web logic servers, DSs, JMS queues and the deployment.  • Involved in preparing High & low level design docs with UML diagrams using Rational Rose tool.  • Performed Unit testing using JUNIT, System, Regression, and Integration Testing.  Environment: Windows XP, Java/JEE 6, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, JQuery 2.0, AJAX, Spring 3.2, JSP 3.0, Hibernate 3.5, Web Sphere App server 8.1, JMS, Apache 2.2, JDBC, DOJO, Log4j, JBOSS, Angular JS, Maven 1.x, Jenkins, JUNIT, Oracle 11g, Web Services- WSDL, SOAP, REST, XML, JAXP, JAXB, JSON, SVN, SFTP, FileZilla, SoapUI, RESTful. Java/UI Developer Common Origination and Disbursement (COD) - San Antonio, TX December 2011 to October 2012 San Antonio, TX  San Antonio, TX Dec 2011 - Oct 2012  Project: Mortgage Loan Origination  Role: Java/UI Developer    Mortgage Loan Origination is a web based mortgage loan application system designed for customers and bank representatives to apply for home loans online. The system was developed to provide the following features.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the loan details Presentation module.  • Involved in designing of the BOA Loan Assist entry framework using J2EE guidelines and different J2EE design patterns with JSP, Controller Servlets and EJB in picture.  • Deployed web and enterprise applications on Jboss application server  • Used JavaScript, for the client end data validations  • Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Used backbone.js for connecting the API's which enforces the communication to the server.  • Built the Responsive UI screen for create new customer process, Create bill to and ship to screens, customer search results page, customer dashboard page using HTML5, CSS3 and twitter Bootstrap.  • Develop Message Driven Beans (MDB) & involved in building and accessing a web Services using SOAP over JMS.  • Developed Web Services using Apache AXIS2 tool Framework.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service oriented Architecture (SOA) Concept.  • Developed the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, Java script, AJAX, JQUERY, Angular JS and tag libraries etc.  • Implemented Struts framework (Action and Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate class.  • Used Struts Validation framework for validation of user input & initial data loading.  • Involved in migration from Oracle to DB2 data base.  • Written SQL, PL/SQL queries. And used DB2 stored procedure, functions, triggers, cursors, objects, sequences etc.  • Written JUnit test cases for Business Objects, and prepared code documentation for future reference and upgrades.  • Written build xml file for ANT scripting.  • Used IBM Rational Clear Case(software configuration management (SCM)) for version control, workspace management, parallel development support and build auditing to improve productivity  • Deployed applications using WebLogic Application Server  • Used CVS as a version controlling tool for managing the module developments.  Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Servlets 2.4, EJB 2.0, JDBC 2.0, JAXB, Struts 2.0, JSF 2.1 components, DAO, HTML, JavaScript, Jboss, XML, CSS, Ajax, Web Sphere Application server, LDAP, Log4J, Eclipse 3.1, Bootstrap, CVS, Angular JS, DOJO, Ant 1.5, SOA, SOAP, DB2, PL/SQL, SQL, Web Services-WSDL, JAX_RS, JERSEY, Windows XP. Java Web Developer Common Origination and Disbursement (COD) - Edison, NJ October 2010 to November 2011 Description: Western Union Company is a financial services and communications company having several divisions with products such as person-to-person money transfer, money orders, business payments and commercial services. For the money to transfer from one location to another depends on information provided by the sender and is verified by 7 different departments, one of which is Risk Management and Currency Control.    Responsibilities:  • Designed user interfaces, object model, application server logic and schema by analyzing requirements.  • Used J2EE patterns for designing applications.  • Front-end was designed by using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, JSP, JSF, JSTL and Struts.  • Used EJB Session beans and entity beans to develop business services and the persistence.  • Developed the application using core technologies like Core Java, Servlets, EJB-Session beans, Entity Beans, and JDBC.  • Used bootstrap and angular.js in effective web design.  • Developed server side REST style web services and called them from backbone models/collections.  • Used Struts framework to define Controller, action mappings, forms and View pages.  • Involved in using Core java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Serialization.  • Designed UI using HTML, DHTML, Java Script, & CSS.  • Involved in implementing & processing batch processing.  • Application code investigation, code cleanup and code repository maintenance  • Used Eclipse as IDE to develop the application.  • Involved in JUnit & Integration testing.  • Performed Change and release management and supporting business users of application.  • Involved in doing build using Maven and deployed on Web sphere server.  Environment: Java, Struts, EJB - Session Beans, Entity Beans, Web Sphere, Struts 1.2, IBM MQ Series, Bootstrap, Oracle-SQL & PL SQL, Eclipse, XML, XSD, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, JRules, HTML, Java Script, CSS, SQL Developer, IBM Clear case. Java web Developer Common Origination and Disbursement (COD) November 2008 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements analysis, design, and development and testing.  • Designed UI using HTML, DHTML, Java Script, CSS, JSP and Taglibs.  • Involved in creating & consuming Custom tag libraries.  • Used Java script for client side validations.  • Developed SQL queries to store and retrieve data from database & used PL SQL.  • Used Struts frame work to maintain MVC and created action forms, action mappings, DAOs, application properties for Internationalization etc.  • Used Struts Validation frame work to do business validation from server side.  • Involved in developing business components using EJB Session Beans and persistence using EJB Entity beans.  • Used JMS for Asynchronous messaging.  • Involved in writing JDBC code for doing CRUD operations.  • Used Eclipse IDE to develop the application  • Developing customized reports and Unit Testing using JUnit.  • Involved in writing developer test cases & in preparation of scope & traceability matrix.  • Involved in running PMD defects & Find bugs.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, JBoss, Oracle 9i, Struts 1.1, Validation framework, Eclipse, EJB-Session Beans, Entity Beans, JMS, XML, HTML, DHTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, SVN, JAXP, JAXB, XSLT, Ant. Education Bachelor's Skills Java, Angular