Technical Consultant Technical Consultant Technical Consultant - BitBucket Edison, NJ Work Experience Technical Consultant BitBucket - Township of Warren, NJ January 2014 to Present USA    Project Description  CitiKYC project is an enterprise-wide repository of KYC data. A common set of technical services that are utilized  to process KYC information throughout the enterprise are developed; these services will be integrated with a designated set of onboarding or other business applications and systems. KYC is performed at the business and/or  country level in various account opening / client on-boarding systems. These systems have implemented their  own business specific KYC functions as needed to address their regulatory requirements for their specific line of business.    CitiKYC is a Web Application which is developed using GWT, J2EE, Hibernate,JBPM, spring and Documentum 6.7  SP1 technologies. This system has been integrated with few backend applications and documentum repository. As  part of this project, we implemented few batch jobs and common web services as per business requirements.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed a Rest services to integrate Web Application with Documentum.  ? Implementing SOAP/REST web services using Spring framework to send or receive data from source/legacy systems.  ? Implementing complex incremental batch process using Java, Spring, Mbeans and Hibernate  technologies.  ? Implementing JMS listeners to interact with third party source systems for updating processing  customer details.  ? Migrating existing services into micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot, Docker and openshift cluster.  ? Make use of spring asynchronous task executors to process the customers asynchronously to improve  the performance.  ? Created object type, ACL , Group , Roles , storage types,Preparing Dar with configuration and deploying  Dar in different environments.  ? Configured Content servers to access content across the EMEA, NA, APAC & KOREA regions.  ? Developed Web services using Apache CXF  ? Deploying application in Websphere,  ? Prepared a technical design document for change requests.  ? Coordinating with Infrastructure Team, Database team to resolve performance issues.  ? Developed a Document upload & view service framework to integrate Application with Documentum  server using DFC API  ? Developed batch services using JMX, Spring , JPA, Spring security module, Hibernate ,J2EE and JAVA  ? Designed & Developed framework to copy kyc members from different regions for any kyc record and screen numbers based on local country screening rules.  ? Developed PDF services to create PDF document of any kyc record using IText,JMS,Documentum and Hibernate technologies.Designed & developed Batch job to process account updates for all institutional  ICG business unit clients.  ? Created Junit class for every service using EasyMock API and validated all user cases  ? Ensuring timely and correct client deliveries.    Project #2  Title IFC Doc's Senior Java & Documentum Developer World Bank Group - Washington, DC April 2013 to January 2014 USA    Project Description:  IFCDoc's is a global system for IFC group of World Bank. This system is used to create and manage contents for Investment Operation and advisory services departments of IFC.  IFCDoc's is a Customized version of documentum Webtop 6.7 SP1 and it is implemented on Documentum 6.7 SP1  environment. This system has been integrated with two web applications (iDesk & ASOP) access the documentum  repository. As part of this project, we improve the performance issues on existing system and also implemented  new features as per business requirement.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed a TBO's and SBO's  ? Customized Task manager and DRL component using WDK API 6.7 and JAVA 1.6  ? Customized menu bar component to add context menu options  ? Customized Search , catalog search and advanced components  ? Implemented precondition classes for executing component operations.  ? Created object type, ACL , Group , Roles , life cycle and workflow objects  ? Created a Workflow template using Process builder  ? Developed a Documentum Methods and Jobs  ? Created a workflow process templates using Process builder  ? Fine-tuned top 20 DQL with the help of DBA team  ? Created sub-process templates for all existing complex workflow process temples  ? Integrated system with In-house rendering system for PDF rendition  ? Ensuring timely and correct client deliveries  ? Resolved the consistency issues on the existing systems  ? Resolved the search issues with migrated content  ? Developed java code using PMD , check style standards  ? Coordinating with Offshore Team and manage the project deliveries.  ? Prepared a technical design document  ? Coordinating with Infrastructure Team, Database team and Performance team to resolve  devotement issues.    Project #3  Title Document Compliance Manager (DCM) Senior Developer Alcon Laboratories - Fort Worth, TX October 2011 to March 2013 USA    Project Description  Documentum Compliance Manager (DCM 6.5) is a replacement product for GMPharma, which is no longer  supported by the EMC. DCM is a validated global regulatory submission system for Alcon R&D department. This  system is used to create and publish regulatory submission content. Major submissions such as the Marketing  Authorization Application (MAA) and New Drug Application (NDA) are compiled from the documents held within DCM and once published they are distributed electronically to the relevant regulatory authorities like FDA, EMEA.  Documentum Compliance Manager (DCM 6.5) is Alcon document management system which is used to create, review, approve and manage procedural and submission related content. System has been designed to  provide an infrastructure and environment for the management of regulatory documents and submissions. It has  been developed by using Documentum 6.5 SP3.    Responsibilities:  ? Closely interacting with the client to translate the business requirements into application designs  ? Configured Document classes, BA, Relationship types, DCM lifecycle extensions, PDF Signature  Template and Temples.  ? Designed Object type model based  ? Designed security model  ? Created object type, ACL , Group , Roles , life cycle and workflow objects  ? Prepared a document API scripts  ? Designed workflow process templates  ? Developed a Documentum Methods and Jobs  ? Developed logging using Junit  ? Customized DCM UI for some business requirements using WDK 6.5 and DFC 6.5 API's  ? Developed custom solution to generate PDF for submission using ADTS 6.5  ? Designed a custom Lifecycles  ? Created a custom command file for Adlib to generate submission standard PDF.  ? Created a custom profile for ADTS  ? Developed a custom word templates and macro to provide a standardized authoring environment for authors.  ? Deployed DCM application in Development and UAT environments  ? Prepared DAR file with all custom configurations  ? Helping in creating user manuals  Project #4    Title Global Electronic Library (GEL) Support Analyst AstraZeneca - Wilmington, DE March 2010 to September 2011 Wilmington, DE)  Tools Content Server 5.3 SP6, DFC 5.3, JAVA 1.4, Tomcat 5.1, DA 5.3 SP6, AIX5.3, Oracle 9i  Team Size 12  Role Support Analyst  Period Mar 2010- Sep 2011  Location Chennai, India    Project Description  GEL is a mission critical validated global regulatory submission system for AstraZeneca. This system is used to create and publish regulatory submissions. Major submissions such as the Marketing Authorization Application  (MAA) and New Drug Application (NDA) are compiled from the documents held within GEL and once published  they are distributed electronically to the relevant regulatory authorities like FDA, EMEA.  Global Electronic Library (GEL) is a validated business-wide AstraZeneca integration program designed to provide an infrastructure and environment for the management of regulatory documents and submissions. It has been  developed by using Documentum 5.3.    Responsibilities:  ? Provided support for production environment across 10 countries as a Level 2 support.  ? Worked for big Middleware Operations, Documentum Operations teams spread across globe.  ? Working experience with different ticketing/change/incident management tools.  ? Expertise in deployment of web applications on Websphere server.  ? Troubleshooting and debugging errors and problems for all applications by going through the JVM logs and Application logs and also handling system performance and application  performances.  ? Involved in the administration and maintenance of entire Application.  ? Expertise in managing Users, Groups, Roles, Alias Sets, ACLs, DAR file deployments in Documentum Administration.  ? Developing java utilities for most common issues  ? Automated the robo copy process by developing AWT based java utility  ? Create iAPI scripts to abort workflows, update document properties , document permission  ? Working with Change request Analysis and prepared Design documents  ? Coordination with infrastructure team, Database and customer front end team.  ? enhancements to existing functionality  Documentation of issues with resolution which helped our team to solve issues rapidly  Project #5    Title SIDBI Document Management Documentum Developer SIDBI(Small Industries Development Bank Of India) March 2009 to February 2010 Tools Documentum Webpublisher 5.3, DFC 5.3, WDK 5.3, JSP, Servlet, Java, WebSphere 6.0 and Content Server 5.3 and Eclipse  Team Size 6  Role Documentum Developer  Period Mar 2009 - Feb 2010  Location Mumbai ,India    Project Description  SIDBI (Small Industries Development Bank of India) has been designed to provide the complete solution of managing and publishing the content for the SIDBI. It will manage all Knowledge, policy and contact information and documents in centralized repository.  SIDBI (Small Industries Development Bank of India) has been designed to provide the complete solution of  managing and publishing the content for the SIDBI. The application is built using the Web publisher which is a WDK-based application is used to import and manage and deliver content. System has been design with full-  fledged security model based on user branch, role and department information. The system involves interfacing with SIDBI B-spoke applications (there are 10 B-Spoke applications) for content creating and application specific  business workflows.    Responsibilities:  ? Closely interacting with the client to translate the business requirements into application designs  ? Responsible for design the data modal and security model  ? Responsible for designing and implementation of workflows by using Workflow manager  ? Responsible for design in custom Lifecycles by using DAB  ? Customization of the Web publisher/WDK components for the various functionalities required in the application  ? Deployment of Application on SIT, UAT and production environments  ? Ensuring timely and correct client deliveries    Project #6  Title Elsevier Health Management - Food & Drugs Compliance (EHM-FDC) Documentum Developer Elsevier Science Limited September 2008 to February 2009 US  Tools Documentum Webpublisher 5.3, DFC 5.3, WDK 5.3, JSP, Servlet, Java, XML, WebSphere 6.0 and Content Server 5.3, Unix  Team Size 8  Role Documentum Developer  Period Sep 2008 - Feb 2009  Location Gurgaon , India    Project Description  EHM-FDC (Elsevier Health Management - Food & Drugs Compliance) has been designed to provide complete  solution of managing and publishing the content for users who are using Adobe In-Copy and In-Design as their  content editors for publishing articles related to Food & Drug Compliance. The system involves interfacing with the WoodWing web services which integrates the publishing tool of Adobe In-Copy and In-Design n with the  Documentum  Content services. The application is built using Web Publisher which a WDK-based application is used to import, manage and deliver content. The interfacing module has been built using the service based business object  components provided by documentum web service framework. Web Publisher manages all content that goes into a Web site and simplifies and automates the creation, review and publication of content.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the designing and implementation of workflows and Lifecycles  ? Creating Permission templates, roles, Object types, groups and Access control lists using DAB  ? Customization of the Web publisher/WDK components for the various functionalities required in the application  ? Responsible for in developing the TBO's and SBO's  ? Responsible for testing, bug fixing and code reviews  ? Deployment of Application on SIT, UAT and production environments    Project #7  Title Yearbooks Developer Elsevier Science Limited - Gurgaon, Haryana September 2007 to August 2008 UK  Tools WebTop 5.3, DA, Workflow Manager, Apache Axis 1.4, JAVA, JSP, Servlet, XML, Struts, Jakarta POI.5 API and CS5.3, Oracle 9i  Team Size 8  Role Developer  Period Sep 2007 - Aug 2008  Location Gurgaon, India    Project Description  The solution will provide a means for a variety of editors to contribute to the production of the year book  electronically which will save time and provide a more efficient interface for all involved personnel. The content of specified journals will be pulled into an electronic workflow spanning multiple interfaces, and be reviewed by  editorial staff so that they can be forwarded to the appropriate Editors (MD Editors). The MD Editors will review the articles, author reviews or commentaries for those select articles, and provide types of rankings for each. This  content will be captured in this electronic workflow. Once the content is entered it will be reviewed, copyedited and proofed by freelancers and Elsevier personnel. The "package" (abstract, comment and rankings) will be  delivered to the Electronic Warehouse. This application contains three modules those are Web Module,  Documentum module and Web Service module. Web module can be access using URL (http://www.eclips- editorial.elsevier.com) and this will be used for MDE user. Documentum module has been developed by  customizing the WebTop 5.3 sp4.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyze the requirements of the applications  ? Responsible for development of Web publisher customization, Web Module and Web Service Module  ? Responsible for designing and implementation of workflows and Lifecycles in the application  ? Responsible for developing the SBO's  ? Customization of the Web publisher/WDK components for the various functionalities required in the application  ? Responsible for integrating the web module with documentum application using web services  ? Developing the web module by using struts framework  ? Deployment of Application on SIT and UAT  ? Ensuring timely and correct client deliveries  ? Lead the team for successful completion of the project    Project #8  Title Contract financial Management Developer IBM June 2006 to August 2007 US  Tools JSP, Servlet, Java, XML, Rational Software Architect (RSA6.1), DB2,WebSphere 6.0, Struts, XML, Jakarta POI .5, Log4J, ,DFC5.2  Documentum 5.2,Documentum Administrator 5.2 and Content  Server5.3 ,Ant  Team Size 6  Role Developer  Period June 2006 - Aug 2007  Location Kolkata    Project Description  The primary objective of this project is to capture and provide the project and contract pricing cases, forecasts, actual cost/revenue, and billing schedules to project and contract managers to enable management of Contract  financial for IGS (IBM Global Services) contracts registered and managed in CFT/S and also make data available for reporting and downstream application use and Provide  configurable business rules to drive business controls.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for developing View Module using JSP pages, Servlets and Struts  ? Responsible for developing edit Module using JSP pages, Servlets and Struts  ? Developed Spreadsheet report by using the Jakarta POI API  ? Doing build and Deploying Application in Dev ,SIT and UAT Environments  ? Creation of design doc's for Change Request(CR) by using RSA  ? Integrated web application with documentum repository using DFC API  ? SI and User Acceptance Testing of the application.  ? Solving deployment issues.  ? Writing unit Test Cases using Junit.  ? Writing Ant build scripts.