Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Chick-fil-A Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Chick-fil-A - Atlanta, GA November 2015 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  ? Developed Restful web services using Apache Camel, Spring Boot and configured Kibana as a visualization dashboard.  ? Participated in code review and mentoring sessions and used GIT as version control and GIT Bash for GIT interactions.  ? Worked on Active MQ Messaging Service for Integration.  ? Worked on migration Microsoft azure service to AWS service for a project.  ? Moved the project to Java 8 to extensively use Lambda expressions and have better connectivity to Cloud in addition adding Spring Boot Libraries and UI Enhancement.  ? Used AWS to deploy the project on EC2 instance Implementation of the Business logic layer for MongoDB Services.  ? End to End Integration development from JIRA to Service Now using Restful calls using C++/ JAVA/ Groovy.  ? Developed a shell script which picks up and changes the server commands for various other scripts to identify the java 1.8 version.  ? Recommended and developed strategy for integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Security and Spring Boot.  ? Created RFP (Request for Proposal) Microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Implemented RESTful web services using spring framework on back-end and Hibernate framework for ORM, Microsoft Azure for authentication and authorization.  ? Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark SQL, Python and Scala.  ? Instructed teams on best practices around PCF and Spring Boot.  ? Developed different swings component for user interfaces.  ? Developed Reporting Dashboard which will generate reports and reduce manual intervention for support activities. Developed with Spring MVC, Core Java and Sybase.  ? Configured Docker containers and Kubernetes to manage dozens of micro services.  ? Implemented client side interface using React.js, flux pattern and Redux framework for SPA.  ? Worked in configuration of APACHE CAMEL and executing routes, integrating applications using Red Hat JBoss Fuse.  ? Developed RESTful services (or API) in IIB using Java (JCN), to integrate with LDAP for user registration, login and reset/change password functionalities.  ? Worked on various Application Servers and Web Servers (IBM WebSphere Application Server, WebLogic, JBoss, and Tomcat8).  ? Wrote effective JavaScript code for React.JS and Node.JS applications for interacting with server and network applications.  ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate spring framework.  ? Worked with Apache Storm to create and modified Storm's Topologies to consume messages from the active MQ and persist data into the database, HBase and HDFS.  ? Loading data into Spark RDD and do in memory data Computation to generate the Output response.  ? Developed a MEAN Stack Application Using Mongo DB, Express JS, Angular JS and Node JS as well as created web applications prototype using Angular JS, Node JS.  ? Used Backbone.JS for the functionality and structure. Developed core component of Analytics with Node.js, Backbone.js and Require.js.  ? Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services AWS.  ? Utilized IBM WebSphere/RAD for development of messaging and web services.  ? Developed and deployed the code in server JBOSS 6.x of Red Hat IDE.  ? Used GitHub extensively as versioning tool and used Maven for automated building of project.  ? Worked with web designers to develop user interfaces and prototypes for a web-based internal system. Developed the application as Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular2 MVC.  ? Used Java 8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  ? Built application logic using Python.  ? Performed advanced procedures like text analytics and processing, using the in-memory computing capabilities of Spark using Scala.  ? Implementing responsive React.JS components for different solutions and performing the server side validations using Node.JS framework.  ? Used the following tools everyday: Bash/Zsh, GIT, Docker, Postgres, SQL Server, JQ, Jira, VIM and JetBrains.  ? Used Microsoft Azure for role based access for authentication and authorization purpose.  ? Perform data analytics and load data to Amazon s3/data lake/Spark cluster.  ? Developed application integration components using Apache camel components.  ? Installed, configured, and updated Linux machines, with Red Hat.  ? Used Node.js for the management on interchange of the data between the servers  ? Used NodeJS and ExpressJS to create server-side MVC framework with MongoDB.  ? Used session handlers from Express.js and Node.js to handle user login and cookies to provide authentication.  ? Deployed containers and Micro services in AWS using EC2 Container Services.  ? Extensively worked on Hadoop Development Tool such as HDFS, MapReduce, PIG, HBASE, etc.  ? Created Maven archetypes for generating fully functional Rest web-services supporting JSON message transformation.  ? Worked with NoSQL and BigData technologies such as MongoDB, Cassandra and Hadoop.  ? Worked on the backend using Groovy and Grails, Value Object and DAO. Used different design strategies like Façade pattern, proxy command pattern to efficiently use resources.  ? Fixing the batch logs using Shell Script and retrieving the data from database.  ? Used Java 1.8 Lambda expressions and functional interfaces, wherever possible.  ? Implemented EJB's session bean to maintain mobile session.  ? Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the Angular.Js front-end.  ? Involved in back end testing where the forms were loaded into the database and also experienced in building and deploying J2EE Application Archives (Jar, War and Ear) on Tomcat 5.X  ? Database is built using Sybase and Oracle and also used Tortoise SVN as Source Control Tool.  ? Developed new user-facing features using React.js.  ? Replaced existed Angular JS code with Angular2 code, which decreased number of lines of code for a web application which increased performance.  ? Used AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  ? Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  ? Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC.  ? Deployed Spring Boot based Micro Services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console.  ? Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern.  ? Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF.  ? Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB instances and replica sets.  ? Development of AJAX toolkit based applications using JSON.  ? Wrote server side request handling and automated functional test cases to validate UI functionality using Node.js, JavaScript.  ? Wrote Restful Web Services to communicate with Mongo DB and performed CRUD operations on Mongo DB using restful web services.  ? Implementation of the Business logic layer for Mongo DB Services.  ? Worked on Database's Cassandra Java API to interact with the Cassandra Cluster.  ? Involved in adding AJAX, JavaScript components to some of the JSP pages wherever needed.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Used MAVEN to build the project into WAR and EAR files and SVN for version controlling.  ? Worked on real-time data processing using Apache Spark, Apache Kafka, Zookeeper and Scala.  ? Involved in JUnit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  ? Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, JSTL, JSF, XML , CSS, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, WebLogic, APACHE CXF and REST, JQuery, AJAX, ExtJS, JavaScript, JSP, Junit, Windows, JMS, Ant, Maven, GitHub Sr. Java/Full Stack Developer Fidelity Investments September 2013 to October 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Used Java, HTML, JDBC, JSP, Ant, JUnit, XML, JavaScript, and a proprietary Struts-like system.  ? Worked extensively with writing SQL and PL/SQL using Sybase.  ? Setting up Java/J2EE development environment using Eclipse, Maven and WebLogic.  ? Developed on Tomcat for a WebLogic deployment tools included Ant, JUnit, DB Unit, Http Unit, Visual Source Safe, and Scarab.  ? Built micro services using Docker, AWS Lambda, and Elastic Beanstalk.  ? Involved to work with another developer to migrate an existing MS Access application to ColdFusion.  ? Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  ? Used Rabbit MQ as Java Messaging Service for producing and consuming data between applications.  ? Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from SQL server database.  ? Involved in migrating Hive queries into Spark transformations using Data frames, Spark SQL, SQL Context, and Scala.  ? Wrote Groovy scripts to automate request chaining, security tests and load tests.  ? Involved into Code development and testing using JBOSS ESB (Enterprise Service Bus), Maven, Java 1.7, Restful Web Services.  ? Implement the JavaScript/jQuery frameworks such as React.js, Node.js for MVW/MVC framework.  ? Very capable at using AWS utilities such as EMR, S3 and Cloud watch to run and monitor Hadoop/Spark jobs on AWS.  ? Implemented NO-SQL DB (Mango DB/Cassandra) to store poisoned messages.  ? Configuring, implementing and supporting High Availability (Replication) with Load balancing (sharing) cluster of MongoDB having TB's of data.  ? Imported the data into Spark from Kafka Consumer group using Spark Streaming APIs.  ? Followed MVC Structure and used AngularJS to develop Single page Application.  ? Migrated the server using the AWS services to a cloud environment.  ? Used Maven project management tool for build and deployment of the application.  ? Implemented business logic at Server side in Core Java, and Java EE Architecture.  ? Worked on Spark and Scala and used the concept of RDD, PRDD, and Data Frames in different Spark context.  ? Utilized Camel to integrate micro services with other micro services and Rabbit MQ messaging exchanges.  ? Used Docker to containerize the Services and APIs to run on EC2 instances.  ? Designed Selenium IDE test routines for User Interface Testing of web-framework and applications.  ? Implemented Spark using Scala and Spark SQL for faster testing and processing of data responsible to manage data from different sources.  ? Used NoSQL database Cassandra for having high efficiency and good response for the request.  ? Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  ? Optimizing MongoDB CRUD Operations.  ? Using OOP Principles (SOLID) to satisfy the different application needs within a centralized and manageable architecture.  ? Used MAVEN to define the dependencies / plugins and build the application.  ? Built enterprise Java applications using POJOs and lightweight frameworks such as Spring, and Hibernate.  ? Developed API to Integrate with Amazon EC2 cloud based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images.  ? Used Rabbit MQ for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications.  ? Created RFP (Request for Proposal) Microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Utilized Web sockets and Node.js to provide real time support for the Matrix Portal.  ? Designed table architecture and developed DAO layer using Cassandra NoSQL database.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries JSTL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application  ? Developed multiple POCs to create an interface between Backend to Frontend by using MONGODB, Express JS, Angular.Js and Node.js.  ? Experience in Agile, Test Driven Development (TDD) and Waterfall methodologies.  ? Development of frontend (Client side) using JSP, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript  ? Development of backend (Server side) using Core Java, and Java EE  ? Persisted data from database, leveraging Hibernate and SQL Server 2008  ? Implemented Apache Kafka to provide a unified, high-throughput, low-latency platform for handling real-time data feeds.  ? Used the most popular streaming tool Kafka to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to Cassandra NoSQL database.  ? Implemented unified data platform to gather data from different sources using Kafka Java Producers and consumers.  ? Designed & Developed intranet applications for catalog maintenance using EJB3, JPA, Servlet, AJAX, JSF, Prime Faces 3.x technologies hosted on JBoss Application server.  ? Created custom user defined functions in Python language for Pig.  ? Worked on installation, configuration, supporting and managing Hadoop Clusters using Apache, and Cloudera.  ? Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process.  ? Built Angular.Js framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controller's templates, custom directives and custom filters.  ? Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on device.  ? Designed and created SQL Server Database, Stored Procedures  ? Implemented Kafka Simple consumers to get data from specific partitions.  ? Communicating with a Node.js backend under MONGODB.  ? Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Scala.  ? Involved in SPA (Single Page Web Applications) using RESTFUL web services plus Ajax and Angular JS.  ? Used MVC pattern for GUI development in JSF and worked closely with JSF lifecycle, Servlets and JSPs are used for real-time reporting which is too complex to be handled by the Business Objects.    Environment: Java, Java 2EE,Tomcat, Oracle, SQL server, JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, Ajax, Spring, Hibernate, WebLogic, JBoss, SVN, NetBeans, Subversion, MS Visio, Wamp Sr. Java Developer Cigna - East Hanover, NJ February 2012 to August 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in writing JSP and JSF components. Used JSTL Tag library (Core, Logic, Nested, Beans and Html TagLibs) to create standard dynamic web pages.  ? Used WebLogic to build and deploy the application.  ? Created stubs to consume Web services.  ? Implemented with Angular using its advantage including two way data binding and templates.  ? Identified the defects through Selenium and ensured that business processes deliver the expected results and remain reliable throughout the production release.  ? Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis.  ? Designed and developed the session module using J2EE for existing cold fusion application.  ? Implemented build scripts using Maven and GIT technology for version control.  ? Used CQL (Cassandra Query Language) to read from and write data into Cassandra database.  ? Worked on NoSQL databases including HBase, Mongo DB, and Cassandra.  ? Worked on creating and consuming Restful Web Services.  ? Designed and developed backend application servers using Python.  ? Created custom user defined functions in Python language for Pig.  ? Managed application deployment using Python.  ? Used Perl as a Scripting language for server-side scripting of web pages.  ? Upgraded Python 2.3 to Python 2.5, this required recompiling mod_python to use Python 2.5.  ? Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js, and node.js.  ? Used Solr queries on top of Cassandra to fetch the results.  ? Automated tests were coded in Java Script with Froglogic's Squish or Smart Bear's Test Complete for client applications and coded in Java with Selenium for web application testing.  ? Extensively implemented AngularJS components ng-click, ng-repeat, ng-model, ng-show, ng-clude etc.  ? Involved in building EJB Session/Entity beans to maintain Transaction Management across the application.  ? Developed client GUI modules using Swing, Java script and Flash.  ? Used JUnit for testing the application and Maven for building Projects.  ? Creation of a Tastypie like module for Node.js - REST APIs design.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JavaScript and Angular.Js.  ? Developed JSP Views, Actions and delegating the tasks to corresponding session beans.  ? Working on Struts Framework for developing the front-end application and extensively. Spring as middle tier for entire application.  ? Involved in working with Struts Tiles for the common look and feel for a web application.  ? Working on Web Services using Java API for XML Services (JAX-WS) and supporting, building, deploying Web APIs Services.  ? Connected server and database to update data information with Node.js and MONGODB.  ? Wrote PL/SQL statements according to the need using Oracle 10g database.  ? Working on an internal web-based client server application built with Struts 2 Framework using Oracle backend Database, working on establishing the relation for the different beans using the Hibernate.  ? Involved in writing various components using Spring AOP and IOC framework.    Environment: Java , Struts Framework, Oracle, HTML, PL/SQL, JDBC, Stored procedures, Web Logic Application Server, Hibernate, Ant, JAX -WS Web Services, WSDL, EJB Java Developer Syntel - IN July 2008 to January 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application functionality.  ? Developing front end of application using HTML, CSS, backbone.js, JavaScript, jQuery.  ? Used Angular.Js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  ? Prepared user documentation with screenshots for UAT (User Acceptance testing).  ? Worked on producing/consuming Rest based web services using JAX-RS, Jersey providers.  ? Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js and Node.js.  ? Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  ? Worked on MVC JavaScript frameworks such as Backbone.js, Angular.js and Node.js.  ? Developed and designed Interfaces using Swing.  ? Developed the web layer using Spring MVC framework.  ? Worked on a code generation framework that generated Java Swing code from XML  ? Developed Web Services in Java, also designed and developed REST interfaces in Java.  ? Developed Action Forms and Action Classes in Struts frame work.  ? Developed Web API using Node.JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  ? Implemented Struts Action classes using Struts controller component.  ? Developed Web services (SOAP) through WSDL in Apache Axis to interact with other components.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  ? Implemented EJBs Session beans for business logic.  ? Used parsers like SAX and DOM for parsing xml documents and used XML transformations using XSLT.  ? Wrote stored procedures, triggers, and cursors using Oracle PL/SQL.  ? Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Wrote JUnit Test cases for performing unit testing.  ? Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application.  ? Used Jira for bug tracking and project management.  Environment: Java, JSP, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, Design Patterns, XML, PL/SQL Developer, WebLogic, Apache Axis, ANT, ClearCase, JUnit, Web services, SOAP, XSLT, Jira Education Bachelor's Skills Api (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Jsp (10+ years), Model view controller (10+ years), Node, React, Angular, Jquery, Nodejs