Fullstack Java Developer Fullstack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer Raleigh, NC • 10+ Years of experience in design, development and implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, technologies. Having good experience in the Information Technology Industry and also healthy participation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding.  • Experience in Pair Programming, Test Driven Development, Waterfall model and Agile methodologies like SCRUM.  • Expertise experience in estimations, analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance, performance tuning and deployment of internet, e-commerce and client-server applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, AJAX, JavaScript.  • Experience with different IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, Intellij.  • Good knowledge and experience in Core and J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Abstract Factory, Builder, MVC2, Business Delegate, DAO etc.  • Expertise in various open source frameworks like Angular JS, Node JS, Struts 2.0/1.2, Spring 2.5/3.0, Spring MVC, IoC, Web and ORM Technology like Hibernate 3.0, JPA, EJB3.0,IBatis, Mybatis, JQuery.  • Expertise in Distributed and Web environments, focused in JAVA Technologies - Java collections, Threads, J2SE, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate Framework.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, JSON, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, JQuery.  • Good OOAD skills and data modeling using UML (Use-cases, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc.). Used UML tools like STARUML.  • Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST web services.  • Extensively experienced in Middle Tier Development using Servlets, JSPs, and EJB (3.0).  • Experience in using DOM4J, JAXB, JAXP parsing and XML Bean to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  • Experience in Continuous Integration tools such Jenkins and Bamboo.  • Good knowledge and experience with multiple Servers like IBM WebSphere, IBM Web Sphere ESB (Enterprise Service Bus), Web Logic server, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  • Extensive experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD, WID (Web Sphere Integration  Designer).  • Experienced in Paymentech SDK, Groovy and Grails, Apache SOLR, Lucene, SOA and ADF 11g.  • RDBMS experience includes Oracle, SQL Server; database programming and connectivity using JDBC, ODBC, SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, triggers, Queries etc.  • Experience in open source continuous integration tools - Hudson, Ivy and Artifactory.  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.  • Strong experience in UNIX and Shell scripting.  • Worked with various Application servers like JBOSS7, Webshpere, GlassFish3 and tomcat7 webserver.  • Experience in SVN and Perforce for version control and used maven for building  • Good experience in working with team members from vendors and internal departments to coordinate activities across multiple applications.  • Ability to manage multiple project tasks and deadlines along with troubleshooting skills to facilitate effective and efficient resolution of problems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Fullstack Java Developer Ford Motor - Dearborn, MI December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed java modules implementing business rules and workflows using Spring MVC, IOC, web Framework.  • Had experience in performance tuning J2EE apps, performance testing, analysis, and tuning.  • Developed the Product Builder UI screens using Angular-JS, Node JS, HTML5, CSS, Javascript and Bootstrap.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Improved the maintainability of the project by implementing and improving Exception Handling and Collection APIs  • Involves in Sprint planning for the estimation of efforts for user stories and bugs.  • Performed code reviews and provided guidelines for best practices of software management, Coding Standards and Code Commenting for better understandability.  • Implemented UNIX utilities using shell script for data validation, manual job submission, restarting failed jobs, etc.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Actively involved in deployment Application war files in Weblogic Application server.  • Migration of current search process from Database to Solr search engine.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA.  • Involved in Maven based build process and continuous integration of the project using Bamboo and Jenkins.  • Experienced in full-text search engine techniques like Lucene, Solr with Jetty Server.  • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML to integrate other legacy systems.  • Unit testing of developed product features using Junit and Mockito frameworks as part of development cycle.  • Used SOAP based Web services and RESTful Web services for transferring data between applications.  • Knowledge of open source frameworks including Spring, Play and Lucene.  • Designed and developed various Oracle database Simple and Complex Queries, PL/SQL procedures, Stored Procedures, Trigger and Functions.  • Developed UI using AngularJS, ReactJS HTML, JavaScript and developed Business Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects, XML, and JDBC.  • Responsible to finish Jira Tickets assigned on time and update their status on regular basis.  • Used SVN for source code control.  • Develop detailed program design for application changes and/or major bugs.  • Involved in writing program documentation and technical specification documents.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring v3.x, Spring MVC, Hibernate v3.0, Oracle DB, Angular-JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML5, Javascript, jQuery, AJAX,GIT, IntelliJ, AWS SNS/SQS, DbVisualizer, Tomcat, JBoss, SVN, Maven, JIRA, SOAP/Restful Web Services, Redhat Linux, Jenkins, WSDL. Java/J2EE Developer Western Digital - San Jose, CA September 2016 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Converting business requirements into technical design and developed the system as per the technical specifications.  • Following agile methodology, an iterative development for the project and participating in code reviews.  • Developed various DOA's in the applications using Spring JDBC support and fetch, insert, update and deleted data into the database table.  • Worked with AWS Cloud management and Chef Automation.  • Developed various API's to communicate with Solr search engine and integrated Solr search engine in Web store.  • Implemented MVC architecture using JSF framework using JSPs as GUI development and DB Modeling using Oracle 10g.  • Used MyBatis & IBatis persistence framework to provide support for custom SQL, stored procedures and mappings.  • Developed various GWTcustomized widgets, services and DAO classes for the above systems using servlets, Core Java and GWT RPC/Ajax calls.  • Worked on converting the PSD to a pixel perfect XHTML page using CSS3 and HTML5.  • Used State management supporting like request, application, session, flash and view scoped java beans.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Implemented the application specific SOAP based Web services to transfer data in real-time between EXPERE document engine, Teamwork's BPM tool and other legacy systems by utilizing WSDL, SOAP, Axis and JMS technologies.  • Able to dig into unfamiliar codebases in order to understand bugs and solve problems using Golang.  • Experience in developing web based GUIs using Angular JS and JSP, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed Asynchronous service on Amazon AWS using SNS/SQS. Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Developed stored procedures, functions, SQL, NOSQL queries and backend programs using Oracle database and tools such as TOAD and SQL developer.  • Used Stash code versioning system for code maintenance and used Log4j to generate logs used for maintenance and bug tracking  • Logged issues and bugs with Jira, created and participated in code reviews using Crucible 2.0/3.0  • Experienced best practices for integrating microservices into an existing system architecture.  • Deployed J2EE Web and EJB modules using WebLogic Command Line Deploy tool and WebLogic Admin Console.  • Tuned TCP/IP, JVMs, JVM heap size, garbage collections and Native thread's.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML, CSS and Javascript.  • Worked with a variety of issues involving multi-threading, server connectivity and user interface.  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JSP, Angular JS, Servlets, Spring, Struts, Jasper Report, Hibernate, Web services, SQL, BPM, Oracle, Stash, AWS. Java Developer The Banks Group - Austin, TX February 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology.  • Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Defect fixing for defects identified in pre-production environments and production environment.  • Wrote technical design document with class, sequence, and activity diagrams in each use case.  • Developed the Application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing Controller, Service classes.  • Used Hibernate for persistence framework, Involved in creating DAO's and used Hibernate for ORM mapping.  • Written Java classes to test UI and Web services through JUnit.  • Responsible for designing Rich user Interface Applications using JavaScript, CSS, HTML.  • Developed single page web applications using Angular JS.  • Performed functional and integration testing, extensively involved in release/deployment related critical activities.  • Design and implementation of business logic and data processing routes using Apache Camel.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture by developing java web services using Node.js for the client side frameworks.  • Explored Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, and Hibernate in creating the POC.  • Done data manipulation on front end using JavaScript and JSON.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, spring, Apache Camel, Hibernate, CSS, Angular JS, JavaScript, JQuery, Oracle, JBoss, Eclipse, JUnit, JMS, HTML, XML, CMS Java/J2EE Developer Broadridge Financial - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2009 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed State Street mortgage lending application and has good knowledge of Secured loans, unsecured loans, Credit Card transactions, Credit decision, Credit policies and Collateral.  • Development, Maintenance and Production support of the application.  • Discussions with On-site team about the Requirements.  • Developed various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, SAX, XSLT, JAXP, JNDI, JMS, and MQ Series by using RAD Application Framework.  • Performing Impact Analysis, Design, and Estimations for the enhancements to the applications.  • Coding the requirements and subsequent unit testing of the developed code.  • Fixing the tickets created to make sure the applications run smooth.  • Involved in publishing and consuming the web-service calls through ServiceGen and Client invocation.  • Used JPA Transaction management API and developed Services that can perform transactions.  • Logging mechanisms are implemented using Log4j.  • Developed the application presentation layer using struts framework and DOA.xml quires to fetch data from the database.  • Developed various UI Screens of management information reporting.  • Developed user interfaces, Action classes, Business components using struts framework.  • Developed EJB Components, which encapsulate business logic and build up the model for the system.  • Implemented various J2EE design patterns like DAO pattern, Business Delegate, Value Object.  • Involved in unit testing and development.  • Generated UML class diagrams using RAD IDE.  • Developed custom tags as required for the application.  • Build the application using Ant built tool.  • Configured the application and deployed the application in IBM Websphere application server.  Environment: JDK1.4, Servlets-2.3, JSP-1.2, Struts-1.1, XML, CSS, DHTML, GWT, Eclipse, GIT, WSAD, log4j, Actuate, Toad and Oracle9i. Java/ J2EE developer Infosys - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2006 to November 2009 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in different phases of the Software development Life Cycle (SDLC) and analyzed Use case diagrams and Class diagrams based on requirement.  • Presentation Layer is created using JSP, HTML, Apache Jena and Struts Tag Libraries.  • Configured frontend to server side by using Struts Configuration.  • Validated user data using Struts Action Forms and user request is processed using Action Classes.  • Written Hibernate mapping file for each Java Object and configured with respective table in Hibernate Configuration.  • Written SQL Queries to communicate with the Oracle Database.  • Developed DAO's (Data Access Objects) and performed O/R mapping using Hibernate to access the database.  • Implemented Log4j for logging and developed test cases using JUnit.  • Performed Unit, Integration testing worked on clearing issues at the time production and application support, worked on the maintenance and deployments of the project with patches and performed documentation of project.  • Responsible for resolving any environment (Development, testing and Production) related issues.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts 1.2, Struts Tag Libraries, hibernate, Oracle 9i, Web Sphere 5.1, JavaScript, RAD 6.0, Rational Clear Case. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Wsad, C++, Git, Javascript, Svn, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Nodejs, Angular, Jquery, React, Node, PHP, NET