Android Mobile Developer Android Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Mobile Developer - DOMINO'S PIZZA USA Burlington, VT ? Over 11 years of experience in the IT industry on technologies like Android and Java.  ? Over 8 years of experience as an Android Developer Views, Event Handlers, Callbacks, Tasks, Sound System, Action Bars, Fragments, etc.  ? 4+ years of experience as a Java Software Developer with Java Streams, Multithreaded Systems, Listeners, Java Collections, etc.  ? Over 3 years of experience creating and using Web Services.  ? Over 2 years of experience using Oracle Databases with stored procedures, complex SQL code, transactions, etc  ? Experience in Unit testing tools like JUnit with assert at different levels including java AWT robot asserts.  ? Experience in stress testing with Grinder scripts with simulated network computers connecting to a remote server all at once and controlled by this script so to generate traffic and also test the server application stability.  ? Experience using integration tools like Gradle, Github, Maven,Sonar, Nexus and Jenkins to manage the code, deployments and information. Work Experience Android Mobile Developer DOMINO'S PIZZA USA - Ann Arbor, MI February 2014 to Present Project 1: E-commerce Dominos App  Project Description: As a top app in the Google Play Store that lets users order food online, this app evolved throughout the years to keep users engaged and hassle free experience. One of this app's main challenges were keeping compatibility with many features including ordering from smart watches, voice ordering, bot ordering, deep link ordering, and so on. Another aspect critical to the success of this project is have many convenient technological innovations like beacon check-ins for carry out orders. All this along with maintaining a secure and robust data information handling was a necessity.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Develop custom plugins for existing working components.  ? Develop product campaigns.  ? Architecting applications to work with the existing services ecosystem.  ? Following up of applications roll out to production systems.  ? Troubleshooting production bugs/glitches/misbehaviors.  ? Optimizing hardware resources for developed applications.  ? Researching technologies and providers of third party libraries.  ? Showcasing prototypes to business people.  ? Peer reviewing of colleagues code.  ? Touching base frequently with QA teams.    Technical Skills: Bluetooth Connectivity, Location Services, Google Api's, Google Directions Api, Geocoding, Google Distance Api, Google Activity Api, Google Roads Api, Android Javascript Interface, Webviews, Rest Calls, Gson Deserialization, Parcelable, Splunk Queries, SQL Server Database, Event Bus, MVVM Pattern, JUnit, Mockito, Adobe Analytics    Project 2: Dominos Retail Delivery Expert App  Project Description: This app's main focus is to enable business add value of food ordering by allowing customers to track their deliveries in real time. This project had many challenges like communicating efficiently with many teams and making sure code implementations lined up accordingly. Communicate properly about the e limitations and explore technological alternatives. This app communicated with multiple components within the Domino's ecosystem, so compatibility and handling of information was also crucial like scheduled backups and real time synchronization, optimizing data consumption, and so on. During this project I also developed additional complimenting Android Apps for tablets and corporate handsets to aid in the piloting of national rollouts.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Architecting applications to work with the existing services ecosystem.  ? Following up of applications roll out to production systems.  ? Troubleshooting production bugs/glitches/misbehaviors.  ? Optimizing hardware resources for developed applications.  ? Researching technologies and providers of third party libraries.  ? Showcasing prototypes to business people.  ? Coordinating efforts of code changes by colleagues.  ? Touching base frequently with QA teams to delivery a bug/defect free app.    Technical Skills: GPS Tracking, Geofencing, Bluetooth Connectivity, Location Services, Google Api's, Google Directions Api, Geocoding, Google Distance Api, Google Activity Api, Google Roads Api, Android Javascript Interface, Webviews, Rest Calls, Gson Deserialization, Parcelable, Splunk Queries, SQL Server Database, JUnit, Mockito, Adobe Analytics Android Lead and Senior Java Developer TV AZTECA AMERICA - Glendale, CA July 2012 to January 2014 Project: Android Journalism Application    Project Description:  In this project I was the lead programmer of the android application for the front and backend. The native, Android SDK was used for most modules except for the web services communication which were custom. SQLite was used as database and Custom libraries for the multimedia.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Manage application lifecycle overriding Android Activity Lifecycle Callback Methods.  ? Implement Observer design pattern.  ? Implementation of Sherlock Action Bar, Java Plist third party libraries.  ? Provided features to TV Azteca's eCommerce site to allow new and existing customers to shop for programs and products  ? Debugging code with Android Eclipse Plug-in Dalvik Debug Monitor Server.  ? Improving performance using Dalvik Debug Monitor Server built in plug-in that allow monitoring memory and time of processes.  ? Hands on experience using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript  ? Display user friendly statistics about articles using Phonegap  ? Connectivity handling with Wi-Fi or cell phone network with android SDK and Android Intents to ensure application transmission of information.  ? Subversion merging of changes in the code of other co worker.  ? Creating Subversion branches and tags to try different programming approaches.  ? Logging code with android sdk for testing purposes.  ? Save preferences and access them via SharedPreferences.    Environment: Android Gingerbread and above, Action Bar Sherlock, SQLite, PHP Web Services (PList), Fragments, PhoneGap, Events and Listeners, Multithreading (Tasks), Android Gingerbread and Icecream. Android Software Developer America Movil November 2011 to June 2012 Project: Nymph Melody Creator    Project Description:  Nymph Melody Creator is an Android program that allows people to create music with differentinstrument sounds.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Create database with SQLite.  ? Use of ADB to inspect android cache files through android shell.  ? Using Android SDK View and Layouts with XML to create custom user interface.  ? Review and identification of user crashes of Android Developer Console.  ? Debugging code with Android Eclipse Plug-in.  ? Improve application performance in the sound engine with AudioTrack through activity life cycle callbacks.  ? Programming Android Tasks (Multi-threading) to interact with Android Events and Android Callbacks.  ? Web programming using technologies like HTML and CSS  ? Creating SVN branches to try different programming approaches.  ? Free resources like Audio Track Stream when user leaves the app to avoid memory leaks.  ? Internet Connectivity handling whether with Wi-Fi or cell phone network with android SDK and Android Intents to ensure application transmission of information.  ? Deploy the application to production through Android Developer Console.  ? Make upgrades of Android SQLite Helper for database versions to production environment (Android users).  ? Save preferences and access them via SharedPreferences.    Environment: Audio Track Android Library (Dynamic), Android Multithreading, Custom Android User Interface with View Layouts, PhoneGap, Events Handlers and Event Listener (Callbacks), Android Gingerbread    Client: PCS Java Web/Backend Developer May 2011 to October 2011 Project: Financial Web Based Management Software    Project Description:  Web Application comprised of several modules for the Government. Federal Income module gathered a set of actions to manage effectively monetary resources as well as taxation system.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Programming front end user interface with ExtJS JavaScript framework.  ? Development of backend with Spring Controllers and Spring Database Transactions.  ? Using Squirrel SQL Client to make custom queries and inspect system's information on Oracle 10g database.  ? Backend Debugging with Eclipse IDE.  ? Create SQL Modification of database scripts.  ? Program Hibernate Queries (HQL).  ? Plain Text Parser programming with Java Standard Streams.    Environment: Java, Oracle, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript framework ExtJs Java / Android Software Developer ALLDOTCOM May 2010 to April 2011 Project: Audio Player Project    Project Description:  Development of an audio player with p2p software characteristics as well as social networking.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Linux Fedora Servers Administration in the cloud (Amazon EC2 Cloud)  ? Tomcat Deployments to production, development and QA Environments)  ? Performance testing to the application with Grinder scripts  ? Learned AGILE methodology while performing these tasks.  ? Used Sonar as a code review tool.  ? Used Hudson Jenkins server for custom remote builds.  ? Program automated tests with Java AWT Robot and JUnit.  ? Android Internet Connectivity handling whether with Wi-Fi or cell phone network with android SDK and Android Intents to ensure application transmission of information.  ? Android save preferences and access them via SharedPreferences.  ? Android Views and Layouts design.  ? Android database with SQLite.    Environment: Java, Apache HTTP, Maven, Tomcat, Hibernate, JUnit, Fedora Linux, SVN (Subversion), Eclipse, Android Eclair/Froyo Java Software Developer IXE Bank September 2009 to April 2010 Project: Web Mortgage    Project Description:  In this project I was the lead developer for the backend module of a Web Mortgage Application interface that would serve as communication for a bank and a mortgage government bank.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Create UML diagrams with Visio Studio.  ? Use of advanced text editors such as Notepad++ to create, modify, compare and inspect plain text written documents.  ? Create Quality Assurance Test sheets with Excel.  ? Test the system with self generated information.  ? Create Ant scripts to build the application code.  ? Programming of Hibernate Queries.  ? Use of CVS code repository tool.    Environment: Java, Plain Text Files, Java Streams, Oracle, Hibernate, Database Transactions. Java / WebMethods Software Developer General Electric July 2008 to August 2009 Project: GE - Penske Logistics USA    Project Description:  As Penske Logistics has new companies as customers very often there would be a way to charge the bill according to company needs whether it was charged by fuel, distance, weight of the merchandise, etc.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Development of SOA services on WebMethods platform.  ? Development of WebMethods transactions on Oracle Databases.  ? Attend development tickets and fix tickets on HP Project Portfolio Management.  ? Development PL/SQL Stored Procedures application in oracle 10g  ? Programmed of reports with XSLT  ? Development WebMethods SOA transactions with Oracle Database.  ? Maintenance of Java Swing Applications.  ? Programmed very complex SQL queries with different levels of sub queries and joins and decoding also.    Environment:WebMethods (SOA), Oracle 10g, Java Swing, XML, XSLT. Web Server Helpdesk Telmex May 2007 to June 2008 Project: Financial web based Management software for Mexican government    Project Description:  Web Hosting Help Desk Support for Telmex Mexican company.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Use DNS Lookup tools.  ? ASP, JSP, PHP programming assistance for sending emails with our companies email servers.  ? Use of PHPMyAdmin to manage databases.  ? Providing customers programming examples of ASP, JSP, PHP of connecting to our web hosting  databases and answer questions related to this programming.    Environment: HP Help Desk, Windows, Telephone, Dns, Email Server, ASP, JSP, PHP, PHPMyAdmin Skills Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Sqlite, Android, Phonegap, Android studio, C++, Exchange, Html, Javascript, Json, Php, Python, Xml, Xslt, Eclipse, Java Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming languages: Java, Python, Golang, Kotlin, C++  Data Exchange: JSON, XML,PList, Plain Text, Web services, CSV  Platform IDEs: Android Studio, Eclipse, Spring Tools, Netbeans, Hibernate Tools.  Web Applications: JSP, Java Servlets, PHP, XML, XSLT, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PhoneGap, JUnit, Maven, ExtJs, Ant  Others: Linux, Bash, WebMethods  Databases: SQL, PL/SQL, Store Procedure, Oracle 10g, Mysql, SQLite