Full Stack Java/UI Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java/UI Developer - Verizon Wireless Irving, TX • Around 9 years of IT experience in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Coding, Implementation, and Testing of web-based and client-server multi-tier applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Good developing and implementation skills in Core Java and J2EE technologies.  • Experienced with the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process, Iterative Development Model, and OOAD Techniques.  • Good knowledge of Object-Oriented Programming concepts.  • Expertise in Programming with Core Java Concepts - multithreading, collections and asynchronous programming.  • Expertise in Programming with JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JMS, Servlets, JSP and Custom tags using Struts framework.  • Designed and developed JEE MVC applications using Struts and Spring MVC.  • Expert knowledge of OO concepts, thedesign of real-time applications using Java, UML tools like Rational Rose, Build Tools - Ant, and Maven. Continuous Integration - Cruise Control, Jenkins, TeamCity, Source control - Subversion, CVS, Perforce.  • Experienced with J2EE Application Servers like IBM WebSphere, BEA WebLogic, JBoss, and Tomcat.  • Experience in consuming SOAP and REST web services, worked with SOAPUI tool to handle request and response from services.  • A result-driven, customer-focused and dedicated IT Professional with an approach to building thequality application.  • Expertise in designing, developing and deploying applications using J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSTL, Struts, Spring, JSF, JMS, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, GWT Java Beans, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Expertise in Micro-servicesdevelopment dealt with Traffic Management and scope functionality,  • Highly proficient in designing n-tier Enterprise application with J2EE design patterns like IOC (Inversion of Control), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), MVC, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Façade, DTO, DAO, Front Controller, Factory, and Singleton.  • Extensive experience in design and development of applications using Active MQ Series, JMS APIs & MOM (Message Oriented Middleware).  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's.  • Expert hands-on experience in working with Spring modules like Spring MVC, Spring IoC, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC, Spring Web Services, Spring JMS, Spring AOP etc.  • Hands on Experience in integration with ANT, JUnit, and Log4j frameworks.  • Strong working knowledge of Database Programming using and maintaining SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  • Build Microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  • Implemented Triggers, Views, Synonyms, Hints, Partitioning of Tables, Clustered and Non-clustered indexing. Extensive work on the performance tuning of Oracle ETL process.  • Experience in business rules and data mapping for the Enterprise Data Warehouse system.  • Experience in Enterprise Integration Development using Apache Camel Framework.  • Developed integration techniques using the Apache Camel and Apache Active MQ technologies.  • Experience on Unit testing frameworks like JUnit, Mockito, and Loop Mocha.  • Implemented asynchronous task processing pipeline using RabbitMQ.  • Have knowledge on NoSQL databases Mongo DB and Cassandra.  • Good understanding in implementing aweb application using Angular JS Framework.  • Created Restful Web services with Node JS and Express JS.  • Well versed in (CI/CD) continuous integration, dependency management and logging using Git, Jenkins, Npm, Bower, Grunt, ANT, Maven, Ivy, Splunk, and Dynatrace.  • Orchestrating Work with Activity and Spring Integration  • Good Working Knowledge of ANT for project build/test/deployment, Log4j for logging and JUnit for theunit and integration testing.  • Developed complex functions using Groovy.  • Having good knowledge and hands-on experience on ACH Payments  • AWS server provisioning using Chef Recipes.  • Excellent working experience with different flavors of operating systems like Windows, UNIX, LINUX.  • Used AWS as cloud platform leveraging its services and EC2. Setting up databases in AWS using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Designing highly available, cost-effective and fault-tolerant systems using multiple EC2 instances, Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balance and AMIs.  • Used build technologies like Hudson, Jenkins, Ivy, Maven, Gradle, NuGetetc., Integration and automation of source control applications like TFS, SVN, Git, Artifactory.  • Used Bugzilla, JIRA & HP Quality Center for Bug reporting.  • Excellent communication skills, leadership abilities, strong architectural skills, hardworking and a very good team worker.  • Knowledge of using Routed Protocols like FTP, SFTP, SSH, HTTP, HTTPS and Direct connect. Work Experience Full Stack Java/UI Developer Verizon Wireless - Irving, TX December 2017 to Present Description: Verizon Wireless is an American telecommunications company which offers wireless products and services. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications. Verizon Wireless is the largest wireless telecommunications provider in the United States.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design, development and testing  • Designed User Interface using HTML, XHTML, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP and AngularJS and XML in a responsive grid layout. Implemented responsive design template to get a new interface in Bootstrap, HTML5.  • Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML and DHTML  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS.  • Used various features in AngularJS like data binding, routing, custom filters, custom directives to meet various customized requirements  • AngularJS Ajax module is used to handle RESTful calls to enable communication between view components and server.  • Established connectivity between front end and backend HTTP rest end points via proxy configuration and tested them using SOAP UI.  • Developed the application Involved in multi-tier J2EE design utilizing Spring MVC, Jakarta Struts Framework, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch and Spring ORM frameworks  • Involved developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations  • System built using Spring Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as DTO, Intercepting Filters, Singleton and Data Access Object (DAO).  • Extensively worked on JMeter to create Thread Groups and test Web Application for various loads on key business scenarios  • Jenkins Shift-Left Project: Wrote Jenkins Groovy scripts to integrate with Dynatrace, Maven and git plugins to send the Unit test, Integration test data to Dynatrace for each build.  • Improved Insecure Direct Object References by mitigating the exposure of reference to an internal implementation object.  • Created various MongoDB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from for the application on devices and used MongooseAPIto access the MongoDB from NodeJS.  • Created Collections and documents and performed CRUD operations with Mongo repositories and developed ORM mappings using Hibernate and wrote Criteria, Named and HQL queries for data retrievals in the DAO layer  • Utilized Amazon Web Services (AWS)EC2 to deploy Docker containers with both monolith and Microservice Architecture  • Developed XML Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using ApacheAxisSOAP, WSDL, and UDDI and tested the web services with SOAP UI  • Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on RestfulAPI utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC  • Used XML translation on Web Service output using XSLT to generate XML document compatible with the application's schema  • Expertise on entire Intranet and Internet applications using Web and Application servers like TOMCAT and WEBSPHERE  • Experience with NoSQL document-based data stores like Mongo DB and have designed various data models for the system  • Used Jenkins to load JAR files from Database required for running the application  • Performed regular tuning, troubleshooting, and debugging on the current business and Web interface applications using PowerBuilder.  • Established guidelines code migration into Git, and for continuous integration, using Jenkins.  • Used Git to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.    Environment:Java1.9, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax. Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring boot, spring security, GIT,Dynatrace,SOAP-UI,JMeter,JSP, JUnit, Maven, Apache AXIS, JAX-WS, Restful, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microservices, Log4J, Oracle, WSDL, JIRA and Spring Tool Suite. Java Full Stack/UI Developer J B Hunt - Lowell, AR January 2017 to November 2017 Description: J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. is a trucking and transportation company that was founded by Johnnie Bryan Hunt, and based in the Northwest Arkansas city of Lowell.    Responsibilities:  • As a Full Stack Developer in Java, involved in understanding SDLC using Agile and Waterfall methodology and worked on thefront- end and back- end using Angular JS, Spring 3.x, Hibernate 3.x and AWS Web Services.  • Used JIRA for bug and issue tracking. Worked on issues related to business logic and UI code which is primarily built using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript and Angular 2.0.  • Design, development of Web Applications using Java/J2EE Technologies for regulatory Reporting and Data adjustments using JSP, Servlets, JSF, PrimeFaces, Angular JS, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, Spring, Hibernate, HTML.  • Moving existing monolithic architecture to microservices and migrating them to AWS cloud.  • Changing the AWS infrastructure Elastic Beanstalk to Docker with Kubernetes.  • Knowledge on docker based container deployments to create shelf environments for developments and containerization of environments delivery for releases.  • Deployed application using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) CLI.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development for the project.  • Involved in the discussions with business users, testing team to finalize the technical design documents and story point's allocation for user stories.  • Involved in development of services-based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Spring MVC Framework.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • Implemented spring transaction management for some database transactions.  • Transformation of Web services and messages using Mule ESB.  • Spring Dependency Injection feature was used for Bean wiring.  • Wrote and consumed web services using Restful and published it on Web Sphere application server.  • Implemented persistence layer using spring, JDBC Template to store the data in Oracle database.  • Integration with Message Routing of Web services and MQ series messing system with Mule ESB.  • Designed Restful request and response to be used in theproject.  • Create and execute performance test scripts using HP Load Runner and JMeter  • Used Spring IOC while implementing Web services.  • Used MVC frameworks like Spring MVC along with JSF and Rich Faces.  • Used IntelliJ and Tomcat as aweb server for deploying the application.  • Developed Single Page Application using AngularJS.  • Used JUnit for unit testing application and Log4J to capture the logs.  • Worked on Maven to build the application and used JRebel for code integration.  • Worked on Asynchronous Test Loops with Mocha  • Developed the application using JSF Spring framework that used MVC architecture with JSP as the view.  • AWS server provisioning using Chef Recipes.  • Addressing heavy traffic situation and migrating user-specific data off service instances and into a shared by using Micro-services  • Involved in creation of GUI using Java Swing developed client-side components  • REST Web services are written in Groovy/Grails wrapped by Jersey JAX-RS.  • Research about of JBPM process engine for use in the implementation of Flow Control System * Worked on Hibernate and created ORM mappings.  • Involved in development of middle layer business methods which incorporate the core business functionality using singleton beans.  • Defined frameworks for Operational data system (ODS), Brokerage data warehouse (BDW)  • Created Unix Shell scripts to automate the data load processes to the target Data Warehouse.  • Involved in maintaining and updating the procedure for ETL process.  • Developed a Payment Solution to process all payment transactions straight through with interface.  • Deployed application on WebLogic application server.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for thereliable and asynchronous exchange of messages.  • Accessed database using SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform  • Created Auto deploy jobs using Jenkins and Gradle.  • Transitioned software development efforts to a test-driven development (TDD) process  • Used DB2 as the backend database and PureXML for storing XML documents in the DB2 tables.  • Used Cassandra as a data source for all the new internal web applications and analytics purpose as well.  • Developed internal web dashboard applications using NodeJS.  • Developed Server-side automation using NodeJS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from NodeJS.    Environment:HTML 5, CSS 3, Node JS, Angular JS, Angular 1.5, Angular 2.0, React JS, ES6, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Typescript, Ext.js GIT, Responsive Design, Web Services, Jasmine, Karma, Grunt, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Photoshop, Windows OS, Eclipse, Web Storm. Java UI Developer Fanniemae - Herndon, VA November 2015 to December 2016 Description: The Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), commonly known as Fannie Mae, is a United States government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) and, since 1968, a publicly traded company. Founded in 1938 during the Great Depression as part of the New Deal, the corporation's purpose is to expand the secondary mortgage market by securitizing mortgages in the form of mortgage-backed securities (MBS) allowing lenders to reinvest their assets into more lending and in effect increasing the number of lenders in the mortgage market by reducing the reliance on locally based savings and loan associations.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in User sessions, gathering requirements and developing aweb application using agile methodology.  • Worked on highly advanced user interface design and development using AngularJS, NodeJS, ES6, HTML 5, Bootstrap and CSS.  • Used JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS to create theinteractive user interface.  • Developed dynamic UI using Angular JS and Produced dynamic, interactive data visualizations using JavaScript library like D3.js  • Created AngularJS controllers, services and used AngularJS filters for filter functionality in thesearch box and integrator functionalities.  • Developed various screens and web features for the front end using JavaScript frameworks like ReactJS, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js and EXT.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Configured System.js to bundle Angular2 version app and created Call flow diagrams for IVR applications using VISIO  • Customized RESTful Web Service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Called REST web services through AngularJS services to get JSON Object and modified the response object to display in UI.  • Developed the application under Core Java, J2EE Architecture using REST, JBoss, Node.js, backbone.js, EXT JS, spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic, Swing, Agile, Eclipse, Jenkins, and JSP.  • Developed API to Integrate with Amazon EC2 cloud-based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images.  • Developed Mean Stack from scratch including Mongo DB server (Mongoose Connector) setup and Express JS server development.  • Wrote cascading style sheets for theentire user interface, created selectors, ids, classes and pseudo-classes in style guides.  • Extensively worked on ES6 new features such as Arrow functions, Classes, Iterators, and Generators.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3.  • Developed API to Integrate with Amazon EC2 cloud-based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images.  • Created tasks for updating tsconfig tracked files based on glob, tslinting, and compiling typescript files.  • Implemented client-side Interface using ReactJS.  • Developing Responsive Design UI Rich Rest Service Applications, Single Page Applications and HTML Wireframes using HTML 5 Grid Structures/Layouts, CSS 3 Media Queries, Ajax, Angular JS, and Bootstrap.  • Involved in developing UI pages using HTML5, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS3, JSON, Drupal, JavaScript, jQuery, and Ajax.  • Developing the Presentation Layer using JSP Technologies.  • Developing & Customizing UI JavaScript Plug-ins using jQuery, Object Oriented JS, and JSON.  • Implemented client-side application to invoke SOAP and Restful Web Services.  • Implemented the online application using Core Java, JavaScript, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services.  • Used karma-test-runner and Jasmine for JavaScript Unit testing.  • Configured on modern web workflow making use of grunt, bower to thecompany.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Used automation of source control application Git.  • Created responsive web design (RWD) interface that caters to different screen sizes.  • Manage the overall visual design for the application including all branding and navigational elements.  • Developing and maintaining web application systems using NodeJS  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework  • Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML 5, CSS 3, and JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, ES6, AngularJS and Bootstrap with MySQL database.    Environment: Java 7, Spring, Hibernate, Rest, log4j, JUnit, IBM MQ, JMS, JAXB, Web Services, HTML5, CSS3, AEM, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, NodeJS, XML, XSL, jQuery, Mongo DB, Cassandra, Web Logic Application Server. Java UI Developer Webster Bank - Waterbury, CT January 2014 to October 2015 Description: Webster Bank is a US commercial bank based in Waterbury, Connecticut. It has 177 branches and 316 ATMs located in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Westchester County, NY.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Spring, and Hibernate and Angular.js  • Documented the tech design artifacts and socialized with the key stakeholders for approval.  • Responsible for developing web pages quickly and effectively using HTML 5, CSS 3, AJAX, JSON, and jQuery.  • Using AngularJS, HTML 5 and CSS 3. All HTML and DHTML is accomplished through AngularJS directives.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • The tech stack is AngularJS, LESS, Bootstrap and cutting-edgeserver-side technologies.  • Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with AngularJS controllers under specific modules, manipulating nodes in DOM tree.  • Used ReactJS for creating reusable UI components.  • Implemented MVC architecture using spring framework.  • Involved in the implementation of business logic in Struts Framework and Hibernate in the back-end.  • Involved developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, XML Schemas  • Extensively used Web Services WSDL and SOAP for getting the information of thethird party.  • Created smart navbar system in typescript that would retain a client context across multiple web apps using the query string. Smart nav would automatically determine selected navigation node using the browser URL.  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant code using Java for an application development effort. This involves working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML etc.  • Implemented Backbone.js and React.js to create a dynamically changing website.  • Worked with Java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage Service (S3), Simple Queue Service (SQS) and Simple DB.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databasesJQUERY, AJAX, and JSON.  • Created new tables, written stored procedures, triggers and some user-defined functions using SQL server.  • Created SQL scripts for tuning and scheduling with SQL server  • Extensively used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Involved in Writing jQuery based Ajax Requests.  • Provided multiple implementations using JavaScript, HTML and SQL Queries.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the document and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Tested the integrated application and reported issues to the back-end developers (JIRA).  • Involved in UI Testing with Jira which is generally testing the graphical user interfaces.  • Identified usability and develop functional and smooth, easy-to-operate and eye-catching web applications using ExtJS, Angular JS and React JS, Backbone.js, Node.js and Bootstrap with MySQL database.  • Perform web optimization on websites and web services for improved functionality over cross browsers and platforms.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Used unit testing framework Jasmine for testing JavaScript  • Used version control system GIT to maintain code repositories  • Used jQuery core libraries for the logical implementation part at the client side of the website.  • Involved in writing jQuery based Ajax requests using jQuery. Get (URL, data, success, type) and jQuery. Post (URL, data, success, type).  • Used jQuery to traverse through the DOM and access the nodes.    Environment: HTML, CSS, DHTML, DOM, jQuery, JavaScript, SVN, Typescript, SOAP, XML, SQL, JIRA, Windows Platforms, GIT, Grunt, Jasmine, Angular JS, React JS, IDE- Eclipse, Node JS, Ajax, JSON, SQL Server and MS Office, Java, JSP, Spring and Hibernate. Java UI Developer BAYER - Albuquerque, NM October 2012 to December 2013 Description: Bayer and Monsanto have announced that they signed a definitive agreement under which Bayer will acquire Monsanto for USD 128 per share in an all-cash transaction. Based on Monsanto's closing share price on May 9, 2016, the day before Bayer's first written proposal to Monsanto, the offer represents a premium of 44 percent to that price.    Responsibilities:  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, and CSS2/3 based on the W3C standards.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using the Angular framework.  • Designed Dynamic and Multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery, and JavaScript.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Ext.JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, and JSP for interactive cross-browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Designed Web Application User Interface, interaction scenarios and navigation based on analysts, interpretations of requirement and use cases.  • There is a configuration widget written in CSS 3, JavaScript, and jQuery framework in UI Layer with Tag library, anapplication deployed and tested on Linux.  • Developed different GUI screens using JSP and user validations using JavaScript.  • Effectively implemented AJAX in developing dynamic web pages  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS and MVC framework for data access.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Implemented Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of JSON data over HTTP.  • Developed Action controller, Action Forms, Tiles Structure, Validation Structure (for data validation), JSP pages, Form Beans, AJAX code, JavaScript and worked on integration.  • Involved in writing application-level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Worked with Cross-Browser Compatible issues  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS. Built DAO package as well as DAO impl package to implement the data access logic, and using Hibernate Annotation to do the data mapping. Used Log4J API for logging and debugging. Developed UNIX shell scripts for performing administrative tasks.  • Developed the application using agile methodology. Worked on Java Messaging Services (JMS) for developing messaging services.  • Used JERSEY framework to implement the JAX-RS ( Java API for XML and RESTful Service). Used Ant for building and deploying the war file into the application server.  • Worked with Eclipse as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the application. SVN is used for version control systems and source code management.  • Created test cases using JUnit and Mockito. Created automated test cases for the web application using Selenium.  • Configured and set up JBoss Server for deployment. Used JIRA for tracking bugs. Used JENKINS for continuous integration.    Environment: HTML 4/5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSF, JSON, JAVA, Ext.js, Web Services, JSP, jQuery, Angular JS, JSON, JSTL, ECLIPSE, SQL server, MySQL, SVN and MS Office. Java UI Developer Tech Info Tech - IN January 2011 to September 2012 Description: We Tech India Info Tech a Delhi based website designing, development & SEO Company. We are expert in internet marketing, through which you can expand your business. The talented and dedicated team of Tech India Info Tech will help you to grow your venture.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on multiple projects simultaneously.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQueryand JavaScript.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS3.  • Grails web development in Groovy/GSP/jQuery for CSC government division. Spearheaded innovative workflow mechanism. Initiated Specs unit testing framework. Agile environment  • Using theadvanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Develop various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux libraries.  • Formulate and define system scope and objective based on user needs and thorough understanding of business processes  • Participated in numerous creative brainstorm sessions with strategists, storyboards, design specifications, and screen layouts that were shared with Directors and other team members  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax and CSS  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers  • Designed the table fewer web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards  • Continuously provide input to project management activities throughout the project lifecycle influencing scope, risk plan, project plan, issues and status    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Agile methodology, Eclipse. Java UI Developer Innovative Solutions - IN June 2009 to December 2010 Description: Innovative Solutions, Inc. provides systems integration and data management solutions to commercial and government clients. The company offers applications development services and solutions, such as systems engineering and technical assistance    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in SCRUM's and Sprints of Agile Methodology.  • Created detailed design documents (UML diagrams like Use case, Class, Sequence, and Component diagrams) using Rational Rose.  • Involved in design activities that are HLD (High-Level Design) and LLD (Low-Level Design)  • Designed and developed front-end using JSP, JSTL, EL, and other custom tag libraries.  • Expertise in Web Page development using XML, XSLT.  • Involved in Web Page development using YUI Library.  • Involved in the design and prepared use case diagrams, sequence diagrams, and class diagrams for various modules.  • Followed Agile methodology and Test-driven approach for project deliverables  • Developed the application using JSF Framework for the web tier and EJb3 and JPA for the backend development  • The Presentation Layer was developed using HTML, JSP, JSF, CSS, JavaScript, and JSTL.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate  • Developed test classes in JUnit for implementing unit testing.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using concepts like IOC of Spring Framework  • Designed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS) to exchange of critical business data and events among J2EE components and the legacy system.  • Expose and Consume REST web services to get the data from different contracts from different clients and expose the warehouse inventory details for consumer tracking  • Used Spring MVC in the Web Layer  • Involved in configuring and deploying the application using WebSphere.  • Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using Hibernate ORM.  • Transaction Management using the Hibernate configurations  • Responsible for development of configuration, mapping and Java beans for Persistent layer (Object and Relational Mapping) of Hibernate.  • Involved in Writing and reviewing unit test cases using JUnit.  • Used CVS as version control system to check in and check out the data.  • Write and modify database stored procedures, triggers, functions, and PL/SQL Scripts.  • Created Forms and Reports using Oracle.  • Involved in writing shell scripts for deploying the application on UNIX.  • Involved in build management and build resolution activities of e-commerce project.  • Involved in Smoke Testing, Testing, bug fixing and documentation of the system.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, JDBC, JSP, Web Services, REST, Oracle, JavaScript, HTML, CSS3, jQuery, JUnit 4, AJAX, SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 8 (JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8), Eclipse, Java Swings, JSF, JUnit, Log4J, Ant, Maven  Methodologies/Design patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Singleton  Web Technologies  JSP, Servlets, Angularjs, jQuery, ReactJS, NodeJS, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, JDBC, HTML5, DHTML and XML, CSS3, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, MQ Series, Apache Camel, Kafka, Spring Boot, ExpressJS    XML/Web Services XML, XSD, WSDL, SOAP, Apache Axis, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML Beans, SOAP, RESTful Web Services  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Groovy.  Application/Web Servers WebLogic 8.x/9.x/10. x. JBOSS 3.x/4.0, IBM Web Sphere 4.0/5.x/6. x.  IDE Tools Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD) and NetBeans, STS.  Databases Oracle 11g/12C, MySQL, SQL, MongoDB.  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, BO XI R3.  Cloud AWS.  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, Clear Case, Git.  Testing Selenium, Karma.  Messaging Tools JMS  Modelling/Wire Framing, LESS, SASS/SCSS.  Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, Macintosh HD.