QA Analyst QA Analyst QA Analyst - BROADPATH HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS Atlanta, GA Work Experience QA Analyst BROADPATH HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS - Atlanta, GA August 2018 to Present •Atlanta, GA • 8/2018 to Present  Implement several testing techniques to optimize program execution and track/eliminate software bugs.  QA Analyst  Ensure program functions' compliance to user requirements and establishment guidelines by testing software programs and developing procedures. Leverage ALM, Agile, and JIRA to deliver daily updates, while creating and implementing test cases/scripts. Assist with black box testing to identify functional, structural, and performance errors. Conduct trend analysis and deliver recommendations to make projections and assessments. Assess product deliverables and adhere to end dates for timely completion of projects.  Key Accomplishments:  • Assisted with release of bug free payment software by testing and eliminating release bugs.  • Fostered process improvement and operational efficiency by establishing, analyzing, and delivering actionable recommendations. Helpdesk Technician - Intern TRANSCOM - Ruston, LA May 2018 to August 2018 Ruston, LA • 5/2018 to 8/2018  Delivered desktop support to end users for seamless running of equipment and computer hardware/software.  Helpdesk Technician - Intern  Streamlined IT operations by delivering front line technical support to end users for all IT related issues. Completed work orders in timely manner by investigating, isolating, troubleshooting, and resolving desktop software and hardware problems. Ensured smooth operations of peripheral devices by diagnosing, repairing, maintaining, and upgrading all hardware and software technicalities. Reconciled internal records with IT billing invoices for validation before routing for approval Formulate and maintain in-house documentation, including setup checklist and equipment summaries.  Key Accomplishments:  • Repaired and maintained hardware equipment and peripheral devices to complete seven tickets per day.  • Identified end user needs, replaced more than 50 computers, and installed software updates on 160+ machines to enhance workplace efficiency. Java Developer - Intern KFORCE - Sandy Springs, GA May 2017 to September 2017 Sandy Springs, GA • 5/2017 to 9/2017  Utilized innovative and team-driven development methodologies to design and maintain software applications.  Java Developer - Intern  Leveraged agile software development approach to develop, execute, and maintain java software applications and solutions that meet client requirements. Assisted with migration of software application from on-site data center to cloud environment. Ensured completion of projects within time and budgetary constraints, while collaborating with project teams. Developed and used lambda expressions and parallel processing in JAVA 8 for efficient coding and faster processing of programs. Conducted use cases and work flow analysis as well as performed unit and integration testing.  Key Accomplishments:  • Executed update process that optimized application process time by 5X.  • Evaluated, designed, and developed PEGA solutions to Reduce cost and improved system automation. Customer Service Rep/QA VESTA CORP - Alpharetta, GA July 2015 to April 2017 Alpharetta, GA • 7/2015 to 4/2017  Delivered top-notch customer service to resolve problems and enhance customer loyalty.  Customer Service Rep/QA  Received calls, responded to technical enquiries, and resolved product issues by maintaining active coordination with clients. Improved productivity of Coworkers by delivering coaching sessions on implementation of best practices. Recognized for delivering quality customer service and promoted to quality assurance team within short time span of one year.  Key Accomplishments:  • Accomplished 100% client satisfaction rate by responding to client queries and resolving issues in timely manner.  • Managed inbound calls and delivered exceptional customer services with 99% accuracy to exceed client satisfaction target by 2%. Education B.S in Computer Information Systems GRAMBLING STATE UNIVERSITY - Grambling, LA 2019 Skills MySQL (Less than 1 year), Microsoft office (6 years), SWOT Analysis (3 years), Quality Assurance (2 years), Software Development (3 years), Testing (2 years), Test case (2 years)