Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Tata Consultancy Services ? Around 12 years' experience in requirement analysis, design, development, testing, implementation and support using Object Oriented Methodologies and Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Actively participated in every phase of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) and proficient with software development methods like Agile (scrum) and Water Fall.  ? Expert in Core Java with a strong understanding of Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  ? Has Knowledge in client-side technologies like Angular, Reactjs, Rxjs, Bootstrap CSS,HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax and Jsp  ? Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  ? Experience in Creating and configuring the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Microservices  ? Experience using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data, DAO, IOC, Annotations, AOP, Transactions and Spring Security.  ? Extensive experience working in Spring framework, Struts framework, O/R Mapping Hibernate framework and Soap and Restful services.  ? Strong work experience in application integration and communicating using Microservices.  ? Web Services such as JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL XML over HTTP, JAX-B, XSD, Axis 2, Jersey and RESTFUL web services.  ? Has Knowledge in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexers and proficiency in writing complex queries, using Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, and MongoDB.  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath and parsers like SAX, DOM.  ? Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise applications. Used Rabbit MQ.  ? Experience in developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j.  ? Experience in version control system tools like GIT, CVS and SVN.  ? Experience in unit testing the applications using JUnit, Mockito Framework.  ? Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, SVN, CVS, Jenkins and Apache Ant.  ? Significant experience in web development tools like Spring Tool Suite, Intellij, Eclipse  ? Having Experience on Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server.  ? Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on Web sphere, and Apache Tomcat application Servers.  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail, and ability to work independently or lead/work within a team environment. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Denver, CO September 2017 to Present Description:  NOSS Horizon is a next generation application for COMCAST being build to provide shared data and shared services of network oss area deployed in highly available cloud infrastructure. It will cater of multipl applications in COMCAST like customer faing platform, cloud DVRs and provide device health information in batch and realtime.    Horizon is build with latest technologu like cloud foundry, big data to cater to highly scalable, highly available application. Horizon will be single gateway to provide host of services like web authentication, device poll data, device poll history for a device, node and CMTS. It will cater to customer facing applications like Einstein, network tools like National watch tower, premise health test, noise-patrol and set of monitoring tools that relies on realtime device data to detect problem in customer premises.  Responsibilities:  ? Followed Agile Methodologies to promote iterations, collaboration, and process adaptability and participated in SCRUM meetings.  ? Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, CSS and client validation using JavaScript.  ? Worked on Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions for making anonymous inline function calls by using Functional Interfaces which makes code readable and concise.  ? Implemented a centralized logging system using log stash configured as an ELK stack (Elastic search, Log stash, and Kibana) to monitor system logs.  ? Worked with core java concepts like Collections Framework, Multithreading and Memory management.  ? Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  ? Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities logging errors, messages and performance logs and Mockito framework JUnit for unit testing.  ? Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.  ? Experience in using build tools such as MAVEN.  ? Experience in using GIT as version control and Rally for bug tracking. Java Developer and Lead Tata Consultancy Services April 2011 to Present Technical Skills:  Languages Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JMS, Java Security  Mark-up/XML Technologies Angular ,Reactjs, Rxjs, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, JSON  Tools & Framework Spring Boot, Spring Cloud ,Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JUnit, SOAP UI, ANT, Maven,Angular,Mongodb  Web services SOAP, Restful.  Web/App Servers IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat  Database Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, NoSQL (MongoDB)  IDEs Eclipse, Intellij, Spring Tool Suite (STS)  O-R mapping Hibernate  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit,Jmeter, Soap UI, Putty, Log4j and Jira  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS, Git, Bit Bucket.  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins  OS & Environment Windows, UNIX, Linux.  Architecture Microservices. Java Developer and Lead Tata Consultancy Services - Denver, CO August 2016 to July 2017 Description: DOCS - Distributed Online Correspondence System  DOCS is a back office/offline support tool used to receive tasks and documents associated with a task to be worked by the back office/offline support group. The application accepts tasks to be worked and distributes the tasks to agents based on agent proficiencies, task priority, and task queue sizes. After an agent has worked a assigned task, the agent can change the status of the task to complete and be assigned a new task..    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in design, development, testing and implementation of the process systems, working on iterative life cycles business requirements, and creating Detail Design Document.  ? Using Agile methodologies to plan work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environments.  ? Developed the view-controller components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  ? Used Multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  ? Implemented Restful and SOAP based Web Services and used Soap UI for testing.  ? Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  ? Performed deployment of applications on Tomcat.  ? Involved in day to day handling of JIRA issues (production issues at time) that involved data inconsistencies that required to be solved in very less time.  ? Worked with Spring Tool Suite (STS) and used ANT build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  ? Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process and used Git as Version Control tool.  ? Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  ? Participated in Code Reviews of other modules, documents and test cases. Java Developer and Lead Tata Consultancy Services - Denver, CO May 2014 to June 2016 Description: LeXcape Engine is used to manage and update standard and localized healthcare terminology. It also offers clinical content and professional services to enable interoperability, ICD-10 conversion, web-based terminology mapping, and Meaningful Use compliance    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application using SOA.  ? Developed front-end content using Java Swing.  ? Used Hibernate ORM solution technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  ? Implemented and developed DAO layer using Hibernate to persist the data to the database.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  ? Used TortoiseSVN to maintain the version of files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  ? Used Maven and Gradle as build automation tool and Bamboo to perform continuous Integration.  ? Eclipse for IDE. Java Developer and Lead Tata Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to March 2014 Description: The Plaza Retail (PR) provides a virtual marketplace for application acquisition, wherein BREW application developers can offer their wireless applications to Carriers (Mobile network operators). PR stores configuration information, application files, application pricing structure, application metadata, carrier information, developer information, system audit trails, and carrier catalogs. Also it allows Carriers to present subscribers with a uniform and easy shopping experience on any capable device. Plaza Retail also gives publishers and developers the ability to make their content available to multiple retailers instantly, regardless of their development platform.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using Agile methodology.  ? Defined new validations through Angular JS for the form field validation implemented through HTML 5.  ? Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  ? To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  ? Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  ? Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate & Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  ? Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  ? Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  ? Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring and extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  ? Developed Message Driven Bean for asynchronous sending Messages using JMS.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.  ? Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners  ? Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  ? Packaged and deployed the application in IBM WebSphere.  ? Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  ? Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  ? Used Maven tools for building and deploying the Web applications.  ? Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2011 to April 2012 Description: Motorola CAP team mainly deals with performance of the applications running in the production. It works on root cause analysis of an issue (like memory leakage) of the production application..    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the risk workflow system.  ? Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support in WATER FALL methodology.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Involved in component development using J2EE principles and used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Data Access Object (DAO) in the implementation of the application.  ? Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in J2EE using Struts MVC.  ? Implemented Struts framework (Action & Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate classes.  ? Achieved synchronization of multiple threads through Multithreading and Exception Handling.  ? Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  ? Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and performed action mapping using Struts.  ? Developed RESTful and SOAP based Web Services to consume and produce data in XML and JSON.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.  ? Established Database Connectivity using JDBC for MySQL.  ? Written SQL queries, PL/SQL store procedures and Triggers to fetch and store data from the database.  ? Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  ? Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components and deployment of the application was on Jetty.  ? Prepared JUnit test cases and executed the test cases using JUnit.  ? Involved in bug fixing during the System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing.  ? Used GIT to check-in and check-out and co-ordinate among team members for Version Controlling. Java Developer and Lead Tata Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2011 to September 2011 Description: SEAP is a SE Excellence Award Program. It is an online tool which gives the provision for clients to nominate individual SEs and SEMs. Our project is an enhancement to the tool so that they can nominate individuals as a team and introducing sub award category for individual nomination..    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using Agile methodology.  ? Defined new validations through Angular JS for the form field validation implemented through HTML 5.  ? Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  ? To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  ? Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  ? Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate & Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  ? Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  ? Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  ? Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring and extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  ? Developed Message Driven Bean for asynchronous sending Messages using JMS.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.  ? Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners  ? Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  ? Packaged and deployed the application in IBM WebSphere.  ? Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  ? Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  ? Used Maven tools for building and deploying the Web applications.  ? Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements. Vignette Content Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions January 2007 to April 2011 Java Developer and Lead Cognizant Technology Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to March 2011 Location: Hyderabad, India  Role: Java Developer and Lead    Description: Ameriprise Auto and Home Service Online (AAH ServiceOnline) is one of the finest and biggest projects of Ameriprise. It is a service site for all the auto and home insurance products of Ameriprise. It has options of giving the user, policy details, claiming options, update this personal details, and update his policy details.    The site consists of 45 pages which are created using JSP. All the business validations are implemented using Drools. The portal is created using Vignette portal technology. From the front end calls are made to the EAR layer using AJAX. Data is sent as an JSON array through the request. Different calls are made to Web services and Databases from the EAR layer. The framework used is Spring Framework along with 6 cross commits which include DB's and Web services also.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using Agile methodology.  ? Involved in portal design using Vignette Application Portal.  ? Worked as a Module lead and handled the complete Intranet site  ? Communicating with 4 cross commit teams (Third Party Vendors).  ? Involved in creating DRL files for handling the On Load and Business Rules.  ? Involved in development of JSP's for the presentation layer.  ? Very strong in debugging the issues. Vignette Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2007 to May 2010 Description: CMAX is used for creating and delivering content through the Vignette Application Portal. CMAX uses Vignette tool, and this tool allows users to create, modify and delete contents from a web page. Vignette provides extensive capabilities to build and integrate content-based enterprise web applications. Offers valuable integration of portal and business process management with content management, targeting the Enterprise Web Application concept and my role and responsibilities are shouldering overall responsibilities to understand Client Processes and to work efficiently to meet targets and deliver solutions in accordance with Cognizant quality control standards and business practices and procedures. I have developed a level of competency, which helps to anticipate issues and solve them in advance, Imparting domain and technical knowledge to the new entrants and also fellow team members, Building pages as per the American Express standards, Modifying and Bug fixing of existing pages as per the request of business partners, Effectively verifying content that has been launched into production.    Responsibilities:  ? Working on Vignette Tool.  ? Content Creation  ? Channel Association for the Content  ? Approve & Publishing of the Content  ? Clearing the defects raised in the Mercury Quality Centre  ? Communicating with Team Members Education B.tech in Electronics and Communications in Electronics and Communications Ramappa Eng College 2006