Java / J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> / J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java / J2EE Developer - THE HOME DEPOT Atlanta, GA • 10+ years of experience in a Global Working Model.  • Experience with the entire Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) process including requirement analysis, conceptual and detail design, development, testing and deployment.  • Expertise in design and development of multi-tiered web based applications using J2EE technologies with frameworks like Spring boot, Spring batch and Jersey, JSP 1.1/1.2/2.0, and JDBC and Adobe Flex, JQuery, RESTful Webservices.  • Expertise in Cloud platforms such as Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Google Cloud Platform.  • Expertise in architectural design using various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Dependency Injection, Service Locator, DAO, DTO and Business Delegate.  • Strong experience in Object Oriented Design and Analysis using concept of UML including development of Use cases and Microsoft Visio.  • Experience in implementing XML based Web Services (RESTful Web Services).  • Experience in Adobe Flex technology using Cairngorm framework.  • Experience in jQuery technology using Angular framework.  • Experience in using Check style, PMD and Find Bugs to write code that ease maintenance and reduces code reviews.  • Working knowledge of Java external applications like JUnit, Log4j, Apache Ant, Maven.  • Good exposure to the full software development lifecycle and Agile/Scrum methodology and tools such as Pivotal Tracker, JIRA  • Good exposure to deployment tools such as Jenkins, Opsware, Puppet, Gradle,Spacewalk  • Good exposure to LINUX commands in server management.  • Good Knowledge on databases like Oracle, Informix, DB2, SQL Server, BigQuery. Experience in writing complex SQL Queries and SQL Procedures.  • Excellent team player with good analytical, communication and management skills.  • Self-motivated, easily adaptable to new environments and ability to work independently as well as in groups. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java / J2EE Developer THE HOME DEPOT - Atlanta, GA January 2019 to Present Description:  HR Datalake Services acts as an interface between Workday and The Home Depot internal applications. This project will provide enhanced capabilities of the Workday to be used across all the internal applications that the associates can utilize for various day to day activities inside the organization.    Responsibilities:  • Working closely with internal applications team, HR team and Workday team to identify the requirements for the project.  • Integrate with Workday team to map the required data fields as identified for the application teams.  • Implemented business logic to retrieve the details from BigQuery database / Workday SOAP service using Spring Boot framework.  • Created batch programs to load the data from external SOAP service call into BigQuery database. Spring Batch framework has been utilized.  • Participated in code deployment activities using Gradle build into Google Cloud Platform  • Developed Junit test cases for each module  • Support the legacy system running on Pivotal Cloud Foundry for any modifications as required by the application teams.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j and Splunk framework.  • Provide complete implementation and production support for all the Datalake Services and Batch Programs.  • Monitor the API Services, BigQuery data usage using GCP Stackdriver logs for error reporting and alerts.  • Ensure stability of production environment in addition to other lower level test environments.  • Resolve errors during transactions resulting from user actions and/ or interfacing applications  • Used GitHub as version control system for the source code and project documents.  • Used Agile Methodology in application development. Tasks monitored through Pivotal tracker.    Environment: JDK 1.8, IntelliJ, Log4j, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, GCP, PCF, Restful Web Services, Jax-B, JSON, Junit, Big Query, CloudSQL, Stackdriver Java / J2EE Developer THE HOME DEPOT - Atlanta, GA July 2015 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Analyzing and design requirements provided by business users.  • Writing design specification and develop test cases.  • Developed REST based Web Services using JAXB.  • Developed web based applications using Java Script, HTML5, SQL Server, DHTML and CSS3.  • Implemented JAVA-J2EE technologies including specialization in XML, XSL, and XSLT.  • Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate and DAO design patterns.  • Wrote PL/SQL procedures for intensive database transactions for storing high volume of Paint Vendor Formula Data.  • Maintained a separate LINUX Server for Paint Vendor data files. Wrote shell scripts to manage the data on LINUX Server.  • Developed Junit test cases for each module  • Participating in Code deployment activities using Puppet, Opsware and production support related to the business requirements.  • Used Agile Methodology in application development. Tasks monitored through Pivotal tracker.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues for Chrome, Firefox, Safari, IE 10 & 11.    Environment: JDK 1.8, Eclipse 4.4, Log4j, Informix, Restful Web Services, Jax-B, Apache Tomcat 7.0, JQuery, SQL Server, DB2, Linux, JSON, Junit, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 , PL/SQL Java / J2EE Developer THE HOME DEPOT September 2012 to July 2015 Description:  The existing Order management system that the client used, can process the orders created by the customer at that particular store. Centralization of accessing all these orders among different stores is not possible with the existing application. Enhanced Special Services COM was launched to convert the existing business processes to process orders created across different stores. Orders created in one store can be processed at different stores. In addition, enhancements like integration with third party vendor, accessing central customer data, printing reports in PDF etc were done along with the core releases. In this release, we will interact with Sterling product (from IBM) to process orders. Sterling is the core database to save the order related information. Customer Order Management (COM) acts as an interface between ESVS and Sterling application.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on complete life cycle, design, development and testing using OOA and OOD  • Created technical design documents from the existing ESVS application in Java and BRS for critical business processes. This involves creating XSDs for the Restful services, writing pseudo code and creating UML diagrams.  • Developed user interfaces using Adobe Flex 4.0 using Cairngorm framework  • Developed REST based Web Services using JAXB and JSON and SOAP Services.  • Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and Dependency Injection  • Implemented logging mechanism using Splunk framework to monitor the interaction between various systems in the Junit application.  • Implemented Junit test cases for all the Web services developed in the application.  • Generated several PDF documents related to order details using iText framework.  • Wrote complex Queries against Informix database to manipulate the order details.  • Complex Queries and logic designed in existing application in Informix 4gl has been implemented using Java / J2EE technologies.  • Managed a team size of 20 as a technical lead and reviewed the deliverables by each team member in technical and in business perspective.  • Ensured delivery quality by establishing review processes and checklists.  • Used SubVersion as version control system for the source code and project documents.  • Particpated in code deployment activities using Opsware, Jenkins build  Environment: JDK 1.6, Eclipse 3.7, Log4j, Informix, Restful Web Services, Flex 4.0, Jax-B, JSON, and Apache Tomcat 6.0 Java / J2EE Developer THE HOME DEPOT October 2009 to May 2012 Description:  The existing Order management system that the client used was in Informix 4gl and it could not be enhanced / scaled up to meet the current business requirements. The legacy system processed all of the customer orders across 2000 stores. Enhanced Special Services was launched to convert the existing business processes in Informix 4gl into Java so that further enhancements can be added. Existing services in the order management system like Installation, Measurement, Delivery and Will Call and also products like special order and stock order were converted from the Legacy into Java / Adobe Flex in four releases.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on three releases of Enhanced Special Services.  • Worked on other enhancement projects like Install Prompts, Measure Comp Integration simultaneously with the core release. This includes requirement gathering, design, construction, testing and production support in addition to the core releases.  • Created technical design documents out of the existing Informix code and BRS for critical business processes. This involves creating XSDs for the Restful services, writing pseudo code and creating UML diagrams.  • Developed user interfaces using Adobe Flex 3.0 using Cairngorm framework  • Developed REST based Web Services using JAXB and JSON  • Wrote complex Queries against Informix database to manipulate the order details  • Involved in preparing Unit Test Cases and performing Unit Testing.  • Was part of System Testing and UAT support team for ESVS Release 2,3,4. Provided quick resolutions to defects - low turnaround time.  • Received several appreciations for completing construction on time and with minimal defects.  • Coded and tested business critical programs.  • Coordinated QA and Production Support for all the releases.  • Used SubVersion as version control system for the source code and project documents.    Environment: JDK 1.5, Eclipse 3.5, Log4j, Informix, Restful Web Services, Flex 3.0, Jax-B and Apache Tomcat 6.0. Java / J2EE Developer InBev February 2009 to September 2009 Description:  This project is a part of a large program called 'Voyager Plant Optimization (VPO) Excellence',which establishes a "Customer-way (Simple, focused and disciplined)" to be executed consistently in the customer's brewery operations worldwide. The customer believes that sustainable results (operational excellence) can be achieved by administering 'VPO Excellence' tools. The project contains two phases:  • Sustainability Phase  • Implementation Phase  We developed a 'Sustainability Questionnaire and Implementation Phase Progress Tracker' in Microsoft Excel, which brewery plants will use to self evaluate their performance, which will be validated by 'Zone Management Teams'. 'Plant (Users at the plant level)' conduct the self evaluation, which the respective 'Zone (Zone Management Team)' validates. The 'Global (Corp Management Team) further analyzes these results and monitors them to see if the results are aligned with the operational excellence goals set for the year.    Responsibilities:  • Developed macros for the reporting tool in excel.  • Involved in preparing Unit Test Cases and performing Unit Testing.  • Received several appreciations for completing construction on time and for suggestions / improvements that have implemented in the project.    Environment: Microsoft Excel, Macros - VB. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, SPRING, JAXB, jQuery, JSP, STRUTS, DATABASE, DATABASE SYSTEMS, DB2, INFORMIX, JDBC, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, ORACLE 8, SQL, CSS, TOMCAT, WEB SERVICES, Javascript, Java J2Ee Additional Information Technical Skills    Tools Eclipse 4.4, IntelliJ  Operating Systems Windows, LINUX  Database Systems Oracle 8.X, Informix, DB2, SQL Server, Big Query, CloudSQL  Languages Java 1.8, Java Script, UML, Flex, HTML5, CSS, jQuery, Angular JS  Java/J2EE technologies JSP, JDBC, J2EE Design Patterns, XML, JAXB , Xstream, Junit  Servers Apache Tomcat 7.0, Google Cloud Platform  Web Services Restful, SOAP  Frameworks Source Control Struts 1.x / 2.0, Jersey framework. Spring boot, Spring batch Visual Source Safe (VSS), Subversion, GitHub  Bug Tracking Tools Pivotal Tracker