Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sterling, VA • 8 years of IT Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Implementation of Multi-Tier distributed applications using JAVA/J2EEArchitectural and Design patterns.  • 8 years of experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object Oriented Applications and Web based Enterprise Applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in Web Application Development, Client-Server based Enterprise Applications, System Analysis, Technical Design, B2B Implementation, Performance Tuning and Testing.  • Expert level skills in developing applications using Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), Collections, JDBC, XML, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, Ajax, Design Patterns, XSL/XSLT and JQuery.  • Extensively followed software development, test driven development (TDD), water fall and prototype development methodologies.  • Good exposure to the full software development lifecycle and Agile/Scrum methodology.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Garbage Collection, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Hands on experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS, backbone.js and Node.js.  • Strong exposure working with J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Data Accessor, Value Object, Singleton and Session Facade.  • Experience in web application design using open source frameworks like Spring MVC, JSF and Struts Framework.  • Strong hands on exposure to multiple Application Servers like JBoss, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere and BEA WebLogic.  • Extensive experience in development and implementation of Restful Web Service as a Provider using messaging medium as JSON and have also implemented Soap based web services, WSDL and UDDI using XML over HTTP(s), SOAP, WSDL, Restful protocols.  • Good experience with version controls like SVN, Clear case, CVS&GIT.  • Experience in working with Relational Database (RDBMS) concepts, database designing, Normalization, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers and extensively worked with SQL Server, Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c, MONGODB2, MySQL and NOSQL.  • Exposure to NoSQL database programming - Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB.  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools building projects.  • Hands on experience using Messaging Services like JMS, MQ Series, Active MQ.  • Used Bamboo, Jenkins as a continuous integration and delivery tool that ties automated builds and tests.  • Worked with JUnit for unit testing, Mockito for mockcreation and verification.  • Used JIRA, Stash, Confluence, Splunk, Git, Source tree to provide tier 1 support for developer and operations staff.  • Hands on experience in setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket to ensure fault tolerance and high availability.  • Have worked Importing volumes, launching EC2, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Have Knowledge on Amazon Lambda, Code Commit, Code Deploy, Code Pipeline, Code Build.  • Maintenance and monitoring of Docker in a cloud based service during production and Set up system for dynamically adding and removing web services from a server using Docker.  • Good debugging skills - deep diving into technical issues, collaborating with cross-domain experts, handling clients with different priorities and mind sets, both onsite and remote. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer ETS Corporation - Sterling, VA June 2015 to Present Description:ETS is a registered member service provider with MasterCard International and Visa International.ETS has emerged as a pioneer in PCI-compliant merchant processing solutions in the industry.ETS supports all forms of electronic processing like credit and debit card processing, POS check, electronic funds transfer (EFT), and ATM driving.Full integration and stand-alone capabilities.Membership billing, private label cards and loyalty solutions.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in reviewing business requirements, technical requirement documents.  • Implemented Agile (SCRUM) methodology and Test-Driven Development (TTD) for the software development process and to produce high quality application.  • Analyze the Code and apply the fix solution for the Issues Identified based on the severity basis.  • Used SpringMVC to achieve Model View Controller design pattern.  • Used Eclipse IDE for application Development and used Maven for build automation tool to compile and generate EAR, WAR, and JAR files.  • Worked on HTML5 code and integrated CSS style sheets to it.  • Created all the services to work with the various entities provided and restify the services using REST APIs withJAX-RS.  • Worked with cross browser issues for multiple browsers and OS.  • Implemented JQUERY, Angular JS, and AJAX calling for the UI part.  • Involved in Configuration of Weblogicapplicationserver and deployment of application code.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the Oracle 11gdatabase.  • Worked on database connectivity using Oracle SQL Developer and pushing data back and forth from the database.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of information.  • Used Spring, Spring Integration framework to build applications& interact with multiple interfaces.  • Tested the responses of the SOAP web services using SOAP UI and generated Mock Service in SOAP UI to simulate and test the functionalities of Web Service.  • Troubleshoot the Web Services and Identify the issues based on the logs generated and fix the Issues.  • Used the Linux servers to view the application logs to trouble shoot the application issue.  • Extensively worked on developing webpages using HTML5, CSS, JQuery and Javascript.  • Defects Identified in Production / Local order load environments and raise issues on Jira tracking Portal.  • Provide the technical assistance to resolve operating Issues and demonstrate appropriate solution to the end users.  • Karma- Jasmine Unit Testing is done to test the validations for all the input fields in the front end.  • Prepared unit test cases with JUnit, Spring Test and Mockito framework.  • Co-ordinate offshore team to assign & fix the application issues based on the priority.  • Used GIT HUB as version control software to manage the source code and to keep track of changes to files which is fast and light weight system.  • Used Log4j as the logging framework.  • We have tested our application in the Docker container provided by the AWSECS service.    Environment: java, j2ee, spring, Agile, Linux, Jdk1.6, JSP, JMS, WebLogic, Oracle, Oracle SQL Developer, JSR, Soap UI, Junit, Mockito, Spring Test, Karma-Jasmine, Git Hub, Docker, Log4j, AWS PL/SQL, Windows7. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Cross Country Healthcare - Boca Raton, FL March 2014 to May 2015 Description: Cross Country Infotech Private Limited responds to the IT and software requirements of its parent company - Cross Country Healthcare, Inc. CCH is one of the largest healthcare staffing companies in the United States. The company has a varied client base and has thousands of contracts with hospitals and healthcare facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers and other healthcare organizations. The wide range of Web applications, Web portals, and Mobile applications allow HCPs to filter through assignments in real time and find the best opportunity to advance their careers. Services are completely client-focused so that all possible options for HCPs quickest career growth are made available.    Responsibilities:  • Translate business requirements into technical document by Interacting with Business Analysts and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) to carefully understand business requirements.  • Involved in the requirement analysis, design and development of the application built in Java/J2EE using Struts, JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, JDBC and Web Services with JAX-WS  • Contributed in design and development of Spring MVC web based application.  • Designed and developed User Interface of application modules using HTML, CSS and JavaScript and AJAX.  • Excellent understanding of java concepts like multi-threading and concurrency, Collection Framework, String, Exception handling.  • Involved in writing JSP and JSFcomponents. Used JSTL Tag library (Core, Logic, Nested, and Bean and Html tables) to create standard dynamic web pages.  • Developed Web Service client interface with JAX-WS from WSDL files for invoking the methods using SOAP andDeployed the application using the Web Logic as application server.  • Worked on client-server and web based technology using J2EE, XML Technologies and also involved in the Product Development  • Worked on Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB's, JDBC, HTML, XML, and other web based development tools.  • Unit testing code, reproducing, analysing and fixing defects identified during the Quality Assurance process.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  • Provide ANT build tool for building and deploying the application onto the production boxes.  • Managed source repository using SVN for version control tool.  • Used Jenkins to perform continuous integration and continuous deployment.  • Provided Log4j support for the application for debugging the system  • Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate framework as the persistence layer for interacting with Oracle 10c.  • Written complex SQL queries, stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL.  • Used DB Solo and Squirrel for writing SQL scripts.  • Effectively prepared for and organized technical inspections to review code and design models with peers and software architects.  • Provided On-Call Support for various products and maintained them.  • Good Knowledge and Understanding of Insurance Domain.  Environment: Java, J2EE, EJB, Servlets, JSP, Micro services, Web Services, Web Logic, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Spring boot, Log4j, SVN, pl/sql, Jenkins, Squirrel, Hibernate, Oracle 10c, SQL, DB2, AJAX, JQuery, Ant. Java/JEE Developer American Water - Pittsburgh, PA August 2012 to February 2014 Description: The main goal of this initiative is to improve different processes in the web self-service system. Some of these enhancements are to satisfy federal and state government.  • Reduce shopping path barriers.  • Configure shopping experience to the Core Categories like Signature Collection, Home Fragrance, Anti-bacterial, Classics etc.  • Enhance site functionality that connects the site experience with the brand.  • Improve overall customer satisfaction throughout the buying process.    Responsibilities:  • Interaction with client and designing Technical design document from Business Requirements for the development team.    • Involved in preparing High level and low-level design documents for the task involved in redesigning the BBW webstore.    • Used Agile Methodology and participated in Scrum meetings.    • Used Core Java concepts and other J2EEtechnologies during development phase.    • Used Spring Beans to encapsulate business logic and Implemented Application MVC Architecture using Spring MVC framework.    • Worked on Spring Cache technique, Hibernate configuration and related module service class implementation.    • Used MS SQL Server 2012 as the database and Eclipse as the IDE.    • Used T-SQL to retrieve data using multiple SQL statements.    • Designed and developed front view components using JSP, HTML and CSS.    • Developed User Interface for Application and Purchase System using JavaScript and jQuery.    • Developed Web Services to communicate with other applications using SOAP.    • Developed the WSDL and Web Services in Apache Axis2 for different modules.    • Tested Web Services using SOAP UI toolkit locally.    • Created continuous integration builds using Maven and SVN control.    • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing. Tested the developed components using JUnit.    • Deployed web components, presentation components and business components in ApacheTomcat and WebLogic Application Server.    • Involved unit testing, Interface testing, System testing and user acceptance testing of the workflow too.    Environment: JAVA /J2EE, Agile, Spring, JSP, Servlet, html, CSS, Web services, SOAP, Maven, SVN, Eclipse, JUnit, JQuery, HibernateWebLogic application server, Apache Tomcat, Apache Axis2 MS SQL, T-SQL. Java Backend Developer Star Health and Allied Insurance Company Ltd July 2010 to July 2012 Description: This project is an application for Insurance agents. This is a client/server application consisting of three main modules: 'Query', 'Policy' and 'Rate Quote'. The 'Query' module is the interface with the insurance agent to query the data base and generate customizable reports. The 'Policy' module concerns the various insurance sectors including Auto, Life and Fire insurance. The 'Rate Quote' module provides rates and payment terms, funding and protection options and coverage details for the various types of insurance.    Responsibilities:  • Used Agile Methodology and participated in Scrum meetings.  • Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented the application using Jakarta Struts Framework which is based on Model View Controller design pattern.  • Developed user interface using JSP Tag libraries.  • Developed different components of the application such as JSPs, EJB are using Rational Application Developer.  • Developed various EJB components to fulfil the business logic.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Struts Framework and Hibernate.  • Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application.  • Used JMS for asynchronous communication.  • Developing Backend stored procedures using PL/SQL which willgenerate reports.  • Implemented various Design Patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit framework.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j.  • Used CVS for version control.  Environment: Java2EE, Rational Application Developer 7.0, WebSphere Application Server 6.1, Oracle 10g, JSP 2.1, HTML/DHTML, EJB 3.0, Spring 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, JavaScript, IBM MQ Series, AJAX, JNDI, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, JAXP, JAXB, XML, ANT, JUnit, Log4j, CVS, Windows XP. Java Developer Radcom Software Services LLC June 2009 to June 2010 Description: IAT is an application that provides B2C service offered by operators to their customers allowing Roaming Recharge facility, like users can recharge his/her own prepaid account while travelling abroad. It also permits Airtime Transfer from a various set of channels, enabling user and not only the networks subscribers to recharge the mobile prepaid account of another person.    Responsibilities:  • Designed user interfaces, object model, application server logic and schema by analyzing user requirements.    • Designed UI pages using HTML, DHTML, Java Script, JSP and Struts tag libraries.    • Used J2EE patterns for designing applications.    • Monitored the performance of servlets using JProbe.    • Coded StrutsAction Classes and Model Classes.    • Developing various Action classes and implemented various Service methods as per the requirements.    • Development of complete IAT Soap Blocker and multi-threading feature to handle SOAP-XML requests/responses.    • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.    • Implemented business logic using Java Beans for data collection from the front end and storage/retrieval from the backend MySQL DB using Hibernate.    • Played key role in implementing Value Object and DAO design patterns.    • Involved in design and development of web front end using HTML, JavaScript and Struts architecture.    • Developed form beans, action classes to be used in Struts.    • Using Model View Controller (MVC) architecture of Struts developed client User Interface.    • Extensively involved in Unit testing and coordinated with the testing team and fixing Bugs at various stages of the application development.    • Worked on France telecom based IRMA tool bug fixing tasks.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts 2, Web Services, MySQL, Jonas 4.8.3, IBM WebSphere MQ, Eclipse (GANYMEDE), SOAP UI, Apache, Jakarta, Log4J, AXIS SOAP Engine, Ant. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JSP (8 years), SOAP (8 years), WEB SERVICES (8 years), Rest, Java J2Ee, Core Java, Angular, J2Ee, Hibernate, JEE, Spring, MVC, Angularjs, AWS Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java, C++, SQL and PL-SQL.  J2EE Technologies  JDK, JDBC 2.0/3.0/4.0, EJB 2.0/3.0, Servlets 2.3/2.4/2.5/.1,  JSP 1.2/2.02.3, JSTL, JSF, JMS, JNDI, JAF, JTA, JCA, JAAS, JAXR, JAXP, RMI,  Applets (Swing, AWT), JavaBeans, iBATIS 2.2, DMR, Easy Mock,  Java Mail API, Java Persistence API.    Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, MySQL 4.x/5.x DB2  Database Tools Toad 9/10, SQL Developer, PL/SQL Developer, MySQL workbench, DB2Connect, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g,  Web Services SOAP, RESTful, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAXB, Metro, SAAJ  Web Technologies  XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, Schema, XPath, DOM, HTML3/5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3,  WML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, Angular JS, Twitter Bootstrap,  Word Press, GUI, iText, JBOSS SEAM, /Fuse, Adobe Flex, Apache POI, DTD    Platforms Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8/10, UNIX, Oracle Solaris, Linux  Web/Application  Server    BEA WebLogic 8.1/9.2/10g/11g/12c, IBM WebSphere 5.x/6.0/7.0/8.x,  Apache TomcatAS 4.0/4.2/5.1/6.0/7.0, JBoss EAP 4.2/4.3/5.0/6.0, Glass Fish,  Tomcat 4.0/5.x/6.x, Apache HTTP Server, Microsoft IIS.    Framework Spring 2.0/2.5/3.0/3.1/4.3/5.0, Hibernate 3.0 /3.2/4.0/5.0, Struts 1.x/2.0, ADF, Castor Framework, Top Link, Maverick, My Faces  IDEs Eclipse, JBuilder, RAD, NetBeans, IntelliJ, Web logic Workshop, IBM Rational Application Developer  Version Control CVS, VSS, SVN, Clear Case, Subversion, Git hub.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Test Driven, Waterfall, Rational Unified Process, RAD.  Other Libraries Guava, Jackson.  Defect Tracking  Tools & Others    Jira, Bugzilla, IBM Rational Clear Quest, Trac, putty, WinSCP, Business Objects,  Control M Scheduler, Site Minder, Vantage Analyzer, Twilio, HP ALM.