Java Architect <span class="hl">Java</span> Architect Java Architect - Home Depot Bethesda, MD Over twelve years of extensive experience in full project lifecycle, application design and architecture, software development, database optimization, enterprise integration, testing, documentation, and implementation of various Distributed multi-tiers, multi-threaded applications for Fortune 500 Companies.    ? Full Stack Engineer - Working on Web Applications' Front end, Backend and everywhere in between while enjoying it. (in between = Data Layers, Databases, APIs).  ? Expertise in B2B, EAI, Web and Client/Server Applications.  ? Expertise in designing, developing and deploying applications using J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSTL, Struts, Spring, JSF, JMS, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, Java Beans Hibernate and Web Services  ? Good Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JMS ( Java Messaging Service), IBM Web sphere MQ Series.  ? Proficient in using Design Patterns like GOF Design patterns(Creational, Structural and behavioral) and J2EE design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, DAO, VO, DTO etc.  ? Very good understanding of Object Oriented Design (OOD), UML, Java/J2EE Design Patterns, multi-tier architectures and distributed architectures.  ? Performed unit testing using JUnit test cases and used Mockito for stubbing.  ? Database Design, Modeling, Migration using SQL & PL SQL, Oracle, DB2, SQL Server.  ? Experienced in Developing and Deploying Applications using Web sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat & HTTP Server.  ? Good knowledge in Log4j, JUnit, Maven and Jenkins.  ? Specialized in RDBMS design using normalization techniques and expertise in using SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  ? Experience in various software developments IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse.  ? Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Architect Home Depot - Bethesda, MD March 2017 to Present This Project is to develop application which helps in creating E-notices if there is any disciplinary violation instead of manually maintaining notices. These notices can be maintained easily using this application. These notices can be produced as evidence to the court in case of any legal issues.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed the limitations and issues of existing Web services, and Architected, Designed, Developed and implemented the new Web services Framework based on the Dynamic routing SOA Design Pattern using Java, Axis, Castor, Xerces and XML for Client Data Management.  ? Architected, Designed and developed the concepts of UI Framework over to build UI utilizing common library for data transformation, data repository APIs, application framework to invoke classed based on the concept of Dependency injection using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, AXIS, FOP, XML, XSL, SAX.  ? Designed and implemented Service Oriented Architecture, Enterprise service bus, Web applications, databases, data warehouses, business rules.  ? Developed the Spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application.  ? Implemented JAVA Web Services based on SOA architecture with SOAP and WSDL.  ? Architected and developed several SOAP based web services build on the CFX framework.  ? Architected a Web 2.0 dynamic script loader framework to facility dynamic loading and AJAX functionality while greatly reducing the complexity of maintaining numerous scripts on a single page.  ? Developed technical solutions to build Java architectural framework.  ? Designed and architectural decisions for a multi-tier reusable service based J2EE application.  ? Involved actively in designing web page using HTML, Backbone, AnjularJS, JQuery, Javascript, Bootsrap and CSS.  ? Developed user interface using JSP with JavaBeans, JSTL and CustomTag Libraries, JS, CSS, JQuery, Node.JS, HTML, SASS and Ajax to speed the application.  ? Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design.  ? Utilized MongoDB database management system for keeping user generated data  ? Developed and deployed EJBs, Servlets and JSPs on IBM Websphere Server.  ? Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, XML, HTML and CSS for developing the web component of the application.  ? Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  ? Used Subversion (SVN) for software version control.  ? Unit testing was performed using JUnit and Version control through Git.  ? Created Class Diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML.  ? Develop the web application using Spring, JSP, HTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and Javascript and implemented the application using J2EE design patterns like Spring, Singleton, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object).  ? Implemented and customized Returns web services using JAX-WS with EJB.  ? Developed SQL and PL/ SQL scripts for transfer of data between databases. Developed complex SQL queries for reports.  ? Used Web Logic Application Server as an application server and Eclipse as IDE.  ? Implemented content management system enhancements leveraging Web 2.0 technologies.  ? Provided support in the analysis and troubleshooting of production issues which are tracked through JIRA.  ? Extensively used the BAL constructs to handle collections in ILOG. Worked with large data sets in ILOG.    Technologies: Java, J2EE, Struts, JSF, ANT, Hibernate, Angular.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Coherence, Weblogic, Subversion (SVN), JUnit, JSP, JSTL, Javascript, CSS3, Ajax, HTML5, Oracle, CRUD, SQL, EJB, Scala, REST, SOAP, XML, Agile, UML, PL/ SQL, Apache CXF, REST, Eclipse, Servlet, Maven, Itext, JIRA, Web 2.0, SOA, Jasper Report, ILOG. Java Architect Cisco - Bethesda, MD September 2015 to February 2017 Cisco IT's eStore replaces multiple service request systems with a unified service catalog for ordering any type of IT service. It provides a unified self-service IT portal for end users to order any type of IT service from a catalog of standard options. Furthermore, the catalog can help to streamline and automate provisioning through its integration with Cisco Process Orchestrator. With this IT process automation system in place, requests for IT services, applications and infrastructure can be processed in minutes instead of hours or days with greater transparency and control for end users as well as for IT. Involved in Java development in Agile.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed new web application using Java, JSP, Struts, Hibernate and Oracle that allowed users to enter, preview and publish the web sites dynamic content.  ? Worked on a team that developed a data warehouse and reporting application using Java, JSP, Oracle and Crystal Reports.  ? Various maintenance tasks involving Java, JSP, Javascript and Oracle.  ? Developed application using J2EE architecture with Struts, Spring and Hibernate using concrete principles laid down by design patterns.  ? Implemented JSF framework in the application which is based on MVC design architecture.  ? Designed and integrated the full scale Struts/Hibernate persistence solution with the application architectures.  ? Designed the architecture for a scalable, maintainable, highly-available J2EE application using in Web logic.  ? Architect and development of core components of a web site application using J2EE, EJB, Hibernate, SQL, PL /SQL.  ? Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern.  ? Architected the design for reading XML files using Groovy.  ? Designing Architecture, developing and implementing components of day-to-day for user Web Interface.  ? Managed a team of developers and architects offshore and local to develop web based bank wide AML solution to meet regulatory requirements from all over the world.  ? Defined architecture of new enhancements and re-structuring of an existing application for better performance.  ? Involved in development using struts components - Struts-config.xml, tiles, form-beans and plug-ins in Struts architecture.  ? Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to ORACLE.  ? Designed and developed utility modules using the Google Guice injection framework.  ? Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  ? Created Technical rules and Business rules using JBRMS and configured them with service layers using Camel routes.  ? Worked on migration of application from WAS to Tomcat/JBoss by participating in all aspects of migration plan starting from Development to production environments.  ? Designed, implementation, and development of Oracle ECM workflows to meet the requirements of the business user.  ? Worked on triggers and stored procedures on Oracle database.  ? Configured and created application log files using Log4j required to trace application messages and CVS for Version Controlling.  ? Used Apache common digester to parse data from XML files and populate data into Java beans.  ? Integrated Struts with spring by delegating Struts action management to spring framework.  ? Created Eclipse based applications using Eclipse Workbench UI.  ? Converted XML to Java objects using JAXB.  ? Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validations and Javascript and HTML pages.  ? Built application with JS frameworks such as Angular JS, Ember, and Backbone.JS.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, jqValidtor, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Backbone.JS, Ember.JS and Node.JS, Bootstrap, EXT JS.  ? Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS, Javascript and building the System with the convenient methods.  ? Used MVC architecture of Ext JS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  ? Performed performance tuning to enable high performance of ILOG JRules using Sequential/Rete algorithm within Data Stage environments.  ? Maintained report and request generator using Jasper Report.  Technologies: Java, JSP, Servlets, Camel, JDBC, HTML,XMI, JBoss, Eclipse, Oracle, Maven, Log4j, SVN, Angular.JS, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, Ajax, GWT, GUICE, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Coherence, HTML5, DB2, CRUD, SQL, Struts, JSF, DOJO, ExtJS , PL/ SQL, Apache CXF, SOAP, Servlet, EJB, Maven, XML, Itext, Oracle ECM, JIRA, Jasper report, ILOG, JRules Sr. Java/J2EE Developer IBM - Armonk, NY September 2013 to August 2015 Digital Supply Chain project was aimed at transforming Univision's media operations from a traditional broadcast-centric model into an agile, cross platform digital media ecosystem, capable of supporting multiple, diverse models for delivery of media assets from content providers to content distributors and consumers. This integration Involve three end systems, Rights Logic system all the Schedules are created or updated through this an order is created in Xytech Media Pulse system this creates a service in Anvato System ESB processes all the flows and routes to the particular systems.    Responsibilities:  ? Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  ? Developed Web Java/J2EE application (JSP, EJB) using Struts/Tomcat/Xerces for Sybase, JBuilder.  ? Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  ? Used Perl, PHP and MySQL to develop several web sites, SEO (search engine optimization) skills.  ? Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  ? Involved in Creation, Manipulation and Supporting the SQL Server Database.  ? Java and JSP developer for J2EE web application on WAS, DB2 and AIX.  ? Wrote Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  ? Proficient use of developing applications using Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD, NetBeans and ANT.  ? Configuration and deployment of application on to Jboss application server.  ? Created and maintained Amazon EC2 instance that supports the company's project management site and Mercurial.  ? Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project.  ? Implemented Selenium IDE with Javascript for Web apps.  ? Expertise in employing Agile and best practices for software development.  ? Designed and developed components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML.  ? Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  ? Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data.  ? Used JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  ? Developed client GUI modules using Swing, Java script and Flash.  ? Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  ? Developed/Deployed of jar files into ILOGRule builder.  ? Designed, Implemented and Tested Oracle ADF applications using JDeveloper.  ? Involved in the development of Services using Oracle BPM, WSDL and XSD.  ? Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe.  ? Troubleshot issues concerning Apache Tomcat during deployment.  ? Moved application from Solaris to Linux RedHat for system benchmark.  ? Used Ruby on Rails for development with backbone.JS.  ? Designed and created multiple sites using WordPress, HTML, PHP, XML, CSS, Javascript.  ? Developed multiple web applications using Drupal, Zend Framework.  ? Designed and implement existing and new website features using ASP.Net.  ? Designed and developed programs in C/C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  ? Used JAXB to marshal and unmarshal Java objects to Communicate with the backend mainframe system.  ? J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  ? Code development using PL/I, COBOL, JCL and DB2.  Technologies: Java, Swing, WebSphere, DB2, Netbeans, Jboss, Visual Source Safe, Selenium, Mercurial, Agile, UML, JSP , Servlet, ANT, XML, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, Cognos, Ilog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBMMQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby Wordpress, Drupal , .Net , ASP, C++, Mainframe, COBOL , PL/I , JCL, SQL , SAS VB , ASP Java Developer Wells Fargo Bank - San Francisco, CA March 2011 to August 2013 This project is involved in developing a mortgage application that can be accessed by various sales agents and it also involved in developing loan fulfillment once the loan is submitted by sales agents.  Once the loan is submitted, depending on the credit, pricing will be applied to the loan and the process continues till loan approval and funds disbursement. In the process of loan approval a loan encounters milestones such as initial risk review, pre-approval etc.  Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all the stages of SDLC from requirements gathering to deployment of software.  ? Used MS Visio to come up with the required diagrams for the design part.  ? Developed and designed Interfaces using Swings.  ? Used Event Handlers to perform the required functionality of the events.  ? Implemented the statistics like UNIVARIATE, CORRELATION, REGRESSION etc using JAVA classes and methods.  ? Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML, Javascript, Ajax.  ? Involved in developing business components using POJO.  ? Installed, configured, deployed, Monitored and troubleshoot WebLogic.  ? Involved in writing packages, stored procedures to retrieve/modify data in database.  ? Used MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Session facade, Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns  ? Involved in writing client side validations using Java Script.  ? Troubleshooting WebLogic Server.  ? The business logic was implemented in Processors and DAO layer accesses the back-end SQL Server database using Hibernate.  ? Created JUnit test cases to cover unit testing for the components.  ? Used Log4j for logging and handling defects of the application  Technologies: JAVA (Swings), JDBC, Web Service, Spring, Java, EJB, Java Script, Weblogic, Hibernate, Log4j, Ant script, TOAD, Putty, WinScp, Net Beans and Oracle Net Beans IDE, MS Visio, Oracle, JUnit. Software Developer Cigna - San Francisco, CA March 2008 to February 2011 Work on claim management system, this system provides health plan administrators with reports summarizing the information about the claimants, Service Plans etc. I have worked on maintenance releases as well as on development releases and improved the performance of the applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding the Domain Knowledge for the Product, Requirements and Design Documents  ? Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance  ? Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  ? Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  ? Worked on bug fixing  ? Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  ? Worked on various client websites that used Struts framework, Hibernate and OGNL  ? Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework.  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQLServer database for Reports module.  ? Simulation was developed using C++.  ? Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  ? Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  ? Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA.  ? Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  ? Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  ? Automated nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  ? Responsible for migrating Websphere server and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  ? J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  ? Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  ? Used FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  ? Configured and analyzed JCL to execute mainframe batch.  ? Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  ? Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  ? Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance    Technologies: Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, .Net, JIRA, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, Visual Source Safe, Weblogic, Oracle , OGNL, C, C++, Linux, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid, REXX, ISPF, Mainframe, CICS, IMS, VSAM, JCL Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse (8 years), Java (10+ years), Jsp (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), Sql (10+ years), HTML, Javascript, Linux, SQL Server, XML, jQuery, Microservice (3 years), Scala (8 years), Akka (4 years), Puppet (3 years), Chef (4 years), Puppet (3 years), Chef (3 years), Ansible (2 years), Asp.Net (2 years), netbeans (3 years), Kafka (2 years), Eclipse (3 years), Asp.Net (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Tools and Technologies: Java, J2EE, Ajax, PL/SQL, JSF, Hibernate, Oracle, Angular.JS, Node.JS, Backbone.JS, EJB, JSP, Javascript, Servlets, Java Beans, Bootstrap.JS, Eclipse, Flex Builder, NetBeans, RSA, MS Visio  Languages: Java, Flex, Javascript, PL/SQL, T-SQL, C# .Net, HTML, XML  Markup languages: HTML5, CSS3, XHTML and XML  Web Services: RESTful and SOAP.  Data-interchange format: JSON, XML  Change Management tools: SVN, Git, VSS  App/Web Servers: IIS and Apache  Libraries: GSON, Jackson, Ksoap2-Android, Volley, Picasso, HTTP, Universal Image Loader  Methodologies: Agile/XP (Extreme Programming) and SCRUM  Operating Systems: Unix/Linux, Windows  Design Patterns: Observer, strategy, Iterator, Command, State, COR, Bridge, Factory, Visitor Composite