Sr. Sales Force/ Java Developer Sr. Sales Force/<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Sales Force/ Java Developer Atlanta, GA ? Around 10 years of experience as an IT professional, committed to maintain cutting edge technical skills and up-to-date industry knowledge including 6+ years of experience as a Salesforce CRM Administrator, Developer and Consultant.  ? Hands on experience in SFDC development using the APEX classes, Triggers, Components, Force.com IDE, Eclipse with SOQL, SOSL and Force.com plug-in.  ? Pervasive experience in performing the administrative and development related tasks like consigning Roles, creating Profiles, Visualforce pages, Validation Rules, Users, Custom Reports, Workflows, Email Alerts, Entity Relationship Diagrams and Page Layouts.  ? Proficient in dealing with the functionalities related to the Service cloud and Sales Cloud.  ? Thorough knowledge in the security and sharing model which is used to finely control the user's access to different data.  ? Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Page Layouts, Approvals, Dashboards, Actions, Tasks and Events.  ? Extensive experience in lead, case management, Web-to-Lead, Web-to-Case, Email-to-Case.  ? Good experience in working on Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in for writing business logic in Apex programming language.  ? Effective employment of Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard and Data Manipulation Language for data migration and management in bulk.  ? Experience in SFDC Integration using Web Service and Apex Programming.  ? Developed and worked on different Salesforce.com environments such as sandbox and production environments.  ? Experience with Workflow Issues, restart Workflows, reset data fields, test and fix the validation rules.  ? Provided customer with best practice solutions as related to Salesforce CRM.  ? Used REST and SOAP web services.  ? Built new apps with the Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components.  ? Developed re-usable UI Components with the Lightning Component Framework.  ? Good experience in Web Service - Synchronous & Asynchronous, web service factory.  ? Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, WSDL, and SOAP.  ? Built large single-page web applications using Angular JS.  ? Work well alone and as part of a team with excellent troubleshooting mechanisms and highly adaptable to different work environments.  ? Configured, Implemented administrated and maintained the salesforce.com platform.  ? Proficiency in installing App Exchange applications.  ? Excellent knowledge of customer focused IT delivery methods and strong de-bugging and documentation skills.  ? Strong leadership abilities and a quick learner to new concepts, Applications while managing and coordinating all phases of project-based effort. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Sales Force/ Java Developer Procter & Gamble - New York, NY March 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to manage sharing access among different users.  ? Designed and deployed Custom tabs, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  ? Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  ? Created page layouts and search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  ? Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation rules and formula fields to the custom objects.  ? Integrated App Exchange applications like Case History Timeline makes it possible for users to create a timeline showing all stages of a case.  ? Developed various Visualforce pages as per organization requirements.  ? Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Controllers and Apex Triggers to develop custom business logic.  ? Performed data migration from Microsoft CRM to Salesforce.com.  ? Developed Web-to-Lead functionality which directs leads from web to Salesforce.  ? Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  ? Wrote triggers to process incoming service e-mail requests from customers to automatically create new case records.  ? Used the Lightning App Builder to create custom Home pages that appear for different Profiles.  ? Built apps by leveraging the rich features and flexibility of Salesforce files from standard Salesforce objects and custom objects.  ? Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  ? Used the Force.com Web Services API for extracting the data from the Force.com organization to other external systems.  ? Developed the Visualforce pages and controllers; customized the look and feel of the page components; and implemented the partial page refresh using Ajax.  ? Created mash up between salesforce CRM and Gmail through Force.com App Exchange's Email integration engine.  ? Involved in developing, implementing & testing on the Sandbox environment.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Force.com Sites, Apex, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java, Java Script, Angular JS, CSS, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader and Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer/Administrator/CRM Coca Cola - Manhattan, NY September 2013 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and created solutions by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com API, and Web Services.  ? Created various Custom Objects, Custom Settings, Custom Labels, Validation rules, Record types, Custom Tabs, Workflow rule and approval process including Field updates and email alerts.  ? Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports, and created custom objects based on Business need.  ? Created New Reports, New Dashboards, and worked on Data Loader by uploading about close to a million records and experienced in cleansing and De-duplicating bulk loads.  ? Used SOSL query to search all objects including custom objects.  ? Used Sales Cloud in preparing and getting approval of design, functional and technical specifications from business users.  ? Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  ? Created workflow rules, defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  ? Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  ? Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  ? Generated Apex Classes using WSDL and wrote business logic layer for integration with external web services to the system for functional needs.  ? Implemented Apex Classes & Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows Implemented in the system.  ? Developed dynamic web applications for desktop and mobile devices using Salesforce Lightning Components.  ? Built an Interactive Experience with JavaScript to meet User Experience Requirements.  ? Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information  ? Used force.com developer toolkit including visualforce pages, apex classes, apex controllers and apex triggers to develop custom business logic.  ? Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, and Apex Controllers to develop custom business logic.  ? Part of development team Developed Visualforce pages  ? Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.com.  ? Developed Test classes  ? Extensively involved in data migration from three legacy systems to Salesforce.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, CRM, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE. Salesforce Developer ActionNet Inc - Jersey City, NJ November 2010 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented SFDC CRM to deliver various reports in departments of Sales, Administration and Marketing etc.  ? Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements.  ? Created custom objects, Visualforce pages, triggers, validation rules to help track internal help desk cases, customize campaign budgeting and lead qualification.  ? Created custom controllers implementing complex code for retrieval from Salesforce to VF pages.  ? Wrote SOQL and SOSL statements within custom controllers, extensions and triggers.  ? Used Salesforce.com Ajax Toolkit to make asynchronous calls to the SFDC data store for optimizing data retrieval speeds.  ? Created mash-ups to include data from many external end-points such as including financial information from 3rd parties in the customer's profile (Accounts) using WSDL and XML Stream Reader.  ? Successfully customized SFDC interface Responsible for performing administrative functions in Salesforce CRM such as create/modify pick-lists and lookup fields.  ? Created detailed data mapping document for integrating various systems with Salesforce.com.  ? Completed the Application modification functionality and the Toolbar modification functionality of the application as separate Flex Modules and integrated them onto one composite application.  ? Created various summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and setup report folders to authenticate users based on their profiles with permissions.  ? Implemented complex approval processes to ensure proper authorization in the high-stakes environment of capital management.  ? Managed users, hierarchical roles, profiles, security controls and territory management.  ? Created and deployed complex workflow rules according to the business requirements.  ? Developed complex reports and dashboards using HTML, PDF, Apex, Visualforce page.    Environment: Eclipse IDE, Salesforce.com, Force.com Sandbox, S-Controls, Import Wizard, Apex, XML, JavaScript, Angular JS, Web Services API, Controllers, Sharing Rules, Visualforce Pages, Workflows, Email Updates. Java/J2EE Developer TMX Finance - Dallas, TX April 2009 to October 2010 Responsibilities:    • Extensively involved in design and development of Line Level Bill Credits (LLBC), and Handset.  • Report development using BIRT Report Designer Professional  • Developed handlers which should handle Web Services calls using Axis 2.0 and http requests to process the data. Used Sax parser to parse the XML response from Hosts.  • Used Struts, play framework to write Presentation Layer, Business Layers and Controller servlets.  • Used Oracle 10g as backend databases and actively involved in writing PL/SQL functions and packages.  • Developed XML configuration files, properties files used in struts Validate framework for validating Form inputs on server side.  • Used Restful Web services which is light weight, maintainable and scalable.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) framework for object relational mapping which is based on POJO Classes.  • Used Struts which is an open source MVC framework for creating elegant, modern java web applications.  • Extensively used AJAX technology to add interactivity to the web pages.  • Used spring data JPA which focuses on JPA to store data in relational data base, by which simple Queries are written.  • Used Angular Js to address many of the challenges encountered in developing single page applications and created custom general modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Angular Js.  • Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Used SOA for web based applications.  • Developed web service client based on WSDL's provided by middleware team for retrieving bill credits and customer agreement data from backend systems.  • Involved in deployment of application on WebLogic Application Server in Development & QA environment.    Environment Used: Java 1.7, Spring, SQL, Eclipse, JSP, Servlets, JMS, XML, Ant, XSLT, JSON, SVN, Oracle 11g, JPA, RESTful, Spring MVC, Struts, Spring Data JPA, Birt Reports, Jenkins, AngularJS, WebLogic 7.0, SOA, JavaScript, MyBatis, Maven, PL/SQL J unit, Web Sphere. Java/J2EE Developer Verizon Wireless - Buffalo, NY August 2007 to March 2009 Responsibilities:  Responsible for requirements gathering, analysis and design and documentation as the application was started from scratch.  • Built data-driven Web applications with server side J2EE technologies like Servlets/JSP and generated dynamic Web pages with Java Server Pages (JSP)  • Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Developed real time tracking of class schedules using Node JS (socket.io based on socket technology, Express JS framework)  • Good experience with Java scripts used for Actuate BIRT Reporting.  • Experience in creating scripted datasets for BIRT Reporting.  • Integration of Actuate reports with . java Application using Actuate API's  • Used XML translation on Web Service output using XSLT to generate XML document compatible with the application's schema.  • Experienced in cloud application and server virtualization using AWS (Amazon Web Services) and Azure  • Worked on UML diagrams like Class Diagram, Sequence Diagram required for implementing the Quartz scheduler.  • Extensively used JQuery to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations.  • Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Extensively used Spring MVC architecture for the application development.  • Developed several controller classes as required for the design such as Abstract Wizard form controller, Simple Form controller, Multi Action controller, etc. in Spring MVC.  • Developed the code based on the design using Tiles MVC (Struts framework) and using J2EE patterns.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Programming and Development of web pages using Spring, JSP and JavaScript.  • Developed user interface using JSTL, HTML, Java script, JQuery and CSS.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Factory pattern & Singleton Pattern.  • Used Hibernate as an O/R mapping tool for selecting, inserting and updating the records in the database.  • Extensively used Eclipse IDE for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  • Managing and maintaining No SQL database mainly Mongo DB and used Multithreading at back end components in production domain.  • Implemented Log4j by enabling logging at runtime without modifying the application binary.  • Provided ANT build script for building and deploying the application.  • Involved in configuring and deploying the application on WebLogic Application Server.  • Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  • Involved in bug fixing and resolving issues with the QA and production environment during production support.  • SVN is used as a tool for version control.    Environment Used: Java, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Birt Reports, AJAX, SQL, WebLogic, Web Service, Micro Services, AWS Lambda, Oracle, PL/SQL, Servlets/JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, Log4j, Eclipse, Unit, SVN, UNIX. Education Bachelor's Bachelor's