MuleSoft Developer MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> MuleSoft Developer - Allianz Global Investors San Felipe Pueblo, NM 11+ years of extensive experience in Java/JEE technologies like object-oriented design/analysis, Java development, web services for service-oriented architecture with 3+ years of extensive implementation experience in Mule ESB over Anypoint Studio, Anypoint Cloud-Hub, API Gateway and Management.  • Mulesoft Certified Integration Professional - highly coveted and technically challenging certification.  • Mulesoft trained and Certified Developer - Integration and API Associate.  • Mulesoft Certified Developer - API Design Associate  Detailed Summary:  • Have extensive experience in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment. Experience in Waterfall&Agile development methodologies.  • Strong experience with Mule ESB (3.8.x), Mule API, Mule Anypoint Studio, and Mule Cloudhub and RAML.  • Proficient in MuleSoft AnyPoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs. Strong working knowledge on API Gateway.  • Experience on creating Flows, Sub Flows, Exception strategy, DataWeave transformation, DataMapper and other activities.  • Experience using mule connectors like DB, HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, FILE, SFTP, JMS, Salesforce etc as a part of integration usage.  • Experience with Mule Soft MMC and enterprise release. Worked with relevant message processors in Mule ESB and also with all exception strategy handling, MEL (Mule Expression Language).  • Solid Knowledge in Java/J2EE technologies. Well experienced in MVC architecture, Hibernate and Struts frameworks.  • Experienced in designing the Front-end pages using scripting languages like HTML, DHTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, JSF and server side-side web applications using Node.js.  • Knowledge on RDBMS like Oracle, MySQL, DB2 and NoSQL Databases like MongoDB  • Expertise in DB Design, DB normalization and writing SQL queries &PL/SQL- Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Sequences, Indexes and Views etc.  • Involved in Complete Life Cycle development using Mule ESB based on SOA architecture. Also, responsible to develop Restful/SOAP Web Services in Mule ESB based on SOA.  • Strong development experience with producing and consuming Java Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, CXF, AXIS, JERSEY, XML, WS-Security.  • Good hands on experience using mule connectors like Salesforce, File, Database, JMS, SMTP other connectors as a part of integration usage.  • Proficient in Creating cluster environment using Mule ESB with Mule Anypoint Studio and Creating ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ with different topologies in Enterprise Integration.  • Experience with JMS both Synchronous and Asynchronous messaging.  • Worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of Mule ESB. Also, worked on developing an API using RAML.  • Experience in configuring and deploying the application on Apache Tomcat,WebSphere, WebLogic&JBoss application servers.  • Experience in using different IDEs such as Eclipse, My Eclipse.  • Application integration using MuleSoft ESB and IBM Message Broker for integrating and orchestrating the services.  • Expertise in doing unit testing using Junit, Mockito&Power Mockito. Involved in unit testing and writing the MUnit Test cases for the flows.  • Experience with integration Patterns, tools, EAI, Transformations, XML Schemas, and XSLT.  • Experience with different version control/tracking systems like CVS, GIT&SVN.  • Extensively used Maven&ANT as build script for application build and deployment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MuleSoft Developer Allianz Global Investors - Dallas, TX September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement Gathering, analysis, design and development of the project  • Executed the development process using Agile methodology, which included iterative application development, monthly Sprints, stand up meetings, poker planning sessions, elaboration sessions and customer reporting  • Designed UML diagrams like Use case, Class and Activity diagram based on the requirements gathered.  • Designed and developed enterprise services using RAML and REST based APIs and used various transformers in Mule ESB based on use case and had implemented the custom transformations.  • Created and consumed soap and REST services using CXF and used MULE ESB to route various calls to do validation of service input and to handle exceptions.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.  • Worked on the Mule API Gateway for theapplication of policies to API as well for managing the security. Also worked with the Proxy settings using the API Gateway for the API's.  • Used DataMapper as well as DataWeave for data transformations and data validations within flows & sub flows.  • Implemented synchronous and Asynchronous messaging scopes using ActiveMQ in Mule.  • Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database, from ActiveMQ topics and queues, some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Developed interfaces between SAP, Sales Force, REST and SOAP web-services.  • Used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing MQ Series, Http, File system and SFTP transports.  • Involved in creating http inbound&outbound flows, transformers, filtering and Security of Mule Flows.  • Created Request & Response transformers, Custom Components & configured them in Mule-config.xml.  • Created Mule Flow using End Point, Connector and Component bean using Mule ESB to communicate client/server systems.  • Involved in writing SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Views for Oracle database, mapping done through Hibernate.  • Extensively used Mule components that includes File Transport, SMTP Transport, FTP/SFTP Transport, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  • Developed RESTful/SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture  • Deployed Mule ESB applications into MMC (Mule Management Console and used MUnit to validate mule flows.  • Utilized Log4J for logging and JUnit for unit testing.  Environment: Java 1.6, Mule soft ESB 3.7.x, Any point studio, Oracle, CXF, SOAP, REST, OAuth, DataWeave, DataMapper, MUnit, Sales force, Hibernate, GitHub, cloudHub, Mule standalone server, ActiveMQ, RAML, JSON, MUnit, WebSphere, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Log4j, JUnit, WSDL, CVS Mule ESB Developer Fujitsu America, Inc - Novi, MI May 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis of existing design documents, planning, proposing changes by analyzing new Wire Frames, development and testing of the application.  • Designed and developed integration applications using Mule ESB to integrate SAP and Salesforce applications using Mule ESB 3.8 runtime, Anypoint Studio 6.1, Anypoint Platform and CloudHubiPaaS (Integration platform as a service)  • Implemented Security mechanisms like Security Certificates, key Exchange, Encryption, Decryption and OAuth Authentication & Authorization using Access Token and SM session cookie.  • Created new and updated existing RESTAPIs using RAML 0.8 APIKit for defining integration schematics.  • Built flows for Oracle Database and used RabbitMQwhere other teams will utilize the URL by giving values to the provided parameters.  • Developed REST APIs in Mule ESBAnyPoint platform using RAML and created API portals.  • Used Mule ESB Batch Processing to process records from Database.  • Utilized the following Mule components extensively for development - SalesforceConnector, SAP connector,RabbitMQ,Choice router, Scatter-Gather router, Expressions connector for plugging in custom java expressions, DataWeave transformers etc.  • Implemented Synchronous and Asynchronous messaging scopes using RabbitMQ in Mule ESB.  • Utilized various connectors such as FTP, HTTP, File, SFTP, SMTP, SAP, CXF, Servlet, Quartz, RabbitMQ and Database in different workflows.  • Implemented Choice, Custom, Global Exception Handling mechanisms based on the requirements in Mule ESB.  • Created API portals for consuming RAML based REST APIs in the system excessively and integrated Mule flows with the Anypoint platform to connect with APIs.  • Strong knowledge and hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API's using RAML file.  • Extensively used the Mule Debugger to debug the XML flows and wrote MUnit test cases using features like mocking, verify call and assert conditions based different sets of data.  • Utilized JIRA tool to estimate and track user stories, analyze BurnOut Graph, Bugs, Defects and other features.  • Utilized GitHub as asource Control repository and maintain code repository with changes being done parallel by onshore as well as offshore teams.  • Used Maven for Deployment, Jenkins for Continuous Integration and continuous Deployment.    Environment: Java 1.8, AnyPoint Studio 5.4.0/5.4.3, MS-Access, Mule ESB 3.7.3, ActiveMQ 5.3, Apache Maven 3.3.9, Nexus, RAML, REST, CloudHub, Log4j 1.2.14, GITHUB, JIRA, API Gateway 2.1, BitBucket, Postman Confluence, Jenkins. MuleSoft Developer Merrill Lynch - Pennington, NJ January 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Followed the guidelines of Agile methodologies of SDLC for project management and was involved in complete SDLC using Agile including design, development, implementation & testing.  • Used Mule ESB to design of routing, error handling, JMS, VM connection. Deployed Mule applications into MMC (Mule Management Console)  • Used RAML API for routing to web services. Used Batch Scope for Bulk transfer of Data. Schedule trigger done by Poll, Quartz and used Mule requestor to connect FTP on demand.  • Carried out integrations using connectors such as Salesforce, HL7, SAP, Database, HTTP, FTP and File Connectors.  • Used Collectionsplitter and Aggregator to collect small chuck of message to transform in to require payload.  • Implemented complex transformation Logics using MEL (Mule Expression Language)  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Done with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of Mule ESB endpoint through OAuth.  • Used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Created MULE ESB artifact and configured the MULE configuration files and deployed. Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database, from ActiveMQ topics and queues, some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Worked on MuleSoft Anypoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule API  • Developed a RAML based REST web services API's using Mule ESB. Used Mule ESB to route various service calls, to do validation of service input and to handle exceptions.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using XPath using MULE ESB.  • Have written MUnit test cases to validate the Mule flows.  • Involved in building the code & deploying on JBoss application server.  • Used JMS to pass messages as payload to track different statuses, milestones and statuses to implement a workflow management flow.  • Used Github as a repository and used Maven, Jenkins for Build and deployment respectively    Environment: Anypoint Studio, Java 1.6, J2EE, CSS, JQUERY, Spring, Hibernate Spring Security, Eclipse, Junit, WSDL, SOAP, CXF, GIT, RAD, MULE ESB 3.3, Jira, Active MQ, Oracle-SQL, PL/SQL, Unix, XML, JAXP, JAXB, Ant, Ivy. Java Developer Office Depot Inc - Boca Raton, FL June 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements gathering, analyzed requirements from customer point of view, preparing requirement documents.  • Developed Class Diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Object diagrams using UML methodology.  • Devloped web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Implemented crosscutting concerns using SpringAOP.  • Used Spring MVC transaction management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate Cache concepts.  • Involved in developing Java Server pages for implementing interactive front end and integrated it with Spring Controllers using Spring Tag library.  • Created Database tables and used Hibernate module as an object relational mapping tool for backend operations over Oracle database.  • Wrote stored procedures, complex queries using PL/SQl to extract data from the database, delete data and reload data on OracleDB.  • Worked with AngularJS MVC framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers and filters.  • Done J2EE application server installation and configuration. Coded Java server pages using Java Servlets, JSP , Struts, Hibernate and Spring frameworks.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Developed REST Web Services using JAX-RS and Jersey to perform transactions from front end to our backend applications. Response is sent in JSON or XML formats based on the use cases.  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building process that created POM.xml files. Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on Web Logic application server.  • Developed, tested and Debugged the Java, JSP and EJB components using EclipseRCP.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Oracle, Web Logic, JUnit, RESTful Web Services, Agile Methodology, Maven, Git, Eclipse. Java/J2EE Developer Fairfax County Water Authority - Fairfax, VA May 2009 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in requirements gathering, analysis, design, and testing phases.  • Technical Responsibilities included high level architecture and rapid development.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used J2EE design patterns Data Access Object (DAO) for the Business tier Persistence tier layer of the project.  • Development of database interaction code to JDBCAPI making extensive use of SQL Query statements and advanced prepared statement.  • Experienced in implementing Web Services using SOAP, REST and XML/HTTP technologies.  • Wrote SQL Scripts, stored procedures and SQL loader to load reference data.  • Implemented various features of Spring Framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations and Spring integration with Hibernate.  • Coded server pages using JSP, Servlets, Struts by following MVC architecture. Developed Action Classes and Action Forms Beans.  • Used the IntellliJIDE to develop application and used its built-in database tool, plugin and version control.  • Used Maven as a build tool, run different phases and manipulate them according to requirements.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script Manager and Script manager proxy controls to register JavaScript and Web Service files.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems. Installed J2EE application server.  • Used JUnit to write unit tests and integration test, used Mockito to mock objects and Connections.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, RESTful Web Services, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, JSON, XML Beans, WSDL, Apache Axis, ActiveMQ, Maven, Git, JUnit, XML, XSLT, AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, Servlets, HTML, JSP, jQuery, MS SQL server 2008, Log4j, SOAP, IntelliJ. Java Developer Bungie Inc - Bellevue, WA February 2007 to April 2009 Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodologies as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Designed the front end using HTML and JavaScript. Used EJB to communicate between different client platforms.  • Extensively used custom JSP tags to separate presentation from application logic.  • Used Java J2EE design patterns. Involved in client server-side validations.  • Used JQuery to make the front end components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client site.  • Implemented server-side validations and developed model classes. Involved in the Database structuring and Tables creation needed for the project.  • Developed Scripts for UNIX platform deployment.  • Designed and developed web-based software using STRUTS MVC Framework.  • Designed and developed various stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL to implement complex business rules.  • EJBs in the application and developed Session beans for the business logic at the middle tier level.  • Used Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files.  • Installation, configuration & administration of WebLogic environment, including deployment of servlets.  • Used JAXB parser for parsing valid .xml files as defined by XSD.  • Designed JDBC Connection for data retrieval and updating purpose, also developed connection pool to avoid waiting time for database connection.  • Used Tomcat server for application development with Eclipse.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, MVC, Servlets, EJB, Clear Case, Net Beans, Web Logic Application Server, XML, HTML, Hibernate, Spring, AJAX, JavaScript, MultiThreading, JUnit, MySQL, JDBC, Maven and UNIX. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, JAX, JAXB, JAXP, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JBOSS, JMS, JSF, JSP, JSTL, DB2, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, C/C++, C++, DTD Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  ESB & EAI Mule ESB, Oracle ESB, TIBCO, EMS/JMS, Talend ESB  Programming Languages Java/ J2EE, C/C++, SQL  IDE & Integration Tools Anypoint Studio, Eclipse, My Eclipse, MuleSoft ESB, IBM Message Broker  Data Bases Oracle, DB2, MS SQL - SQL & PL/SQL, Mongo DB  Web Services & Design tools JAX-RPC/JAX-WS, Axis, SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI, CXF, JERSEY, Microsoft Visio, Rational Rose, XML  Web/application Servers Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere and JBoss  Version Controlling tools CVS, SVN, GIT, Clear Case  Defects Tracking & Build Tools Bugzilla, JIRA, HP Quality Center, ANT, Maven, Jenkins  Web technologies & XML Technologies HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSP, JSTL, JSF/prime faces, AJAX, Java Script, XML, DTD, XSD, JAXP (DOM & SAX), JAXB, XSLT  Unit Testing MUnit, JUnit, Mockito, Power Mockito  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX/Linux