Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - Caterpillar Peoria, IL • Around 8+ years of professional experience with 2 years of IT experience design and implementation java base applications and latest 6 years of android development experience.  • Developed multiple android application in different types of version from android 2.0.  • Strong expertise in building blocks of android: Activity, Intent, Content provider, Services and Broadcast Receivers.  • Extensively worked with Android SDK, Eclipse IDE with Android ADT plugins, and also Android studio.  • Professional in code optimization in application development process.  • Expertise in developing well design custom View, SQLite, JAVA and HTML.  • Strong expertise in creating responsive UI for various screen resolutions.  • Expertise in implementing multithread technologies such as Handlers, AsyncTask, Threads.  • Experience in developing application using Fragments, Activity work flow, Custom Action Bar navigation and design and implemented launcher Menus.  • Strongly experienced in Android Webservices implementation like REST and SOAP.  • Designed GIU and Interfaces with Services for mobile application and Asynchronous programing in android (such as Thread pool, Tasks and services).  • Expertise in integration in Google analytics, GCM push notification and Google Maps as well.  • Good at implementing responsive Web View applications.  • Having knowledge in creating 9-patch images for various resolutions.  • Extensively worked on Memory-leaks, Offline line Data save and sync to server, content providers, and multi screen supports  • Experience in consuming web services (REST/SOAP) and processing data(XML/JSON).  • Sloid foundation in computer science, with strong competencies in data structures, algorithms and optimization techniques.  • Expertise in integration payment Gateways like Paypal, Payzippy, and Braintree payment Gateway.  • Experienced in using DOM and SAX parser to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  • Expertise In Implementing Intent Service and its communication with Activity/ Fragment.  • Expertise in implementation of AIDL Inter process communication.  • Familiar with android location based services and implemented Google maps.  • Good experience in ExoPlayer library which is used for Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (HTTP DASH)  • Experience in various control systems like GIT, SVN and application sever like Tomcat.  • Hand-on experience in complete project life cycle, with domain knowledge in mobile application development and basic implementation of PHP Web services.  • Dedicated team player , quick learner , self-starter , excellent analytical , design ,problem solving skills.  • Good knowledge on Android Material designing (creating Ripples, Paper transformation).  • Expertise in Espresso testing  • Always curious to learn new skill or a new technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer Caterpillar - Peoria, IL November 2017 to Present Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.appdataroom.catsales&hl=en    Description:  CAT Sales app is designed for Caterpillar and its Dealer Sales personnel who have CWS login access. This app provides sales representatives access to the marketing material to be sent to their customers and potential customers.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in different phases of development cycle. Expanding the existing design, development of new features, testing and deployment.  • Involved in requirement gathering, UI design and development.  • Writing application logic and business logic for the application.  • Designed the architecture and user interface using client requirement and use cases.  • Implemented screen navigation using dialog boxes, action bar navigation control and designed menus based on user context.  • Involved in designing the logical flow for the application for different components.  • Developed app screen and its workflow using Activities and Fragments which has views such as list view and scroll view.  • Integrated the camera features using the Camera API.  • Integrated the Google Map using Google location based API.  • Analyzing the application with Trace view tool to improve the performance.  • Implementing Broadcast receiver for android.  • Test and error logging on different version and devices of Android.  • Implemented and error reporting system for future development support.  • Conducted knowledge transfer sessions to junior developers.  • Version control using Git-Hub.  • Provided the support as part of post implementation support.  • Point of contact for any critical issues.  • Provided the KT to the testing team on android framework.  Environment: Android SDK, Location API's, Web view, GPS service, JSON, Google Maps, Broadcast receivers, Git-Hub, SQLite. Android Developer CBRE - Dallas, TX February 2015 to October 2017 Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cbre.request    Description:  Description: CBRE Group, Inc. provides globally integrated commercial real estate and investment services company. Facility management team will provide service to the customers by using this application. At here the customer can request facility team to provide any services like plumbing, painting , electrical work ..etc. Customer can requested to bid on his job. Then skill workers can place his bids on this job. Customer can have choice to choose any worker among those bids based on rate or review of a worker. Customer can post pictures of work which he needs to done. Once work is done by facility team member customer can give his rating on worker.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented different layouts like Relative and collapsingToolbarLayout and Custom views for pi/bar graph.  • involved in gathering requirements for developing UI designs.  • Designed custom action bar to use launcher menu.  • Implemented advanced concepts of fragments  • Worked with different of animations.  • Newly created layouts and business logic for add authorizations by using RESTFUL webservices.  • Implemented custom dialog boxes and exception handlings.  • Involved in designing the logical flow for the application for different components.  • Developed app screen and its workflow using Activities and Fragments which has views such as list view with CardView.  • Implemented Camera api to post images to the facility team.  • Involved and implemented servicer side push notification configuration.  • Implementing Broadcast receiver for android.  • Test and error logging on different version and devices of Android.  • Implemented and error reporting system for future development support.  • Conducted knowledge transfer sessions to junior developers.  • Reused existing version code in implementing new version  • Implemented Shared Preferences to store local data.  • Successfully improved performance to application after unit Test.  • Provided the support as part of post implementation support.  • By Espresso Tool , tested thoroughly every UI component in layout.  • Involving and solving critical bugs issues regarding UI and business logics implementation  • Provided the KT to the testing team on android framework.    Environment: Android SDK, Web view, GPS service, JSON, Broadcast receivers, SQlite, Android Studio. Android Developer Chilli's - Dallas, TX September 2013 to January 2015 Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.brinker.chilis    Description:  Chilli's android application which makes easy to check out food and order online. By using this application you can join line to avoid waiting time to pickup your order. You can view nearest chilli's restaurant on google maps. By using app you can pay through credit/debit card. QR code generator for getting rewards and points at the time of pickup order.    Responsibilities:  • Discussed the requirements with the client and analyzed the requirements.  • Designed the application from scratch.  • Implemented Fragments, Activities and Custom Views.  • Developed different features for the application.  • Worked on linear, frame and relative layouts.  • Implemented Notification Manager to display updates on the notification bar.  • Implementing Broadcast Receivers for Android.  • Utilized GPS location-based services and Google Maps API to enable Google map search for locations in close proximity.  • Enabled GPS/Wi-Fi to detect user location from where to begin searching.  • Supports older devices using Support library.  • Refactored the code base to optimize start-up time and memory usage.  • Integral in internationalizing of the app to support different languages.  • Key resource for layout and UI work utilizing xml, Views, Web view, List View, Menu Item, Activities.  • Also implemented Fragments, Frame, Animations, Notifications, Push Notifications, Loaders, AsyncTask etc.  • Integrated Google map v2 to load the store locations on map.  • Integrated Zxing Framework to implement bar code scanner.  • Implemented Sqlite data base for adding/editing cart items.  • Used web view to show html 5 pages.  • Took care of Code Review, Code Fixes and bug Fixes.  • Tested the app across different versions of Android and different android phones to assure quality and performance.  Environment: Android SDK 4.x, SQLite 3.6, Eclipse IDE 3.8, Android API's, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, HTML, CSS, SQLite, GPS service, Log cat, Windows 7 Android Developer MAXX DJ RADIO AMERICA April 2012 to August 2013 Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.spinlogics.mexican_radio  Description:  This application allows the user to listen live Radio stream and view the gallery pictures. And implemented user can like the song and share in social media like face book or twitter and google plus. You add songs as your own list to make your own favorite list and play songs when ever user wants. And implemented commercial ads implementation.  Responsibilities:  • Developed app screen and its workflow using Activities and Fragments which has views such as list view.  • Implemented and designed for both portrait and landscape screens.  • ExoPlayer library used for Live streaming audio over Dynamic adaptive streaming over HTTP. (HTTP DASH).  • Implemented custom launcher menus and custom styles for app.  • Successfully integrated social network API.  • Test and error logging on different version and devices of Android.  • Implemented Sqlite date base for persistence storage  • Conducted knowledge transfer sessions to junior developers.  • Reused existing version code in implementing new version  • Implemented Shared Preferences to store local data.  • Successfully improved performance to application after unit Test.  • Worked in memory management to improve performance.  • Involving and solving critical bugs issues regarding UI and business logics implementation  • Developing mobile apps that fit into their CPU, memory and battery constraints, while making surethecode is efficient, maintainable, reusable, and extensible.    Environment: Android SDK, Java, REST API (XML), SQLite, ecipse IDE. Android Developer JOBSME, HYD, IND September 2010 to February 2012 Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.spinlogics.jobsme&hl=en  Description:  This one best application providing job to skilled people who want to work. Through our app the employer can post work like plumbing, carpet, flooring ..etc . the worker can get push notification once employer post a job. And these workers can bit the job how much they can complete the task. Finally employer can pick one skilled person to assign the job. Employer can pay money through our app. We implemented Braintree payment gateway I used to complete payments to workers.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered all requirements from client, design application and understand depth knowledge of domain.  • Designed the architecture and user interface using client requirement and use cases.  • Involved in designing the logical flow for the application for different components.  • Worked hardly in developing complex and custom Views  • Writing application logic and business logic for the application.  • Implemented screen navigation using dialog boxes, action bar navigation control and designed menus based on user context.  • Implemented chatting between users  • Integrated camera api to access video and picture of job.  • Developed app screen and its workflow using Activities and Fragments which has views such as list view, Grid View, Grid layouts scroll view.  • Analyzing the application with Trace view tool to improve the performance.  • Implementing Broadcast receiver for android.  • Implemented GCM pushnotifications.  • Test and error logging on different version and devices of Android.  • Implemented and error reporting system for future development support.  • Conducted knowledge transfer sessions to junior developers.  • Provided the support as part of post implementation support.  • Provided the KT to the testing team on android framework.  Environment: Android SDK, Google API's, Web view, GPS service, JSON, Broadcast receivers, Git-Hub, SQLite. Java developer Auto Insurance - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to August 2010 AFE (Agent Front End) used by the Commerce Insurance's agents to create quotes and to generate the coverage for the personal auto insurance. Using this application agents enter the information of insurance holder, vehicles and drivers. The back end system generates the quote. And this application allows the agent to create coverage using the generated quotes. Along with generating quote there is a portal where authenticated customers can file a claim, make payments, view payment history, search for nearby agents. Processing of a claim was done using asynchronous messaging system.    Responsibilities:  • Responsibilities include understanding requirements, analysis, design, development and unit testing of web applications.  • Developed the backend code using MVC-2 architecture (Struts).  • Designed Application flow and Developed UML diagrams for the application using Rational Rose.  • Independently developed each layer and integrate them.  • Used Struts Validator Framework for validation from server.  • Used filter class for Single Sign-on.  • Created different modules using Action classes.  • Integrated Struts, Spring and Hibernate.  • Used Front Controller action servlet that handles the entire Http request coming to the server.  • Developed code that uses Authenticate Delegate, Quote Service Delegate and Account Management Service Delegate which uses business logic classes to perform various tasks for customers.  • Developed code for Proxy class used by Web Services clients, Message Façade used for JMS, POJOs for hibernate Entity Beans.  • Created DAO classes for customer related database operations.  • Implemented Hibernate (ORM Mapping tool) framework.  • Created Web Services for Client using WSDL which builds SOAP messages for agents.  • Frontend was created using JSP.  • Developed a Message Driven Bean (JMS) that process a claim once customer files it.  • Configured the Spring JDBC to provide database connectivity for the application.  • Involved in writing the Stored Procedures and functions for the application.  • Involved in code enhancement and defect fixing.    Environment: Eclipse, Web Logic 8.1 server/SQL server, Tomcat 5.0/6.0, Oracle 9i/10g, MS Access, JSP Struts 1.2, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 1.0, Top Link, XML, JavaScript, HTML, WSDL, Log4j, Subversion (SVN), and Maven. Education Bachelors in Computer Science and Engineering Acharya Nagarjuna University Skills ANDROID (7 years), XML (4 years), ECLIPSE (2 years), JAVA (2 years), WINDOWS 7 (1 year), Android SDK, Location API's, Web view, GPS service, JSON, Google Maps, Broadcast receivers, Git-Hub, SQLite. (8 years) Additional Information Technologies Android 2.3 -7.0, android NDK, Java, PHP, JIN, Struts-1.3, Java script.  Markup Languages HTML5,XML,CSS3,Angular js,XHTML.  Web/Application Servers Tomcat , IBM Web sphere.  Data Bases Realm,SQLite , MySQL, Oracle 9i/10g/11g,DB2.  Debugging Tools Logcat, DDMS, J unit.  IDE's Android Studio, Eclipse ,Notepad++,NetBeans.  Frame Works Struts , Springs, AJAX.  Operating System Windows (2000/XP Professional, Windows 7/8), Unix, Linux, IOS.