Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - Wipro Austin, TX ? Eight plus Years of diverse experience in software development, web and mobile application development.  ? Morethan five Years of experience in Android mobile application development.  ? Good understanding of Clean Code Architecture and Full stack software development using agile methodology.  ? Proficient in object-oriented design, data structures, problem solving, complexity analysis, and debugging.  ? Experience in applying System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for applications and understanding of business rules.  ? Strong Experience with core Java, native Android development SDK and dealing with both SOAP as well as REST based web services.  ? Expertise in Designing Modular UI Layer and hands on experience in UML, and Object Oriented Techniques &Design Patterns.  ? Experience in TDD (Test Driven Development) and have good understanding of Dependency Injection.  ? Good understanding of scaling Android UI across multiple Android devices with experience of using Maven for dependency Management for large projects.  ? Hands on experience in creating and configuring lightweight, reproducible and portable development and production environment using Vagrant.  ? Excellent knowledge of Version control tools like GIT and SVN and familiar with application deploying in Google Play.  ? Thorough understanding on Fragments and Activities lifecycle to handle several User Interface Layouts.  ? Good experience of developing and deploying web applications and web services in cloud, have hands on experience of Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  ? Expertise in developing Mobile Applications frameworks on platforms Mobile Web  (Html 5, js, css 3, Phone Gap), Android and Java ME.  ? Proficient in using RDBMS concepts with MSSQL, MySQL, Oracle and NoSQL (MongoDB)  ? Regarded as self-motivated and well-organized team player.  ? Excellent communication skills coupled with highly recognized leadership qualities and  Strong ability to develop successful and lasting business relationships. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer Wipro - Austin, TX May 2016 to Present Description: Wipro Design is a first of its kind Lighting design App launched by Wipro Lighting. Users can do the Lighting Design for offices and industries. Users can create BOQs of the Lighting Design. Users have an option to get a copy of the BOQs on their email id. Users can see wipro's latest LED and conventional product offerings. Users can view their Designs and see how the designed area would look like.    Responsibilities:  ? Documented the requirements and there by analyzed and involved in design, code.  ? Worked with the Android SDK, and implemented Android Bluetooth and Location Connectivity components.  ? Used SQLite to save user details, their plans and eligible devices for upgrade.  ? Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc. from the app and designed GUIs for these applications.  ? Analysis of mobile application code for re-engineering.  ? Responsible for design of user interface using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes and different form of widgets.  ? Inserted suitable code to capture the various button and text field events and implemented the desired action for each of the widgets.  ? Used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  ? Used services, Async tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  ? Used sync adapters to load changed data from server and to send modified data to server from app.  ? Involved in working with Location Manager and Restful Web service with JSON.  ? Used Node.js to install phone Gap and used HTML5, CSS, Java script to develop hybrid apps.  ? Used PhoneGap APIs like Notification, Camera, Media, Vibration to develop hybrid Apps.  ? Used PhoneGap Device Object to access information about a device and application running a phone gap application.  ? Analysis of mobile application code for re-engineering.  ? Implemented unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  ? Also worked with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  ? Developing EJB classes and also corresponding session bean classes.  ? Configured JMS and Data sources on web logic 10.1 Server and provided appropriate JNDI names for them.  ? Developed complex queries, PL/SQL and stored procedures for data retrieval & updating.  ? Used IBM Rational Clear case for Version Controlling.  ? Performed Unit Testing and interacted with QA for testing.    Environment: J2EE, Android SDK, Eclipse, JSON, HTML, CSS, Java Script, MySQL, SQLite, Camera API, Phone Gap. Android Developer FoodNearU - Livermore, CA May 2015 to April 2016 Description: This app offers you to get the food delivered at your location. -Locate nearby Diners, Restaurant by entering zip code or search from your current location and get your meals delivered to you. Make payments worry-free with our secure servers. This app lets you know happy hours nearby. FoodNearU will locate it for you. This app also safely stores your payment information so you only have to deal with inputting it once.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in complete SDLC for all the planning, development, testing to maintenance/code enhancement.  ? Designed and Implemented Views and Layouts for user interaction.  ? Developed the Custom Views for activities.  ? Used multi-threading to implement parallel processing.  ? Developed and used a location based service to capture the user location.  ? Made a major contribution in brand refactoring the resources of a project to make it more generic and used Resource overlays.  ? Implemented PUSH notification so that the user knows that the order is ready and is being delivered.  ? Implemented fragments and Mobile Device Integration (MDI) over 3g and Wi-Fi.  ? Used Android SDK 4.0.3 and Eclipse IDE for development.  ? Used SVN for version Repository maintenance.  ? Used application components such as Activities, Services, Content Providers and Broadcast Receivers along with their life-cycles to define the applications overall behavior.  ? Implemented data caching mechanism  ? Added Facebook and twitter related API's  ? Provided subsequent releases which included feature changes, enhancements and bug fixes    Environment:Android SDK, Eclipse, JSON, MySQL, Java, XML, Android Emulator, JNI, JSON, JIRA, API's. Sr.Android Developer Morrisville, NC March 2014 to April 2015 Description: Cisco WebEx Meetings is an Android-based application which lets you connect with people and information as it lets you connect to your important meetings. It is a mobile web conferencing with features including full screen view, simple audio connections, free VOIP services, direct call in number, and convenient callback on your phone. Cisco WebEx Meetings also lets you view content shared from any computer like documents, applications or screen sharing. You may also see who joins in the meeting and you can start your conversation to specific individual or to the whole group.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed the customer provided functional Requirements and prepared High level design document, UML class diagrams using rational tool.  ? Having the ownership of the total use cases and implemented the agile methodologies.  ? Developed User Interface components of Site Manager, ePublish templates using JSP ( Java Server Pages), HTML, DTHML, CSS (cascading Style Sheets), AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) and JavaScript used for front end validations of web pages, ePublish form templates.  ? Developed and maintained Widgets using Spring MVC, Spring IOC (Inversion of Control) and implemented Hibernate OR mapping to communicate with database.  ? Designed and implemented the Hibernate Domain Model and involved in writing (HQL) hibernate queries to manipulate data in database.  ? Involved in to writing the PL/SQL Stored Procedures, cursors and functions to access the content from database in ePublish content Management tool.  ? Worked with AJAX and JavaScript for asynchronous communication and Worked with WSAD5.1 (Web Sphere Application Developer) as IDE, CVS as version control.  ? Involved in configuration of Data sources in Web Sphere Application Server and involved in writing UNIX shell, Perl scripting for deployment process in AIX systems.  ? Developed Unit Test case classes and tested persistence methods of the different components using JUnit framework. Android Developer PayPal Inc - Sparks, MD November 2012 to February 2014 Description:The PayPal Android app offers a convenient and useful interface for dedicated PayPal users to manage their accounts from anywhere. It also lets you pay with PayPal in stores.  It's very fast and secure to use. The redesigned app now lets you see local stores which accept PayPal, and can be used to buy goods and services with a couple of taps.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and Implemented Views and Layouts for User Interaction.  ? Developed the UI layers for Activities and implemented Fragments within UI.  ? Used Multi-threading to implement parallel processing.  ? Worked in Agile environment and participate in different phases of the project cycle like design and development.  ? REST web service interaction utilizing OAUTH authentication and JSON. Used GSON in order to serialize and describe java objects from and into JSON.  ? Extensively tested alpha releases with JUNIT 3 and Robotium.  ? Worked closely with another mobile app developer, leading the other platform development.  ? Used Android SDK 4.3 (Software Development Kit), Eclipse IDE (Integrated Development Environment), Dalvik Debug Monitor Server, Android Virtual Device, and Android Debug Bridge for development and debugging tool.  ? Tested the application on different android target devices and also debugged the issues using android provided tools like Traceview and view hierarchy from DDMS for optimization purposes.  ? Worked with bluetooth API.  ? Integrated NFC system into app.  ? Used Retrofit to deal with API calls in the project.  ? Worked with Python, PHP, MySQL, SQL, MyPhpAdmin, and SQLite.  ? Used BugZilla for bug tracking and fixing.  ? Executed project on android device.  ? Used design pattern like singleton and adapter.  ? Used version control SVN and GIT.    Environment: Android SDK 4.3, Java 1.6, SQLite 3.0, Eclipse IDE 3.6, ADT Plugin, SVN, GIT, REST, GSON, Bugzilla, Retrofit, NFC, Bluetooth APIs, Google Maps API. Android Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC January 2011 to October 2012 Description:Bank of America is a user friendly banking application that helps the customers to use all banking facilities including payments of bills, transferring money from one account to another, order of credit/debit cards etc. This facilitates the customer to better utilize the banking features using their android device.  Responsibilities:  ? Drafted full project planning for Application including all aspects of development.  ? Implementation of Android Broadcast Receiver via SMS from background service to start application and trigger application activities without User knowledge or intervention.  ? Created interface for android native and hybrid implementation.  ? Created Custom Splashscreen for application with ontouch features bypassing set timer.  ? Front-end to back-end development.  ? Provided all images contained on website along with detailed descriptions of functionalities contained on both website and mobile application.  ? Web based mobile application for company built around JQuery to allow Client to control data and UI from Web Service.  ? Implemented the Android animation style & gesture events to flip the Screen/Layout.  ? Set data string output using Xml Parser to Android List view for Remote Host.  ? Consumed web services and Implemented Http Communication using JSON Data.  ? Worked with MAVEN for build version control.  ? Worked on SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) for data transfer (Audio call).  ? Worked on NFC for near field data transfer.    Environment: Android 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, versions, Android SDK, Fragments, NFC, JSON, REST API (XML), MySQL, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Eclipse 3.6, Multi-threading, SQLite3. Java Developer Meta Minds Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to December 2010 Description: TMWM is a customer which allows users to book their travel online. The application has three modules, Customer, Catalog, Data Entry operator and Admin. This application rewards customers with loyalty points when they book their tickets online. Points depend on the distance the customer travels. The Customer module allows customers to register themselves with the program.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in requirements gathering from the end users.  ? Designed and developed business logic layer and data access layer.  ? Programed methods for FAQs/Support, help, contact and general information pages.  ? The present system was studied in order to have a better understanding of its functionality.  ? JSP and Java Script were used to develop user interface.  ? Business logic was developed using EJB (Enterprise JavaBeans) and DAO's were developed to perfume operations on the database.  ? Web service based on SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) to use services provided by IBM Content Manager.  ? JUnit was used for unit testing.  ? For version control SVN (Apache Subversion).  ? Tested application with unit testing, manual testing and writing test classes.  ? Used agile methodology for development and was present in daily stand up meetings and weekly team meeting. Also attended bi-weekly spring planning meeting.  ? Effectively participated in communications with Business Analysts and architects.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Servlet, DHTML, Apache Tomcat, Struts, JDBC, JSP, JavaScript, Oracle, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills ANDROID (6 years), JAVA (6 years), ECLIPSE (5 years), JSON (5 years), MYSQL (5 years), J2EE, Android SDK, Eclipse, JSON, HTML, CSS, Java Script, MySQL, SQLite, Camera API, Phone Gap., Embedded, Google, Framework, Git, Android Sdk Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OSX, Ubuntu.  Languages: Java (expert), PHP (expert), Ruby, C, C++, SQL, JavaScript, Html, CSS.  IDE: Eclipse, Android Studio, IntelliJ IDEA, PhpStorm, Visual Studio, Beans.  Databases: MS SQL, SQLite 3.0, MySQL 5.0, Oracle 11g.  Others: JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JSP, AJAX, JSON, GIT, SVN, JUnit, XML,RESTFull, SOAP,AWS, MVC, Singleton and other unity patterns.