Salesforce Lightning Developer Salesforce Lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Lightning Developer - Fresenius Medical Care Waltham, MA • Over 11 years of experience in IT with around 8 years of strong experience in Salesforce.com, involving configuration, customization, communities, integration, deployment, classic to lightning migration, lightning components, lightning design system, lightning locker services and lightning data services, 3 years of experience as a Java Developer.  • Expertise in designing of Custom Objects, Custom Fields, Pick List, Role based page layouts, Workflow Alerts & Actions, Validation Rules, Approval Processes, Custom Tabs, Custom reports, Report folders, Report extractions to various formats, Design of Visual Force Pages, Record Types, Dashboards, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Good working experience in various capacities such as Salesforce developer, Salesforce Administrator, Force.com developer and business analyst and involved in various phases of entire project from requirement gathering, architecture development, implementation, training the end users.  • Worked with Salesforce products, concentrating more on Sales Cloud, Service Cloud Implementations.  • Rich experience in Administration and Development of Salesforce.com CRM using Force.com, Visual force, and APEX.  • Experienced in Salesforce.com Automation, Force.com Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Batch Classes, Schedule Classes and Test Classes, Integration, Visualforce, Force.com API, SOQL, SOSL.  • Experience in developing Visual force pages and Custom Objects using Apex Programming on Force.com Platform.  • Expertise in developing Apex classes, Controller and Triggers on Force.com platform to customize application according to the functional needs.  • Expertise in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using Import Wizard and Data Loader Utility.  • Experience in integrating SFDC with Legacy applications (SAP, ACT) using Web Services API.  • Extensive experience in customizing the User Interface of Salesforce CRM using Apex Programming, Custom Controllers, Visual force, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience in customizing Data model of Salesforce.com CRM using Workflows, Triggers, Validation Rules, and Approval Processes.  • Proficient in using tools like Force.com IDE on Mac and PC environment.  • Extensive experience in customization, configuration, Eclipse IDE, Apex, Visualforce pages.  • Experienced in defining custom formulas and creating validation rules to suit the needs of the data model and ensure data quality.  • Experienced working on CPQ application like ZUORA and customized logic around them.  • Good exposure in integrating enterprise applications with other API enabled Business Systems like salesforce.com, Data.com, Zuora CPQ, DocuSign, Market.  • Hands-on experience with development tools like Force.com IDE, Force.com Explorer.  • Key player in migrations and deployment of code from one environment to other using Force.com IDE deployment wizard.  • Experience in creating and customizing websites using CMS WordPress, Joomla, and Drupal and integrating them with Salesforce CRM for generating web-to-leads and web-to-cases.  • Experience in Requirements gathering experience Conducting User Interviews, and preparing functional documents like Use Cases, Software Requirements Specifications (SRS).  • Experienced in Business Analysis working closely with Business & Support Units and have experience in using Object Oriented software development (OOD) methodologies like XP-Agile, Rapid Application Development & Test-Driven Development.  • Strong communication, organizational and interpersonal competencies along with detail oriented and problem-solving skills in the technology arena.  • Experience in visual effects, cascading style sheets, and event handling.  • Defined case management, defining the email to cases with 2 cases and created case assignment rules, case escalation rules and mapped with the knowledge articles and implemented the service cloud console and, case merge functionality. Work Experience Salesforce Lightning Developer Fresenius Medical Care - Waltham, MA February 2019 to Present Description: The major business of which is providing hospitality to customers implements SFDC to automate the CRM business processes to support their changing sales strategies. The SFDC platform is tailored for improving the coordination in the global market. Creating a CRM applications & automation along with Dealers, Contacts, Dealer Commitments & Metrics, Reports and Dash boards. The Data Migrated using data loader. An ETL tool performed data loading from external systems to SFDC and SFDC to external system.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce.com CRM implementation.  • Effectively used the out of box Salesforce functionality to manage Campaigns, Opportunities, Cases and Events  • During every new platform release from Salesforce.com, discussing the new release features with teammates and BA team to effectively improve the features on current environment.  • Used agile methodology of development for all the project requirements given by the BA Team. Also have regular scrum meeting between BA and Developer team to discuss issues and goals fulfilled.  • Developed custom Force.com components on Opportunity object for creating Pipeline Reports and Trend Reports  • Developed Apex classes, Controller classes and Apex Triggers on Force.com platform to customize application according to the functional needs.  • Developing and maintaining complex Extract-Transform-Load (ETL) processes from multiple systems.  • Created custom VF email templates for enabling the localization using Translation Workbench.  • Created custom VF pages to leverage the functionality of displaying the information from different objects and also update them on the same page.  • Jenkins for Continuous Integration. JIRA and Bit Bucket to push changes and track via sublime to make sure all code changes were tracked and managed during deployment periods.  • Created complex workflow rules criteria for field updates and email alerts.  • Created validation rules for performing data validations depending on the user's profile and their record type  • Worked on Conga Composer - a report building tool to generate customized and personalized reports according to the Company standards in MS Word, MS Excel, MS PPT and PDF formats.  • Worked on the AppExchange application "Process Composer" - to build and automate simple or complex repetitive process.  • Created historical opportunity reports using scheduled Analytic Snapshot between Opportunities and custom objects.  • Worked on reports using custom and standard report types. Also created Dashboards using the existing reports.  • Experienced working on CPQ application like ZUORA and customized logic around them.  • Good exposure in integrating enterprise applications with other API enabled Business Systems like salesforce.com, Data.com, Zuora CPQ, DocuSign, Market.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom Reports Tabs and Components and configured the Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the sales performance and lead generation statistics.  • Maintained user roles, security, profiles, and workflow rules wherever necessary.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.    Environment: Salesforce.com Platform, Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP. Salesforce.com Developer Exeter Finance - Irving, TX November 2017 to January 2019 Description: We focus on being a premier finance company and lender-of-choice known for its people, performance and service. We work with thousands of franchised dealers nationwide to make vehicle ownership possible for everyone. We have helped hundreds of thousands of consumers purchase the cars they want by providing the financing solutions they need.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with the user group for requirement gathering throughout the planning and implementation.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, contacts, Solutions and Custom Objects.  • Developed various Custom Tabs, Tags and Components.  • Implemented Sales force For Outlook functionality and installed outlook integration with different user systems.  • Worked with Validation Rules, Workflows, Approval Process and Reports & Dashboards.  • Worked with Data Loader and App Exchange Applications.  • Worked with different Deployment Plans for each release and Sandbox Refreshing.  • Worked with different Record types to setup for different Page layouts based on profiles.  • Involved in setting up Profiles and assigning the Profiles to the Users.  • Involved in setting up the Role Hierarchy and assigning the Users as per the role.  • Created different profiles and setup the permissions based on the roles in the organization.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Wrote SOQL and SOSL statements within custom controllers, extensions and triggers.  • Developed various Components and Visual Force Pages.  • Created orchestrations for bi-directional integration of Salesforce and SAP using Jenkins tool.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Apex language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP. Salesforce Developer The Warranty Group - Chicago, IL March 2015 to October 2017 Description: The complete package from a single provider. The Warranty Group is one of the world's premier global providers of warranty solutions and related benefits, with operations in more than 35 countries and nearly 1,600 employees. With Virginia Surety Company and London General Insurance as our wholly-owned insurance companies, The Warranty Group is a single-source solution that provides underwriting, claims administration, and marketing expertise to some of the world's leading manufacturers, distributors, and retailers of consumer goods, as well as specialty insurance products and services for financial institutions. With more than 50 years of experience and over $5 billion in assets, The Warranty Group is the single source provider for your local or global needs.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in identifying, planning and implementing new Salesforce.com features and functions (new screens, workflow, force.com objects, reports, apex code) to meet business requirements.  • Used the force.com IDE (Eclipse) for development and code promotion.  • Developed batch interfaces and processes to integrate Salesforce.com with external systems.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Components and Visualforce Pages.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on record detail pages and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Involved in developing tests for custom apex code.  • Extracted the data from Salesforce.com application into the external databases (Oracle 10g) for generating large data reports using the Informatica On-demand.  • Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleansing activities while transferring the data to the external system using Informatica On-demand.  • Involved in establishing and maintaining the change control processes for multiple sandbox environments.  • Developed and performed training for the sales staff on the use of the system.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Informatica Ondemand. Salesforce Developer Curries AssaAbloy - Mason City, IA August 2011 to February 2015 Description:Order Capture is the strategic center of Legal customer facing functions and has a direct pact on revenue growth, retention and customer experience. Integrated exception approval workflow carry forward self-approval logic into Order Capture. Reduced special handle/custom offerings and moved to a standard retail model and process for all deal. Making sure that the development team follow the 80/20 rule and hold to that throughout the design and deployment.  Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business team members to gather and documented the requirements. Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports, and created custom objects based on Business need.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visualforce Pages and Controllers.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Developed and deployed workflows and approval processes for opportunities and products/ assets management.  • Provided administrative level support for users of the Salesforce application.  • Responsible for mass delete/transfer records using Data Management.  • Created custom links, formulas, Layouts, workflow and approval processes. Set both object-level and record level security.  • Monitored and resolved the Service Requests, specifically, visibility issues involving Custom Profiles, Public Groups, and Sharing Rules.  • Defined Custom Profiles, User Permissions and created Custom Sharing Rules for Record owners with "Read-only" Permissions granting client-requested Create/Read/Update/Delete capabilities.  • Created and customized detailed reports with filters, conditional highlighting, custom subtotals and charts.  • Provided support ongoing Salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflow, campaign management, Triggers.  • Performed the role of support engineer for the internal users and helped them in getting used to the application, generated reports and saved them for further access to the users.    Environment: Salesforce.com Enterprise Edition, Profiles, Role hierarchy, Workflow & Approval processes, Data Loader, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Data Management, Lead processes, Record types. Java Developer Brocade Communications - San Jose, CA June 2008 to July 2011 Description: Brocade leads the industry in providing comprehensive network solutions that help the world's leading organizations transition smoothly to a virtualized world. Brocade uses Sales force CRM for complete sales and service cloud..    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, analysis and design of assigned work using Servlets, JSP, Html, Java Script, and Java Beans.  • Developed JAVA classes as per designed docs.  • Developed Core Java classes and methods for handling data from database.  • Used connection pooling for better performance.  • Developed Ant builds script and ant task classes to clean, compile, copy, run, deploy, jar, war and ear files, and develop web service.  • Used JDBC Statements to call the stored procedures and Prepared Statements to perform dynamic SQL operations. DAO classes are accessed in EJBs to connect to Database.  • Involved in writing JavaScript for validation of page data in the JSP pages.  • Involved in writing procedures and Packages for Report Generation using Oracle as Database.  • Responsible for Testing - unit testing & integration testing using Junit.    Environment: Java, JSP, Struts, EJB, JBoss, XML, JavaScript, CSS, Oracle, Junit, Eclipse. Education Bachelors in Electronics and communication Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2010 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Jaxp, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Html, Perl, Scripting, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Force.com, Apex, Jdbc, Ajax, Css, Dhtml Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information Technical Skills:  Salesforce Technologies  Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Workflows & Approvals, Reports, Dashboards and Custom Objects.    Salesforce Tools& Integration Tools Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com Platform (Sandbox, and Production)  Java/J2ee Technologies Java 1.5, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC  Internet Technologies AJAX, JSP Custom Tags (JSTL), JSF, HTML, CSS, DHTML.  XML XSL, XSD, XSLT, XPATH, XSD, SAX, DOM, JAXP.  Scripting Languages Java Script 1.2, Perl and Shell Scripting.  IDE IBM RAD, Eclipse 3.5, WebSphere Integration Developer. Force.com IDE.  Operating Systems MS-Windows XP/ME/98/95/ 2000/NT 4.0, Red Hat Linux and Unix.