Android Applications Developer Android Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Applications Developer - Torchmark Dallas, TX Around 8+years of experience as Software Developer with 4+ years in Android application development and 3+ years in Java based applications.  Expertise in:  • Complete Software Development Life Cycle, involved in various aspects of Architecture Design, Development and Implementation, Troubleshooting and Debugging, Testing of Software Applications  • Understanding of Android Back-end and UI guidelines.  • Understanding of Android Studio.  • Integrating public APIs, such as Google, Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter.  • Developing apps using HTML5, AJAX, XML, JSON, Web Services and SQLite.  • Android SDK, Android NDK, Application Stack and Android Architecture  • Handling synchronous and asynchronous concurrency models, background processing with AsyncTasks.  • Knowledge in OMADM protocol.  • Developing applications integrating Google Maps API, GPS location Data and Push Notifications.  • Experience working with remote data via REST API's and JSON's.  • Android UI toolkit and Layout Managers, application framework  • Developing applications involving User Interface development, Adapters, Content Providers, Fragments, Services, JSON Parsing, SOAP and Telephony Manager  • Handling graphic design and various kinds of media using Photoshop, Illustrator, and Dreamweaver.  • Understanding of IOS Apps. Work Experience Android Applications Developer Torchmark - Dallas, TX October 2017 to Present The Mobile Agent application provides quick and secure mobile payment feature for the Insurance Agents. Mobile Agent is supported by the offline eApp Application. This Mobile Agent allows the agent to scan the generated QR code, which consists of Insurance holder policy information and enables secure card payments from the mobile device by generating a payment reference code. It support s all major credit, debit, prepaid cards.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing the requirements of application, entire Mobile Agent Application android development, testing, stage, deployment, production maintenance and worked as lead android developer.  • Designed the User Interface with navigation bar, view pager.  • Making the Restful Service Calls using Google's Volley Library at the various stages in the app development cycle and parsing the responses back from the web servers according to the application requirement.  • Integrated the QR Code scanning library in to the application for the scanning the policy information.  • Responsible for adding the Reader API, this allows reading the payment card data when agent swipes the card with mobile card reader.  • Worked with Google Maps Android API V2 to display the AIL locations with markers using Geo coder.  • Designed custom dialogs, custom notifications for displaying the generated payment code.  • Responsible for storing the Agent ID, Payment code within the app using the Shared Preferences and the insurance information in SQ Lite database.  • Registered the Broadcast Receivers for the android system announcements.  • Designed the Custom Action bar, Custom Progress bar while making service calls.  • Implemented the mail feature of sending mail with billing information as an attachment.  • Worked with Application Activity Lifecycle callbacks for providing the security and showing the login screen when the app goes to background.  • Responsible for adding the update module for checking the latest version of app.  • Extensively worked on designing the layouts to compatible with multiple screen sizes.  • Responsible for testing the application in stage, code review fixing the bugs and providing post-production support.  Environment: Android SDK, SQLite 3.6, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Android API's, JDK 1.7, XML, JSON, GPS, ADT Plug-in, CVS (version control), Log cat, DDMS console, volley. Android Application Developer Henry Ford Health Systems August 2015 to September 2017 Project: Stat Chat.    Stat Chat is a secure texting mobile application for clinicians. It helps Health Care professionals to track the patient information remotely whether they are on a desktop computer, iPad or Smartphone.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle phases like requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing.  • Development the application module using front-end frame works such as Ionic, Angular JS and Cordova.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Created Mockups and Wireframes for the development of variations of a layout to maintain design consistency throughout the App.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Fixing bugs found in the Production and documented the application step-by-step process.  • Used TFS as code repository.  • Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Sass, JavaScript, Ionic Framework, Eclipse, AJAX, JSON, AngularJs, Node.js, Maven, JSON, TFS, My SQL, Agile Android Developer Huntington Bank - Columbus, OH May 2014 to July 2015 Huntington is a US bank and financial services company with development centers in Columbus, OH, etc. Huntington's mobile applications will enable customers to access and control their finances remotely. With the Huntington Mobile app it is easier than ever to bank on the go, right from your phone. You can download the app and you'll be able to view account balances and history, deposit checks, transfer funds, pay bills, locate office branches, find ATMs, and contact a representative.  Responsibilities  • Assisted in designing the User Interface (UI/UX) and overall look and feel of the app.  • Implemented Fragments to make the app usable on both Smart phones and Tablets.  • Involved in adding the gestures to the app to show the Top Level view, Categorized View and the detailed view of the RSS Feeds.  • Worked on Custom List Views to list the JSON feeds.  • Developed the app to adapt to different orientations (Landscape/Portrait) and various resolutions (ldpi / mdpi / hdpi) based on the device.  • Worked with REST web services.  • Developed and implemented the JSON Parser for feeds from various sources and displayed the parsed data in the app.  • Worked on Credit Cards.    Environment: Android SDK 2.3, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Android Emulator, Android Debug Bridge, Log cat, DDMS, Android API's, JDK 1.6 Android Developer The Wall Street Journal - New York, NY July 2013 to April 2014 The Wall Street Journal's world-leading journalism on a wide range of topics, including renowned coverage of global business and finance, with top stories on world news, markets, tech, lifestyle and more all updated throughout the day.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in all phases of the project including design, development, testing and deployment.  • Responsible for design and handling the SQlite database functionality for the application.  • Responsible for designing the Login screen UI and handling the Authentication with backend servers.  • Responsible for getting the auto horizontal scrolling dynamic headlines using view pager at the top for every screen in the application.  • Responsible for implementing the media bucket through which the images and videos are displayed on the screen.  • Worked very closely with the UI design team in getting the image assets, screens and app icons.  • Tested the application on multiple android devices and debugged the issues using Log cat and DDMS.  • Responsible for deploying the app to the Android Marketplace and supported the app for different releases of Android OS.  • Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the xml files.  • Experience with REST and SOAP web services.  • Worked on debugging the application using Log cat, DDMS  • Participated in all the phases of SDLC from design, development through testing, porting and support of application.  Environment: Android SDK 2.2, SQLite 3.6, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Android API's, JDK 1.6, GPS, ADT Plug-in, CVS (version control), Log cat, DDMS console. Android Developer Sallie Mae - Newark, DE January 2012 to June 2013 The Sallie Mae Banking app offers on the go account access with features that make managing your account easy.    Responsibilities:  • Had been part of sprint planning and communicate with other management, engineers, product managers and support specialists on product issues.  • Worked in different phases of the project cycle like design, development and testing.  • Responsible for embedding GPS functionality to quickly find location and for navigating the directions to the nearest ATM.  • Extensively used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists.  • Responsible for implementing the REST services, getting XML, JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Responsible for enabling the application to use the Camera feature to scan a document and upload the check using SQLite.  • Tested the app across different versions of Android and different android phones to assure quality and performance.  • Worked closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between Mobile application and Web application.  • Worked on debugging the application using Log cat, DDMS.    Environment: Android SDK 2.2, SQLite 3.6, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Android API's, JDK 1.6, REST API. Java Developer Oracle Corporation June 2009 to December 2011 ESecurity is developed as a stand-alone component that can be integrated with any Java-based application for the purpose of providing user authorization and authentication. ESecurity application takes user details, application details and application security policies in an organization. The administrator needs to specify these details at the time of security definition. It allows defining access right to user which can either be standalone users or part of a group termed as a "role". It allows binding of the above mentioned information and on request provides this information to the requesting application. ESecurity also provides APIs for accessing & manipulating its data from other applications. Applications call ESecurity APIs for user authentication & authorization at login time. The entire ESecurity application can be divided into the following modules:  1. User Management  2. Role Management  3. Activity Management  4. Application's Context Management    Responsibilities:  • Testing and validation of JSP1.1, Servlet 2.2 from Apache-Tomcat  • Coding for the User Management  • Created interfaces for users to retrieve or enter information.  • Team member/Programmer    Environment: J2SE v1.2, Servlet v2.2, Java Beans, XML, XSLT, Swing, Jakarta-Tomcat 3.2.0, Struts, Web sphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD), IBM web sphere advanced edition. Education Bachelors of Technology in Computer Science JNTU Skills XML (7 years), ANDROID (6 years), ECLIPSE (6 years), JSON (5 years), ANDROID SDK (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java, JQuery ,JSON, PHP, VB,C  Database Oracle (11g, 10g, 9i, 8i, 7x), SQLite, MySql    Software Tools Eclipse, Android Studio, Net Beans, Android SDK, Visual Studio, PowerBuilder 10, Photoshop, SVN, Open Office, Android ADT  Web Technologies HTML5, XML, XHTML, Tomcat, , XML, XHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, PHP    Operating Systems UNIX, Windows 95/NT 3.5/ 4.0, Windows 2000, Vista, XP, 2003 Server