SR. Java Developer SR.<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> SR. Java Developer - Caterpillar, IL IL, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR. Java Developer Caterpillar, IL February 2015 to Present Project: Assembly Quality Events (AQE)  Description: Assembly Quality Events is a Caterpillar-developed, web-based application used primarily in the assembly/machining operations of a shop floor. The software enables shop floor and associated support personnel to record and analyze assembly/machining quality events that occur during the assembly process.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Designed the front-end screens using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and Spring Boot.  • Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and developed HTML templates with various Angular directives such as ng-app, ng-controller, ng-repeat, ng-if,ng-show, ng-hide,ng-change, ng-blur etc..  • Developed Grid's used in the system using Slickgrid and created custom grid directive to make the component reusable.  • Used various Angular UI Bootstrap components such as calendars, masks, uploaders, sliders, alerts, modal dialogs etc.for developing the UI.  • Took part in setting up the routing configuration using Angular UI router for various views and sub views.  • Configured Gulp to perform various UI build and test related tasks and used NodeJS NPM and Bower to manage the dependencies.  • Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma and performed end to end tesing using Protractor and Selenium  • Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server side exceptions.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was also involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.  • Consumed SOAP/ JAX-WS based web services using Spring framework and used SOAP UI for testing these services.  • Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the rest based services and used Junit and Mockito to test the middleware services.  • Worked with Middleware using Message driven by POJO (MDP) after creating QCF, Queue on WebSphere server, and using JMS template for asynchronous functionality for multiple users.  • Used Hibernate in the persistence layer and implemented DAO's to access data from database.  • Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.) and Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements. Used GruntJS, BowerJS, Express from NodeJS.  • Involved in enhancing existing MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node) stack applications and provided the required support.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Made the integration of data in several applications in favor JSON documents with dynamic schemas using MongoDB (NOSQL) database.  • Created various MongoDB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from for the application on devices and used Mongoose API in order to access the MongoDB from NodeJS.  • Used GIT as version control system, to keep track of all the work & all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate and used Maven as build and configuration tool and Jenkins for continuous integration tool.  • Involved in configuration and usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes. Used RAD as IDE tool to develop the application.  • Prepared Documentation for Unit Test Plan and Unit Test Results for the QA purpose. Participated in the release night shakeouts/over night deliveries and QA Support.  • Used Veracode for application security scanning and remediated the flaws that were identified in the code.  • Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.    Environment: Java 7, STS, Tomcat 7, Gulp, Spring Tool Suite, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, MongoDB, RESTful Web Service, Oracle, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AngularJS, Node Js, Express, JavaScript, GIT, JMS, Jenkins, Agile, JIRA tool, Selenium, Log4j, Maven, AWS. Sr. Java Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA February 2014 to January 2015 Project: CSI Adapter Development  Description: AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company providing robust and reliable services to its end clients in various fields. CSI Adapter is a layer of code which provides a standard set of methods to access Service Providers and for isolating the Business Components. The goal of the CSI Adapter is to maximize the isolation of the Business Components from the majority of changes that may be made in the Service Providers and to minimize Business Component coding requirements through reusable objects. There are more than 200 Adapters involved in this project, where each Adapter consists of more than 10 handlers. Each handler is designed and coded for performing a specific functionality by accessing the database or Service Providers. The handlers are grouped into an Adapter based on its usage and functionality. Generally AT&T stores and its clients (Best Buy, Apple, etc.) use these handlers functionality in its kiosks and websites to provide reliable services to its customers.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) Web pages using HTML5, React-JS, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and NodeJS.  • Created reusable components used across various modules using React-JS, React-DOM, Bootstrap and JSX.  • Used various NPM modules like Watchify, Babilify, Browserify, Http-Fetch, Body-Parser, Express etc..to create the application.  • Involved in creating REST services using Node-JS, Express-JS, Mongoose and Body-Parser NPM modules.  • Followed Reflux architecture in creating the actions, stores and controller components for callbacks.  • Developed the React Web UI components using Atom IDE and made backend REST calls using whatwg-fetch.  • Used Bootstrap CSS for dialogs, tabs, date picker, model pop up's and advanced components to implement UI model.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front-end development frameworks including Bootstrap.  • Developed routing components in the application using react-router module for various components and views.  • Developed the DAO layer for the existing applications using Spring, Hibernate and developed various business logic and reports using HQL and Hibernate Criteria.  • Consumed restful web services using apache HttpClient for the data coming from external systems.  • Interacting with the offshore team to assist them in the development and help them understand the requirements and performed Code Reviews.  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms. Designed and developed custom Mongo applications specific to clients' needs.  • Developed Spring JMS message listeners to consume JMS messages from queues and used Spring transaction management to manage the transactions in the application.  • Used Spring Framework at Business Tier and uses Spring container for initializing services and used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection such as Bean, Component, Repository, Autowired etc.,  • Used Spring Framework with Hibernate to map to Oracle database and mapping using Hibernate Annotations.  • Involved in setting up the application to run on AWS environment on multiple EC2 instances with ELB's using Jenkins.  • Validating the Application by Deploying and testing on JBoss Server.  • Responsible for maintaining the code quality, coding and implementation standards by code reviews.  • Created various unit test cases and integration tests for the DAO, Service, and Controller components using JUnit, DbUnit and Spring Test support.  • Updated legacy Ant build infrastructure to new Gradle based build system, enabling more robust test, build and release procedures.  • Integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests and code reviews.  • Reviewing the Database Schemas across the different domain. Worked on the Integration of the Code and deliver the build to UAT Team.  • Used extensively Eclipse in development and debugging the application.    Environment: Java 1.6, Junit 4, JBoss 7, Oracle 10g, HTML,JSP, Javascript, React-JS, Node-JS,Mongo-db, Spring, Hibernate, Eclipse, Atom, Restful Web services, Gradle, Junit, log4j , JavaScript, Subversion, Jenkins, AWS. Senior Java / J2EE Developer Continental Airlines - Chicago, IL August 2012 to January 2014 Project: Online Ticket Booking System  Description: As part of its strategic goal to achieve 80 percent of bookings over the Internet, Continental Airlines undertook a project to upgrade the Online Booking Service. With the integration of the BEA Weblogic Server for their online ticket sales, they had to be able to accommodate the independence of front-end applications that will develop and change to meet new business requirements, and integrate the existing operational systems that are used to run and monitor business on a day-to-day basis. With the help of struts framework, we developed UI and we used oracle as the database.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Experienced in performing extensive analysis and design by working on projects of all sizes that require exposure to all aspects of the project life cycle and creating and maintaining documentation in conformance with established standards.  • Designed various UI screens required for the ticket information and bookings. Used Struts MVC at presentation layers. Development front-end content using JSP, Servlets, DHTML, Java Script, CSS, HTML.  • Implemented Spring Beans using IOC and Transaction management features to handle the transactions and business logic. Integrated the Struts framework and the Spring framework together.  • Extensive use of Struts Framework for Controller components and View components.  • Created and maintained Simulator using Spring Source Tool Suite.  • Developing application using Spring MVC, Dependency Injection to improve usability and flexibility. Used Spring JDBC Template and implemented DAO Design Pattern to connect and retrieving data. Developed the application using the Stripes framework and worked as a part of developing the most of the action bean classes.  • Implemented Data Access Layer using Ibatis, developed POJO's mapped to the relational tables in database using Ibatis mapping files. Worked on Oracle as the backend database and used Ibatis to automate the mapping between the SQL Databases and the Java Objects.  • Constructed database objects like Packages, Procedures, Functions, Batches, SQL Queries, Views, Indexes, and Exceptions using Toad. Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures for Oracle database.  • Created SOAP web service for sending payment processing informational data to third company. Followed top down approach to implement SOAP based web services. Tested SOAP web services using SOAP UI.  • Used Java Mailing or Messaging Service (JMS) API's for mailing detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is complete and also for mailing administrator of any system related problems.  • Configured WebLogic Application Server and participated in structured code reviews / walkthroughs. Support installation of application releases into production as directed.  • Used Jira for tracking bugs and used Gradle with Jenkins for building and deploying the application to multiple environments and created Daily Rolling Log using Log4j.  • Used Microsoft Visual Explorer for Agile Methodology and Used NetBeans IDE. Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries.  • Worked on Construction (Changes in Code), Unit testing and Test Result. Responsible for unit testing and integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests.  • Developed Junit test cases for test coverage of the application and Implemented Unit and Integration test cases with JUNIT Framework based on Functional Flow.    Environment: J2EE, JSP, Servlets, DHTML, Java Script, CSS, HTML, Spring, Struts, ibatis, SOAP based WebServices, Oracle, PL/SQL, Toad 9.6.1, JUnit, Jquery, Oracle, PL/SQL, SQL Navigator, SVN , Gradle 2.4 and WebLogic Server. JAVA / J2EE Developer Ing Direct, India - IN January 2011 to July 2012 Project: Refund Anticipation Loan (RAL)  Description: RAL enables tax applicants to apply for loans on anticipated tax-returns with the bank. This application helps tax officers, transmitters and employees of the bank in conducting the regular business. The website functionality includes keeping track of customer tax offices, brokers, transmitters and applicants. The application processes all stages of the life cycle of the bank loans-on-tax refunds business such as processing applications for service, contract for service, actual revenues earned etc. The web application also provides various types of reports e.g. applicant reports, tax officer performance reports, loan account reports etc. This is an n-tier client server application deployed on application server using JBOSS.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and extracted the event flows of the UI layer code written in JavaScript, struts, java applets and JSPs to come up with the sequence diagram for various transactions. Developed Pop-in Dialog JSPs and passing Request Parameters using JavaScript, Jquery, JSTL.  • UI Implementation with Struts, JavaScript, Struts Validation framework on MyEclipse IDE. Applied Struts features like Tiles and Validation framework. Designed and implemented Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean, and a form set for validation.  • UI Implementation with Struts, JavaScript, Struts Validation framework on MyEclipse IDE. Applied Struts features like Tiles and Validation framework. Designed and implemented Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean, and a form set for validation.  • Implemented MVC architecture by using Struts/Swings to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer. Integrated the Struts and Hibernate to achieve Object relational mapping. Used apache struts to develop the web-based components and implemented DAO.  • Leveraged struts-validations, struts-beans tag libraries. Used struts Action Servlet to route the request to corresponding Action Classes. Developed Action forms, Action classes using Struts framework to handle user requests and Implemented Struts Bean Tags, Logical Tags and Display Tags in JSPs.  • Involved in the development modules using Flex 3.0, Action Script and integrating with J2EE layer using Blaze DS and Spring MVC frame work. Involved in development of server side modules using SpringMVC, SpringIOC, Spring AOP, and AspectJ.  • Developed application using Struts, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers, functions for the application. Analyzed the DAO and persistence layers to extract the data manipulation information for various transactions.  • Identified the webservices (SOAP), topics (TIBCO EMS/JMS)/queues (MQ's), underlying databases and other automation areas that will be impacted with the new software development and develop a test automation framework.  • Involved in designing data schema and development of SOAP web services with Axis implementation and REST web services with JAX-RS. Consumed SOAP and REST web services to get the persisted data from different databases.  • Configured Struts-config. XML for action mappings. Involved in implementing the Message Oriented Middleware for Asynchronous communication in Enterprise application.  • Experience evaluating user requests for new programs or modified program components to determine feasibility, cost and time required, compatibility with current systems, and computer capabilities.  • Involved in implementing Value Object Pattern, MVC & Factory Pattern.  • Worked with Tibco and Ecommerce as a part of checkout flow. Deployed application on JBOSS Application server.  • Used Subversion for version control management and consistently produced high quality code through disciplined and rigorous unit testing (JUnit). Used Jira for tracking bugs. Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.    Environment: J2EE, JBOSS Application Server, JSP, Jquery, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP based Webservices, Oracle, Rational Application Developer 6.0, Maven , JUnit, and Subversion. Java / J2EE Programmer Analyst ICICI Bank - IN June 2008 to December 2010 Project: Payroll management systems.  Description: Payroll Management System is an application program which is used by the company to manage the records of the employees working in the company. Using Payroll Management System, Payroll can be generated based on employee's job type, pay rate and hours worked. Employees can log on to the system to see their current status. Payroll system is to create records, delete records and save records for employees according to their information given to the administration of the company. Project Objectives is to improve efficiency of the company's administration, to store up-to-date information of the employees and to reduce extra cost for the security of the database. A payroll system involves everything that has to do with the payment of the employees and filing of the employment taxes, keeping track of hours, printing and delivering checks etc.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Designed User Interface using Java Server Faces (JSF), HTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), and XML. Implemented JSF framework extensively which involves building the whole user Interface components using JSF tab panels, Panel groups and data tables.  • Integrated components like partial triggers, calendar, and action/value change listeners with JSF for enhancing the front end GUI layout.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX communication (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed the user interface screens using JSF2.0 and Prime faces component library. Also used Rich faces to customize some of the components in XHTML pages.  • Developed the presentation layer using Model View Architecture implemented by Spring MVC. Managed Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC) and managed the security with the help of Spring Security (ACEGI).  • Tested the web services using SOAPUI and Web Service Explorer. Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  • Developed the XSL to convert and compare the SOAP to simple XML and vice versa. Developed SOAP Web services for getting information from third party.  • Developed various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business logic and data manipulations from the database. Developed Data access bean and developed EJBs that are used to access data from the database.  • Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), to route the submittals to the EJB components and render-retrieved information using Session Facade, Service Locator (design pattern).  • Implemented the business logic under the Servlets and simple Java Bean components to be used under the various modules in the System and developed and database connection using JDBC.  • Analyzed the existing access system and re-designed it in Oracle 8i by developing data validation and load processes using PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers to enhance and improve functionality requested by business for reducing manual processing time.  • Used Dynamic SQL (DBMS_SQL, DBMS_DDL) in Functions and Procedures. Created database Triggers to record Insertion, Updating, Deletion and all other audit routines. Responsible for Code Reviews and PL/SQL Code Tuning.  • Involved in the overall system's support and maintenance services such as Defect Fixing, Feature Enhancements, Testing and Documentation.  • Used CVS for version control management and Maven for Build. Deployed an application in Tomcat server.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP, JSF, EJB, Spring, SOAP based Webservices, Eclipse, Tomcat, Oracle 8i, PL/SQL, CVS, Maven, Waterfall. Education Bachelors of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science VMRF University Skills front-end (9 years), Java (9 years), JQuery (9 years), Oracle (9 years), testing (9 years) Additional Information EXPERTISE AND SPECIALIZATION    • Experience in J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, and JMS) and participated in the designing and developing of Software using Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience in User Experience (UX) design and development, User Interactive (UI) Web Pages and visually appealing User Interfaces using HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS,JavaScript, JQuery, Angular-JS and React-JS.  • Experienced in developing and implementing web applications using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JSF, HTML 5, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, CSS3, XML, JDBC and JNDI.  • Expertise in development and deployment of multi-tiered web based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets 3.0/2.5, JSP 1.1/2.0, Struts 2.0, JMS, Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Spring 3.0/4.0, JDBC, JNDI, JSF, angular JS, Java Beans and Web services (SOAP, Rest).  • Knowledge of J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Factory, Abstract Factory, Command Pattern, Singleton, Session Facade, Transfer Object, Business Delegate and Data Access Object etc.  • Expertise in MVC architecture Web Framework Struts 2.0, Spring 4.0 (Dependency Injection, Data Access Objects, MVC Framework and Spring Web Flow) and know how to use Spring Framework in business layer for Dependency Injection, AOP, Spring MVC, transaction management and used Hibernate as a persistence layer that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database.  • Good Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services and hands on experience in developing and registering web services using JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SAAJ, JAX-RS, SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, UDDI registry.  • Experience in configuring and deploying the web applications on WebLogic, WebSphere and JBoss Application Servers including hands on experience in using Tomcat web Server.  • Expertise in developing XML documents with XSD validations, SAX and DOM parsers to parse the data held in XML documents and experience in other XML related technologies like DTD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, JAXB, and JAXP.  • Expertise in using Java IDE tools of Rational Application Developer (RAD), Web Sphere Application Developer (WSAD), Eclipse EE 3.0/3.2, Weblogic Workshop, RSA 7.0 and Netbeans to develop dynamic web applications.  • Expertise in Bootstrap, Angular JS and Node JS(Express, Mongoose, Body-Parser, Sequelize, HTTP, FileSystem, BrowserSync etc..) and used Log 4j for logging.  • Hands-on experience working with source control tools such as CVS, Clear Case, SVN, Git and Surround SCM.  • Experienced in the deployment of the ear and jars using Jenkins, ANT, Maven deploy tools and performing other configuration changes for setting up the application in the integration testing environment.  • Created and presented training materials for Groovy, Unit Testing, the Gradle build framework and others.  • Work Experience with testing tools and applications such as JUnit, Mockito, FireBug, FirePoster, SoapUI and performed Unit testing, integrated testing, and closely worked with QA team in preparation of Test plans.  • Proficient in RDBMS concepts like writing SQL Queries, Functions, Stored Procedures and PL/SQL Packages and have knowledge on NoSQL Databases MongoDB and CouchDB.  • Expertise in using Oracle SQL Developer GUI (Graphical User Interface) tool for database development, browse database objects, implement and edit SQL as well PL/SQL statements.  • Complete understanding of Agile/SCRUM with the ability to conduct SCRUM meetings, co-ordinate team activities in a strict-deadline driven environment and maintain excellent client communication.  • Good exposure in interacting with clients and solving application environment issues and can communicate effectively with people at different levels including stakeholders, internal teams and the senior management.    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY    Category Expertise/Tools  Application Development  • Java 1.7 ,JavaScript, Servlets, Struts framework , JSP ,XML, Hibernate, JPA, MyBatis, NodeJS  • SOAP-1.1, JAX-WS 2.0, JAX-RS - Restful Services (Jersey, Spring, Node-JS).    Java Skills • J2EE, JDBC, EJB, JAX-M, JAXP, JAXB, Java Server Pages (JSP), Multithreading, JMS.  Configuration Management Tools • CVS, Clear Case, SVN, Git and Suround SCM.  Servers • IBM Websphere, JBOSS, Weblogic, Tomcat, Node server  Front End UI • Angular.JS, HTML 4.01/5 , XML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS 2/3, Bootstrap , AJAX, SASS, Selenium, Cucumber  Database • DB2, MYSQL, Oracle 11g, 10g, 9i, 8i, SQL Server 2000/2005, MongoDB, Couchdb  IDE • Websphere RAD 6.0, Eclipse 4.2.1 , Spring tool suite, WSAD, Eclipse EE 3.0/3.2, Weblogic Workshop, RSA 7.0 and Netbeans  Operating System • Windows, Linux, Unix  Tools • TOAD, Putty, SQL Developer, Squirrel ,MY SQL workbench, RoboMongo  Languages • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, Java