Senior Java J2ee Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> J2ee <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java J2ee Developer - PNC Bank Strongsville, OH • Over 13 years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, design, implementation, integration, testing and maintenance of applications using Java/J2EE and Object Oriented Client-Server technologies.  • Experience in developing web-based applications in Hotel, Health, Insurance, Telecommunication, and Financial domains using IBM Web Sphere Application Server (WAS) 4.0/5.0 and Web Sphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD) 4.0/5.0, RAD 6.0.  • Expertise in developing Multi-tier enterprise level web applications using various J2EE technologies including JSP2.0, Servlets2.3, Struts1.2, EJB2.1, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, AJAX, ANT, SOAP, WSDL, SVN, XML, XML Parsers such as JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB.  • Continuous Integration solution using Jenkins and Subversion  • Extensive experience in writing Junit's using EasyMock and PowerMock frameworks.  • Articulate in written and verbal communication along with strong, interpersonal, analytical, and organizational skills.  • Highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Senior Java J2ee Developer PNC Bank - Strongsville, OH June 2016 to Present Security and Authentication    This project is related to security and authentication. This project mainly focuses on changing or creating security questions, email id and password. Using this project we can create complex password.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for analyzing and fixing defects.  • Responsible for implementing user stories mentioned on version one  • Participate in agile development process.  • Responsible to design module using OOPS concepts(Abstraction,encapsulation,inheritance,polymorphism)  • Involved in code reviews and design discussions.  • Created and modified Rest API for security functionality.  • Built web pages that are more user interactive using Angular Js.  • Responsible for creating services in multithreaded environment.  • Responsible for attending backlog grooming and working new user stories.  • Responsible for creating branches and pull requests.  Environment  Java 1.7, multithreaded, OOPS, j2ee, AngularJS 2, Smart Git, RAD, Websphere application server, Rest API, JUnit, Jenkins Sr. Java J2ee Developer Nike - Beaverton, OR June 2015 to March 2016 Onboarding Team    This project is related to qe automation project. Find/Use new/Existing qe tools to be used by software engineers. Once these tools are installed by our team. Will send these tools to other teams so that they can use in their projects.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for technical design, develop and integration testing.  • Participate actively in the agile development process.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Implemented Restful webservice from scratch.  • Implemented rest controllers using microservices.  • Responsible for using tools and install in dev machines.  • Used JUnit testing framework for unit level testing.  • Jenkins used for continuous automated builds and deployed app into Jetty server.  • Responsible for attending backlog grooming and working new user stories  • Responsible for supporting other teams with onboarding required tools  Environment  Java 1.6, J2EE, Splunk, Selenium, Jenkins, Eclipse, Microservices, Jetty Senior Java J2ee Developer AMIG - Cincinnati, OH October 2014 to May 2015 Earnings Engine    This module is used to calculate premiums and exposure values for particular policy period. And its take input as xml file and web services will consume it and send response back in xml.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for technical design, develop and integration testing.  • Responsible for developing this module from the scratch.  • Participate actively in the agile development process.  • Configured new routes using apache camel.  • Used spring features like spring IOC and MVC to develop comprehensive application.  • Used SoapUI for testing web services.  • Used powermock and easymock for unit level testing.  • Created and modified XSD for the webservice.  • Developed Web Services using WSDL, using SOAP/HTTP.  • Used JUnit testing framework for unit level testing.  • Worked on fixing production issues in existing application.  • Responsible for deploy code into tomcat web server.  Environment  Java 1.6/1.7, J2EE, Apache Camel, Webservice, XSD, Selenium, WSDL, Eclipse, Tomcat Senior Java Developer Sky Touch Technology - Phoenix, AZ July 2013 to September 2014 Rate Center    This application is mainly used by hotel mangers using this application they can configure rates for particular property. And they can create discounted rates and sell to expedia and other online websites.    Responsibilities  • Involved in release & scrum planning and responsible for creating user stories.  • Responsible for design and develop user stories.  • Attended for spring backlog grooming.  • Involved in sprint ceremonies and planning.  • Modified key values for properties to accumulate internationalization.  • Design and develop communication between client and server using REST Web Services.  • Responsible for writing JUnit's using Power Mock and Easy Mock.  • Responsible for coding backend service layer classes.  • Developed front end screens using JSP's  • Responsible for writing dao classes using homegrows db framework.  Environment  Eclipse, Maven, Weblogic, Easymock, PowerMock, Agile, RUP, UNIX, Winscp, putty. XSD, Log4j, Informix, spring Sr. Java/Jasper Developer Options Clearing Corporation - Keller, TX October 2011 to July 2013 ENCORE    Description: The Options Clearing Corporation is a customer-driven clearing organization that delivers risk management, clearance and settlement services. This application is primarily used by OCC clearing member's to create and edit options and settlement prices. And also used to run reports related to each clearing member.    Responsibilities  • Involved in Design, Code, Test, Integarte, Deployment and production phases.  • Implemented Spring MVC with JSP and JSP Tag libraries to facilitate user interface design.  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Objects DTO and Data Access Objects DAO patterns.  • Used XML Schemas (XSD) for defining XML elements and attributes.  • Responsible for designing Collateral module.  • Responsible for developing front end pages using JSP.  • Responsible for writing DAO's using JDBC framework.  • Responsible for supporting integration and testing environment.  • Used iReport editor for designing jasper template.  • Responsible in designing and developing reports using jasper reports framework.  • Worked in STS(Spring Editor) to develop complete application.  Environment  STS(Spring source Tool Suite), Spring3.0, Servlet 2.5, JSP 2.0, SOAP, Agile, ireport, UNIX, Oracle 9i, JUnit, SVN ,Log4J and ANT 1.7 Sr. J2ee developer Texas Health and Human Services - Austin, TX December 2009 to December 2011 MEDICAD    This application primarily used to monitor state contract. It allows to renewal current contract, modify contract and stores changes in contract. This application is used by Texas state employee and Texas vendor. It acts primary communication between state and vendor people.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Requirements gathering,Design, Code,Integarte,Deployment and production phases.  • Implemented Jakarta Struts Framework1.2 along with JSP2.0, Struts Tiles, and Struts Tag libraries to facilitate user interface design.  • Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans to transfer calls from presentation tier to data services tier.  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Objects DTO and Data Access Objects DAO patterns.  • Used Web Services to communicate with different application.  • JAXB parser for marshaling and unmarshaling.  • Working with WSDL and SOAP messages.  • Designed EJB2.1 like Stateless Session Bean for the Session Facade design pattern.  • Used Hibernate3.1 to store the persistence data into the Oracle9i database.  • Used Spring2.0 Framework to integrate the application with Hibernate3.1.  • Used IBM MQSeries for enterprise level messaging system.  • JMS was used to send/receive asynchronous data from various message brokers  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build the application.  • Involved in using Log4J to create log files to debug.  • Used Rational Clear case for version control.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for Unit Level Testing.  • Worked in IBM RAD 6.0 to develop complete application  • Deployed the application on Web Sphere Application Server6.0 (WAS)  Environment  WAS 6.0, RAD 6.0, Struts 1.2, Spring2.0, EJB 2.1, Servlet 2.3, HTML, JSP 2.0, JNDI, REST Web Services, JMS, SOAP, IBM MQSeries, WSDL, UNIX, Oracle 9i, JUnit, Log4J and ANT 1.5 Java Developer Verizon - Marlborough, MA January 2011 to September 2011 This is an intranet application where intuit like customers will sell their products on Verizon business application.    Responsibilities  • Modifying existing application and adding new features.  • Modified jsp pages and backend java classes.  • Modified dao layer to for saving and retrieving data.  Environment  Ubuntu, eclipse, java, sql. Sr. J2EE Developer Verizon - Tampa, FL May 2008 to December 2009 Customer Contact Portal    This application is used by Verizon customer service representatives. Customer representatives will call to customers and confirm installation date or reschedule installation date.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for design and develop web pages.  • Responsible for design and code DAO layer.  • Responsible for making asynchronous calls to server using DWR.  • Developed and Deployed application using RAD7.  • Responsible for communicating with other applications using apache axis webservice.  • Responsible for build and deployment.  • Developed and designed Jasper Reports.    Project: Work Bench National  Verizon is well known telecom company. It has voice, data, wireless customers throughout USA .This web application is used by technician supervisors to assign task to particular technician. This application also is used to change the status of an order. This application provides features to run report on particular region how many orders are completed.    Responsibilities  • Involved in SDLC: Design, Code, Testing phases.  • Involved in writing ant scripts for generating EAR and WAR files compatible with Websphere  • Responsible in migrating existing Websphere MDB's to Weblogic MDB's  • Responsible for integrating Weblogic server to Websphere MQ through Foreign JMS server.  • Involved in Websphere MQ administration for creating queues and queue manager.  • Fixing bugs and implementing enhancements for WBN project.  • Developed application RAD.  • CVS is used for source code version control.  • Involved in using Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace, application.  • Involved in writing build scripts.  • Consumed Webservices to communicate with different applications.  • Used JAXB for marshalling and unmarshalling.  • Developed and designed reports using jasper.  • Writing SQL queries, creating views on Oracle database.  Environment  RAD7, Websphere, CVS, IBM MQ series, Jasper, ANT, Oracle 10g, UNIX, EJB, JSP, Servlet,LOG4J Sr. J2EE Web Sphere Developer Syniverse Technologies - Tampa, FL January 2008 to May 2008 Open Connectivity    Syniverse introduced a new telecom industry standard/concept called Open Connectivity which is initiated by the GSMA, to simplify and automate the processes when entering into inter-working relationships between GSM/CDMA operators. Syniverse Open Connectivity Hub Solution is designed to provide an operator one interconnection point to reach global operators for SMS and MMS messaging services. It allows the participating operators an inter-working service without having to establish individual interconnect agreements.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Design and Code Development phases.  • Implemented Jakarta Struts Framework1.2 along with JSP2.0, Struts Tiles, and Struts Tag libraries to facilitate user interface design.  • Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans to transfer calls from presentation tier to data services tier.  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Objects DTO and Data Access Objects DAO patterns.  • Consumed Web services to use implementation which is present in different platform.  • JAXB parser for marshaling and unmarshaling.  • Designed EJB2.1 like Stateless Session Bean for the Session Facade design pattern.  • Used Hibernate3.1 to store the persistence data into the Oracle9i database.  • Used Spring2.0 Framework to integrate the application with Hibernate3.1.  • JMS was used to send/receive asynchronous data from various message brokers  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build the application.  • Involved in using Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace, application using RAD.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for Unit Level Testing.  • Worked in IBM RAD 6.0 to develop complete application  • Deployed the application on Web Sphere Application Server6.0 (WAS)  Environment  WAS 6.0, RAD 6.0, Struts 1.2, Spring2.0, EJB 2.1, Servlet 2.3, HTML, JSP 2.0 Java Developer RCCL - Miami, FL April 2007 to December 2007 Pullmantur    This application is web application where cruise agents will you to book cruises .This application is available in different languages.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Design and Code Development phases.  • Implemented struts internationalization using struts i18n.  • Modified jsp and java script to accommodate internationalization  • Modified application resource properties file to add key value pairs.  • Deployed application into websphere server.  Environment  WebSphere, Struts, Java, Javascript. Sr. J2EE Web Sphere Developer Visa International - Portland, ME January 2007 to March 2007 Visa Resolve Online    Visa International is a well-known financial corporation .This project deals with disputes, fraud and stolen credit cards. It also deals with increasing spending limit on a card for particular period of time.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Design and Development phases.  • Involved in developing Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams in Rational Rose to express the detail design.  • Implemented Jakarta Struts Framework1.2 along with JSP2.0, Struts Tiles, and Struts Tag libraries to facilitate user interface design.  • Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans to transfer calls from presentation tier to data services tier.  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Facade and Data Access Objects DAO patterns.  • Designed EJB2.1 like Stateless Session Bean for the Session Facade design pattern.  • Developed web services for taking information about increasing spending limit.  • Created WSDL file for specifying services.  • JAXB parser for marshaling and unmarshaling.  • Used JDBC calls to persist data into DB2 8.2 database.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build the application.  • Involved in using Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace, application using RAD.  • Used Rational Clear case for version control.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for Unit Level Testing.  • Worked in IBM RAD6.0 to develop complete application  • Deployed the application on Web Sphere Application Server 6.0 (WAS)  Environment  WAS 6.0,RAD 6.0, Struts 1.2, EJB 2.1, Servlet 2.3, HTML, JSP 2.0, JNDI, UNIX, Web Services ,JMS, MQSeries, SOAP ,WSDL. J2EE Developer FBFS - Salt Lake City, UT February 2006 to January 2007 Commercial Insurance    Farm Bureau Financial Services is a well-known financial corporation. Commercial Insurance project will provide insurance for Office, Apartments, Vehicles and Buildings. It will take details about the insured items and it will generate the premium amount for the insured item. It will also provide to renewal insurance.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Design and Code Development phases.  • Involved in developing Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams in Magic Draw to express the detail design.  • Implemented Jakarta Struts Framework1.2 along with JSP2.0, Struts Tiles, and Struts Tag libraries to facilitate user interface design.  • Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans to transfer calls from presentation tier to data services tier.  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects DTO , Service locator, Session Facade and Data Access Objects DAO patterns.  • Designed EJB2.1 like Stateless Session Bean for the Session Facade design pattern.  • Used Hibernate XDoclet tags to generate HBM xml files.  • Used Hibernate3.0 to store the persistence data into the DB2 database.  • Used JMS send/receive asynchronous data from different message brokers  • Consumed Web services to use implementation which is present in different platform.  • JAXB parser for marshaling and unmarshaling.  • Working with WSDL and SOAP messages.  • Used Spring 2.0 Framework to integrate the application with Hibernate3.0.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build the application.  • Involved in using Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace, application using WSAD.  • Used CVS for version control.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for Unit Level Testing.  • Worked in IBM WebSphere Studio Application Developer5.1.2 (WSAD) to develop complete application  • Deployed the application on WebSphere Application Server5.0 (WAS)  Environment  WAS 5.0, WSAD 5.1.2,Hibernate 3.0, Struts 1.2, Spring2.0, EJB 2.1, JMS,MQ-Series, Servlet 2.3, HTML, JSP 2.0, Web Services, SOAP,WSDL, JNDI, XDoclet, UNIX, DB2, JUnit, CVS, Log4J and ANT 1.5. Education MASTERS IN COMPUTER SCIENCE in WIU JNTU UNIVERSITY - Macomb, IL Skills Bea, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jboss, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, Wsad, Junit, Unix, Jenkins, Ajax, Tomcat Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLSET    J2EE Technologies: JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.3, JSTL 1.3, Custom tags, Struts 1.3/2.0, Struts  Internationalization, Tiles, Spring Framework1.2/1.3/2.0, JDBC2.0, Hibernate  3.0/3.1, AJAX, EJB 2.1/3.0, RMI, JAXB 2.0, SAX and DOM. JUnit, Ant1.5,  Log4j1.2, CVS, Rational ClearCase. XDoclet.  Programming Languages: Java,SQL, PL/SQL.  Web/Application Servers: IBM Web Sphere 4.x/5.x/6.x, BEA Web Logic 7.x/8.x,Jboss Tomcat 5.0  IDE: Eclipse 2.1/3.0, WSAD 5.x, RAD 6.0, Intellij  Continuous Integration Tools: Jenkins  Platforms: Windows98/2000/NT/XP, UNIX  Databases: Oracle 8i/9i, IBM DB2 7.0/8.2  Database Tools: TOAD9.0, DBVisualizer 5.0/5.1