Project Deployed in Openshift Environment - Full Stack Python/React Developer Project Deployed in Openshift Environment - Full Stack Python/React <span class="hl">Developer</span> Project Deployed in Openshift Environment - Full Stack Python/React Developer - PPX Payment Jacksonville, FL Work Experience Project Deployed in Openshift Environment - Full Stack Python/React Developer PPX Payment - Jacksonville, FL June 2018 to Present Jun 2018 - Present    • Actively participate in the sprint grooming session and clarify all the business and technical requirements.  • Before sprint planning allocated estimate hours for entire sprint.  • Based on sprint grooming sessions choose the user stories in sprint planning and create the all the related tasks and estimate the hours.  • Using GitLab commands update the work space and created the necessary feature branches from develop.    PPX Dash Board:  • Utilize the Reactjs life cycle methods to build the Reactjs components.  • Using JWT token check the authorization and authentication based on role.  • Write the unit test cases for Reactjs components and maintain the code quality and minimize the defects.  • Use the material UI next Reactjs module to implement the required components.  • Integrated with Redux, Redux-Thunk and Redux-saga state management framework  • Interacting with Nodejs apis using axios.  • Implement the required Reactjs life cycle like componentdidmount, render methods etc..  • Make the necessary changes in the code and execute the unit test cases.  • Using jenkins2 build tool, using jenkins pipe line build the project.  • Based on package.json, install npm modules.  • Follow the ES7 standards to implement the reactjs components.  • Maintain the Auto scaling pods in the Openshift for scalability  • Well understanding of reactjs component state and react-redux store.  • Utilize the call back function and promises.    PPX Dash Board Apis:  • Install the required node modules and nodejs server.  • Using expressjs implement the rest api with nodejs.  • Write the validate method to check the authorization of user while passing JWT using svcUtilts of celebrate.  • Write the handler to implement the business logic in nodejs apis.  • Using nodejs integrating with Mongodb using localAppDb npm module and utilize the ppxInvoice collections data.  • Write the unit test cases to maintain the code quality using Enzyme.  • Based on package.json, will install all the npm modules and python modules in the Openshift environment.  • Well understanding of event loop in nodesjs.  • Very good debugging skills and configuration skills of VSCODE.  • extensively used the lambda functions and higher order functions.    PPX Payments API:  • Using python aiohttp module implements the python rest apis and Springboot apis.  • Api will interact with payment vendors and postgres jsonb data bases for payments data.  • Write the required postgres jsonb quires to maintain the payments database.  • Implement the kafka producer and consumer to receive the payment vendor webhooks requests and update the payments data base.  • Write the test cases using pytest and python unitest and execute with asserts.  • Write the better approach of logging mechanism to implements logging handlers.  • Get the necessary logs and push in to splunk for controls and alerts.  • For implementing external authentication and authorization implement the api with python django framework.  • Implement the cron jobs for schedule payments.  • Based on requirement.txt it will install all the npm packages and python modules in the Openshift environment.  • Using Maven get all the required dependency libraries.    Common things do:  • Everyday using GIT commands checkout the code from develop branch and maintain the workspace up to date.  • Whenever implement the new requirement or enhance the existing requirement, create the feature branch and made the change in the branch and send the merge request to merge into develop branch.  • Update the hours for tasks in rally and provide the updates in stand up.  • Based on team availability, create the meeting and discuss about clarifications and share my ideas to the team.  • Created the separate GIT module to maintain the all environment variables using deployment.yml file.  • Created the secret keys to maintain the database passwords, tokens.  • Verify the logs in openshift environment and kibanna and splunk for resolving issues.  • Interacting with performance team to run prof test using load runner and based on LT, made the required changes and run performance test using Jmeter as well.    Production Development:  • Freeze the code three days of production release.  • Created the required tasks for production release.  • Follow up concerns team for approvals.  • Created the change ticket.  • Merge all the git modules from develop to master branch and create the token numbers.  • Using jenkins2 pipe line deploy the code into TEST and after successful execution of all automated test cases in TEST move the image to STAGE and PROD.  • Created the checklist to verify the all the things for prod release.  • Based on change ticket window deploy into prod.    Environment: Reactjs, Redux, SAML, Redux-Thunk, Nodejs, Aiohttp python, Django Python, Java, Spring Boot, Openshift cloud paas envinronment, jenkins2, splunk, kibanna, JWT, postgres jsonb, mongodb, Jmeter, postman 7.x, sopaui, vscode, Rally, NoSqlBooster, Robo mongo3, Mongo Compass, FileZilla, SFT. Spring Boot and python rest api Developer Florida Blue - Jacksonville, FL September 2017 to May 2019 Duration - 1yr 9months. Full Stack Java Developer NYC Doitt - Brooklyn, NY January 2016 to May 2018 Brooklyn, New York - Project Deployed in Hadoop Cluster Jan 2016 - May 2018  Full Stack Java Developer    • Prepare the RFP document along with technical design (Sequence, class, use case) and functional design using Microsoft Visio.  • Based on business product back log, prepare the user stories and prioritize the use stories in Rally and provide the estimation.  • Uses the Xmind for updating burning hours and user stories and work progress percentage.  • Worked as Business Analyst under sr business analyst, attending all business meeting, fortunately involved into all areas in the project.  • Attended the scrum meetings where all the business users, client technical leads and testing team, BA team discuss about the loopholes and updated status to get the more clarity on business need.  • Worked with all general activities like set up SVN version control tool, set Ant or Maven build tool configuration, Nexus.  • Attend the daily stand up meeting with Doitt technical team and share our daily Rally updates on user stories.  • worked as DevOps engineer as well, like Configure the Jenkins continues integration tool, maintain the changes in Bitbucket, configure the Puppet Configuration management tool and building war using Teamcity and using Unix shell scripts deploy the war into different Weblogic application sever instances.  • Updated the project related documents and push into share point, so that whole team can maintain those files.    New Module: SMALL BUSINESS OWNER PORTAL  • Implemented the concurrent processing for improve the application performance.  • Fetch the Data from Elastic Search and shows into UI using Angularjs2.  • Extensively uses the Jquery with JSP in existing application enhancement.  • Implemented the Agularjs2 App. components and user defined components and services.  • Using Karma and Jasmine test the Angularjs components.  • Implemented Spring MVC which interacts with Soap web service and Oracle data base and elastic search.  • Developed the replica of application using MEAN (MongoDB, ExpressJs, NodeJS and AngularJs2) stack.  • Write the Hibernate queries to interact with Oracle Database.  • Implementing a module using Mean Stack (Angulajs2, Nodejs, Express js, Mongo Db).  • Implemented the concurrent processing for one business scenario, which developed with Fork Join pool java 1.7 features.  • Write the Hibernate queries to interact with Oracle Database.  • Implemented the static and dynamic content with TeamSite.    Legacy Module: Manual Searches  • Implement spring with Restful controller to full fill the Business need.  • Work with UI design team to design the screens Skelton using JSP, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Using CSS3 and JSP, HTML5 create the responsive design pages.  • Fetch the Data from Elastic Search and shows into UI using Handlebars js templates.  • Manipulated extensively with Jquery with rest Ajax calls with Spring MVC  • Write the Oracle data base SQL scripts and insert the static data.  • Maintain the current static updates in Apache HTTP Weberver.  • Extensively worked with Jquery, Jquery Ajax rest calls, window class and Handlebar js templates.  • Write the oracle scripts and check in to svn, use those same files in test environment, like this way avoids the reworking on Oracle scripts.  • As per the manual Searches, created data bases tables, have a rewrite grant access.    Data Source module: Data Collection  • Write the Apache Storm jobs to stream the data from different Newyork city agencies.  • Extensively worked with Apache Storm and Elastic Search.  • Implemented POC in Apache Solr as per business need.  • Extensively uses the continue integration DevOps Tool Jenkins for Dev, Test and production deployment.  • Migrated to the AWS stack like EC2, Code Deploy, Oracle DB, and Elastic Search.  • Write the Hive Script to persist the data into the HBASE.  • Write the Rest Api to move the data from one system to another system.  • Use the ORC (Optimized row columnar) files to store RDBS data.  • Based on business need uses the parquet and Avro files.  • Uses the compression logic like BZIP2, Gzip, Lz4, snappy.  • Write the sqoop script to extract the data from RDBS.  • Implemented POC in Apache Solr as per business need.  • Modify the existing map reduce jobs for add on functionality.  • Implement the Apache Spark jobs SCALA functional programming to transform CSV data to structured data based on business requirement.  • Write the queries to interact with Elastic search Data bases, which In turn interact with New York City Agencies.    Common Responsibilities:  • Work as build manger to maintain the build activities in TeamCity and run the build scripts in Weblogic server using Putty.  • Implemented the integration with Teamsite and show the required static and into the page.  • Extensively work with UI design team to design the screens using HTML5, CSS3 responsive design.  • Test all the scenarios in all browsers and phones and iPods to make sure responsive design is working as expected.  • Write the Junit test cases to test all the unit test cases.  • Work with defects and update the hours in Rally and provide the current status in HP QC.  • Write the test script to test the application using selenium.  • Implemented Spring AOP with Logging and Transaction Management.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Elastic Search, SAML, Spring Framework, Hibernate 3.0, Angularjs2, weblogic Eclipse IDE, JSP, JPA, JDBC, HTML5, JavaScript, DHTML5, Web services, CSS3, JQuery, SOAP, WSDL, JDK 1.7,8,Agile, Oracle SQL, JUnit, UNIX, Weblogic, Apache Webserver. Full Stack Java Developer NYC Doitt - Brooklyn, NY January 2016 to August 2017 Sr. Java Developer at Amex American Express - Phoenix, AZ March 2015 to December 2015 Sr. Java Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ March 2014 to December 2015 • Participate in project story review sessions of sprint and document requirements, design documents and complete impact analysis.  • Work with business teams and BA on requirement gathering, prepare high-level designs and conduct walkthrough meetings with Architects and co-ordinate offshore development.  • Participate in creating and writing technical documents using MS Office products, Visio, Word, Excel, and PowerPoint.  • Implemented the Angularjs2 using Type script.  • Implemented the MEAN stack with Angulajs2, Mongodb, Nodejs and Express js.  • Developed the APIGEE platform for our API to control the network traffic and security.  • Using Spring Dao interacting with DB2 Stored procedures.  • Worked with DevOps tools like Teamcity, SVN and Luara.  • Led the development of the Commerce Concierge Application using the Restful Apis.  • Developed ACE application in cloud Amazon AWS EC2.  • Write the Junit test cases to test all the unit test cases.  • Set up the web logic application server and domain, data source and application context.  • In Development environment use the Jboss application sever to deploy our API.  • In testing and pre-production and production environment use the Teamcity build tool and Jboss server.  • Implemented GUI pages using Angular JS, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, XML, and XSLT.  • Develop the replica of Commerce Concierge Sand Box environment by using Node Js, Mongo DB.  • Dev, Test and production deployment experience using DevOps Tools.  • Implemented one module with the Microservices using Spring Boot.  • Apply the algorithms and data structures.    Environment: Java 7, Spring MVC REST, Servlets, JDBC, JBoss Application Server, Web services, HTML5, CSS3, XML, XLS, Java Script, Json. Ajax, JMS, Microsoft VSS, JBOSS IDE, DB2, SVN, Angular Js, Node Js, Maven, Bootstrap, Log4J, Agile/Scrum, REST & Soap, and Testing, Cron Scheduler, Multi-Threading, Cripoto properties, Elastic Search, Jboss WSF2, JAXB, JAXP,WSDL, XSD, Apache CXF, MongoDB, Rest Client, Postman, Putty, FileZila, Wincp. Have been Working as Full Stack Java Developer Excelsior - Albany, NY January 2015 to March 2015 Senior Java Developer and Lead Java developer FedEx - Pittsburgh, PA February 2013 to January 2015 Full Stack Java Developer Excelsior - Albany, NY March 2013 to February 2014 • Attending all the story review sessions of sprints.  • Closely involved in web application system analysis and programming using Core Java, J2EE, Spring AOP, IOC,DAO, JSF 2.x, Primefaces, XHTML, , XML, XSL, Jquery.  • Used the Oracle database platforms and tools  • Apply the core java with oops concepts and design patterns in our application.  • Apply the proper exception handling mechanism in our application.  • Write the Junit test cases to test all the unit test cases.  • Utilize the java 1.7 features in our application and aware of java 1.8 features as well.  • Lead projects with onshore resources and complete own task as well.  • Implemented the Multi-Threading extensively like using Synchronization, join, executor service mechanism.  • For querying and analyzing data base, uses the Oracle PL/SQL developer.  • Deploy the application into the web logic application server for executing application.  • Created REST based web services using Spring Rest•  • Used the required external and internal JavaScript.  • Worked with DevOps Tools like Jenkins, SVN, and Maven.    Environment: OOAD, UML, Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSF(MVC), Spring Framework, Hibernate 3.0, weblogic Eclipse IDE, JSF, JSP, JPA, JDBC, EJB, HTML5, JavaScript, WebSphere MQ Series, Primefaces, DHTML5, Web services, CSS3, JQuery, SOAP, WSDL, JDK 1.6, Agile, SQL, Java Developer, JUnit, Win NT & UNIX. Implementation Partner FedEx - Pittsburgh, PA December 2011 to February 2013 Syntel  Lead Java Developer  • Participate in project story review sessions of sprint and document requirements, design documents and complete impact analysis.  • Lead the seven-member team in Onsite-offshore global model for providing functional and technical guidance.  • Work with business teams and BA on requirement gathering, prepare high-level designs and conduct walkthrough meetings with Architects and co-ordinate offshore development.  • Ability to develop relationships/partnerships with customer by responding to needs and exhibiting an sense of urgency and independently identify options  • Used the Oracle database platforms and tools.  • Using core java coding implemented much complex functionality.  • For deploying our ePAT application we use the weblogic application server along with Hudson build tool in Testing and other environments.  • Led the development of the ePAT rating system using the JSF framework and the ePAT shipment project using the Struts 1.x (MVC framework).  • Led projects with offshore resources and complete own task as well.  • Implemented GUI pages using Primefaces and ICEFaces, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Apache Wicket, AJAX, JQuery, XML, and XSLT.  • Apply the algorithms, Data Structures and Design patterns in business requirements like Insertion sort, selection sort, bubble sort etc.  • Led online web applications using Java (Core Java, Exception Handling Framework, Collection Framework, and Multithreading), JDBC, Servlets, Struts 1.x, EJB, Spring IOC, Spring Hibernate, Spring AOP, Spring JMS, EJB, SOAP Web Services, Restful Web Services, WSDL, SOA, JMS and MQ.  • Implemented the online web application by using JSF, Primefaces, Xhtml, CSS, Ajax, XML, and XSLT.  • Coordinate with offshore to provide the business and technical clarifications, provide their status to the business people and maintain the updates in Version One.    Environment: Java 7, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Servlets, JDBC, Weblogic Application Server, Web services, HTML5, CSS3, XML, XLS, Java Script, Json. Ajax, JMS, Microsoft VSS, Eclipse IDE, Oracle Data Base, SVN, Angular Js, Node Js, Maven, Bootstrap, Log4J, Agile/Scrum, REST & Soap, and Testing, Cron Schedular, Multi-Threading, Cripoto properties, Jboss WSF2, JAXB, JAXP,WSDL, XSD, Apache CXF, IceFaces, Version One, SOAP UI, Rest Client. Java Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ June 2008 to February 2013 Implementation Partner FedEx - Pittsburgh, PA February 2010 to November 2011 Syntel  Sr. Java Developer  • Prepared Functional and Non-Functional requirements by analyzing the business requirements.  • Ability to organize, prioritize, and follow complex and detailed technical procedures  • Implemented GUI pages by using prime faces, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Apache Wicket, XML, and XSLT.  • Configured projects on web logic application servers and deployed into the web logic application sever along Hudson build tool.  • Implemented the online application by using Core Java, JDBC, Servlets and EJB 3.x, SOAP Web Services, WSDL, SOA, JMS and MQ.  • Developed back end interfaces using embedded SQL.  • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and common re-usable components.  • Used SVN for Version Control tool and QC for defect tracking tool  • Unit Tested Service level functionalities prior to end user testing Implementation Partner American Express - Phoenix, AZ June 2008 to January 2010 Syntel  Java Developer:  • Prepared Functional and Non-Functional requirements by analyzing the K240 business requirements documents.  • Implemented GUI pages by using JSP, JSTL, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, XML, and XSLT.  • Extensively used Java to implement batch Jobs with JDK 1.5 features.  • Configured the project on Websphere application servers  • Implemented the online application by using Core Java, JDBC, JSP, Servlets and EJB 1.1, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL.  • Implemented the online web application by using Struts 1.x, hibernate, Ajax, Spring IOC, Spring Hibernate, Spring AOP, Spring Transaction.  • Used DOM parsers to parse the raw XML documents.  • Used RAD as Development IDE for web applications.  • Used complex database queries and joining the DB2 data base tables to improve the performance of the application  • Developed back end interfaces using embedded SQL.  • Used SVN for Version Control tool and QC for defect tracking tool  • Wrote the JUnit test cases to test Service level functionalities.  • Analyze the Putty log to maintain the new exceptions and provide the same information to the business. Education Masters in Computer Application in Hyderabad JNTU 2010 Bachelor in Computer Science in Computer Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2007 Skills Java (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), JDBC (10+ years), Jquery (10+ years), Soap (10+ years) Additional Information SKILLS:  Languages Python, Java 7,8 SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, JSTL, JNDI, JMS, RMI.  Web Technologies ReactJs, HTML5, DHTML5, CSS3, XHTML5, XML, XSD, XML Parsers, XSLT, JavaScript  App/Web Servers Web Logic 8.x/7.x/6.x , IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x/4.x , Tomcat 5, JBoss 4.x  Frameworks Nodejs, expressjs, Struts 2/1.2/1.1, Spring 3/2.5/2, MVC, JSF, Hibernate 3.0, jQuery, Angular.js  SOA Web Services (SOAP, WSDL)  Tools Ant , Log4J, Rational Rose, Maven, Jenkins, Teamcity  IDEs VSCODE, Eclipse 3.3/3.2/3.1 Neon, IBM RAD 7/6, Netbeans,  Version Control GITLAB, CVS, SVN, Microsoft VSS  Databases Postgres jsonb, Mongodb, Oracle 10g,9i,8i , DB2 9.x/8.x, SQL Server 2008/05/00 and MySQL 5  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac Os.  Databases Developer SQL DEVELOPER, DB2 Data Stage, PL/SQL DEVELOPER.