Sr. JAVA-J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">JAVA</span>-J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. JAVA-J2EE Developer - General Services Administration Washington, DC • 9 + years of experience in all phases of software development life cycle.  • Detail understanding and knowledge on design, development, deployment, testing, documentation, implementation & maintenance of Business to Business & Business to Customer.  • Hands on experience working with TDD methods within Agile environment and continuous delivery, pair programming with developers, regularly involved in estimation and planning.  • Strong exposure towards Pair Programming, Test Driven Development, Waterfall model and agile methodologies like SCRUM.  • Experience working on Web applications and Client/Server build on Java and J2EE in Multitier environment.  • Hands on experience working on build tools like Maven, Ant, Ivy and Log4j for logging.  • Hands on experience working with version control tools such as SVN, and Github, Gitorious and Bitbucket.  • Experience in designing and developing User Interface(UI) for applications and professional web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX and Angular.JS.  • Extensively worked on different Spring modules like Spring DAO, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring batch etc.  • Proficient in Object Relational Mapping tools like Hibernate which is used for database management.  • Experience in writing unit test cases for the applications using JUnit Framework.  • Strong in design and development of SOAP & Restful Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, CXF, AXIS, JAX-RS, JERSEY, JSON and WS-Security.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML based SOAP/RESTful web services.  • Hands on experience working on different data bases such as IBM DB2, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g/12C MySQL, Postgres and NoSQL like MongoDB.  • Hands on experience in working with application servers/Web Servers such as Web Logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  • In depth knowledge working on continuous integration tools like Jenkins.  • Good knowledge working on project management tools like Rally, Jira.  • Skilled at programming in different Java IDE's like Eclipse, IntelliJ, My Eclipse, Net Beans, JBuilder.  • Extreme knowledge and Extensive working on J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB, JMS, JSTL, XML/XSTL.  • Extensive experience in using Design patterns/frameworks such as MVC, Singleton, facade, Design Access Object, Service Locator and Business Delegate.  • Expertise in developing Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using UML modeling tools like Rational Rose and Visio.  • Extensive experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end frameworkusing J2EE design patterns and Angular.JS.  • Effective team player with excellent communication skills and insight to determine priorities, schedule work and meet critical deadlines.  • Research-oriented, motivated, proactive, self-starter with strong technical, analytical and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. JAVA-J2EE Developer General Services Administration - Reston, VA September 2017 to Present Energy Usage Analysis System, is a web-based application which serves Energy Center of Expertise users for tracking energy details for various energy sources namely electricity, natural gas, oil chilled water, steam, renewable energy and others..  Responsibilities:-  • Developed the application using Angular JS, Bootstrap, Rest, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate  • Worked with the Benefits and Tax functional leads to understand and define the integration points.  • Involved in Development and UAT phases of the application.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP and Struts framework.  • Deployed the application on JBOSS application server.  • Used Log4j for tracking the applications and used Harvest as version control tool and Clear Quest for defect management.  • Supported User Acceptance Testing, production deployment and provided support.  Environment: JDK 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, JBoss, Web Services, Native APIs, MS Visio, Harvest,ClearQuest API Developer First Republic Bank - San Francisco, CA November 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed,Developed, Tested and deployed application components following an agile environment.  • Used Maven and Ivy dependency management system to deploy snapshot and release artifacts to share artifacts across projects and environments.  • Used Nexus repository to maintain Artifacts  • Involved with the version control and configuration management using Gitorious and Bitbucket.  • Involved in development of the web pages usingHTML5, CSS3, JSP and Java Script.  • Extensively used JavaScript to provide dynamic User Interface for the client side validations.  • Actively participated in meetings with Business Analysts and Architects to identify the scope, requirements and architecture of the project  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using Qpid messaging service.  • Used Hibernate module as an Object Relational mapping tool for back end operations over SQL database.  • Developed REST web services API's supporting both XML and JSON implementing Spring MVC  • Developed unit test cases using Junit framework and Log4j for logging.  • Worked extensively in SQL Server backend database development. Created complex queries, views, functions and stored procedures.  • Deploy and testing application using Jboss and Tomcat servers on Windows platform.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the Continuous Integration process and integrated the tool with Maven to schedule the builds.    Environment: Jdk 1.7, Java, J2EE, Agile Scrum, Rally, Junit, Eclipse, Qpid messaging broker, Jenkins, Gitorious, BitBucket, Ivy, Maven, Windows'7, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, JBoss, Apache tomcat, SQL, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script Java/J2EE Developer aMind Solutions, LLC January 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of software development using Scaled AGILE methodology with Test Driven Development (TDD) and Pair Programming.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring MVC framework. Composing the application classes as Spring Beans using Spring IOC/Dependency Injection.  • Implemented synchronized and multithreaded design using spring MVC.  • Used java concepts like Collections, Exception handling, Concurrency to develop business logic.  • Used DOJO for client side framework. Developed Data persistence API using Hibernate and Spring DAO layer. Implemented logging and transaction manager using spring's Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) concept.  • Used Hibernate by creating its mapping file and coding for data access methods.  • Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to customer information and provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS, REST web services.  • Implemented critical DB design optimization techniques in the application.  • Created Oracle cron jobs to update crucial tables. Redesigned and tuned SQL queries to improve the performance of the applications.  • Developed the presentation layer with JSP, JSF, HTML5, CSS3, XML and VXML.  • Developed and executed test data for unit, functional and user acceptance testing to assure quality project deliverables.  • Worked on Maven2 during build process also modified pom.xml to use latest libraries and specifications.  • Worked in build process, such as running build scripts to check out the code from SVN, to build it and deploying under UNIX boxes also running Web sphere deploy, startup scripts.  • Handled the build and Deployment strategies. Involvement in end to end project phases and providing warranty support on the applications.  • Involved in achieving minimum percentage of code-coverage for unit tests, which was a requirement for committing to a repository.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, HTML, DOJO, JavaScript, Struts, Spring AOP, XML, XSD, XSLT, CSS, JPA, JUnit, RAD, Oracle, PL/SQL, SQL developer, WebSphere Application Server 6.1, ANT, Rational Clear Case, Log4j, Unix, Microsoft Visio, Quality Center, JIRA Tracking tool. Java/J2EE Developer Wells Fargo - Dallas, TX September 2013 to December 2014 Responsibility:  • Worked in an agile development process with three months' release with monthly Sprint and daily Scrum.  • Developed System architecture using different patterns like MVC, SOA, DAOs, Service Facade, Singleton, Factory etc.  • Used Multi-threading and Concurrency concepts to overcome the errors in the process of transactions.  • Used JMX for end of day closing and accounting. This project creates daily General Ledger transactions and updates Trial Balance.  • Validated inputs using client side validations as well as server side validations. Used spring web services as client for different applications.  • Used different methodologies to create client side files like maven plugin, simport in command prompt and used maven dependencies to use already uploaded jars on nexus.  • Employed Java JAX WS in web services to create WS provider.  • Used different plug-ins of Maven to clean, compile, build, install, deploy and more for jars and wars.  • Transactions were managed by using Spring AOP and Spring Transaction management and Spring IoC container was used for independency injection and JSF Beans management.  • JPA 2.0 was used for Database mapping and entity management.  • Configured Hibernate hbm files for ORM mappings like many to one and one to many relational.  • Configured Hibernate to work with spring, by setting up Session Factory in spring context file.  • Used named queries, hql, list, merge and creator update. Troubleshoot maven dependencies to remove.  • Wrote Page level code using JavaScript, XML and VXML with Angular.JS framework along with JQuery and other JavaScript libraries.  • Created and Configure Micro services architecture for CDT Directory project and integrated with Angular.JS application.  • Created continuous delivery pipeline for CDT Directory to run the war, Ami and deploy jobs in Jenkins brew master instance, which reduces the time for the deployment of Micro services  • Used Log4J for debugging and error logging purposes.  • Deployments of application to WebLogic using Anthill Build Server to Dev and Test level environments.  • Developed test cases for Test Driven Development approach.    Environment:Java1.6, VXML, Angular.JSspring 2.0, Spring AOP, Spring IoC, JPA 2.0, Hibernate 3.3, JBoss 5.01,Eclipse Indigo 3.7, SQL Server 8.0, AntHill, Subclipse,Tortoise, Putty / WinSCP,Eclipse RSE, Win Merge. Java/J2EE Web App Developer BCBS - Chicago, IL December 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Attended every day Scrum meetings to provide current project status demonstrations in every two weeks, thus implementing Agile Methodology (Scrum) with Test Driven Development.  • Designed and developed the UI components using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Used Thymeleaf template engine that work both in web based and non-web based environments.  • Developed business validation scripts for the UI using Forms and validation.xml components.  • Used Tiles Framework for Presentation layer and Validation Framework for validations.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with spring to interact with the Database from the DAO.  • Developed Hibernate mapping files using different mapping strategies such as table per class hierarchy. Implemented Spring Security for authentication and authorization.  • Consumed Web Services - WSDL and SOAP for client side for exchange rate calculation and used JAX-RS with jersey for web services.  • Implemented Spring Transactions along with Spring ORM for database transactions.  • Extensively worked with Oracle database, created and worked with various database objects like Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views, Materialized Views, dblinks, external tables, Materialized Views etc.  • Used JMS to send/receive asynchronous data to other applications.  • Used Maven build tool for compiling and packaging the application and used Jenkins with maven for application build.  • Used advanced database design techniques including query tuning and optimizations for the best performance of the application.  • Performance analysis and tuning the message flow performance by analyzing the processing time taken by the message flow.  • Creating environment for UAT (User Acceptance Testing) and facilitating Integration.  • Identified and developed test cases and test scripts to perform load tests for Performance and regression testing.    Environment: Jdk 1.6, Java/J2EE, Eclipse, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Spring ORM, Hibernate3.0, JAX-RS with Jersey, XML, JMS,Thyme leaf, XSLT, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.JS, JUnit, Oracle 11g, Jenkins, Maven. Jr. Java Developer Verizon Business - Colorado Springs, CO September 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  • Was actively involved in designing with the Dev team and requirement gathering with the Business team.  • Followed waterfall model to develop the project.  • Worked with the web admins for the JVM creation and setting up the project in the environments.  • Developed the module to post message to the external queue and read message from the application queue.  • Developed Use Cases and Design documents for new Work Flow Settings.  • Designed and developed client side GUI using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Log4j for logging.  • Used Perforce as version controlling tool to share repository among team.    Environment:Jdk 1.5, Java/J2EE, HTML, CSS, Java Script, TOAD, JPA, WebSphere, Perforce, Oracle 9i. Java Developer Industrial Credit & Investment Corp of India - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed & developed the application using Struts, Tiles, Spring and Hibernate  • Implemented Agile - Scrum development in developing application.  • Troubleshooting the requests, debugging the applications, and providing bug fixes.  • Experience in translating requirement and entity relations diagrams/data model into Application code.  • Correspondences consist of Certificate of Good Standing and Annul report. Involved in implementation of Normal Search and Advanced Search.  • Involved in Tables creation in database by using the concept of normalization.  • Implemented optimized solutions for some critical problems in the application.  • Used SVN for version control and LOG4J for logging.  • Involved in frontend layer development using Spring MVC.  • Involved in handling validations in front end layer provided by spring annotations.  • Written the SQL Stored Procedure and functions to retrieve the application level data as a DB2 Object.  • Created UML class diagrams using My Eclipse Blue Configuring data source in Websphere Application server.  • Configuring queue management in WebSphere application server.  • Involved in fixing the bugs identified during Testing, UAT and supported the Go-live hyper care for production.  • Using Junit testing framework wrote test cases tested each flow.  • Using SOAPUI tool tested the Restful and JAX-WS web services  • Involved in design the Webpages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.    Environment:Jdk 1.5, Java/J2EE, JMS, EJB 3.X, WebSphere 8.0.0.5, Eclipse IDE, DB2, SVN, Log4j, Maven, Angular.JS, Linux operating system Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), JAX (7 years), Testing (7 years), Web Services (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB, JMS, JSTL, XML/XSTL  Frameworks Struts, Springs, Hibernates, JSF  Web Technologies HTML 5, CSS 3, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, Angular.JS  XML Technologies XML, DOM, SAX, XSL, XSLT, SOAP  Web Services SOAP, RESTFUL, Apache 2.x, Apache-CFX, JAX-RS, UDDI, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS  Application/Web Servers IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, Jboss, Apache Tomcat, Wildfly, SQL  IDE'S Eclipse, Net Beans, IntelliJ  Data Bases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g,12C, IBMDB2, MySQL, MongoDB, (NoSQL), Postgree  Operating System Windows 98/2000/NT/XP/7/8/10, UNIX, MAC  Messaging Systems JMS, Apache Active MQ, Qpid Messaging Broker  Testing Tools Junit Framework  SDLC Methodologies Agile (SCRUM), Waterfall, Test Driven Development  Version Control Systems GIT, SVN, Gitorious, Bitnucket  Build Tools Maven, Ant, Log4j.