Salesforce Developer/Admin Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Salesforce Developer/Admin - Medtronic Minneapolis, MN • Over 8+ years of experience as an IT professional, committed to maintain cutting edge technical skills and up-to-date industry knowledge including 5+ years of experience as a Salesforce CRM Administrator, Developer and Consultant.  • Experience in SFDC development using the APEX classes, Triggers, Components, Reports, Force.com IDE, Eclipse with SOQL, SOSL and Force.com plug-in.  • Workflow Issues, restart workflows, reset data fields, test and fix the validation rules.  • Created Custom Controllers to make external web service callouts, validate and insert data.  • Created Visualforce pages which identified a region to be updated to enforce partial page refreshes and display the status of Ajax requests to display different values depending on whether it is in progress or completed.  • Used Visualforce in development mode to change the behavior and appearance of Visualforce components.  • Used Tabular, Summary and Matrix reports to create Standard reports and Custom reports.  • Created Dashboards and Dashboard Components and implemented multiple levels of Dashboards and scheduled Dashboard refresh.  • Designed and modified Approval processes and created Approval steps which used email alerts and field updates  • Used Force.com Web services API and outbound messaging for implementing web services through WSDL in the application for access to data from External systems and websites.  • Hands on Data Integration with ETL tools Apex Data Loader and Data Loader.  • Effective employment of Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard and Data Manipulation Language for data migration and management in bulk.  • Worked on creating Use Cases, Test Scripts and Test Procedures as per the business requirements.  • Used Visualforce Templates and Placeholders to encapsulate page elements to be reused across several Visualforce pages.  • Developed and worked on different Salesforce.com environments such as sandbox and production environments.  • Designed Validation Rules along with Roll-Up Summary Fields to maintain data quantity and data consistency.  • Designed and modified Approval processes and created Approval steps which used email alerts and field updates.  • Proficient in dealing with the functionalities related to the Service cloud and Sales Cloud. Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Waterfall, Agile and Scrum Methodologies.  • Work well alone and as part of a team with excellent troubleshooting mechanisms and highly adaptable to different work environments.  • Proficiency in Object Oriented Languages like C++, Java, J2EE, JSP and other Java technologies.  • Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, WSDL, REST and SOAP Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Admin Medtronic - Minneapolis, MN June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Customized application to extend Salesforce functionality and wrote Apex Classes to provide functionality to the Visualforce pages.  • Implemented/Implementing Security Settings and configured profiles and permission sets.  • lightning experience helped to increase productivity of the sales team.  • Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  • Involved in replication of Salesforce CRM data to SharePoint.  • Developed lightning Application using custom and standard lightning components, followed Salesforce lightning design system, Styling using CSS.  • Lightning experience development included Building, customization of App and rollout.  • Implemented Apex Data loader "Command Line Interface (CLI)" to automate the data loading process for the sand box refresh activity.  • Designed various Webpages in Visualforce for customers to select a variety of services offered by the org and integrate them with the pricing team.  • Involved in UI and DB Design for Mobile application.  • Involved in architectural discussions around real time synchronization of SharePoint Document libraries with Salesforce content Libraries.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Worked on the security level setting in the company for all the levels.  • Used Salesforce Automation Process, Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Responsible for setting up web service integrations and data integrations.  • Worked as enhancement developer and team member, performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Implemented Inside sales telephonic plug-in application implementation.  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and user requirements, designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC).    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visualforce, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, SOQL, SOSL, Email Services, Sales cloud, Service cloud, Security Controls, Visualforce Controllers, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SQL.    Client: Salesforce Developer/Admin CNSI - Rockville, MD January 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with different business teams and end users for gathering information and requirements for implementing Salesforce community cloud for partners and documentation.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Developed Assignment rules, Escalation rules to enable proper routing of cases to the case team members.  • Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, Sharing rules and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional need i.e. Sweep & Match, Custom Member Search, and Data Synchronization by web services integration.  • Created various Standard and Custom Reports / Dashboards (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce.com as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles.  • Provided post-implementation support to assist end users in creating reports, dashboards and certain Administration tasks including creating and maintaining user profiles and privileges.  • Created and defined rules on community cloud for partner users (Affiliates) to login and create enrollments for the resorts they have access to.  • Single-Sign On (SSO) integration - Implement Single-Sign On (SSO) for browser based logins to Salesforce  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  • Experience in building reusable UI components and pages with Lightning component framework.  • Experience in Salesforce Marketing Cloud Implementation and Integration.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access among different users.  • Involved in the Data Transformation and Data Cleansing activities while transferring the data from the external system into salesforce.com using Apex Data Loader 20.0.  • Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment, created packages and moved it between Sandboxes and Production environments to place final implementations.  • Worked on doing making minor enhancements to SFDC application required by business users from time to time.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, APEX Language, Community cloud, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in    Client: Salesforce Developer/Admin Telecom Transport Management Inc - Seattle, WA August 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application setup activities and customized the applications to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather and document the requirements.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Closely worked with SalesForce.com teammates while implementing the solutions for the requirements.  • Developed several Triggers, Apex classes and Visual force pages as part of the Application Development.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Opportunities.  • Designed, implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements.  • Customized tabs for different business users groups and business centers.  • Created the workflows for Automated Lead Routing, Lead Escalation, Alerts and Custom Coaching Plans.  • Experienced in the use of Data Loader and scheduling timely data backup operations using Apex Scheduler.  • Involved in handling bulk data migration for the objects like Users, Accounts, Leads, Contacts, Campaigns, Campaign Members, Quotes  • Implemented escalation rules, automatic case generation and their escalation to call center representative, and generated email alerts for quick issue resolution.  • Used Salesforce Chatter to provide real time notifications of changes in Accounts, Leads and Opportunities to help sales and service teams to be more efficient.  • Performed the role of Support Engineer for the internal users and helped them in getting used to the Application, generated reports and saved them for further access to the users.  • Integrated Salesforce CRM and the Legacy System (Siebel) using Cast Iron Integration Systems.  • Created Data Extensions, List to load data into Salesforce Marketing Cloud.  • Used the Sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the Production instance after testing using Change sets and Eclipse.  • Customized the Dashboards to track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Experience working with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help of Salesforce.com support.  • Provided training to the internal business users to use the application and develop their own custom Reports.    Environment: Saleforce.com Platform, Apex, Visual Force, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox Data Loading, Data Loader, SF Explorer and Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows 2007. Salesforce Analyst/ Developer HealthStream Inc - Nashville, TN October 2011 to July 2013 HealthStream is a leading provider of research and learning solutions for the healthcare industry. As a Web-based company, HealthStream wanted a cloud based CRM solution that would eliminate ongoing maintenance and expensive customization. I was part of a team implementing SFDC Marketing, Sales and Case Management.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared specifications for system enhancements and customization  • Involved in identifying, planning and implementing new salesforce.com features and functions (new screens, workflow, force.com objects, reports, apex code) to meet business requirements  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to manage sharing access among different users.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Administrative Management: Salesforce, Zuora, Docusign, Data Migrations, Demand Tools, Conga, and Marketo Integrations.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation Rules and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Integrated AppExchange applications  • Case History Timeline makes it possible for users to create a timeline showing all stages of a case  • Multistep Marketing which helps HealthStream plan, creates, execute and evaluate its marketing schedules.  • Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Performed end to end data migration, testing of domo dataflow and reports.  • Devoloping, implementing & testing on the Sandbox environment.  • Captured Business case for each requirement to understand the functionality of the requirement. Created use cases for the requirements based on Business Case.  • Implemented Test Scenarios, Test Plans and Test Cases for UAT.  • Used Quality Center for Test Management, and automation testing tools like QTP and QC for regression testing.  • Converted data from Microsoft CRM to Salesforce CRM.  • Integrated Microsoft ERP with Salesforce CRM using Informatica PowerExchange.  • Developed web-to-lead functionality for Healthstream.com site which directs leads from web to Salesforce CRM.  • Implemented Case Management for internal help IT desk to automate support functions like case and solution management.  • Developed several custom reports to better assist managers and also report folders to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel.    Environment: Saleforce.com Platform, Apex, Visual Force, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox Data Loading, Data Loader, demand tools, SF Explorer and Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows 2007.    Client: Java Developer/Analyst ICICI Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to September 2011 Description:  Project involved development of Integrated Banking Maintenance System for Auto, Home and personal Loans - Calculated annual percentage period, interest period, and amount due on maturity period.  Responsibilities:  • Studied the project requirement and designed the project. Created tables, views, synonyms and sequences.  • Created Database Triggers, Stored Procedure, Functions and Packages. Optimized queries using rule based & cost based approach.  • Created database objects like tables, views, synonyms, indexes and sequences.  • Created front end applications using forms and reports  • Used SQL Loader and Export, Import utilities for data loading. Modified existing forms, reports, and graphs as per the enhancement. Tested all the new and modified program units  • Extensively used triggers, PL/SQL procedures, packages, functions while developing the forms and reports.    Environment: J2EE, JSP, Java Beans, HTML, JavaScript, ANT, Tomcat Web server, Oracle 9i, MS Visual SourceSafe Education Bachelor's Skills LOADER (8 years), APEX (6 years), HTML (5 years), FORCE.COM (4 years), ECLIPSE (4 years), Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visualforce, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, SOQL, SOSL, Email Services, Sales cloud, Service cloud, Security Controls, Visualforce Controllers, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SQL (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Salesforce Technologies  Apex Language, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force (Pages, Components and Controllers), Apex Data Loader,  S-Controls, Apex Web Services, Force.com Apex Explorer, AJAX, Dashboards, Reports, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects, Eclipse with Force.com Plug-in, Force.com IDE.    Programming Languages VB Scripting, Net, C, C++, Share Point, SQL, Apex  Web Technologies Jira, XML, HTML, JavaScript, JSP  Databases MS SQL Server, MS Access, Oracle Applications.    Operating Systems MS Windows, UNIX  Packages MS Office, MS Outlook, MS Access.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, RUP.  Data Management and Tools Eclipse, SQL Enterprise Manager, SQL Query Analyzer, ER-Win, MS Visio, Power Designer, Putty and Edit Plus