Jr. Java Developer Jr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jr. Java Developer Frisco, TX • Experience in using Core Java concepts like Multi-Threading, Collection, Interfaces, Synchronization, OOPs  concepts, Exception Handling, file processing.    • Extensive experience with Spring, Hibernate, CSS (Cascade Style Sheet), JavaScript, HTML, MySQL, and  Bootstrap to develop friendly user interface and database Object Relational Mapping.    • Configured Hibernate, JDBC ( Java Database Connectivity), Servlet and JSP ( Java Server Page) to  communicate with a database and perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update Delete) operations.    • Integrated JavaScript to enhance UI(User Interface) design for dynamic background color.    • Deployed CSS, HTML (Hypertext Markup Language), and Bootstrap to style and construct web application for  successful user experience.    • Structured databases using SQL, MySQL, PHP, ER-Diagram to interact with database.    • Implemented Spring MVC (Model View Controller) framework and Java Servlets, to provide enterprise service  to Plain Old Java Objects (POJOs) to increase simplification and project testability, manage HTTP request and  responses within Apache Tomcat web server.    • Used Github for version control and project updates. Work Experience Jr. Java Developer USM January 2019 to June 2019 Pet Hospital (Veterinary)Management System  An internal Pet care management system designed and built to support pet owners and connect with administration  staff of the facility. Both care givers and pet owners can interact on a continued and timely basis and exchange information such as booking appointments, follow up reminders, billing notifications and other activities. This application features a messaging and notification system to connect the various users in the system.    Environment and tools:  Java J2EE, Spring MVC, JavaBeans, Maven, HTML/CSS, Jsp, JavaScript, Hibernate, SQL and Eclipse IDE  • Utilized Eclipse IDE J2EE prospective to create Maven project to create and setup environment for the management  system.  • Developed back end to extract and retrieve data ( patient info etc.) using J2EE.  • Imported the JAR file into "pom.xml" from the Maven repository.  • Used spring MVC for Dependency Injection and decoupling of views.  • Created models, Utilized Hibernate to annotate entities as a strategy to map them to the database.  • Used JSP ( Java Server Page) to develop application front-end. To receive user information, payment information as well as medication.  • Developed programming logic with MySQL and HQL (Hibernate Query Language) to interact with database.    Professional Experience Jr. Java Developer Indiana University May 2018 to December 2018 Game of Words - Android Studio  A rich Android game interface developed to increase knowledge of gamers by giving intelligent suggestions and inputs for the "word game'. Application prompts the players with appropriate alphabet inputs by thriving the user on a time and case  sensitive approach to the game to stay engaged and connected.    Environment and tools:  Android studio 3.6 CANARY 5, SQL, SQLite  • Used Android Studio to develop the project logic and user interface to receive player's name, username, password and status for English vocabulary enhancement.  • Developed activities for user registration, login, logout, game page and score evolution  • Used SQLite Integrated serverless database and query language to develop query statement for data storage, and information retrieval.    Professional Experience Line Cook Red Lobster - Bloomington, IN June 2016 to 2018 Duties  • Completed prep work by organizing and assembling products and materials for the shift.  • Prepared orders according to company standard and in an accurate, timely manner.  • Created, inspired and maintained teamwork environment.    Professional Experience Information Designer Indiana University September 2017 to December 2017 Student Management System  A System design to keep track of student's record and activities. The Student can register to many courses, courses are taken in different location, every course is assigned an id, building and a class. Student record are kept for degree status.    Environment and tools:    PHP, HTML/CSS, SQL, MySQL, ERD  • Used ERD (Entity Relational Diagram) concept to capture raw information from real life and converted them into database readable entity.  • Assigned Attributes to entities and developed relationship between entities using cardinality concept.  Converted the designed diagram into logical model for database requirements  • Developed business logic using php to register student information into the database with regard to potential injection  from unwanted parties.  • Built the user interface using HTML and CSS, with the UX concept of Affordability and Constraints  • Used SQL and MySQL to insert and query information from the database.    Professional Experience Line Cook Kroger - Bloomington, IN June 2013 to 2016 Duties  • Completed prep work by organizing and assembling products and materials for the shift.  • Prepared orders according to company standard and in an accurate, timely manner.  • Did the "Mise-en-place" of item: cutting, slicing, dicing and storing based on serveSafe principles.  • Created, inspired and maintained teamwork environment.  • Insured customer's satisfaction by preparing food as requested and still, adhering to Kroger's standards and guidelines    Professional Experience sous-Chef Restaurant Les Cigalons - Yaounde, CM 2005 to 2010 Duties  • Menus Planification, food size portions and estimation plus requirements and costs, and ordering  • Skilled in preparing food for cooking and adding appropriate seasoning.  • Familiarity with different types of meats and vegetables and their cooking times and texture.  • Food quality cooking performance and plate decoration plus hygiene procedures  • Solid knowledge of food presentation different types Competent at mixing the right amount of ingredients according to weight and type  • Baked pastries and other type of food to meet customer orders and restaurant menu  Skills  • Track record of operating big ovens and cooking ranges.  • Knives skills  • All type of cooking skills including  • Special talent for preparing different types of cuisines, relishes, and salads.  • Highly experienced in performing preventative and general maintenance on kitchen equipment.  • Hands-on experience in handling cooking staff efficiently and directing it to ensure handling of kitchen functions.  • Track record of following best hygiene and sanitation practices aimed at providing quality food services.  • Absolute flexibility aimed at trying and testing new recipes to add new items to existing menus.  • Able to prepare specialized health food items.  • Strong background in handling kitchen functions such as supplies and inventory management and cooking staff  schedules and records.  • Documented success in preparing and cooking special meals for patients as initiated by dietitian or chef.  • Demonstrated ability to set up and supervise buffets.  • Able to maintain accurate inventory and records of food, supplies, and utensils.  • Committed to maintaining a clean kitchen and work area. Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jsp, Servlet, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Android studio, Api, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Python, Ruby, Android, Mvc Additional Information Technical Skill Summary  Languages: Java J2EE 11.0.2, SQL, JavaScript 2.3.5, Python, PHP, Ruby.  Client-Side: JSP 2.3.1, Servlet, Bootstrap, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript,  Middle-Tier: Spring Core 5.1.4 RELEASE, Spring MVC, Servlet API  Server-Side: Spring Framework( Hibernate 5.2.4. Final, JSP, Servlet), ERD (Entity Relational Diagram) Web Service  DevOps: Tomcat 9.0.0, Maven 3.5.4, Oracle, MySQL 8.0.15 Database,  Github  IDE: Eclipse 11.0.2, Android Studio 3.6 CANARY 5