Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer The SCE Group - Austin, TX November 2011 to Present • I create and maintain web applications that increase security for medium to large corporations, mostly adding 2nd factor authentication. I primarily utilize Java, C#, Javascript, CSS, SOAP, Struts and Tapestry.  • I customize company software so that it integrates seamlessly with clients' existing code and environment.  • I serve as the primary technological liaison to large corporations with millions of active users.  • I created a data migration tool to enroll over 700,000 users from a DB2 database to a SQL Server database utilizing SOAP calls. Software Engineer Periscope Holdings, Inc - Austin, TX September 2008 to November 2011 • I enhanced and maintained a government procurement web application, utilizing Java, Javascript, Oracle, SQL Server, Struts, and Tomcat. When our business analysts developed ideas to improve our product, I created solutions and collaborated with QA to eliminate bugs.  • To facilitate future software testing, I researched and implemented Selenium for our developers and QA, and I developed unit tests.  • I modified existing SQL queries to decrease runtime.  • I independently learned how to create and deploy Jasper reports and developed approximately 100 of these for Periscope clients. I also maintained a variety of SSRS and Crystal reports. Java Developer Trevi Group/CEDAR Document Technologies - Atlanta, GA August 2007 to August 2008 I designed, developed and maintained a text conversion application utilizing Java. The  application converted several different types of input data and parsed out Cedar-specific meta  data.  • Using Java, I enhanced and maintained a proprietary workflow application. The application  parsed input data in an XML format and then completed an action (eg: wrote to a file, executed a program). I merged this with another internal workflow application to reduce  redundancy and normalize the input and output.  • I developed the Java applications listed above utilizing Eclipse and I automated their builds  using Apache Ant. I used both Subversion and CVS for version control. Software Engineer Multimodal Technologies - Pittsburgh, PA June 2006 to July 2007 • I enhanced and maintained voice-recognition software for hospitals and doctors. This included adding more flexibility to the audio format given by the doctor and fixing various bugs.  • I manipulated and parsed large quantities of data using Perl, Python, and shell scripts in Linux. Specifically, I parsed transcriptions for specific fields (e.g. doctor's & patient's name, date) and created a metafile for each transcription to be used by the company's learning algorithm.  • I created ad-hoc reports and SQL queries for internal use, as well as to meet clients' needs. The queries and reports were used to determine, for example, the amount of a doctor's audio in our system or the quality of a doctor's acoustic model. Education B.S. in Computer Science University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA 1997 to 2001 Skills Eclipse, Java, Struts, Db2, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, C#, C/c++, C++, Html, Javascript, Perl, Python, Subversion, Xml, Css, Tomcat, Soap, Ssrs, Git