Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - BJC Healthcare Springfield, MO Jeff is an Information Technology professional with over 19+ years of industry and development experience. For the past  15 years his focus has been on frontend and backend Java development where he has been responsible for new  development, enhancements, testing and code reviews.    Skill # Years Used Last Used  Java 15 11/2016  EJB 5 04/2016  JDBC 6 04/2016  Spring 3 05/2016  Swing 3 12/2008  HTML 8 04/2013  JSP 4 9/20011  XML 5 11/2016  MS SQL 4 3/2014  Oracle 5 04/2013  DB2 4 11/2016  Unix 4 11/2016  Struts 3 11/2005  WebSphere 5 08/2011 Work Experience Java Developer BJC Healthcare - St. Louis, MO August 2015 to Present Converted C# website to Java web application utilizing Java, Spring, Spring Security, MS SQL Server, Maven, Glassfish,  Eclipse, SVN  • Added the ability to include Radiology reports in CCDA outbound process utilizing Java, DB2, XML, OpenHealthTool,  Maven, CVS  • Developed Java process to parse Consolidated Clinical Document into relational DB2 tables utilizing Java, Open Health  API, DB2, NetBean, SVN.  • Optimized SOAP Web service by caching static lookups utilizing DB2, Glassfish, Java, SVN, SoapUI,    Technical Environment: Java, Java Spring, Spring Security, NetBeans, Eclipse, SVN, CVS, DB2, Maven, Glassfish, MS  SQL Server Java Developer - Contractor Charter/Fusion Technology - St. Louis, MO March 2015 to July 2015 Developed SOAP Web services utilizing Maven, Java, Git, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, Apache Tomcat  Technical Environment: Java, Eclipse, Git, Oracle 10g, Maven, Apache Tomcat Java Developer - Contractor BJC Healthcare - St. Louis, MO June 2014 to March 2015 Developed Java Processes to parse HL7 XML messages utilizing CVS, XML, Maven, Java NetBeans, DB2.  Technical Environment: Java, NetBeans, CVS, DB2, Maven, AIX Unix, XML Software Engineer III SAVE A- LOT - St. Louis, MO May 2013 to June 2014 • Lead role in the Java 7 conversion batch applications project utilizing SVN, Maven, Java Eclipse  • Enhance financial reports batch application utilizing Java, Maven, MS SQL, Appworx.  • Developed multiple shell scripts for warehouse system to ensure security and data extracts.  • Provided mentoring and custom training on the use of Java to Jr. developers.  Technical Environment: Java, Eclipse, SVN, MS SQL, Maven, AIX Unix Software Engineer - Senior ENTERPRISE RENT-A-CAR - St. Louis, MO September 2011 to May 2013 Lead role in managing the quality of the deliverables (DML, DDL, scripts, code) for builds by testing code, viewing table  definitions for development builds.  • Enhance end of month reports batch application utilizing POI, Hibernate, Spring 1.2, PL/SQL Stored procedures, Oracle  11g, Tivoli Work Scheduler.  • Developed Open Ticket Deposit conversion application that converts a legacy data to Oracle data utilizing Java, Spring,  Oracle 11g, log4j.  Technical Environment: Java, Eclipse, Spring, Hibernate, Weblogic 10, Clear Case, Soap UI, JDBC, Oracle 11, AIX Unix Programmer / Analyst CENTRAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES - Jefferson City, MO July 2009 to September 2011 • Responsible for the development and maintenance of web and Eclipse RCP applications.  • Migrated an ATM Perl web application to Java Struts web application utilizing Struts 1.2, PL/SQL Stored procedures, MS  SQL Server 7.0.  • Implemented Customer Information Eclipse RCP application for Seasonal addresses utilizing Axis 1.2, JSF/SWT, MQ  Messaging, and Web services, WSDL, SOA.  • Developed OFAC RCP eclipse application utilizing web services, JSF/SWT and java.  • Developed E-reports admin web application to grant outside customers access to internal reports utilizing Struts, DB2,  JDBC  Technical Environment: Java, SQL Server 7.0, RAD 7.5, Web Services, WSDL, SOA, WebSphere 6.1, 7.0, SVN, Eclipse  RCP, JDBC, DB2 Senior Programmer / Analyst EMERSON TOOL COMPANY - St. Louis, MO August 2005 to December 2008 • Responsible for developing new, and/or installing or enhancing packaged computer programs/systems that improve the efficiency of the company.  • Migrated Oracle application code using Mercury Kitana and PVCS.  • Developed, Implemented and administered web applications utilizing the MVC architecture and Struts framework.  Developed reports for forecasting vendor supplies, and sales using java swing.  • Implement business solutions utilizing java Swing, Hibernate, SQL Server, Oracle.  • Maintain, develop and support Java Swing applications.  • Updated and maintained 8 company web sites utilizing WebSphere 5.1 and Oracle.  • Provided 24/7 support for application operational issues.  • Maintained company portal utilizing Apache Tomcat and IIS.  Technical Environment: Java, Oracle 9i, SQL, SQL Server 7.0, SQL Server 2005, J- Developer, WebSphere 4.0 & 5.1,  Apache, IIS, Tomcat, Windows XP Java Developer (Consultant) GMAC - St. Louis, MO June 2005 to July 2005 • Responsible for entering and testing Enterprise reference data.  • Implemented state specific data changes utilizing SQL and TOAD.  • Conducted testing of J2EE application locally utilizing JBOSS.  Technical Environment: Java, Oracle, SQL, JBOSS-3.2.3, Ant, Windows 2000, CVS and Eclipse Consultant A.G. EDWARDS April 2004 to May 2005 Responsible for offering innovative solutions, diagnosing challenging problems and resolving complex technological  issues:  • Optimize efficiency by modifying Java source code and WebLogic configurations. This task was done using JBuilder's  Optimize It.  • Enhance effectiveness by analyzing Java Service Oriented Architect application code and WebLogic logs to resolve user  problems. Analyzed Java source code to resolve errors that were occurring and viewed the WebLogic logs to determine if the errors were still occurring.  • Implemented and deployed J2EE applications to WebLogic server.  • Increase compatibility of Java Swing applications to work accordingly to the converted java development kit.  Modifications were made to Java Swing applications going from Java Development Kit of 1.3 to 1.4.2.  • Conduct testing on SQL views for efficiency prior to implementation. Ran multiple tests that scored how fast the view  would return with results.  • Analyzed and modified client/server C and C++ applications for conversion to vendor format data. Used a Java  application which would search the application code for certain fields pertaining to the conversion and write a report  detailing where within the code these fields were. Then systematically changed all occurrences of the fields. Some  changes were done within embedded SQL files.  • Document functional and technical specifications pertaining to a conversion using Requisite Pro.  Technical Environment: Java, JBuilder, Oracle, SQL, SOA, WSDL, Ant, Windows NT, ClearCase, UNIX, C/C++, HTML,  WebLogic 8.1, and Eclipse A.G. EDWARDS - St. Louis, MO November 1999 to May 2005 Programmer / Analyst A.G. EDWARDS November 1999 to April 2004 Responsible for the development and maintenance of J2EE applications that made up the Enterprise Service Data  availability system.  • Improved user productivity by providing 24/7 support and developing new applications primarily using Java.  • Responsible for weekend support for the Legacy data and Java J2EE applications.  • Developed Turbo Tax Data Enterprise Java Bean using Enterprise Application Integration framework. Used the framework for the basics classes that were needed to build this Data Access Object.  • Developed and maintained a wide range of Servlets.  • Utilized MVC pattern to develop a testing system for the Enterprise Service Data Availability (ESDA) system.  • Developed a JSP to monitor enterprise java beans availability and connectivity.  • Developed a Java Servlet that provided API documentation of Enterprise Service Data Availability system to other  developers. Other developers could visit SDA production website to obtain the getters and setter of a certain service.  • Maintained legacy COBOL applications within the Enterprise Service Data Availability System.  Technical Environment: Java, COBOL, UNIX, XML, WinCVS, ClearCase, Ant, Cygwin, JSP, Java Servlets, Java Script,  Oracle, SQL, BULL/Honeywell, WebLogic 5.1 & 6.1, Junit Consultant ENERGIZER - St. Louis, MO September 1998 to August 1999 • Migrated Electronic Data Interchange maps from legacy system running on VAX/VMS to client/server system.  • Improved productivity by migrating legacy VAX/VMS EDI maps to Client Server.  • Streamlined processes by developing and maintaining EDI maps using Gentran.  Technical Environment: VAX/VMS, Windows 95, UNIX, GENTRAN Programmer OMD CORPORATION - Jefferson City, MO July 1996 to September 1998 • Software developer for company that sold accounting applications to small companies  • Wrote programs in Windows NT and SCO-UNIX environments using Micro Focus COBOL  • Maintained and enhanced COBOL programs for Purchase Order, Accounts Payable, Inventory Management and Sales  Prospect applications  • Assisted customers with problems or questions concerning the above applications  • Developed new COBOL programs from specifications  • Made COBOL program modifications for Year 2000 compliance  Technical Environment: AIX UNIX, Windows 95, RS/6000, COBOL Education Associates of Applied Science in Computer Technology Linn State Technical College - Linn, MO