Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Verizon Work Experience Salesforce Developer Verizon - Bel Air, MD July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used data migration tools like Data Loader, CRM Demand Tool.  • Created reports and dashboards to track the migrated data and correct the data migrated.  • Used DML tools to Update/ Insert/ Upsert and Delete.  • Implemented and created datasets, Dashboards and apps for Opportunity, Accounts and Cases.  • Designed and developed data transformations for source system Data Extraction, Data Staging, Aggregation, Data Quality handling, System testing, Performance.  • Performed Integration with backend (Oracle) systems and making data available in Salesforce using REST Webservices and creating Apex proxy calls.  • Experience with RESTful Services to make external API calls in JSON/XML format and processing response in the desired JSON format.  • Experience working on Integration with Oracle and parsing the data available in real time.  • Wrote Triggers and automated the process based upon the business requirement  • Worked on Integrating Box.com Data management with Salesforce to manage data more efficiently.  • Worked on Change sets, ANT and Eclipse for deployment.  • Worked on Tableau for Data Analysis and Visualizing the data appropriately using SQL Scripts.  • Implemented ETL(Talend) tool for Integrating Enterprise Data Management with Salesforce CRM.  • Experience in working with Agile (Scrum) methodology for product development in short sprints.  • Created and Updated UAT document and liaise with the team in achieving business needs.  • Worked on testing the User stories and Update JIRA.  • Developed Custom security using Single Sign on and OAuth.  • Created Lightning components and pages using AURA framework and Worked on Batch Apex jobs when working on large data.  • Migrated data from Classic to Lightning using Lightning Migration Assistant Tool (Heroku).  • Worked on Sales Cloud functionality, including Account Planning, Sales Forecasting, Opportunity Management, Lead Management.  • Deploying changes in Developer Sandbox to Production/Test Sandbox using Change sets.  • Experience working on Atlassian tools like Bit Bucket, Confluence, Jira.  • Good understanding of Jenkins for CI/CD operations and Working with the large development team using GitHub and SVN source repositories.  • Good understanding of Salesforce.com Governor Limits with an ability to optimize code to respect those limits.    Environments: Salesforce Administration, Change Sets, Agile Development, Data Loader, Apex, Lightning Salesforce, Apex Triggers, Workflows and Process Builders, Salesforce OData Connectors, Aura Framework, Jenkins, GitHub. Sales force Developer Connective Rx - Bridgeville, PA September 2016 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in meetings with business and technology groups at both organizations.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Worked with configuration and Security aspects of Salesforce.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages and Controllers.  • Configured Salesforce and marketing cloud integration user along with configuration in Salesforce.  • Created data extensions, list to load data into Salesforce marketing cloud.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles.  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom Reports and configured the Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the Sales performance and lead generation statistics.  • Created and deployed Several Reports using salesforce.com platform.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed and deployed workflows and approval processes for opportunities and products/ assets management.  Data migration from legacy system to Salesforce using Data Loader and CSV files.  • Used Data migration tools and de-duplication.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Designed Apex Before Insert, Before Update, After Insert and After Update Triggers.  • Involved in querying Salesforce tables using SOQL & SOSL queries using Force.com Explorer.  • Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.  • Worked with Chatter that helps users to communicate with the organization easily and quickly.    Environment: Salesforce tables using SOQL & SOSL, Salesforce.com, force.com, Apex, Data loader, csv files, deployment, Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages and Controllers, Involved in business and technology groups. Salesforce Developer Johnson and Johnson - Fort Washington, PA March 2015 to July 2016 Johnson & Johnson as maintained a tradition of quality and innovation. Implementation of Salesforce CRM provided a real time, business visibility by reducing the usage of multiple systems to track down the business and help the sales and marketing teams to manage their opportunities pipeline more efficiently.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for various salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Implemented Web-to-lead to track and solve leads from the company website.  • Created different workflow rules and Approvals for various campaign processes.  Designed, and developed the Custom objects, validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components,  • Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various  • functional needs in the application.  • Experience in aura framework, Lightning Components and Salesforce Lightning Design System (SLDS).  • Involved in external data sources mapping to External Object in SalesForce.  • Have used Point and Click development concepts and gained knowledge on Point and Click.  • Used Master-Details, lookups, and many-to-many relationships with Junction Objects.  Performed data migration into salesforce application using apex data loader through CSV files.  • Imported accounts and contacts data through Import Wizard.  • Integrated the SOAP/REST API based Web Services on Demand for extracting the data from external systems.  • Created and deployed Several Reports using salesforce.com platform.  • Installed Salesforce AppExchange Apps, configured and maintained user security permissions in compliance with organizational needs.  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like Visual Force, Force.com IDE.  • Developed and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Participated in the training sessions provided by the Salesforce team and support end users.  • Used the sandbox for testing and deployed it to production.    Environment: Salesforce.com Platform, Apex, Apex Custom Controllers, Visual force pages, Data Loader, HTML, JavaScript, Workflows, Approvals, Reports, Custom-Objects, GitHub, Analytical Snapshots, SOAP, REST, API, Security Controls, Integration, Force.com Platform (Sandbox and production), Force.com IDE. Salesforce Consultant Sonata Software Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup Activities and Customized Apps to match functional needs.  • Performed Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator roles.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather and document requirement.  • Implemented Salesforce Service Cloud and Opportunity Management.  • Implemented Salesforce.com platform & Force.com IDE Plug-in using ECLIPSE.  • Developed Custom VF pages and Apex Classes and have also written various Visual Force Email Templates.  • Implemented Bootstrap Frame work for Custom VF Pages for Optimization  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and Master-Detail relationships on objects and created Junction Objects to establish Many-to-Many relationship among objects.  • Created Profiles and configured Permissions based on organizational hierarchy requirements.  • Implemented Apex Classes & Triggers and linked them to manage Workflows implemented in system.  • Implemented various Custom Reports and deployed them for different business user levels.  • Used sandbox for Testing and Migrated code to deployment instance after testing.  • Implemented Data Loader through the Command Line Interface to extract the data from the database.  • Migrated data from external sources and performed Insert, Delete, Upset & Export operations on millions of records.  • Supported data Migration Activities for migrating data from various business centers and business center users with the support of Saleforce.com.  Environment: SFDC, APEX, Data Loader, Force.com, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers Visual Force Pages, XML, Triggers, API. Salesforce Developer Caterpillar - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2011 to January 2014 ANZ currently employs more than 7,000 people in technology development, operations, and shared services roles. This group has been servicing technology needs for more than 25 years and has in recent years extended its capabilities to include operations and support functions.  Project: The project is all about integrating Salesforce CRM to manage their day-to-day activities ex: client claims, investments, policy purchases, etc. Implementing Sales cloud management is one of the primary requirements.    Responsibilities:  • Worked based on the Agile Process.  • Responsible for Admin activities like customizing custom fields, Page Layouts, Record Types, Workflows.  • Creation of Page layout for custom object as well as standard objects for respected Profiles.  • Configure and Set up relationship between various objects using look up and master-detail relationship.  • Experienced in writing Apex classes, batch apex, scheduled apex, triggers, and workflows.  • Creation of Visual Force page and Apex classes.  • Approval Process, Validation Rules, Report Types.  • Responsible for Loading data into salesforce.com using Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard  • Responsible for migrating data from one Sandbox environment to another Sandbox environment using Force.com IDE tool and Change Sets.  • Responsible for writing Test Scripts for various scenarios.    Environment: SFDC, APEX, Data Loader, Force.com, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, XML, Triggers, API. Java Developer Visual Soft - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2006 to October 2008 The WTS project is initiated by the Quality department of Aegis as an internal requirement to track the reporting of the software developers and capture the metrics there by and analyze the same for the future requirements as part of quality function.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in various stages of the project life cycle primarily design, implementation, testing, deployment and enhancement of the application.  • Involved in designing the system based on UML concepts which include data flow diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, state diagrams using Rational Rose Enterprise Edition.  • Designed and developed web pages using JSP, HTML and used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Involved in design and development of the application in n-tier fashion based on MVC architecture standards and utilized Struts frame work.  • Developed data model and stored procedures.  • Used JDBC for communicating with the database.  • Responsible for maintenance and production support of the application documented design and functional aspects of the application.    Environment: Java, JSP, Java Beans, MVC, JMS, EJB2.0, Weblogic8.1, JavaScript, ORACLE8i, HTML, DHTML, XML, Windows. Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Amravati University - Amravati, Maharashtra 2005 Bachelor of Science Amravati University - Amravati, Maharashtra 2002 Skills Apex, C#, C++, Groovy, Vb.net, Xml, Force.com, Ms access, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 11i, Sql, Eclipse, Java, Jira, Rest, Ftp, Http, Soap Links http://salesforce.com Additional Information Technical skills:  Salesforce Administration  Reports, Dashboards, Validation Rules, Users, Roles and Profiles Deployments (Change sets), Workflow Rules, Approval Process, Sandbox Refreshments, Apex, Data Loader, Import Wizards, Packages, Custom Apps, Custom Labels, Portals (Customer and partner), Sharing Settings, Communication Templates.    SFDC Tools Eclipse, Force.com IDE, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud  RDBMS Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle 11g, Oracle 11i, Microsoft Excel, MS Access  Testing Tools TFS, Clear Quest, Quality Central, SOAP UI, SOAPUI PRO, Jira  Protocols/Methods TCP/IP, SOAP, HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, REST, GET, POST, PUT and DELETE  Programming Languages C, C++, C#, Cobol, VB.NET, ASP.NET, VB Script, Java Script, XML, Groovy Script, Cobol.