Sr. Salesforce Developer, Admin Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Admin Sr. Salesforce Developer, Admin - Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, Parsippany Parsippany, NJ • Certified salesforce.com consultant with 10+ years of professional Software Development Experience with strong Object-Oriented Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation including Salesforce.com CRM and Force.com platform with proficiency as developer and administrator.  • Extensive knowledge in implementing, customizing and maintaining Salesforce solutions.  • Proficient in salesforce administrative tasks such as creating objects, fields, users, roles, profiles, page layouts, approvals, workflows, validation rules, reports, dashboards, sandboxes, and permission sets.  • Expertise in working on security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels in organization.  • Experience in design of Apex Classes, Custom Controllers, Controller extension data binding and various other components as per the client and application requirements and awareness of the governor limits for a multi-tenant environment.  • Experience in SFDC Development in implementing Triggers, Visual Force Pages, Custom Tabs, Custom Objects, Web Services API, Components, S-Controls, Reports, Analytic Snapshots and Dashboards.  • Experienced in creating Custom Reports, Batch Jobs, Queues, and Assignment Rules. Created Apex test coverage classes for some email services. Attentive knowledge on developing Salesforce1 mobile, Lightning User Interface and Process Builder.  • Experience in development of using Visual Force Pages, Force.com IDE,Jit,ANT,Jenkins, SOQL, and SOSL, MVC,MVVM architecture, DML statements.  • Experience in realizing the business requirements to design on salesforce.com platform by designing the required entities like custom objects, creating the relationships/ junction objects like Master-Child, lookups, Entity Relationship data model, Pages, Classes, Interfaces, Workflows & Workflow rules, triggers, Email alerts and Business Logic.  • Acquainted and well versed with CRM processes like Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Customer Support, Business Processes and recommended solutions to improve their processes using SFDC.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using Data Loader Utility.  • Expertise in analyzing and documenting the workflows and functionality of existing systems.  • Excellent knowledge of all the phases of software development life cycle (Requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and implementation).  • Strong Knowledge in AppExchange Applications for integrating with third party applications(Oracle order management system).  • Knowledge of WSDL, web services SOAP API, BULK API, REST API, force.com callouts, Batch and Schedule Apex Programs.  • Packaged and Deployed customizations from Sandbox to other environments using Eclipse, change set and Migration tool.  • Experience in SFDC Integration using Web Service and Apex Programming, Salesforce.com.  • Experienced in integrating SalesForce and other applications using SOAP and REST API Web services and outbound messaging.  • Expertise Configuring the components for Lightning pages and app builder and worked on Salesforce Lightning Components for building customized components replacing the existing ones.  • Experience in modifying Visualforce pages to be supported in Lightning Experience and good understanding of lightning mode and its features.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills to keep executive staff and team members apprised of goals, project status, and resolving issues and conflicts.  • An effective team player with excellent problem solving and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer, Admin Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, Parsippany - Troy Hills, NJ March 2018 to Present Description: Wyndham Hotels and Resorts is an international hotel and resort It has locations in Canada, Ecuador, Turkey, Germany, the UK,    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business users for requirements gathering, analysis and development.  • Implemented Apex classes, Controller classes, and VisualForce Pages, Batch Class, Schedule Classes, and Apex triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Created profiles and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  • Used REST API for communicating with internal system.  • Used Custom settings wherever possible to avoid SOQL Queries.  • Implemented Salesforce Lightning Components for small set of users within the organization.  • Worked on translating several Visual Force pages to Lightning framework.  • Deployed the code over sandboxes using Change set.  • Written Test Cases to check code coverage in Apex Classes and Apex triggers.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the Lightning component look and feel better.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications.  • Implemented Apex Scheduler and triggers to invoke Apex classes at regular intervals and to trigger them at some events.  • Updated the APEX Controller and Helper functions regularly making the Component Context Aware as per business requirement.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Tested apps by appending multiple components to a Lightning Application thereby deployed Applications from Sandbox to Production. Visualforce Pages for Lightning Experience, Alternates for Java Script Codes, Sharing Visualforce pages between Classic and Lightning.  • Created many of Roles and Profiles for the organization, which helps them in maintaining the Security for different individuals who are working in the organization.  • Developed Validation Rules for the Custom Objects and Approvals for some fields.  • Implemented field level Security, Profile, and audit trail setup.  • Worked on Force.com Explorer for querying Salesforce database using SOQL & SOSL queries and Data Loader for data migration, insert, update, and bulk import or export of data.  • Worked on client-side validations using JavaScript for various Lightning Components in the application.  • Created Apex REST web service methods to inbound/outbound calls to/from salesforce and supported response in JSON and XML format.  • Worked on Lightning Process Builder to perform auto processes.  • Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual Force for clients and customers.  • Experience in using JavaScript for Client-side controller and helper controller, CSS,  • JSON in Lightning Framework.  • Scheduled Apex Batch jobs for processing large records.  • Written Apex test methods and test cases with code coverage of more than 90%.  • Configured and used Version Control tool (Ex: Git) to maintain repositories for various releases.  • Worked on migrating components using Force.com IDE, Ant migration tool, Change Sets.  • Developed various Apex classes, Controller classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, and Page Layouts and configured the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response for automating business logic.  • Developed business documents for Salesforce.com Custom objects.  • Involved in Agile methodology, Scrum that dramatically improved productivity and reduced errors.  • Provided the training to Business users about the system    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Lightning, VisualForce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, JavaScript, Dojo, JSP, Ajax, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in Sr. Salesforce Developer Optum, Baskin Ridge, NJ April 2017 to February 2018 Description: Optum involved in migrating data from SAP to salesforce and advocating for exploration of interesting data anomalies or patterns that provide more explanatory detail about customer behavior or predictive value to the business partner closely with business teams. We leveraged on existing management application and interact with offshore team on a daily basis to convey requirements and provide updates. Involved in the development of the company through pre-sales/operational support and Maintain system metrics to track trends in usage and data integrity.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements from the business and work with developers and administrators to translate details concisely to assure clear understanding and accurate requirement documents.  • Worked on various SFDC Standard objects such as Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Reports, Dashboard, Opportunity, Cases and Solution.  • Written Apex classes, Controller, Extension Controllers and Apex Triggers in the application for various Business/functional requirements.  • Developed complex Visualforce pages using visualforce components like PageBlock, PageBlockSection, ActionFunction, ActionSupport, DataTable, Repeat components.  • Developed a Customized Visualforce Tab and Visualforce pages to create and submit Apex jobs.  • Written complex custom validation rules, formulas fields, assignment rules, escalation and Owner & Criteria-based sharing rules.  • Made new feature enhancements on Service cloud console view and developed some Visualforce components.  • Worked on Case Auto-Assignment,Web and Email Case Capture,Case Email Auto-Response,Case Escalation Rules and Queues,Lead-Contact Account Management,Workflow and Approval Automation.  • Created page layouts, search layouts and implemented Visual Flows for automatic sales and service process in Sales Cloud  • Used AngularJS, JQuery and JavaScript for designing web pages and developing the business logic.  • Developed reusable components using Custom Directives in AngularJS  • Experienced in creating Visual Workflows for automation in Sales and Service Clouds.  • Deployed code across various sandbox using Change Set, Workbench and Force.com Migration tool, prepared package.xml for workbench and Force.com Migration tool.  • Analyzed all the customizations and developments and tried to suggest possible ways for the new enhancements that we get from the Sales people.  • Developed reports, dashboards, and processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity.  • Created Email templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with in Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using Force.com Explorer.  • Written Test Classes to meet Unit testing before migrating from Sandbox to Production environment.  • Integration Experience:  • Integrating REST API web services to extract data from internal applications and displayed in the UI.  • Experience with Managing the complex data Experience in Integrating AppExchange Applications with Salesforce, Mass EMail Management, Application management using Force.com Plug-in & Eclipse IDE in Sandbox and Production Environments, Working with different aspects of Web Services (XML, WSDL, SOAP, REST) & web integration with SDFC.  • Integrated Batch Apex that call outs to external web service in Batch Mode.  • Worked on the lightning bundles to manage the integration with the case management.  • Built apps visually with Lightning App Builder, Lightning Components and lightning connect integrations across multiple connection.  • Integrating newly developed features with the existing system.  • Used Sales Wave analytics app with salesforce to perform other integrations and customizations  • Lightning Experience:  • Knowledge on Lightning which includes the Lightning Component Framework and involved in building lightning component using the aura framework and experienced with Locker Service with Lightning Components.  • -Formatting and migrating user data into LE, Implemented Salesforce Lightning Components for small set of users within the organization.  • Built Customized Lightning Components replacing the existing onassis using Java script on the client side and apex on the Server side.  • Migrated consistently to Lightning from Classic in order the sales reps find Just-In-Time information about customers and prospects.  • Used Lightning process builder for visualizing and creating automated business processes.  • Extensive experience on Salesforce.com Administration in Creating Roles, Profiles, Email Services, Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions and Approval Workflow  • Experience working with Salesforce.com sandbox and production environments.  • Participate in initial design and development of foundation web services and API  • Lead developer in EDBACMS - a system which retrieves legacy data, converts in proprietary UOM template, stores them in DBOR and exposes the data in the form of web services.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, angular js, Java, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in,DevOps,MVC,MVVM. Salesforce Developer Marsh AND McLennan Agency - King of Prussia, PA October 2015 to March 2017 Description: M&M involved in providing its sales and marketing teams with instant access to customer data and campaign results with salesforce.com. Using salesforce.com customization tools to manage customer records and incoming sales leads, and to provide richer information about customers to everyone involved in the sales process. We leveraged on Apex to integrate its existing management application for an integrated CRM and Customer Management system.    Responsibilities:  • Performed the detailed analysis of functional and technical requirements; designed & developed the custom objects; identified the lookup and master-detail relationships; and created the junction objects.  • Demonstrated ability to translate customer requirements into specification.  • Developed Apex Classes & Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows developed in the system.  • Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Workflows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation leading to effective Web-to-Lead communication with customers and partner portals.  • Developed Visual Pages to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes to provide functionality to the visual pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent picklists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Worked with SOQL & SOSL queries to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help salesforce.com support.  • Ability to deploy code using Force.com IDE,ANT and Change Sets.  • Designed and built custom applications using Force.com and Visualforce.com  • Provided ongoing Salesforce.com maintenance and administration services, Including custom objects and workflows.  • Involved in developing Approval process for the application by implementing custom formulas in different stages of approval.  • Developed various Custom Reports, Dashboards and deployed them for different business user levels.  • Implemented Chatter for status update, document sharing, customized profiles, applications and internal networking.  • Used Github for version control.  • Developed Visualforce pages, controllers for performance evaluation.  • Developed the force.com platform using Apex and Visualforce to accomplish and solve for complex business problems.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Performance monitoring and scaling in cloud environment  • Evaluation and guidance on new tech  • Work in an Agile environment with engineers/product teams  • BAU operational support  • Integration Experience:  • Involved in integrating Salesforce Marketing Cloud with web analytics tools like Web trends, Google Analytics.  • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems(Oracle Quote to cash,order fulfillment,order promising) to display in the pages of Salesforce.com  • Integrated the SOAP and Rest based Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce  • Developed batch interfaces and processes to integrate Salesforce.com with external systems.    Environment: Salesforce CRM, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox Data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, HTML, Java Script, CSS, XHTML, DHTML, XML, Web Services, SOAP, UI, Eclipse, Github,Oracle, SOQL, SQL SharePoint,DevOps. Salesforce Developer Yum Brands - Louisville, KY May 2014 to November 2015 Description: provide the worldwide sales team with the integrated process necessary for them to complete a successful sales call. From target tracking to sales based compensation tracking, all business processes were to be integrated into the SFDC Sales Cloud. Additional customizations were made to Opportunities to be able to customize revenue and quantity scheduling using Agile development.First time setup of Service cloud with third party software.By implementing Salesforce, we can now properly follow up on sales leads, and understand how our marketing campaigns are doing on a day-to-day basis and creating dashboards and reports for each of our sales managers    Responsibilities:  • Created Custom objects to build new application functionality in the Salesforce.com.  • Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to Objects and fields.  • Developed and configured various Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Developed triggers for complex workflow rules working around the governor limits.  • Extensively customized the Customer Portal.  • Worked on Partner Portal, Customer portal, custom reporting, modifying pages, views, and dashboards  • Supported application code deployment from Test to Production Environment. Customize Salesforce.com fields, page layouts, record types, searching, list views, queues, reports, and dashboards.  • Documented & Maintained overall system configuration, change control, and enhancements.  • Written technical approach and design documentation supporting the business need.  • Maintained and created workflow rules, validation rules, formula fields and escalation rules.  • Provide Salesforce.com Architecture, Design, Development, Administration and Operational Support.  • Worked in developing and consuming Restful web services in service-oriented architecture.  • Worked on implementing new business logic, solution and enhancements (Classes, Triggers, VisualForce Pages, Batch, Rest/SOAP Services) making use of Apex, Visualforce, Force.com IDE,Jit,ANT,Jenkins, Force.com Migration Tool, SOQL.  • Implemented WSDL Service Classes to update orders, item statuses from order management warehouse.  • Maintain and create custom Objects, Custom Fields, formula fields, Permission Sets, Validation Rules, workflow rules and Approval processes.  • Integration Experience:  • Developed apex REST web service classes for inbound call to salesforce from external applications accessing via data power.  • Worked in developing and consuming Restful web services in service-oriented architecture.  • Developed integration processes using Salesforce.com, Web Services API and third-party integration tools (Apex Data Loader, Informatica, etc.) Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, and Apex Triggers, packages for various functional needs in the application.    Environment: Apex, Visualforce, SOQL, SOSL, Web Services API, HTML, XML, Java Java,J2EE Developer John Deere - East Moline, IL May 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering business requirements, understanding client's business needs and analyzing.  • Responsible for writing technical design documents for various modules.  • Responsible for reviewing high level design documents, participating test plan reviews meetings.  • Involved in designing Business Layer and Data Management components of this multi- tiered web-based system over MVC and J2EE architecture.  • Responsible for design all the entity and session beans.  • Responsible for coordinating with offshore team for design and development work.  • Responsible for the code review and make sure, to deliver bug free code as much as possible.  • Worked on MVC design pattern and Struts 1.1 framework for the project.  • Worked on JDBC, Java Beans, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, Java Swing.  • Used DB2 as RDBMS for application.  • Enhancement of VIS site that was developed in VB.  • Designed and developed web pages using JSP, HTML and used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Involved in design and development of the application in n-tier fashion based on MVC architecture standards and utilized Struts framework.  • Developed data model and stored procedures.  • Developed Servlets to process update information.  • Used JDBC for communicating with the database.  • Responsible for maintenance and production support of the application documented design and functional aspects of the application.    Environment: Java, Java Swing, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Struts, HTML, VB 3.0, JavaScript, CSS, Java Web Server, DB2, Windows NT, JBOSS, Visual Source Safe Java,J2EE Developer Cargill Inc - Minneapolis, MN February 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, design and development of an E-Commerce platform using JSF, CDI and Primefaces.  • Designed a Drools based Offer Engine from ground up which is used by Key business personnel to target offers to different customers via multiple channels (Email, Web, etc) based on various eligibility criteria.  • Involved in design/development of an Authentication/Authorization integration solution using SiteMinder.  • Designed/Developed a RESTful client API and web services using JAX-RS 2.0 specification.  • Designed/developed reports and templates using Jasper Reports/ iReport.  • Responsible for making recommendations to enhance performance and scalability of system architecture, designing, coding, and testing program modules and executing conversion plans and proposing enhancements to the system.  • Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications  • Created Use Cases, Sequence, Object Model and Component UML diagrams using UML tool  • Employed Scrum concepts of Agile Development Methodology for software development.  • Used Spring framework on the server side for creating RESTFul services.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence.  • Implemented business processes to develop email notification components using JMS API  • Wrote SQL commands and Storefbzcegiecb jgfds//d Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database  • Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) design patterns in the project.    Environment: Java (OOPS), APEX, Web services, SOSL, SOQL, Informatica Cloud ETL tool, Force.com IDE, Import Wizard, XML, Java servlets, Visualforce Pages, Workflows, Ajax toolkit, Adobe Flex 3. Java Developer PWC - Tampa, FL October 2010 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed various web services for components like Recipient Enrollment, Provider Enrollment, Provider Search, Recipient Eligibility Verification using JAX-WS, JAXB, SOAP, WSDL and deployed on JBoss 5.1 enterprise server with JBoss Native and Metro stack using document literal style web services.  • Developed web services to interface with Mainframe CICS modules, and database tables from DB2 and SQL Server databases  • Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Used Soap UI for load testing the Web Services.  • Worked on clustering web services using network switch, application routing and ESB deployment for transparent routing to layered web services framework.  • Developed MQSeries-JMS Bridge to interact with MQSeries queues. Posted and consumed recipient information to and from the queues.  • Developed UI components using JSP, Struts, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX for Recipient and Provider maintenance portals.  • Developed data access layer and components using JPA/Hibernate frameworks with spring framework support for object persistence to DB2 v10 on z/OS.  • Developed shell scripts for the project.  • Developed SQL java stored procedures, deployed and run on server.  • Development and testing of the website using Struts and Spring framework.  • Used the Agile as SDLC process for the project execution.  • Designed and developed GUI components using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed highly responsive, dynamic user interface components using AJAX and JQuery.  • Used object-oriented programming concepts of Java Script like Prototypes and Closures for client-side data manipulation and encapsulation.  • Implemented MVC using Spring Framework.  • Handled the database access by implementing Controller Servlet.  • Implemented PL/SQL stored procedures and triggers.  • Used JDBC prepared statements to call from Servlets for database access. Java Developer LogiSolve, LLC - Oakdale, MN May 2008 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering, design and analysis of the system.  • Worked with customers to gather requirements and develop use cases, project and test plans.  • Developed the UI pages using HTML, JavaScript etc.  • Created new connections through application coding for better access to database and involved in writing SQL & PL/SQL - Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc.  • Responsible for data migration to QA/User and Production region.  • Development of Java code to meet specifications and designs and using best practices.  • Low level design peer reviews, build and unit test functional enhancements to the product.  • Code maintenance and refactoring.  • Effort estimation and task breakdown - estimating cost of implementing new changes and identifying risk.  • Review and signoff of high level technical design documentation.  • Defect resolution.  • Investigation and resolve deployment / config or ongoing problems with the application.  • Review and contribute to development process and procedures to assist in the continual improvement of the development team activities.  • Working closely with test teams, database teams, project management and enterprise architects during the project lifecycle. Education Bachelor's Skills Apex (6 years), Force.com (6 years), HTML (8 years), Java Script (6 years), SQL (6 years), Salesforce, Visualforce, SFDC, Soql, COM, Certification, Java Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Customization Skills, Programming, Apex, Visualforce Pages and Controllers, Triggers,  languages Force.com. Salesforce.com API JavaScript, SQL, SOQL, SOSL, HTML, XML, Batch Apex, Web Service methods, Email Services, Schedule Apex,MVC,MVVM.  Data Migration Skills Data loader, analysis, migration, salesforce.com data loader, import wizard.  Configuration Skills Standard object configuration: lead, campaigns, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Price Books, Products, Assets, Contracts, Cases, Solutions  Custom Object development: Field creation, Page Layout creation/editing, Record Types, Field Level and Object level security, role hierarchies, sharing models, Workflow Reports, Dashboards Formula Fields and Cross Object Formula Fields. Overall User Management Web to Lead, Web to Case.  Salesforce.com Modules Sales Cloud: Salesforce automation including Leads, Web to Lead, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Contracts, Forecasts, Price Books, Products.  Service Cloud: Cases, Solutions, Ideas, Customer Portal, Web to Case, Email to Case, Knowledge base, Cases, web to case, email to case