Sr. Android Developer Sr. Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Android Developer - Adeptech Systems, Inc Fortmill, SC • Over 9 years of as Software Developer in design, development of various Java applications as well as web applications.  • Experience in Architecture Design, Development and Implementation, Troubleshooting and Debugging, Testing of Software Applications.  • Good Programming Skills and Hands on experience in developing Android Enterprise Applications for mobiles and tablets using Android SDK and ADT tools.  • Have worked extensively on various stages of Application Development, viz., collecting requirements, and providing guidelines for design, creating application architecture, implementation that includes various stages in development, QA, code signing and release in to market.  • Very Good understanding of Android back-end and UI guidelines.  • Expertise in developing Apps using SQLite, Java, XML, JSON, Google Play Services API, RESTFul Api's, SQLCipher and ProGuard.  • Experience in developing Android Application using Eclipse, Android Studio, Android SDK, Android API's, DDMS  • and ADT plug-in.  • Focused on background processing with AsyncTasks, Services, Intent Services, Loaders, IPC, Broadcast Receivers and Multi-threading.  • Good understanding in Object Oriented Design Patterns.  • Experience working with third party libraries like Leak Canary, Crashlytics, Universal Image Loader, Shimmer View and View Pager Indicator.  • Extensively worked on memory leaks, push notifications, content providers, multiple screen support, data offline storage, accounts and sync on Android.  • Worked with Activities, Fragments, Content Providers, Animations, Camera, Media player and Adapters.  • Excellent knowledge in implementing Material Design specifications suitable for the brand of the applications.  • Proficient with common Android Framework API's (Calendar, Web View, Contact Manager, Camera, Notifications, WiFi, Bluetooth)  • Experience in JavaScript frameworks like Node.js and AngularJS.  • Experience in working Agile, Kanban and Water fall environment and coordinate with offshore team.  • Experience in Architecture Design, Development and Implementation, Troubleshooting and Debugging, Testing of software Applications.  • Hands on experience with Android Geo-location services.  • Hands on experience with Android Unit testing and used tools like J-Unit and Monkey Runner.  • Experience with source code control management such as subversion (SVN) and GIT and issue trackers like JIRA and Asana.  • Experience working on web technologies like HTML5, HTML, CSS3, XML, AJAX, jquery, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Confidence in working with other iOS developers to complete detailed projects.  • Good debugging and testing skills using Logcat, DDMS and ADB tools.  • Passionate on learning and exploring new skills and strong willingness to learn new technologies.  • Ability to grasp and master new technologies, excellent analytical and problem solving skills.  • A team player with good communication, leadership and interpersonal skills.  • Able to take initiative; work independently and as a team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Android Developer Adeptech Systems, Inc - Arlington, VA August 2017 to Present VeeV, the Style app" is a style app which tracks what you wore when and with whom. VeeV allows you to take a picture of any outfit then search through your fashion collection for matches, so you'll know when not to repeat an outfit.    Responsibilities  • Full life cycle experience including requirements analysis, coding, testing, and creation of functional tests.  • Reviewed business requirements, functional designs to gain a deep functional understanding of the application.  • Used MVC pattern for designing the application using Android Studio and Android SDK.  • Designed and developed the app for wearable devices as well.  • Designed the user interface (UI) and work flow for the application.  • Extensively worked on designing the layouts to be compatible with different screen sizes.  • Implemented Material design concepts suitable for the brand of the app.  • Used Content Resolvers to get data from the Calendar Provider Api.  • Implemented Open Weather Map Api to give weather recommendations.  • Used Sliding tab strip to implement the dynamic fragments using scrollable tabs.  • Used Swipe Refresh Layout to refresh the data in list view.  • Implemented Google Cloud Messaging (GCM) for push notifications.  • Used Singleton, Observer and Factory design patterns for updating the views and data efficiently.  • Successfully integrated the SQLCipher for encrypting the SQLite database.  • Implemented social networking api's like facebookSdk and Instagram api.  • Experience working with the version control systems (VCS). Used SVN (TortoiseSVN).  • Implemented client-server interactions using RESTFul API's and JSON.  • Used LeakCanary library to find the memory leaks and memory usage.  • Used Fabric to track the app usage, crashes and to get important analytics.  • Used Node.js to implement some of the server side functionalities of the app.    Environment  Android SDK, C/C++, Java, Eclipse, ADT Plug-in, SVN, Android asset studio, Draw 9 Patch tool, node.js. Android Developer Wal-Mart - Bentonville, AR October 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:    • Engineer the application using the latest Android SDK, Google Maps APIs and advanced UX and UI design architecture.  • Integrate financial transactions within the app using PayPal and new Android Pay.  • Responsible for analyzing the requirements of application, testing, stage, deployment, production and maintenance.  • Designed the User Interface with navigation bar, view pager.  • Making the Restful Service Calls using Google's Volley Library at the various stages in the app development cycle and parsing the responses back from the web servers according to the application requirement.  • Integrated the QR Code scanning library in to the application for the scanning.  • Responsible for adding the Reader API, this allows reading the payment card data.  • Worked with Google Maps AndroidAPI V2 to display the AIL locations with markers using Geocoder.  • Designed custom dialogs, custom notifications for displaying the generated payment code.  • Responsible for storing the Payment code within the app using the Shared Preferences in SQLite database.  • Registered the Broadcast Receivers for the android system announcements.  • Designed the Custom Action bar, Custom Progress bar while making service calls.  • Implemented capturing the screenshot of the payment screen, Bitmap to pdf conversion features using Android NDK.  • Implemented the mail feature of sending mail with billing information as an attachment.  • Worked with Application Activity Lifecycle callbacks for providing the security and showing the login screen when the app goes to background.  • Responsible for adding the update module for checking the latest version of app.  • Extensively worked on designing the layouts to be compatible with multiple screen sizes.  • Use faster image loading libraries of Picasso and Glide to manage bitmaps.  • Tight collaboration with fellow interaction designers, visual designers, user researchers, product owners and developer.  • Ensure the app is quickly launched and delivered with high quality on Google Play.  • Worked on testing the application using J-UNIT testing framework.  • Responsible for testing the application in stage, code review fixing the bugs and providing post-production support.    Environment: Java, JDK, Android Studio, windows 7, Google Maps API V2, Google Volley, NDK, JUNIT, XML, JSON Android Developer TracFone - Miami, FL February 2015 to August 2016 TracFone My Account" Android Application mainly deals with buying Air time, Monthly Billing and a Dashboard which shows balance info for customers.    Responsibilities  • Worked on designing the layouts to be compatible with different screen sizes.  • Regular interaction of RESTful API design calls to populate the UI on the app using GET, PUT, POST and DELETE.  • Implemented optimized performance ListView's in different points of app.  • Implemented unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  • Designed custom ActionBar, custom progress bar while making the service calls.  • Used AsyncTask to invoke web services calls in the background.  • Used SQLite database to store user's shipments and tracking numbers locally and to implement offline functionality.  • Designed and implemented all the basic UI and screen navigation with Navigation Bar.  • Worked with implementing and customizing images using Draw 9 Patch tool.  • Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application which will support functional and business requirements.  • Tested the application for relevant bugs, fixed the leaks and deployed on different Android device to validate the application stability.  • Worked with the iOS developers about the concepts and development details that are equivalent to android.  • Worked on testing the application using J-Unit testing framework.  Environment  Android SDK, C/C++, Java, Eclipse, ADT Plug-in, SVN, RESTFul Api's, Google API's, Draw 9 Patch tool, iOS. Android Developer BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD - Detroit, MI March 2014 to January 2015 Blue Finder application provides all the BCBS members to locate a doctor, hospital urgent care. This application also allows performing a nationwide search for a health-care provider by specialty and name, either as a member or guest. BCBS members can login to their accounts using this application and they can check their status and perform the actions.    Responsibilities  • Used customer based Android Library Login UI component, which is made using builder pattern.  • Used ViewPagerIndicator library to show the page indicator on the changing of chart type.  • Was responsible to write the Junit test cases and to ensure always all the cases has to be passed.  • Using standard Android components activities, services, database and layouts.  • Used navigation drawer to show the required options as a list.  • Coding using complete java programming methodologies, Android SDK and SQL when required.  • Debugging and identifying issues and bugs by using Eclipse debug mode and DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server) tool.  • Implementing Symmetric cum Asymmetric Crypto protocol using RSA and AES 128-bit algorithm to encrypt and decrypt the data.  Environment Java/J2EE Developer Sovereign Bank - Hartford, CT August 2012 to February 2014 Sovereign Bank is a financial Internet and mobile banking system supplied by Finland-based Meridian Product Suite (MPS). Sovereign Bank customers will be able to check balances, prepare account transfers and transaction details through internet banking as well as through their mobile phones even when their mobile devices are offline. This system has various modules like Bank Account Management, Bills and Payments, Loans, Credit Cards, Investments and Portfolio Management.    Responsibilities  • Involved in Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, Java Script, JQuery and CSS.  • Have developed stateless session enterprise java beans.  • Implemented the project using IDE Eclipse.  • Created data access layer using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Worked on JQuery, AJAX, JSON and JSF for designing highly user interactive web pages.  • Implemented AJAX for better user experience by dynamically providing Asynchronous request and response communication between the client and the server.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object persistency.  • Implemented the integration with the back end system with web services using SOAP.  • Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database.  • Implemented logger for debugging and testing purposes using Log4j.  • Developed JSF components, implemented event handling using Java, JSF and JavaScript for various modules.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers with PL/SQL.  • Involved in the bug tracking and Unit Testing using JUnit framework.  • Developed ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in an application server.  • Involved in peer to peer code reviews and cross checked whether coding standards are being followed.    Environment  Core java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, SQL, HTML, Spring, JQuery, JMS, PL/SQL,, ANT, XML, JCSS, Eclipse, Log4j. Java Developer Bajaj Auto Finance Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to July 2012 Bajaj Auto Finance limited focuses on providing financial services and solutions to different target groups in the market like Private and Public institutions and retail customers. The Retail banking provides individual and corporate customers with a range of products and services designed to meet all their financial needs. Auto loan is one of the products being extended to cater to the requirement of the retail and corporate customers. BAJAJ provides Auto Loans that provide value to the customer through competitive loan amounts, pricing and quick approvals. Auto Loans are extended either to individuals or corporate.    Responsibilities  • Used XSL as a XML parsing mechanism for showing Dynamic Web Pages in HTML format.  • Involved in the development of Standard XML reports using XSLT style sheets.  • Developed billing system pages using Struts Framework and written some of the custom tags.  • Used Spring IOC and MVC for enhanced modules.  • Implemented SOAP protocol to get the requests from the outside System.  • Used Rational Clear Case as a source control for code changes.  • Followed coding and documentation standards.  • Involved writing SQL queries and Joins.  • Used Rational Clear Quest to document and track issues and resolutions.  • Provided development support for all the different levels of testing.  Environment  Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Web services, Hibernate, XML, HTML, Java Script, SOAP, Ant, Log4J, Oracle, Web Logic server, Clear Case. Junior Java Developer USAA - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2008 to June 2010 USAA is one of the giants in insurance and the banking sectors. As part of TCS, we were working on a web application for the USAA which shows them analytics on how the company is performing, comparisons with other companies and the guiding factors for the performance of the company.    Responsibilities  • Involved in development and the testing phases of the project.  • Used MVC pattern to design the application.  • Used Struts framework to implement the MVC architecture.  • Developed some pages using Struts and JSP, which shows the analytics from the user data.  • Used JDBC to connect the J2EE server with the relational database.  • Developed the DAO objects using JDBC.  • Involved writing SQL queries and Joins.  • Used Rational Clear Quest to document and track issues and resolutions.  • Provided development support for all the different levels of testing.  • Used Junit for testing.  Environment  Java, JSP, Struts, Web services, XML, HTML, Oracle, Web Logic server, Clear Case. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (9 years), SQL (6 years), XML (6 years), HTML (5 years), JSP (5 years), Android Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: Java, C++, SQL.  Mobile technology: Android, Android wear  SDK's and plugins: Android SDK and Android ADT.  Frameworks: AngularJS, Node.js.  IDE: Android Studio, Eclipse, IntelliJ and Notepad++.  Web Technologies: XML, HTML5, HTML, CSS3, AJAX, jquery, JavaScript, JSP and JDBC.  Servers: Apache Tomcat 6.0, WebSphere.  Version Control: SVN, GIT.  Build Tools: Ant, Maven and Gradle.  Databases: SQLite, MySQL, DB2 and Oracle.  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows (98, 2000, Me, XP, Vista, 7, 8) and Mac OS X.