Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Germania Insurance Brenham, TX • 9+ years of IT experience in Java, J2ee programming on various application servers.  • Experience comprising multiple project phases on Health Insurance, Digital Marketing, Banking, Insurance, E-commerce, Telecom, Trade finance and Retail domains  • Expertise in developing Web based Distributed and Front-End applications in a three-tier architecture using Java, J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, DWR, JSP, Servlets, JSF, CSS, Angular JS, JavaBeans.  • Expertise in designing and developing enterprise applications using J2EE technologies, EJB 2.1, Struts 1.3, Spring, JDBC, Hibernate, JNDI, JMS, JAXB, SAX/DOM, Web services (SOAP/REST), JBOSS Fuse ESB/EAP, and Apache Camel  • Expertise in developing Object Oriented and distributed applications  • Expertise in design patterns including Factory Pattern, Data Access Object, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, MVC, Data Transfer Object and Singleton.  • Expertise in XML and related technologies such as XSL, XSLT, X-PATH and JAXP (SAX, DOM) parsers.  • Hands on experience in Java Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and CXF Frame work as well as developing APIs for REST web service calls from scratch  • Experience in Guidewire claim center  • Good Knowledge on BRMS such as JBOSS drools  • Expertise in implementing web applications using IBM WebSphere 5.0/6.0/6.1JBoss 5/6, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat Server, JBOSS EAP6.4  • Good working Experience of ANT and MAVEN build tools  • Proficient with various J2EE IDE's such as RAD 7.0, WSAD 6.0, IntelliJ and Eclipse 3.2/3.4  • Strong Experience in database design using Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, PL/SQL, DB2 and MySQL  • Experience with NO SQL Database such as Marklogic 7.x  • Expert in various agile methodologies viz., Incremental and Iteration methodology  • Strong experience with JUnit in performing unit test and determining the application functionality.  • Experience using Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE) 5/6/7/8  • Experience with Git Hub, PVCS, SVN, Clear case, Perforce, and CVS versioning tools  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98/NT/XP/7, UNIX.  • Experience with Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery using modern DevOps tools and workflows such as Jenkins  • Strong experience in different phases of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) including Design, Implementation and Testing during development of software applications  • Expertise in Production Support tools Maximo, Intrascope, Layer 7 Policy Manager, New relic and Splunk  • Experience in 24x7 on call support, involving troubleshooting, Incident diagnosis and problem resolution. Expert in Root Cause Analysis, overall systems testing and migration of platforms and applications to production Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Germania Insurance - Brenham, TX January 2017 to Present Description: EchoStar Corporation is an American company, a worldwide provider of satellite communication solutions through its Hughes Network Systems and EchoStar Satellite Services business segments.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodology to analyze, define, and document the application which will support functional and business requirements.  • Actively participated in the daily scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within time information and helped clearing ambiguity in requirements document.  • Followed Spring MVC framework for the development of the project.  • Used Spring framework including Springcore /IOC, SpringWeb-MVC, SpringBatch, SpringBoot, SpringSecurity, SpringORM, SpringAOP modules  • Implemented spring framework BeanFactory & Application Context for bean initialization and configurations.  • Used SpringAOP for logging, auditing, and security and transaction management to distinguish business logic from the crosscutting concerns.  • Implemented the back-end functionality of the modules using Singleton and Session Façade design Patterns.  • Used Hibernate as an ORM tool to interact with the database.  • Involved in development of POJO classes and writing Hibernate Query Language (HQL) queries.  • Used Kafka to load data in to HDFS and move data into NoSQL databases like Cassandra.  • Asynchronous messaging is done using JMS and created Queue for point to point messaging.  • Developed and consumed Enterprise web services (RESTful and SOAP). Generated client using Jersey and Axis frameworks using Eclipse.  • Used Spring Boot which is faster in building Micro services and developed spring-based web applications with very less configuration. Validation is performed using Struts validator. Created JSP pages using standard JSTL tags, strut tags and custom tags.  • Worked with EJB in the server-side to encapsulate business logic of the application.  • Successfully implemented the code for my module using struts and hibernate.  • Implemented DAO for data access using Spring ORM with Hibernate.  • Consumed web services using JSON and REST to get the registered users, update their status.  • Responsible in development of presentation layer using jsp and servlets.  • Developed the Services using AWS Elastic Search, Restful Services using JAX-RS& Java.  • Experience in using Data Access Objects (DAO), Singleton, Business Delegate and Factory Patterns to increase the performance of the system.  • Responsible for the Design and management of database in DB2 using Toad tool.  • Configured and administered JDBC, JMS, and cluster EJB objects in WebLogicServer.  • Performed logging of all the debug, error and warning at the code level using log4j.  • Involved in developing object-oriented JavaScript and experienced with AJAX, JQuery, HTML5, Angular 2.0, Node JS and CSS.  • Implemented Angular 2.0 controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented Angular service calls using Angular factory.  • Used JQuery library to build Ajax based web application module.  • Experience in designing high availability, scalable, fault tolerant AWS Cloud platform.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Autoscaling groups, optimized volumes and EC2 instances. Involved in code reviews and giving inputs to the client about the changes to be made to reduce the cost cutting in the project.  • Imported data from XML files and flat files to standard formats and published into JMS queue using JBoss.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, and automated build process by writing Maven build scripts.    Environment: Java 8, JDK, UML, Struts, HTML5, Angular 2.0, Spring MVC, Spring framework 4.0, Eclipse, JSON, REST, Oracle, Tomcat, JSP, JQuery, Servlets, Hibernate 4.3, XML, CSS3, Junit, Jira, SVN, Log4j, TOAD, UNIX, GWT, Ant, Agile, Scrum. Sr. Java Developer EchoStar Corporation - Germantown, MD October 2016 to December 2017 Description: Germania insurance company serving Texas insurance needs for over 115 years. Providing liability, property coverage Representation in over 250 Texas counties. Germania insurance integrates with Guidewire systems. Guide wire's Claim Center is a web-based claim system built for P/C industry. Claim Center provides the end-to-end claims life cycle.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development and scrum meetings using agile methodology  • Participated in design, discussion, estimations and team meetings  • Prepared the HLD's using Micro-soft Visio  • Prepared the Technical Detail design document  • Implemented Claim Number generation and Geo-code mapping functionality  • Implemented Restful web service publishing and consuming using jersey implementation.  • Developed web service collection (SOAP)  • Written Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using application context xml file  • Implemented communication between two applications using JMS  • Used Soap UI for testing the web services  • Implemented Mongo DB the data is stored in form of JSON style document  • Used Rally project management tool for tracking project developments status  • Written Junit Test cases  • Built and deployed application using Maven  • Used Git for Version controlling system  • Used Log4j for debug the application    Environment: Gosu, Java.17, Spring, Restful, Web Services(SOAP), JSON, XML, Maven, Log4j, IntelliJ, Junit, Jersey, Git, JMS, Rally, Jenkins, Jetty, Toad, MySQL Sr. Java Programmer Bank of America - Chicago, IL August 2015 to September 2016 Description: "Symphony" is the Williams Lea's production tracking system that is used to schedule and track workflow. It is a job submission tool and is used to track equipment performance and staff productivity. The application is web-based and can be accessed from any computer with Internet access at the production site. It provides the following features: Online job monitoring and creation  Job templates creation Reporting Capabilities Bulk mailing    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design discussions, estimations and team meetings  • Developed UI components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS  • Implemented the Endpoints using Restful web services  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC)  • Developed Spring DAO to access the Database.  • Implemented Restful web services in java with JAX-RS reference implementation Jersey  • Used Rest Client for testing the Restful web services  • Used JMeter for load and performance testing of application  • Written Junit Test cases using Mockito  • Performed code coverage using Emma tool  • Built and deployed application using Maven  • Used JIRA project management tool for tracking team plans.  • Fixed issues raised by the testing team  • Used JENKINS for continuous integration build and GIT for Version controlling system  • Followed Agile methodology    Environment: Java, Spring, RESTful Web services, JSON, JMeter, Rest Client, Maven, Log4j, Eclipse, Emma, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Angular JS, Mockito (Junit), Git-stash, STE, Tomcat, JIRA, Glassfish, and MySQL Sr. Software Engineer Daimler June 2013 to July 2015 Description: Ecommerce Online Banking (OLB) is a tool for Bank of America customers that allow them to access account information securely via the Internet. It allows the customer to view real-time balances of the accounts they have with the bank along with being able to perform several other functionalities.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding user requirements and functional specifications of the application  • Involved in designing and construction of application  • Involved in analysis and design phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Implemented UI components using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS  • Developed application based on Spring Web module and the application uses Struts to handle the Web request  • Implemented server-side validations using Struts validator framework  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC)  • Implemented DAO components using Spring DAO and JDBC  • Developed Web services using JAX-WS and JAX-RS  • Developed REST API for communication to external application, application integration.  • Used Soap UI for testing the SOAP and Rest Full Web services.  • Developed Xml parser (SAX/Dom) to convert java objects to xml and xml to java objects.  • Handled Asynchronous calls using JMS.  • Written SQL queries and Stored procedures for Database operations.  • Pleasant experience in development and maintenance/production support, through On-call Support both onsite and through work-from-home (non-office hours); troubleshooting  • Working on issue resolutions, and fixing the production issues  • Developed Performance graph dashboards for Intro scope for all applications and datacenters.  • Used the SPLUNK tool for pulling the application logs  • Worked with SVN for Version controlling files  • Written Maven scripts to build and generate WAR file  • Used LOG4J & JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state    Environment: Java1.5, Spring2.5, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, Struts1.x, Web Service, (SOAP/REST), POJO's, CSS, log4j, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Websphear6.1, Oracle9i, JUnit, SVN, Maven, DWR, RAD 7.0, DB2, Splunk, Introscope, Oracle, XML, SAX, DOM Sr. Software Engineer Novartis - Morris Plains, NJ March 2009 to May 2013 Description: SACWIS expected to be a comprehensive automated case management tool that supports social workers' foster care and adoptions assistance case management practice. Worked on SACWIS building web interface to view and print the notices that have the exact same look as they were mailed to them. The new page my Notices will list all the notices mailed to the client and a details icon which when clicked will open the notice in PDF format to viewed and printed.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared Technical design document  • Design and implementation of user interface using JSP, HTML, JSF and JavaScript  • Implemented Web components using Struts MVC to handle user requests  • Developed Java utility classes for business logic  • Developed DAO components using JDBC  • Developed Adapter classes to interact with mainframe data  • Involved in implementing Duplicate Request processing, Pub version and Formatter functionality  • Worked with ClearCase for Version controlling files  • Implemented services and interacted with other applications using SOAP  • Developed Procedures and cursors for database operations  • Build and deploy application using Maven tool  • Involved in production support, issue resolutions, and code fixing  • Used Junit framework for executing the Unit test cases    Environment: Java1.6, JSP, Servlets, Struts1.3, JSF1.1, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, JavaScript, Maven HTML, Log4j, Eclipse, ClearCase, WebLogic 9.1, SQL Developer, Junit, Oracle9i and Mainframe Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Kakatiya University Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Kakatiya University Skills JAVA (9 years), WEB SERVICES (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), JUNIT (9 years), MAVEN (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  J2EE Technologies Struts 1.x, Spring 1.x,2.x/3.x, JSF 1.x, EJB 2.x, Hibernate 2.0/3.0, JDBC 2.1/3.0, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JMS, Junit, JAXB, JAXP, REST, Web Services.  Languages Java 1.4/1.5.1.6,1.71.8, J2EE, PL/SQL, SQL, XML, XSL, XSLT, X-PATH.  Application Server / Web Server IBM WebSphere Application Server 5.0/6.0/6.1, Jboss5.x/6.x, Apache Tomcat 5.x/7.0, WebLogic Application Server 8.1/9.1, Jboss EAP 6.4.  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, DWR.  IDEs IBM WebSphere Application Developer 6.1, Eclipse 3.2/3.4, RAD7.x, STE, IntelliJ.  Database Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, DB2, MySQL, Mark Logic 7. x.  Database Tools Win SQL, SQL Developer, Toad.  Operating Systems Linux, UNIX, Windows 7/2000/XP/NT  Configuration ClearCase, CVS, Perforce, PVCS, SVN, Git.  Middleware and ESB Apache Camel,JBOSS FUSEESB/EAP.  Others Maven, ANT, Jira, JMeter, Maximo, Introscope, Splunk, Soap UI, REST Client.