AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - Sprint Charlotte, NC • 8+ years of IT experience with extensive years in Adobe Experience Manager (AEM)/CQ5 and 4 years in Java J2EE.  • Have hands on experience in building and deploying enterprise level Web Content Management (WCM) and Content Management System (CMS) on Adobe CQ 5.6, AEM 5.6.1, 6.0, 6.1, 6.2.  • Experience in developing Templates, Custom Components, creating and launching Workflows and customizing out of the box Widgets.  • Exceptional work experience in Adobe Day CQ5 WCM, CMS, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, OSGI Framework, JCR, Apache sling, Felix, JackRabbit, Template and Component Development, Architecture, Administration and installing of Author and Publish instances.  • Developed custom AEM components on top of JCR and Apache Sling (A REST based web development framework on top of JCR), CRX (Day's commercial JCR Implementation), and CQ5.  • Understanding caching, clustering and replication mechanism.  • Used Brackets for Sightly coding of components and client libraries.  • Hands-on experience using development IDEs including Eclipse, Net Beans and used MAVEN as Build tool and JENKINS for continuous integration.  • Familiarity with related Adobe products such as Analytics, Campaign, Target, Audience Manager, etc.  • Created custom sling bundles as part of new functionalities provided to AEM sites.  • Expertise in developing Web Applications using Servlets, JSP using MVC and Struts 1.x framework.  • Good experience of Front End Technologies like HTML, CSS, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSTL, JSP, EXT JS, Bootstrap, Angular JS, XML and JSON.  • Expert level experience in Java 1.8, J2EE, JDBC, Multithreading, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, XML, Web Services, REST & SOAP services, Struts, JSTL, Hibernate, SQL, PLSQL, AJAX, HTTP.  • Emphasis on web applications and n-tier enterprise applications built using Java, J2EE, and related frameworks.  • Expertise in developing and implementing Enterprise Solutions for Distributed Software products and applications using Java technologies.  • Experience in creating Workflow packages and using Tag Manager for reading tags from pages.  • Worked on Object Oriented Designs.  • Good understanding of Day CQ WCM capabilities including Multi-site manager and Blueprinting.  • Rich experienced in writing SQL queries with RDBMS skills in MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle, etc.  • Experience in application servers like Apache Tomcat, and WebSphere, Web Logic, MS VISIO.  • Worked extensively on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and proficient with Java/UI development using Top-Down and Bottom-Up approaches.  • Well versed with SDLC phases with extensive experience in requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Build, Testing, Documentation and Maintenance.  • Experience in end-user testing or acceptance testing known as User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Experience with connecting and working with third party repositories and also experience in using GIT, JIRA and SVN for source code control.  • Worked on Code Reviews on various modules and fixed the bugs identified in test phase.  • Good problem-solving skills and extraordinary trouble-shooting capabilities.  • Self-motivated team player with excellent problem solving skills and ability to learn new technologies and tools quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AEM Developer Sprint - Topeka, KS January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Develop Custom AEM Workflows, OSGi Services and other Dynamic/Static web content management components.  • Installed and Configured AEM Web Content management System and Apache Felix Admin Console.  • Installed CRXDE Integrated development environment and Configuration of the project with Subversion control.  • Used sightly template language for implementing AEM Components.  • Designed project layout using Microsoft VISIO.  • Accessed JCR programmatically to store and fetch data.  • Worked on spring v3.0 modules like ORM, Core and MVC to design implementation for input request processing.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, dispatcher flush agents, AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages, html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Create and integrate content driven applications on top of the AEM core platform.  • SVN is used as a distributed revision control system for AEM.  • Used AEM Developer tools for exporting and importing content to and from AEM repository.  • Integrated AEM with Brackets Extension to provide a smooth workflow to edit AEM components  and Client Libraries.  • Developed JSP's, Action Forms and Action Classes as part of presentation layer development.  • Worked on Sling servlets to handle POST and GET requests.  • Extensive use of JSP Tag libraries and developed custom tag libraries to simplify the code.  • Used Servlets to implement Business Logic with JSP.  • Implemented SOA architectural pattern using SOAP and RESTful based web services.  • Exposure to Jenkins CI configuration for Build Automation.  • Worked on Lucene Indexing for developing Custom Index rules for minimizing the search queries response time and for improving the performance.  • Created client libraries at component level and global level (designs) for handling JavaScript and CSS.  • Implemented server side service components using Apache Felix framework and Apache Sling.  • Worked on creations of workflow models for publishing the pages from author to publish, process steps and User Administrations in AEM.  • Strong experience in end-to- end Adobe Analytics implementation using Adobe  Dynamic Tag Management (DTM).  • Developed OSGI components/services, sling Servlets, and AEM components/templates.  • Entity classes in spring to integrate with Hibernate API.  • Hands on working with Granite UI  • Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports.  • Involved in building, deploying the code and moving code to different environments.  • Worked closely with Akamai, plus line for production deploy, Dispatcher cache, Akamai cache etc.  • Utilized Angular JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  • Built Angular JS framework including MVC architecture, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters.  • Build XDP which is a base companion for PDF and XFA.  • Involved in supporting the application post production and maintenance.  • Experience working in an agile environment, involved in daily standup meetings.  Environment: AEM 6.1, AEM 6.2, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, JCR, Apache Sling, Slightly, SOA, Eclipse, Maven, SVN, SOAP, Hibernate, DTM, JDK 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, java Script, JSP, Servlets, JQuery, SQL, Angular JS, XDP. Adobe CQ5/AEM Developer Royal Caribbean cruises Ltd - Miami, FL February 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed, AEM building blocks including Templates, Components, Dialogs, Widgets, and Workflows.  • Worked on stories related to AEM 6.1 in sprints this includes feature development and production issues (Agile Scrum methodology).  • Developed more than two applications that uses JCR content repository in AEM to store information and query the JCR for display and reporting purposes.  • Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Proficient in Adobe CQ/AEM foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, the CQ platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix.  • Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system.  • Maintaining OSGI java classes for assets import, validation processes, and to fetch the data from CQ repository obtained from different providers.  • Designed and developed various Screens using Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Node JS.  • Utilized REST, Java, Sling, CQ5, and Java script for Custom Coding.  • Built various web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Java Script and JSON, JQuery.  • Solid understanding of all AEM building blocks, development and deployment process.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Worked on CQ5 Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level  • Offer solutions on top of the Adobe WCM, CRX/CRXDE, CQ WCM and DAM.  • Define implementation processes, quality gates and standards.  • Developed message driven web services using Spring Integration.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using with Hibernate.  • OSGI bundle development experience.  • Developed GUI using HTML and Java Script.  • Effectively communicate design to customers and present design options/considerations.  • Adopt and utilize iterative/Agile methodology as needed or requested.  • Produce quality work even when under extreme time pressure and deadlines.  Environment: AEM5.6.0, 6.1, Adobe CQ5, JAVA, J2EE, OSGI, Spring Integration, HIBERNATE, MYSQL, AJAX, JSON, JDK 1.7/1.8, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, SQL, Jenkins, Maven, SOAP UI, XPath, XML, LINUX, JSP, Node JS, Web Services (SOAP, REST), Eclipse, GIT. Adobe CQ5/ AEM Developer BRIDGESTONE AMERICAS, INC - Nashville, TN September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities  • Designed and developed, CQ5 building blocks including templates, components, dialogs,  widgets, workflows.  • Developing components, templates and pages using HTML5, CSS3, Java, Sightly, JSP etc.  • Create Workflows, and maintain AEM Servers.  • Upgraded all the current CQ5.6.1 instances to AEM 6.1.  • Strong Understanding and experience in implementation, customization, and integration of Adobe AEM/CQ5 sites.  • Used Sightly, CRX, JCR, Apache Felix, Apache Slings and OSGI technologies  • Managed the Media files using Digital Asset Management (DAM).  • Worked on created Live copies with understanding of Blueprints and MSM  • Worked on Importing, Exporting CQ Packages & Bundles.  • Built various web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Made code changes in JSP, JQuery, AJAX and JavaScript environment.  • Involved in setting up or upgrading complex CQ environment with expertise in CQ5  Author, Publisher and Dispatcher administrations  • Utilize HTML, CSS, JQuery and ExtJS for designing and implementing custom CQ  components.  • Developed custom Dialog Plugins and Widgets on ExtJS and Coral UI.  • Monitoring log files and communicating with AEM Developers.  • Experience in AEM User administration.  • Installing AEM service packs and taking regular backups of applications  • Working knowledge on Importing, Exporting CQ Packages & Bundles.  Environment: CRX, CRXDE, OSGI, Apache Sling, Workflow, JSP, Apache Tomcat7, MVC, JSON, Extjs, HTML, CSS, Javascript, AJAX, Maven, Jenkins, JQuery 1.7, GIT, SQL, Web Services. Java/J2EE Developer Wolters Kluwer - Chicago, IL September 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed the Service layer and placed the required Web Services archive (.aar file) in Axis 2 WEB-INF  Services Directory in the repository.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Used Spring MVC framework for configuring the application.  • Implemented object/relational persistence (Hibernate) for the domain model.  • Implemented the Web services and associated business modules integration.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, WSDL and SOAP.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern JSP, Servlets and Action classes.  • Effective usage of J2EE Design Patterns namely Session Facade, Factory Method, Command and Singleton to develop various base framework components in the application.  • Involved in Units integration, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases.  • Used Stateless Session Bean to implement Business Process and interact with DA layer for DB Access.  • Used SQL and PL/SQL Programming extensively to talk to Oracle database.  • Maven was used as a build tool. Also worked in an agile work environment.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Involved in writing the training material for the users.  Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, Struts 2.2.x, SOAP Web Services, JDBC, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, Eclipse, Hibernate 3.6.1, JUnit, MySQL 5.0, MongoDB. Java/J2EE Developer GudieOne Insurance - Des Moines, IA September 2010 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, development, testing and production of the application.  • Participates in weekly Team meetings for progress updates and problem solving.  • Worked with Customers to identify and implement Functional Enhancements and new requirements.  • Developed use cases, workflow, screen mock-ups, and conversion requirements.  • Customized Logo screens for POS and BackOffice according to Customers.  • Worked extensively on Receipt customization and Receipt Build Tool to build complex receipts.  • Handled and proposed Project Change Requests to implement new functionalities.  • Code Customization in Struts, Tiles Framework and coding EJBs for BackOffice.  • Raised Service Requests to be handled by Oracle.  • Built Front-end related framework using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Defined tables, constraints, triggers, packages, procedures and functions in Oracle 10g, DB2 and SQL Server.  • Complete Documentation while performing extensive Unit Testing to ensure bug-free code drop.  • Simultaneous interaction with QA Analysts and Testers to recreate reported problems.  • Performed Code Reviews on various modules.  Environment: JDK 1.4/1.5, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts 3.0, Struts Tiles and Validate Frameworks, i18n, JUnit, EJB, Web technologies (HTML, CSS), JavaScript, Eclipse, JBoss, WebSphere Application Server, XML, HTML, XML, Rational Rose, SQL Server 2008, DB2, DB2 Control Center, Oracle 10g, MySQL, MySQL Control Center, Unix, Subversion. Java/J2EE Developer Sunnyvale, CA May 2009 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Full life cycle experience including requirements analysis, high-level design, detailed design, data  model design, coding, testing and creation of functional and Technical design documentation.  • Closely worked with System Analysts and testers to develop the Module from designing,  development and implement in production.  • Provided Java development and deployment using WebSphere, Clear Case, and Oracle.  • Designed and Developed using Java/J2EE, Web Services, Struts, XML, AJAX and Deployed on Web  Sphere Application Server running on Unix.  • Worked on web technology Java, JSP, Servlets to build front end web framework  • Adopted J2EE framework using Struts, Web Services with standard design patterns.  • Implemented J2EE Design Patterns DAO, Transfer Objects, Service Locator, Singleton and MVC  Design patterns.  • Wrote SQLs to pull data and created procedures.  • Used JUnit for unit testing framework of code in Test Driven environment.  • Prepared Unit Test Plan, Integration Test Plan for the testing. I have also reviewed test plans of the peers in my team.  Environment: Java JDK 1.4, JDBC 3.0, Struts, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, XSLT, JAXB, Web Services 1.1, SOAP, JMS,  • LDAP, JUnit, Rational Rose, Oracle 8i. Education Bachelor's Skills html (7 years), J2EE (6 years), java (8 years), Maven (6 years), SQL (8 years), Drupal, Cobol, Hadoop, Servicenow, AEM Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skill Sets  Languages C, C++, Java J2EE  Web Technologies HTML, CSS3, HTML5, JS, jQuery, Slightly, XML, Angular JS, Node JS  Adobe Applications Apache Sling, Adobe CQ5.X, AEM6.X, Adobe CRX  Frameworks OOP, Struts, Spring MVC, Apache Sling, Hibernate  Build Tools Maven, Jenkins, Ant  Databases MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, MongoDB  IDE Tools Eclipse, NetBeans  Operating System Windows (XP/Vista/7/8/10), UNIX, LINUX, OS X  Other Tools Putty, Log4j, VISIO, GIT, SVN  App Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere 6.1, JBoss, WebLogic  Web Server Apache 2.2  Design UML