Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - JPMC Wilmington, DE ? Around 4 Years of Experience in IT Infrastructure as a Java Developer with web application development, Hosting web applications and experience with different domains like Insurance, Banking, Retail, Sales.  ? Java Developer experience in Project analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of Web Based Applications using Java/J2EE. Actively involved in each phase of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC).  ? Expertise in using Agile Software Development methodologies like Scrum, Sprint and Traditional software models like Waterfall and TDD.  ? Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  ? Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions for collection evaluations and comparing the data, Stream API for bulk data operations on collections which would increase the performance of the application.  ? Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that must be stored in AWS S3.  ? Utilized Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 to deploy Docker containers with both monolith and Micro Services architecture.  ? Created and Configure Micro Service architecture for CDT Directory project and integrated with AngularJS application.  ? Experienced in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and J2EE Web Services based on RESTful, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RS using tools like Apache Axis.  ? Experience in developing applications using waterfall, Agile (XP and Scrum) methodologies and Test First, Test Driven Development and Service orientation architecture.  ? Expertise in Front-End UI technologies like HTML5, CSS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, AngularJS, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL.  ? Experienced in J2EE Technology-Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JPA, JDBC, JTA, JavaBeans, JMS (MQ series).  ? Proficient in implementation of frameworks like JSF, AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworks like Hibernate  ? Experience in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like spring, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch and Spring MVC.  ? Well versed with different Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Front-Controller, Session Façade, Service-Locator, Data Access Object (DAO), Data Transfer Object (DTO), MVC, Business-Delegate.  ? Experienced in process, validate, parse, and extract data from XML using as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  ? Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  ? Expertise with object-oriented design (OOD), analysis (OOA), and modeling (OOM) based on Unified Modeling Language (UML) architecture.  ? Deployed Applications on to Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  ? Experienced in writing SQL and PL/SQL scripts including views, indexes, sequences, packages, procedures, functions, database triggers.  ? Extensive experience on Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server, IBM DB2 and Solid understanding of Database Management System.  ? Good Knowledge of modern NoSQL platforms (Mongo DB, Cassandra and Dynamo DB).  ? Good Skills in using Dojo Components and integrating back-end applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 front-end using OO JavaScript Framework.  ? Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache ActiveMQ and Apache Camel as JMS provider.  ? Experience on different IDEs such as IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, RAD and deployment using Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, Web Sphere, Glassfish and JBOSS.  ? Healthy Experience with Selenium, JUnit, Mockito, Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  ? Experience on UNIX/LINUX Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server.  ? Having measurable experience on application building tools like Maven and Gradle.  ? Actively involved in the DevOps streamlining process through Jenkins CI and CD Release Automation.  ? Extensively worked on Pivotal Tracker and JIRA tools for tracking stories in a Project.  ? Hands on experience with versioning tools like, GitHub, concurrent version system (CVS) and subversion (SVN).  ? Strong in Communicating with the Team Effectively in Daily Stand-Up Meetings (Scrum) and update the Status. Good Interpersonal Skills and Hardworking with an Enthusiasm to Learn New Technologies.  ? Possess Excellent Analytical, problem solving and learning skills as well as a Keen Interest in the Emerging Technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer JPMC - Wilmington, DE April 2019 to Present Description: JP Morgan Chase is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.6 trillion and operations worldwide. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small business, commercial banking, financial transaction processing, and asset management.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development and understanding of business requirements and implement the process using Agile (Scrum) methodology.  ? Developed RESTful Web Services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot.  ? Validated live transactions and Promo codes in real time transactions and represented in the form of XML or JSON.  ? Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc).  ? Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  ? Used Cucumber framework to automate our model.  ? Experience in installing, configuring and monitoring DataStax Cluster (Enterprise Edition).  ? All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  ? Experience on multi-threading, data structures, algorithms, object-oriented design, and design patterns  ? Developed RESTful Web Services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot.  ? Used Spring MVC framework controllers for Controllers part of the MVC.  ? Sound RDBMS concepts and broadly worked with MS SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, Cassandra and Postgre SQL.  ? Good experience with Cassandra NoSQL Database.  ? Used Mockito for testing the application and Log4j for logging all the debugging and error information.  ? Expertise in developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap with webpage cross browser compatibility like Responsive web design and Server scripting language like Node JS.  ? Developed different POCs to make a UI in Angular JS.  ? Developed Web API utilizing Node JS and facilitated on different load adjusted API occasions.  ? Implemented a security module in Angular JS which integrated with the spring security in the backend with Authentication and Authorization  ? Consumed RESTful Services with Angular JS $http Services.  ? Triggered the automation jobs using Jenkins to get the cucumber JSON reports  ? Worked on agile scrum based methods for BDD.  ? Experience in designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language.  ? Developed RESTful Web Services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and MicroServices Architecture.  ? Used Maven as build automation tool and responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins.  ? Used Node JS to run Web pack undertakings and manufacture legitimately the venture.  ? Working for unit system functional software test automation.  ? Understanding the design and implementing it in the development phase.  ? Used JAVA 8 features like Lambda Expressions, Parallel Streams and functional interfaces.  ? Used GitHub as Version Control tool, JIRA for issue tracking and Intellij as IDE.  ? Involved in creating automation test scripts using cucumber built on IntelliJ IDE.  ? Used Active MQ to communicate with controller and used service layer to implement the business logic.    Environment: Java1.8, J2EE, XML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Angular, Node Js, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, RESTful, Hibernate, Cucumber, Mockito, Active MQ, Oracle, MongoDB, Cassandra, Maven, Jenkins, GitHub, JIRA, UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA September 2018 to April 2019 Description: Comcast corporation is an American Multinational mass media company and is the largest broadcasting and largest cable company in the world by revenue. My project involves the developing online services like number portability from another carrier to Comcast carrier and paying bills online and interacting with database.    Responsibilities:  ? Experienced in working on DevOps/Agile operations process and tools area (Code review, unit test automation, Build & Release automation, Environment, Service, Incident and Change Management)  ? Designed and developed UI screens with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, Angular JS, Node JS to provide interactive screens to display data  ? Designed and implemented the User interface using JSF, JQuery  ? Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry  ? Fundamental mastery of AWS clouds computing platform and its dimensions of scalability  ? Involved in complete application stack in AWS EC2, S3  ? Designed Java Components and integrated using Spring framework with Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern  ? Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security  ? Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  ? Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application  ? Implementing or exposing the Micro services based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC  ? Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Axis  ? Created web services using Spring @Rest Controller to return JSON to the frontend  ? Extensive use of HTML5 with AngularJS, JSTL, JSP and JQuery for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for  ? Developed Custom Tag Libraries for the use in web pages by using JSTL packages for the development of the Web Pages  ? JSF ( Java Server Faces) was used for to simplify development integration of user interfaces and the operation on the values they (UI) hold  ? Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from SQL Server  ? Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security  ? Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class  ? Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management  ? Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS (MQ series) for sending and receiving messages while creating web services  ? Implemented service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS  ? Developed queries to perform CRUD operations  ? XSLT to transform the XML files to the presentation layer for the enrich design  ? Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server  ? Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs  ? Development carried out under Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE)  ? Used GlassFish as application server for some of the web applications.  ? Worked closely with Software Developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems  ? Jenkins is used as a continuous integration tool for automation of daily process  ? Used MAVEN to define the dependencies and build the application and used JUnit for suite execution and Assertions  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management  ? Created & Maintained Automation Selenium Automation Scripts for the Scrum Stories  ? Used Selenium Web Driver to run test cases in multiple browsers and Platforms  ? Log4J was used to monitor the error logs and used GIT as a Version Control system    Environment: Core Java, Multithreading, Agile Methodology, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, Angular JS, JSTL, JQuery, AJAX, AWS EC2, S3, Micro Services, Hibernate, Spring, RESTful API, SOA, JAX-RS, JSON, Hibernate, SQL Server, MyBatis, SQL, JMS, Oracle, CRUD, CI, CD, JIRA, DevOps, Jenkins, MAVEN, JUnit, UNIX, Eclipse, Glassfish, Selenium, IBM Web Sphere, Log4J, GIT Java Developer Target - Minneapolis, MN June 2016 to July 2018 Description: This is an application developed with multiple web services, used for tracking the status of a purchase order by accessing three different databases. Order will be collected/placed through another web-based application. The OMS assign the order to the department. Once order is placed in the web-based application, from that moment user will be able to track the status using a track tool application. In each step of the process, different departments involved are using different tools and different database. This track tool is designed and developed in such a way that, it has robustness and flexibility to access all different DB used for tracking the status.    Responsibilities:  ? Captured all the functional and technical requirements of the Supply Chain Management System.  ? Was involved in the preparation of the software requirements and design document.  ? Provided a User Manual and User Training on the new system to ease them into the new system.  ? Adapted Java Design Patterns DAO, Value Objects and Session Facade to develop business components.  ? Developed class diagrams and Sequence diagrams.  ? Defined the detailed application and database design.  ? Development of GUI for HTML and JSP Versions. Java Servlets were used as the common gateway interface between the client and server.  ? Java Beans were used to handle business logic as a Model and Servlets to control the flow of application as Controller.  ? Involved in collecting requirements from Business Users and Data Modeling and designing and developing Tools using J2EE, Java, Servlets, EJB, and JSP.  ? Front end validations are written using JavaScript.  ? Performed Unit Testing using JUnit.    Environment: JDK, J2EE, HTML, CSS, Servlets, JDBC, JavaScript, JSP, EJB, CVS, JUnit, WebSphere, Oracle, Linux. Java Developer Intent Infotech Pvt.Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2015 to June 2016 Description: Intent infotech provides freelancing services to multiple Clients all over the world. SSTG (Smart Services Technology Group) is one of the core engineering teams in Intent Infotech that builds customer-focused software support tools and components. Resource Management System is an internal tool developed under SSTG. Resource Management System is used by the managers of departments to search for the resources based upon particular skill set. Resources can be selected to check their availability and to find the details about the projects they are working on.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed web application using Struts, JSP, Servlet, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP  ? Wrote JavaScript for client-side validation.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating Servlet, JSP, and XML.  ? Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from database.  ? Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problem  ? The application was deployed on the Tomcat.  ? Involved in build and deploying the application using ANT  ? Used CVS as version control system  ? Worked on bug fixing and Production Support    Environment: J2EE, JDBC, Struts, JavaScript, Html, CSS, JSP, Servlet, Tomcat, Oracle, Eclipse IDE, CVS, ANT, Log4J. Skills Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jaxp, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, C++, Java, Java 1.8, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies Java, J2EE, RMI, Sockets, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Java Beans, JSTL, Struts, EJB, Spring, Hibernate, JNDI, JPA.  Tools& Framework Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring boot, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Junit, SOAP UI  Web services SOAP, Restful, JAXP, JAXB, JAX-RS JAX-WS, WSDL, UDDI, JMS and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). JAX-RPC, JAX-B and Micro Services.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, XML, Ajax, Bootstrap, NodeJS.  XML Technologies XML, DTD, XSD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, XSL-FO, DOM, SAX.  Cloud Technologies AWS EC2, AWS Lambda, AWS S3, AWS(AMI), AWS Cloud formation, Cloud Watch.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, IBM DB2, SQL server, MongoDB and Cassandra.  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat, Oracle/BEA WebLogic, IBM Web Sphere, and JBoss Servers.  Build Tools Maven, Gradle and Jenkins.  Development Tools (IDE) Eclipse, IntelliJ and STS.  Testing Tools/Others Selenium, JUnit, Soap UI, Log4j and JIRA  Version Control GitHub, CVS and subversion (SVN).  OS & Environment Windows, UNIX, Linux.