ETL Analyst ETL Analyst ETL Analyst - Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Grapevine, TX Technical Analyst with 16 years experience in problem-solving, leadership, implementation and management of complex software systems. Successfully managed multicultural teams and have experience in working and coordinating with off-shore clients. Engage in production monitoring and operational excellence. Participate in load testing and performance tuning and analysis. Maintains integration tool (Hudson/Jenkins) and ensure rules compliance of source codes. Lead teams and applying best practices to achieve good results. Mentor and assist team members and peers to resolve hurdles. Domains: Banking, Groupware, Airline Industry, and Hospitality. Work Experience ETL Analyst Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation - Seattle, WA March 2017 to Present Financial Analytics and Reporting. Design and develop the ETL process that loads financial data and perform the necessary transformations to load to the enterprise data warehouse for reporting with Microstrategy. Managing the Talend jobs in the Talend Administration Center and providing technical support on data issues. Involved collaborating with the business team, data architects, and database administrators to design the best approach in generating dat for the reports. Performed database administrator roles in case for the AWS space. Java Developer Caesars - Las Vegas, NV November 2016 to February 2017 Executive Complementary Code Project. Develop an application that updates the status of Comp Surveys by utilizing Survey Monkey APIs. A supplementary module is developed as well that sends out notifications/reminders to employees and managers depending on the days passed since the survey remains incomplete. Implementation involves a sequence of executions of APIs from curl command and parsing the responses retrieving relevant information for analysis. Java Developer Sabre - Southlake, TX November 2014 to October 2016 Crew Migration / Movement Manager. Develop and maintain a web application that automates the migrating (a manual process that usually takes days) of crew (static, flight, legs, etc) details in minutes. Backend system is a combination of direct database access and web service calls implemented using Talend. Project Manager / Technical Lead / Java Developer Sabre - Southlake, TX July 2006 to October 2015 Quicktrip. Manage the projects and team schedule. Coordinate with stake holder and clients. Lead meeting (scrum, estimations, discussions, etc) and promote team work. Support production issues and implement updates to the Internet Booking Engine. Quicktrip is composed of the following airlines: Brussels Airlines, Gulf Air, Siberian Airlines, Transaero, and Belavia. First few years the following airlines were still supported: Air Baltic and Olympic Senior Java Developer BDO Unibank, Inc July 2005 to July 2006 Mandaluyong, PH    Loan Origination System / Customer Acquisition System. Develop an automated tool that process stylesheet files (provided by Business Units) and migrate the information (loans and accounts) to the database. The data stored is accessed by a third-party web application. Senior Software Engineer WeServ Systems International - Makati, PH July 1998 to June 2005 TeamWare. Maintain and support Fujitsu Japan's TeamWare application. Develop web applications to test the TeamWare services. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Santo Tomas - Manila 1998 Skills Eclipse, Java (10+ years), Hibernate, Spring, Jsp, PowerBI (Less than 1 year), Talend (4 years), SQL (4 years), Excel, database