Web Designer/ Developer Web Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Glens Falls, NY • Industry experience in Analysis, Design and Development of Java Based Internet and Intranet applications.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Principles, Methodologies and Practices.  • Well versed in Business Tier Development using Design Patterns, Delegate classes and Web services.  • Experience in Software Analysis and Design using Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Proficient with RAD, Eclipse and other open source tools.  • Experience in Open Source technologies like Spring, Hibernate, Struts and JSF.  • Experience in RDBMS with SQL, Triggers, Stored Procedures and Functions.  • Experience in Presentation Tier development using JSPs, Swing, Custom Tag Libraries and XML.  • Experience in developing Web services.  • Experience in Database Oracle, Sybase, DB2 and MySQL.  • Great team player with excellent communication, written and presentation skills with strong aptitude towards learning new technologies.  • Excellent Communication and Organizational skills with team lead capabilities.  • Experience with developing Web Services using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and XSD. Work Experience Web Designer/ Developer NYC Department of Information Technology Services (ITS) - Albany, NY April 2019 to Present Support and enhance web applications for the NY Department of Motor Vehicles. Ensure that all applications are WCAG/Accessibility compliant. Cold Fusion, CSS, HTML, Javascript. Java Web Application Developer NYS Dept. Of Information Technology May 2017 to December 2018 JSF, SQL, Websphere, RAD, SOAP Web services.  Supported and enhanced web applications. Senior Engineer General Electric - Schenectady, NY May 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities  Java programmer working on multiple projects in the PELF suite of products.    Accomplishments  • Added graphing and interface enhancements to the ProvisoHD product. Used Java swing, HDF5 and JNI and JFreeChart.  • Supported the PSLF dynamic tools products adding interface enhancements and increased graphic capabilities.  • Added "Extreme Plot" capability to the PSLF Plot program to support up to 1,000,000 data points.  • Created program to graphically create RAS (Remedial Action) files conforming to the Powerworld file format. Adopted by WECC (Western Electricity Coordinating Council)  • Provided updated documentation.    Skills Used  Skills are Core Java, Swing, JFreechart, Java2d., C Java/J2EE Developer Bank of America - Albany, NY December 2012 to December 2012 03/2010-08/2011    Supporting web applications used for collecting New York City Business and Excise Tax.  WebSphere application server, Java, JSP, Struts 1, Hibernate. Coded back end server code and web page code. Java/J2EE Developer Mediabids - Malta, NY October 2007 to September 2009 Support and enhance website application. JSP, Java Servlets, AJAX.  JBoss application server.  Mediabids.com connects print advertisers to publications and publications to print advertisers for the purpose of brokering advertising space. I am  responsible for developing enhancements to the existing application and fixing bugs. On occasion I have developed screen scrapers used for data  aggregation. Primary languages used are Java and Javascript. Java/J2EE Developer Tango Media Systems - Saratoga, NY March 2007 to October 2007 Supported and enhanced a back office application to be used for media buying.  The Tango Trading System was meant to provide an end to end solution that would connect media buyers to cable systems for the purposes of making requests for prices, placing orders, managing television commercial traffic instructions and reconciling bills. It was written in Java/JSP/Struts/Hibernate/Spring.    Tribune Media Services  1 Apollo Drive  Glens Falls NY 12801 Application Programmer I Tribune Media Services - Glens Falls, NY May 2004 to March 2007 developed and supported a set of Enterprise applications written in Java/J2EE using JBoss application server. These applications were used to create TV and theater schedules for print media, on line sites and electronic products. Involved in analysis and design as well as coding of new applications. Developed a utility to automate the generation of data access code in Java and XML.    I was also the lead developer on a Web Services application. I was in charge of migrating the application from the companies main offices in Chicago to the offices in Glens Falls. In that capacity I authored Ant scripts to expedite our build and deployment procedures. I also implemented a new web service for providing theater schedules. Created all WSDL and XSD as well as back end code and test client. I was the sole developer of the theater schedule service as well as a swing base utility to be used internally to configure customer data feeds.    Lately I joined a project that produced a set of XML data feed files for sale to customers. These files contain US Television and Theater schedule information and typically were larger than 1 Gigabyte in size. As such a tool-chain was required in order to verify referential integrity and completeness of the data. I developed a swing based application and a set of console applications to provide verification of the data files. Senior Systems Analyst New York State Dept. of Children and Family Services - Albany, NY November 2001 to May 2004 Worked in support of the Connections system, a statewide system that is used to track and document cases of child abuse, family services cases and foster care issues. In support of new development I worked on a set of applications written in MSAccess that were used to track compliance to State and Federal requirements throughout the SDLC. I also worked in the analysis phase in developing software requirements as well as developing prototype applications using Visual Basic. Java C programmer Cloakware Corporation - Ottawa, ON March 1999 to July 2001 3/1999-7/2001  http://www.cloakware.com  84 Hines Road, Suite 300  Ottawa, ON, Canada  K2K 3G3    Cloakware specializes in providing security solutions to customers using an automated set of tools and techniques to safeguard application code against backward engineering. As a programmer at Cloakware I worked to plan and develop security solutions to meet customer needs. I was a Java and C/C++ programmer. In this capacity I became familiar with many common security technologies like public key infrastructure and encryption. Senior Engineer Education Associates of Arts in Arts and Sciences Electrical Engineering Technology Hudson Valley Community College - Troy, NY 1998 Bachelor of Arts in Literature SUNY Oneonta - Oneonta, NY 1986 Skills Java, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Rest, Core Java, Hibernate, Soap, JEE, Javascript, MVC, JSP, cold fusion (1 year) Additional Information Skills:    Java Programmer (JSF, Websphere, RAD, Swing, Spring, JDBC, Servlets, J2EE, Ibatis SQLMaps) SQL, RDMS (MYSql, Sybase, Oracle, Informix, HSQL), XML, XSL, WSDL, Web Services, JBoss, Hibernate, Struts, MS Access Programming, UML, Linux, UNIX, MS Windows, UI (Swing, JSP, JSF, Struts, Spring, CSS, Tiles, Sitemesh), PostGIS, Google Earth API