Sr. Machine Learning Developer Sr. Machine Learning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Machine Learning Developer Seattle, WA • Over 10+ years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of various software projects.  • Sun Certified Java programmer with over 8 years of experience developing enterprise applications using Java/J2EE and Machine learning (ML), Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies in Banking, Insurance and Telecom.  • Hands on design and implementation of AI, machine learning algorithms using Python and R.  • Expertise in distributed application architecture, object oriented design, and web based applications.  • Expertise in Application Design & Architecture using Core Java, J2EE, EJB, Hibernate, Swing, Struts, JSP Servlets, Filters, JMS, JDBC, JNDI, MDB, Java Beans, Web Services, AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, ANT, Maven, log4j.  • Excellent Project implementation skills using Core Java, Java Beans, J2EE (JSP, Servlets), EJB, JMS, JSF, Struts, spring, spring batch, Hibernate, JDBC, XML, Web Services and Design Patterns.  • Expertise in J2EE Architecture, Java and J2EE Core Design Patterns, Object Oriented Analysis and Design/Development Methodologies (OOAD), Object Modeling with Use Cases, Sequence & Class.  • Diagrams using UML with Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Session Facade, Business Delegate and Data Access Object for building J2EE Applications.  • Expertise UI development using HTML, Javascript, EXT-JS, Ajax, JQuery and CSS  • Extensive experience in programming, deploying, configuring, fine-tuning and administering middle-tier popular J2EE Application Servers like IBM WebSphere, BEA WebLogic, JBOSS & Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in SOAP, JAXB, JAXP, JAX-RPC, XML/XSLT and WSDL for developing Web Services.  • Experience in configuration management using CVS, SVN and VSS  • Experience in various databases Oracle, DB2 and SQL Server  • Experience and Strong knowledge in Design Patterns like Single Ton, Service Locator, MVC, Facade, Value Object and Caching Technique.  • Good knowledge in Log4j, JUnit, Maven and Jenkins  • Specialized in RDBMS design using normalization techniques and expertise in using SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers. Work Experience Sr. Machine Learning Developer Freedom Mortgage Corp - Columbia, MD February 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Devised a machine learning algorithm using Python for facial recognition.  • Worked on various methods including data fusion and machine learning and improved the accuracy of distinguished right rules from potential rules.  • Tested with various Machine Learning algorithms as Support Vector Machine, Random Forest, Trees with XGBoost concluded Decision Trees as champion model.  • Configured Spark streaming to get ongoing information from the Kafka and store the stream information to HDFS.  • Experienced in decommissioning the legacy systems.  • Written multiple Map Reduce programs to extract data for extraction, transformation and aggregation from different sources having multiple file formats including XML, JSON, CSV &other compressed file formats.  • Assisted with data capacity planning and node forecasting.  • Worked on importing and exporting data from Oracle and DB2 into HDFS and HIVE using SQOOP and automated the SQOOP jobs by scheduling in Oozie.  • Create Hive scripts to load data from one stage into another and implemented incremental load with the changed data architecture.  • Worked extensively on HIVE, SQOOP, SHELL, PIG, and PYTHON.  • Used SQOOP to move the structured data from AS400DB2, Oracle and SQL.  • Used AXWAY to FTP the OPTIM files to move to Hadoop and create tables on top of the data.  • Scheduled CRON JOB to schedule the shell scripts.  • Experienced in writing HIVE JOIN Queries.  • Used PIG predefined functions to convert the fixed width file to delimited file.  • Used python to read the AVRO file.  • Developed shell scripts to perform the incremental loads.  • Used HIVE join queries to join multiple tables of a source system and load them into Elastic Search Tables.  • Experienced in moving data from MULTIMEMBER'S to Hadoop.  • Launching and Setup of HADOOP Cluster on AWS, which includes configuring different components of HADOOP  • Architect, Designed and implemented key services within the project.  • Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application  • Designing Architecture, developing and implementing components of day-to-day for user Web Interface.  • Used Hibernate as the ORM tool to communicate with the database  • Application was developed in J2EE using MVC architecture.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture for an efficient implementation of the view level customizations and interface with the application logic.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework,  • Designed and implemented Service Oriented Architecture, enterprise service bus, web applications, databases, data warehouses, business rules.  • Used Java/J2EE, MVC, DAO and Value Object Design Pattern for component architecture.  • Architected the design for reading XML files using Groovy.  • Frontend utility is web application followed J2EE architecture.  • It used Struts framework to divide Model, business logic and presentation layers. Spring is also used for dependency injection for the necessary resources. JDBC template is also used to make database calls.  • Architected mainframe modernization solutions using SOA/web services, middleware integration technologies and ESB based on JAVA/J2EE.  • Implemented JSF framework in the application which is based on MVC design architecture.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Created various UI components for different web pages using HTML, Javascript, ExtJs.  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed Front-end using JSP, Servlets, HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed the web user interfaces for all the above use cases using JSP, Struts, HTML5, jQuery, XML and Ajax.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework and control set.  • Design software applications using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS, XML.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain.  • Worked on DB2 data base for storing and retrieving the application data  • Developed the CRUD API for the POSEngine using Restful Webservices.  • Developed PL/SQL store procedures for data migration and database upgrade from oracle using TOAD.  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to ORACLE.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations  • Test the API responses for the WCS changes deployed on continuous basis, validate the GreenBox response data and MongoDB data.  • Implemented Coherence Cache which can be used with Spring Annotations.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF  • Developed Web service components using WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, JAX-RPC with java.  • Consumed Web Services using Apache CXF framework for getting remote information  • Extensively used Eclipse as the IDE tool for creating the code.  • Deployed the application under WebSphere application server and involved in resolving deployment issues.  • Design and implementation of web applications in Java and HTML5/Javascript using Eclipse, Swing, GWT, JPA frameworks; and GIT maven source code environments.  • Used Github repository for version control.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Agile and scrum process is used for tracking and developing the application.  • Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML  • Hooked up the JSP plugins with spring bind and JSTL tags in the HTML pages.  Environment:: Machine Learning, Hadoop, Hive, Pig, AWS, R, Spark, Python, scikit-learn, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, DOJO, Node.Js, Angular.Js, Bootstrap, Backbone.Js, Sencha Extjs, Javascript, CSS, Ajax, Html5, DB2, Crud, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, Soap, Mongo DB, Coherence, Webservices, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, Git, Github, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, XML, Itext, Oracle ECM, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jira, Jasper Report, Ilog, Jrules, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP. Sr. Java Developer United health Group - Columbus, OH February 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Struts Framework, Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Architectured, develop, deployment of front-end and presentation layer logic of sites using JSP, HTML/DHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Develop software in JAVA/J2EE, EJB, Struts, XML, Oracle and Enterprise Architecture.  • Used iBATIS framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and JSF.  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using Spring, Hibernate, Servlets and JSP  • Developed application infrastructure using GWT/GXT as the front-end architecture using AJAX.  • Architectured & Designed the Restful web services and developed core component layers like xml validation, core service layer, solr search and transformation components.  • Worked with the development team on the UI architecture and design of the prototypes.  • Used EJB, JMS, Java Script in enhancement of the product  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the company's project management site and Mercurial as version control.  • Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  • Designed Use Cases using UML and managed the entire functional requirements life cycle using water fall model.  • Designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles  • JSON is used for serializing and deserializing data that is sent to or receive from JSP pages.  • Designed and Developed Servlets and JSP pages for authentication  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application  • Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data.  • Involved in issue tracking and agile project management using JIRA  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  • Implemented Cognos SDK code for extracting the report schedules defined by power users.  • Created web services using SOAP for SOA to get data from Mainframes and content manager.  • Generate Cobol procedures to apply business logic to the data.  • Batch program has been written using PL/I procedure  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch  • Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQL.  • Responsible for development and support of Service Activation System (SAS) written in JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Developed Java Script and Action Script, VB Script macros for Client Side validations.  • Developed web Application for the online giving application using ASP.Net (C#), HTML  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Ibatis, Struts , JSF, EJB, Jquery, My Sql, Toad, Sql Server, DB2, Apache Axis2, WSDL, Netbeans, Jboss, Clearcase, Mercurial, Selenium, Waterfall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, ANT, XML, EMC Documentum, JIRA, Swing, Cognos, Ilog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, Wordpress, Drupal, .Net, C, C++, Mainframe, Cobol, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS, VB, ASP. Java Developer Comcast Corporation - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Agile methodology was adopted in the development, and used Scrum method of project management.  • Implemented UI layer using Flex and business layer using Spring MVC and developed persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Designing Flex UI components as well as development of Flex custom components.  • Developed eye catching MXML view components using Flex Builder.  • Used Cairngorm MVC Architecture to handle the events and to retrieve the data from the server.  • Responsible for design and development of user interface using Flex Layout and Navigation, Data grid menus, and skinning components.  • Used Cisco Cues charts for creating Bar charts, Line charts and Pie Charts to show the project specific performance metrics  • Integrated Flex with BlazeDS to communicate Server side Objects which was build using Spring Framework and Hibernate.  • Extensively used RemoteObjects to retrieve data from the remote server and perform required business functionalities from the front end.  • Used spring framework modules like Core container module, Application context module, Spring AOP module, Spring ORM and Spring MVC module.  • Configured Spring Application-Context.xml used by spring container to inject dependencies to java classes to optimize memory resources.  • Implemented Spring IoC (Dependency Injection) and Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) for the Business as well as Lookup Service Layer development.  • Developed / modified the model components to incorporate new business level validations.  • Responsible for the oracle schema design, generating various POJO objects and generating their corresponding Hibernate mappings (.hbm) files.  • Consumed WebServices for getting the credit card information from third party application.  • Used Singleton and DAO design pattern.    Environment: Java , J2ee, Spring , Hibernate , Flex , Action Script, MXM, XML, XSD, Java script, Blaze DS , Cairngorm MVC Framework, IBM RAD, ClearCase, Oracle, Log4j, Weblogic, Sql, DbVisualizer, Webservices, Agile, ClearQuest, Maven, UML (Rational Rose), HTML , CSS and Windows 2000 Prof Java/Flex Developer SA Technologies Inc - Santa Clara, CA October 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Followed the Agile methodology iterative process for each of the module in the project.  • Developed the Login Module and Reimbursement Module.  • All modules developed with the framework design patterns and DAOs, Hibernate for persistence layer, Spring Framework for Application layer.  • Prototyped Flex based RFC using Flex, consuming web services using BlazeDS.  • Used Spring framework in enabling Controller Class access to Hibernate.  • Designed and developed several Flex UI Screens and Custom Components using MXML and Action script.  • Designed and developed user interface using Flex Components: ViewStack, Checkboxes, Repeater, Title Window, Text Area and others.  • Created components that have multiple views using States and also used Effects and Transitions when a State is entered or exited.  • Extensively used to data models to store the form data.  • Worked on a proof of concept on Internationalization in flex.  • Developed Action Script functions for event handling response handling and error handling  • Implemented Singleton Service Locator design patterns in Cairngorm MVC architecture to interact with backend.  • Implemented JSON with Flex to feed Data grids into the web application.  • Worked on development of Error Handling mechanism on the Flex side by catching the error code and message streamed from server and wrapping it in a custom Exception Object.  • Used Blaze DS to connect flex application with backend J2EE and Web Services layer to pull out the data to Flex UI components  • Was responsible for deploying and testing webservices components.  • Responsible to create Web Services to various web applications using Apache Axis 2 responsible to create WSDL, WSDL2Java and Java2WSDL Stubs  • Extensively used SOAP in webservices to communicate with other applications.  • Used SAX and DOM for parsing XML.  • The Log4j package is used for the debugging.  • Created JUnit and FlexUnit test case design logic and implemented throughout application.  • Used ANT tool for building and deploying the application.  • Used Toad tool to create Views and Stored procedures.  • Created Data model (Schema) of the Database.  Environment: Java, JSP, J2EE, Hibernate, Log4j, Struts, JSON , Apache Axis 2, Spring, WebServices , Adobe flex builder, Flex API ,Blaze DS, Flex, MXML, Action script, Tomcat Web Server, Websphere, IBM RAD V6, ClearCase, JQuery, Agile ,VSS, Sql Server, Pl/Sql ,TOAD, XML, CruiseControl ,Unix, HTML,XSLT and CSS Sr. Software developer CITI Bank - New York, NY October 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed project using MongoDB, ExpressJS, Angular 2, NodeJS, Typescript and Bootstrap  • Developed various Angular 2 Components, Modules, Services (observable/promises) and Pipes using TypeScript.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as user performs application tasks.  • Used angular validation controls so it can help managers to fill forms easier.  • Used Twitter bootstrap concepts to make the web application responsive to mobile and tablet screens.  • Creating Procedures and functions.  • Design and development of various reports.  • Windows service Development and deployment  • Design and Coding, Moving Load Analysis (MLA), Moving Load Analysis is windows-based application for analyzing the effect of moving load on bridge. Application is developed using three-tier architecture.  • Visual Studio, SQL Server, Involved in Forms design and development.  • Creating objects like tables, indexes & views.  • Actively involved in code review and code quality check process.  • Implemented optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  • Worked with backend developer to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unnecessary API calls.  • Evaluated JSON from the server and making Ajax requests using XHR object and handling JSON objects.  • Involved in Restful web services to call for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Worked closely with testing team and performed unit testing using JASMINE test cases.  Environment:, Angular 2, Typescript, Angular CLI, ExpressJS, NodeJS, MongoDB, Mongoose, AJAX, Lodash, JSON, NPM, Bootstrap, XML, Jasmine and GIT. Software Developer Novartis - Seattle, WA February 2006 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  • Implement pages based on mockups from designers/style guides  • Develop enterprise applications using JS MVC frameworks (React.js and Redux)  • Build Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and React.JS, Redux.  • Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • DOM manipulations using JavaScript  • Write Unit Test suites using Jest.  • Used Webpack to minify and bundle the code along with gulp.  • Worked on JOI Validations both on client side and server side.  • Developing CSS Style for web page using SASS Structure.  • Handling cross browser compatibility issues  • Implementing Web Accessibility and SEO techniquesTransformation and integration of API's  • Used SQL and C++, created and maintained a nightly process that loaded, parsed, validated and imported data from different sources and platforms into SQL servers.  • Providing analysis and recommendations based on current reporting technology trends. Completed classes in SSRS and Oracle Bi  • Managing 1+ TB production databases which handle all incoming direct-business mutual funds trades, include monitoring of internal and external jobs, designing production scripts, working with lines of business through various issues that may arise  • Working on a team to design and upgrade of databases to SQL Server 2008  • Headed a team which processed, and remediated 5 years of mutual fund data to clients in an industry wide effort to correct mutual funds breakpoint issues using Microsoft SQL databases.  • Work with Product Owners, UX Designers build conceptual demos and POCs  • Make REST API calls to fetch data  • Use Radar/Agile tool to track tasks assigned  Follow Agile methodology and Test-Driven Development    Environment: JavaScript, React.JS, Redux, Jest, GIT, NPM, Webpack  Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Ibatis, Oracle, JQuery, XML, WAS , Accurev, IBM DataPower, XSLT, CSS, AJAX, HP Fortify, SSO, Siteminder, REST Webservices, JMS, Webspher MQ. Education Master of Science Science and Engineering Florida State University Skills CSS (9 years), J2EE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), SQL (10+ years), XML (10+ years)