Sr. Android Application Developer Sr. Android Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Android Application Developer - General Electric Albany, NY • 12+ years of experience in IT with 6+ years on Android application development.  • Hands on experience in developing Android Applications for mobile and tablets using Android Studio and Eclipse.  • Good understanding in applying Object-oriented analysis and design (OOAD) and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for applications.  • Proficient in understanding of Android User Interface (UI) guidelines, frameworkAPI's, application development and memory management.  • Expertise in developing Android Enterprise applications for tablets and mobile devices.  • Have hands on experience in using the ContentResolver and ContentProvider classes to ensure secure data access to other applications.  • Working experience in RESTful web services to fetch data for the end user and parsing the XML and JSON response using different parsers.  • Extensively worked on push notifications, memory leaks, multiple screen support, content providers, data offline usage, accounts and sync on Android.  • Skilled in developing and debugging Android applications with high usage of threads and multi-threading environments.  • Efficient in using android libraries like Google GSON, OkHttp, Picasso, Proguard, Glide and Volley.  • Experience in publishing apps to Google Play Store.  • Experience in design patterns including Composite, Singleton, Session Facade, Decorator and MVC. Skilled in software debugging and trouble-shooting.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like XML, HTML, Java Script, CSS and AngularJs.  • Excelled in database skills in Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MySQL and DB2. Expertise in programming with SQL, PL/SQL.  • Good experience in developing and deploying web applications and web services in cloud, and experienced in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Google App Engine.  • Experience in developing test cases besides involving in Integration testing, Unit testing and User Acceptance testing extensively.  • Self-motivated, dedicated and very good team player with excellent communications skills including mentoring and presentation skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Android Application Developer General Electric - Albany, NY June 2016 to Present Developed a mobile banking app for Android Devices for the Bank. This application allows users to manage their Wells Fargo accounts and Wells Fargo credit/debit cards, such options as to check theiraccountbalance, recent transactions, available credit, deposit check, minimum payment due and due date.    Responsibilities:  • Formulated handset specific user interface (UI) for Android mobile phones, tablets and PC's.  • Worked with Layouts, Menus and Action Bars and also several other User Interface (UI) components.  • Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts and Unified Modeling Language (UML) were immensely used for modeling.  • Developed the UI for the application using edit boxes, 9-patch images, date picker, time picker, dialog boxes, alert boxes and spinners using different layouts that are available.  • For making existing applications more user-friendly we researched on Android application acceptance and feedback from the application users.  • Made use of Retrofit library for downloading asynchronous data and convert those JSON or XML responses to Plain Old Java Objects (POJO).  • We accessed external databases for our application by using JSON for web service calls.  • Used Intent Integrator for using theCamera API for accessing the camera to Scan front and back of checks.  • Instituted SQLite database as our backend database and also worked on the local data storage using shared preferences and file system.  • For ensuring best UI performances we used Asynchronous tasks for handling long term operations.  • Used Android DDMS debugger to debug and test the android application.  • Carefully handled all the Network latency issues, exceptions and error handling issues for the application.  • Got rid of out of memory exceptions with the help of LeakCanary library.  • Coordinate meetings with the UI and UX team to design the user interface by giving feedback about Android guidelines for developing user interfaces  • Collaborated with the team members for testing the application on different android target devices and also debugged the issues using Android provided tools like Trace view and view hierarchy from DDMS for optimization purposes.    URL:https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.wf.wellsfargomobile&hl=en    Environment:Android 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 versions, Java, Android SDK, ADT 21.1.0, Shared Preferences, , DDMS, Fragments, JSON, REST API (XML), JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Gradle, SQLite, XML, Multi-threading, JIRA. AndroidApplication Developer GoGo INC - Chicago, IL February 2014 to April 2016 The KP Flagship app, which is the main app by KP for the Android user segment. It allows KP customers to send messages to physicians, view membership (DMC) cards, set up appointments, view their medical records amongst various other things.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with the Android SDK, and implemented Android Bluetooth and Location Connectivity components.  • Provided technical leadership and management to team of IT developers and contractors.  • Collaborate with other teams including QA, Application support, IT infrastructure and Project Management for project scheduling and delivery.  • Used web views, list views&populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  • Worked with efficient and effective utilization of SDLC methodologies for iterative/agile environment.  • Developed the application through Gradle build which avoids unnecessary workload by caching remote metadata and artifacts, transitive dependency resolution, build execution plan and test results.  • Developed profile based integration for the users to customize their own profile and provide information to store.  • Designed the architecture and User Interface (UI/UX) using client requirements and use-cases. Analyzing layouts with Hierarchy Viewer.  • Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Integrated location based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest stores.    URL:https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.kp.m    Environment: Android SDK 4.1,4.34.4, Eclipse IDE, JSON, REST Web Services, XML, Action-Bar and GIT-HUB. Android Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA October 2011 to January 2014 Gogo Inc. is a provider of in-flight broadband Internet service and other connectivity services for commercial and business aircraft. We created an application that includes video entertainment for the users which includes movies, TV shows.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and implementation of the UI, classes, architecture and activities of the mobile application.  • For displaying background images of the app used Frame Layout.  • Involved in implementing Asynchronous tasks for the background operations.  • Developed the app to adapt to different orientations and various resolutions based on the device.  • Implemented MotionEvent, TouchEvent methods to swirl the snow around with a shake and finger.  • For keep tracking on what devices, places the application was used developed analytics for the application.  • Used Red5Pro SDK to allow scalable live streaming and also for second screen apps.  • Implemented android NDK for speeding up the application as we used the bit/byte operations are used for the compression of the images.  • Tested the android application by importing the Espresso API.  • Developer and designed the request and response data to and from gallery.  • Manually tested each and every phase of app life cycle and implemented the changes parallel.  • Administered in all the phases of SDLC from design, development through testing, porting and support of application    URL: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.gogoair.ife&hl=en    Environment: Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, Frame Layouts, DDMS console and User Interface Design SrJava/J2EE Developer Verizon - Ashburn, VA October 2007 to September 2010 Designed and developed an application for individual investors. Its main functionality was to provideup-to-the-minute account information, allows customer to perform different types of transactions, view the latestmarket news and commentary from Vanguard and Reuters, research analysis about vanguard investmentsand share content with friends and family through social media.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development  ? Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application  Functionality  ? Used Lambda expression to develop the application.  ? Developed UI for various modules with Spring MVC combined with Java script framework, JQuery, React JS.  ? Implemented the required functionalities into the existing legacy application with eye towards Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  ? Involved in designing and implementation of end to end application flow (UI, Service and persistence layers) for multiple modules.  ? Using a Node JS for Coding in advance Java application software  ? Developed UI for various Modules using JSF, JSP, Java script, HTML, NodeJSand CSS  ? Used Node JS to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.) and Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements. Used GruntJS, BowerJS, Express from NodeJS.  ? Involved in enhancing existing MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node) stack applications and provided the required support.  ? Used JavaScript, Node Js , JQuery, Dojo for client side validations  ? Explored Spark, Kafka, Storm along with other open source projects to create a realtime analytics framework.  ? Design/Implement large scale pub-sub message queues using Apache Kafka.  ? Developed JSP custom tag libraries, and associated support in the Action Servlet, that assists in creating interactive form-based applications, which is the one of the primary area of functionality using Springs  ? Designed and documentedProof of Concepts (POC) for various scenarios and trained team members  ? Used spring components and concepts like Aspect oriented Programming (AOP), Dependency Injection (DI), MVC, DAO, and Transaction Management etc.  ? Used Hibernate as ORM toolin persistence layer and develop POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) to handle all database operations  ? Deep hands-on experience on building scalable web service architectures with various relational ( MySQL, SQL Server, Red Shift), and distributed database systems ( GraphDB, Mongo DB, Elastic Search, Redis).Designing, Deploying, Administering, and Monitoring, Optimizing large Distributed data Clusters using MongoDB, Elastic Search.  ? Backend processes were built in Python, utilizedRabbitMQ as the Messaging middleware.  ? Implemented WebService client using CXF and spring.  ? Implemented EJBs Session beans for business logic.  ? Configured the adapter for Event processing that can be synchronous or asynchronous, and listeners within the adapter to provide support for SOAP over HTTP, HTTPS, and JMS transports  ? Involved in writingANT scripts for various deployment scenarios  ? Experience and/or willing to specialize in one or two PaaS platforms and get architect certification: Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Spring Cloud  ? Involved in writingTest Suites andTest Cases for unit testing and implemented unit testing using Junit  ? Involved in test automation like QTP, Selenium WebDriver, Protractor  ? Worked with IBM WebSphere Application Server (WAS) and used various IDE's RADMaintained the Production and the Test systems  ? Worked on bug fixing and enhancements on change request  ? Involved in documentation, review, analysis and fixed post production issues.    Environment: Java 8.0, Spring MVC, JQuery, JMS, XSLT, Linux, RAD7, WAS 6 and 7, Spring , CXF, SoapUI, GIT, JUnit, Ant, IDE, HTTP, SOAP, ORM, DOJO, Hibernate, , N, Unix, AngulajsNode JS,, Jenkins, Hudson , Protractor , Mockito, Restful, Python, Ilog, BMRS, Drools, Handlebar Js , Marionette Js, CSS, MQ, Pub, Apache Avro, Google Guava, flex, flux, Redux , React , Ember, Neo 4j, API Migration, Pl/sql, Backbone js , Mustache, Jasmine , Require JS , underscore js, MongoDB, Cassandra , GraphDB  IBM MQ , ActiveMQ , RabitMQ , Selenium WebDriver, CloudFoundary, Kafka. Java Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC June 2005 to September 2007 Magna Quest Technologies limited is a trend-setting and fascinating innovative Enterprise Product-based Solutions Company, which has established its leadership over 15 years, in three broad lines of businesses.    Responsibilities  • Involved in Analysis, design and coding on Java and J2EE Environment.  • Implemented struts MVC framework.  • Maintained the business standards and the requirements in EJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  • Designed, developed and implemented the business logic required for Security presentation controller.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  • Developed UI screens using Swing components like JLabel, JTable, JScrollPane, JButtons, JTextFields, etc.  • Used JDBC to connect to Oracle database and get the results that are required.  • Designed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS).  • Consumed webservices through SOAP protocol.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Integrated a crystal report to the application which will show all the details of the vouchers on the paper and used for future reference for the workers.  • Developed a webservice which will retrieve the details from the Database.  • Prepared complete documentation of the WebService developed.  • Prepared a complete documentation of the project and test case documentation with sample inputs Version control is done by using CVS.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JPA/Hibernate, Code Generation, Spring, AOP, ERP customization, Web Services (SOAP), JMS, XML, JDOM, JAXP, JBoss, jBPM, Multi-threading, Lucene, Servlets, AJAX, Mock-up framework, XHTML, CSS, Flash, AS 2.0, Maven2. Education Bachelor's Skills API (8 years), DATABASE (8 years), JAVA (6 years), ANDROID (5 years), ANDROID SDK (5 years), Android 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 versions, Java, Android SDK, ADT 21.1.0, Shared Preferences, , DDMS, Fragments, JSON, REST API (XML), JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Gradle, SQLite, XML, Multi-threading, JIRA (8 years) Links https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.gogoair.ife&hl=en Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java,J2EE, JavaScript, Visual Basic, PL/SQL  Mobile Technologies Android SDK, J2ME  Web Technologies XML, HTML5, XHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, Ajax, J2EE  Web Services REST, XML, JSON  Third Party API's OkHttp, Retrofit, Google Services, Volley, AsyncTask, Picasso, ButterKnife, Facebook, Places API, Instagram, GSON  DATABASE(S) Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, Sybase and SQL Server 2005/2008, My SQL, MS-Access, DB2, SQLite.  IDE Eclipse, Android Studio, Net beans, Dreamweaver  Source Control Sub-Version (SVN), Clear Case, CVS/PVS and VSS (Visual Source Safe), Git, GitHub.    Operating System(s) Mac, WindowsNT/2000/2003/XP/7 And Linux (Ubuntu)  Web-service Framework Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL, REST, JAX-RS, JAX-WS