Sr. AEM Developer Sr. AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. AEM Developer - Fifth Third Bank Cincinnati, OH • Around 11 years of experience in Information Technology as an AEM and Campaign Manager Roles  • Efficient in using Data manipulation, Run and Optimization processes in campaign flowcharts  • Responsibilities include overall technical leadership, oversight of design, coding, troubleshooting, testing, implementation and maintenance.  • Experienced in developing Custom bundles and Servlets on Felix.  • Extensive experience in building email campaigns and simplifying campaign designs for improved performance.  • Extensive and Deep Experience on Creating Affinium Campaign Flowcharts , Processes ,Offers, Sessions, Strategic Segments , Derived Fields , Persistent Derived Fields and Macros  • Worked on AEM Infrastructure Dev-Ops practice on AWS.  • Experienced in Testing and optimization using Adobe Target and integrating it with content manager and cross channel campaign manager  • Introduced new design solutions by creating mockups and wireframes. Ensured sites were 508/WCAG  • compliant, have designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  • Used data load workflows to process file based updates, deploy packages from Dev to production using Adobe Campaign  • Good understanding of Social Collaboration and Campaign Management with CQ.  • Domain expertise includes, system developments using Core Java and J2EE Technologies such as JSP, JDBC, XML, ANT, Maven, JavaScript.  • SME in end to end Campaign Execution ,Implementation and Designing the Campaigns and Providing Recommendations to the clients  • Expertise in advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as like Angular JS, Node.JS, EXT.JS, Less JS, Knockout JS, Backbone JS, D3 JS  • Experience in design and development of, Object Oriented (OOPS), distributed OOAD based system using UML/ Rational Rose.  • Experience with SDLC process (Agile, Waterfall models) of performing detailed analysis, collecting use cases, documenting requirements.  • Have configured Interactive Channels and Interaction strategy to build real time campaigns  • Ability to build tables, stored procedures, indexes, create jobs in SQL Server, use SQL Server Management Studio and tools such as query analyzer, activity monitor, and query profiler.  • Have extensive experience in working with business partners and develop campaigns in marketing automation tools like IBM UNICA, Adobe Campaign Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. AEM Developer Fifth Third Bank - Cincinnati, OH February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Campaign module to provide a stream line and automated Campaign execution system to business users  • Configure and implement Adobe Campaign solutions including web forms  • Responsible for all aspects of individual Campaign set up including offer set up, audience selection, testing plans, quality assurance and Campaign performance measurement activities.  • Worked on Digital Asset Management (DAM), to manage and store all the media.  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application.  • Worked on style sheets to maintain the structure and improvise the appearance of Webpages.  • Involve with content management strategies, architecture and multichannel content delivery.  • Create Target Cell Spreadsheets for Campaign execution. Create and use flowchart templates as well as strategic segments.  • Implemented Site search using Adobe Search & promote. Created new templates, new searches & maintained Adobe Search & Promote configurations.  • Designed and integrated adobe Web portal with adobe Campaign module to provide a stream line and automated Campaign execution system to business users  • Implemented Site search using Adobe Search & promote. Created new templates, new searches & maintained Adobe Search & Promote configurations.  • Designing and implementing integration with External Database to load customer profile data and other transactional data into Adobe to drive multi-channel marketing Campaigns and managed them through the complete Campaign lifecycle  • Enhanced the relevancy of search results using dictionaries & other search capabilities provided by Search & Promote.  • Created new templates, new features & maintained Adobe Search & Promote configurations.  • Ensure high quality deliverables from self & from the team by conducting peer code reviews.  • Extensively worked on front end, business and persistence tier using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, and Hibernate frameworks.  Environment: Java 1.6, Adobe Campaign, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, MySQL, Eclipse, Web services, Junit, XML, Jenkins, Agile methodology, Linux. Aem Developer/Campaign Manager JPMorgan Chase - Houston, TX May 2017 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for all aspects of individual Campaign set up including offer set up, audience selection, testing plans, quality assurance and Campaign performance measurement activities.  • Configure and implement Adobe Campaign solutions including web forms  • Worked on Digital Asset Management (DAM), to manage and store all the media.  • Designing and implementing integration with External Database to load customer profile data and other transactional data into Adobe to drive multi-channel marketing Campaigns and managed them through the complete Campaign lifecycle  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application.  • Designed and integrated adobe Web portal with adobe Campaign module to provide a stream line and automated Campaign execution system to business users  • Worked on style sheets to maintain the structure and improvise the appearance of Webpages.  • Implemented Site search using Adobe Search & promote. Created new templates, new searches & maintained Adobe Search & Promote configurations.  • Enhanced the relevancy of search results using dictionaries & other search capabilities provided by Search & Promote  • Involved in daily meetings and worked in Agile Environment.  • Developing OSGI services using sling framework and Maven bundles  • Worked on HTML, CSS, JQuery and extJS for designing and implementing custom 6.3 components.  Environment: AEM 6.3, AEM 6.2, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, Adobe Campaign Manager , JavaScript, jQuery, Apache Maven, GIT, JIRA, Apache HTTP Server, Java, AJAX. AEM/ Campaign Manager ANTHEM HEALTH GROUP - Atlanta, GA July 2014 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in architecting various Business Layer and Data Management components of this web based system over J2EE architecture.  • Create Target Cell Spreadsheets for Campaign execution. Create and use flowchart templates as well as strategic segments.  • Responsible for all aspects of individual Campaign set up including offer set up, audience selection, testing plans, quality assurance and Campaign performance measurement activities  • Implemented software solutions using technologies - Java, Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe  • Search & Promote Adobe Test & Target, and Adobe Tag Manager.  • Implemented Site search using Adobe Search & promote. Created new templates, new searches & maintained Adobe Search & Promote configurations.  • Enhanced the relevancy of search results using dictionaries & other search capabilities provided by Search & Promote.  • Created new templates, new features & maintained Adobe Search & Promote configurations.  • Ensure high quality deliverables from self & from the team by conducting peer code reviews.  • Extensively worked on front end, business and persistence tier using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, and Hibernate frameworks.  • Involved in supporting the application post production and maintenance.  Environment: AEM 6.3, AEM 6.1, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, jQuery, Apache Maven, Adobe Campaign Manager ,GIT, JIRA, Apache HTTP Server, Java, AJAX. Adobe CQ5 Developer BANK OF AMERICA - Plano, TX September 2011 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on HTML, CSS, JQuery and extJS for designing and implementing custom CQ5 components.  • Worked on customizing the foundation components in CQ5, provide workflows to extend functionalities and improve performance.  • Experience in upgrading AEM 6.0 to AEM 6.1  • Installed and configured Adobe AEM 6.1 version and Apache Felix admin console.  • Experience developing UI, OSGI components in AEM 6.1  • Developed AEM building blocks including custom templates, components, dialogs and widgets using AEM 6.1 and integrated Components with Angular JS as per requirements.  • Worked on Digital Asset Management (DAM), to manage and store all the media.  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application.  • Worked on style sheets to maintain the structure and improvise the appearance of Webpages.  • Involve with content management strategies, architecture and multichannel content delivery.  • Developed an AngularJS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration.  • Implemented the Sling Filter, Felix Filter, Sling Servlet, OSGI bundles for interacting with remote spring webapp services and custom business logic in java.  • Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C and ADA section 508(c) standards.  • Developed the application accessible for disabled users in accordance with Section 508 Compliance and WCAG 2.0  • Used GIT as version control to restore assets to previous versions at a later time and integrated with Jenkins for continuous integration and nightly builds.  • Assisted in transition, Content Migration Plan from 5.6 to CQ 6.1.  • Implemented & enhanced the Physician Profile Importer to keep our Website up to date with the new doctors joining the Organization  • Used AngularJS for management of multi-step user input flows.  • Worked on Multisite Manager (MSM) so as to get same structure and content on all the versions of website.  • Worked on Backbone Configurator (Backbone. Config) which is an extensible object-class that helped us to manage Backbone.js configuration.  • Used log4j for logging the messages.  • Wrote test cases for testing of CQ components and templates in both authoring and publishing environments.  • Developed sling servlets to perform various actions.  • Involved in daily meetings and worked in Agile Environment.  Environment: AEM 6.1, AEM 6.0, AEM 5.6.1, HTML, Angular JS, JSP, JUnit, Servlets, JavaScript, jQuery, Apache Maven, AngularJS, GIT, JIRA, Apache HTTP Server, Java, AJAX. Java Developer Servlet technologies and UI technologies - Hoboken, NJ June 2008 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC)  • Followed agile methodologies to execute project  • Developed various end user's screens using JSF, Servlet technologies and UI technologies  • like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams  • to model the detail design of the application using UML Rational Rose.  • Used Test driven methods to improve the code and find defects in the code.  • Created new tables, Stored Procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers  • and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application  • Deployed application on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Used Jenkins to deploy the application in testing environment.  • Used version control repository GIT and JIRA for issue tracking.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixing the problems.  • Delivered presentations to customer on the progress of the project.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML, Angular JS, CSS, JQuery, JSP,JUnit, Oracle 11g, JDK 1.7, Ajax, Maven, Jira, SVN, Eclipse. Education Bachelor's Skills Bea, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Application server, Gui, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Svn, Xml, Xslt Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Java/J2EE Technologies Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JMS  IDE Tool Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM RAD, Builder  Database Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), SQL Server 2008, MySQL  Operating System Windows and Linux  GUI HTML, Angular JS, XML, XSLT, JSF, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, Sightly, JQuery  Campaign Platform AC7, AEM ,Campaign Manager , Campaign Target , UNICA  Other Tools  BEA Web Logic 8.1, JBOSS V7, IBM Web Sphere Application Server 6.1, Tomcat 8.0, JUnit 4.0, Log4j, Mercury Quality Centre, Rational Clear Quest, ANT, Maven, Jenkins, SVN, Toad    Web Technologies XML,HTML5, CSS, JS, JQuery, AJAX, KM  Methodology, Design Agile and Waterfall SDLC, UML, Rational Rose, CVS, Clear Case