Sr. Full stack Java Developer Sr. Full stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full stack Java Developer - Travelers Insurance-NY New York, NY, NY, NY, NY applications.  • Working knowledge of the multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, a good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Good exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, WSDL, JMS ( Java Messaging Service), AJAX.  • Designed and developed web UI screen using Angular-JS.  • Expertise in Core Java Such as OOPs, Collections, Exceptions Handling, Input/output (I/O) System, Swing, Annotations, Enums, Concurrency, Multi-Threading, Lambda, and Generics.  • Experience in designing and building dynamic and user interactive websites using JavaScript, Angular JS, React JS, Backbone.js, Express.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, and jQuery.  • Developed Angular JS Controllers, Services, filters and directives for various modules in the application.  • Created custom directives, decorators, and services using Angular JS to interface with both Restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  • Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts with C, Java, and Python.  • Experience in working with Core- Java and Multi-Threading applications.  • Expert knowledge of J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Session Facade, Business Delegate and Data Access Object for building J2EE Applications.  • Experienced in web development using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX technologies.  • Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), IOC (Inversion of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and template classes.  • Hands on experience with working on BRMS software like JBoss Drools.  • Experienced in working with batch jobs using Spring-Batch, Autosys, and Quartz.  • Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC, SAX and XML Beans.  • Expertise in developing and consuming Web services including different technologies and standards like DTD, XSD, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, WS-I and Apache Axis, JAX-RPC.  • Experience in installing, configuring, tuning IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, BEA Web Logic 8.1/9.1, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBoss 5.x/ 4.x.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, J Builder, Rational Application Developer(RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  • Expertise in database modeling and development using SQL, T-SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), DB2 and SQL Server environments.  • Experience in using ANT and Maven for build automation.  • Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows 98 / 2000 / NT / XP, AIX, Sun Solaris  • Involved in Performance analysis and improvements of the application using tools like JMeter and using commands on Unix box to resolve deadlocks and improve performance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full stack Java Developer Travelers Insurance-NY July 2017 to Present Description: The Travelers Companies, Inc. is an American insurance company. It is the second largest writer of U.S. commercial property casualty insurance and the third largest writer of U.S. personal insurance through independent agents. Travelers is incorporated in Minnesota, with headquarters in New York City and its largest office in Hartford, Connecticut    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC including the design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Used JSP, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  • Research and development on scalable Linux development on AWS via Docker.  • Used Angular 2/4 and Backbone.JS for client-side validation.  • Develop various screens for the front end using Angular JS and used various predefined components from NPM.  • Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Capable to automate the process of testing of application using python script and pysys framework.  • Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance.  • Handed Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.  • Implemented Restful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to the client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Designed and developed the REST based Micro services using the Spring Boot.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  • Implement Java8 features including Lambda, Advanced for each loop, and Streams.  • Involved in writing API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS Services.  • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Spring Boot.  • Developed views using the HTML, CSS and JS components of Bootstrap framework.  • Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  • Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and test automation. Used Kafka for data streaming. Used Maven as a building too  • Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF), also Managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry.  • Experienced in implementation of JMS to exchange information over reliable channel in an asynchronous way by using Active MQ, Rabbit MQ as a message queue.  • Created computing and data resources on AWS using EC2. Installed Pivotal Cloud Foundry on EC2 to manage the containers created by PCF. Implemented agent-server messaging dialog using Rabbit MQ.  • Build Web pages that are more user interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, LESS, Bootstrap and Angular JS  • Deployed GUI code to Web Logic application environment and standalone components to JBoss Server. Developed web services to perform various operations on the supplier information.  • Used Mongo DB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, Sharding, and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Responsible for providing architectural guidance to external business team in Apigee API  management.  • Creating Domain classes, Controllers, View objects, and services at backend side to perform the functionality for the application using Groovy Grails 3  • Implemented Micro Services architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Used JIRA ticketing system to keep track of issues and tasks on individuals.  • Worked with NoSQL databases such as Cassandra, MongoDB did enhancement of the existing functionality to persist the messages to Cassandra DB in Kafka. Developed persistence framework to ingest high volumes of data to My SQL and Cassandra.  • Use Maven to build the application and deployed on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Used GITHUB as version control tool.    Environment: JAVA 8, J2SE, HTML5, CSS3, AWS, jQuery, Ajax, Rabbit MQ, Angular JS, Node JS, JSON, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.2.0, Spring MVC 4.2, Hibernate 4.0, Docker, Micro Services, Kafka, Apigee, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF), Bootstrap, Web services, Restful, RAD, Python, Web Sphere, Sonar Qube, Agile/Scrum Methodology, Maven, JIRA, JBoss, JUnit, TDD, MongoDB, GITHUB. Sr. Full stack Java Developer Safeway - Pleasanton, CA April 2016 to June 2017 Description: In 1915, M.B. Skaggs, an ambitious young man in the small Idaho town of American Falls, purchased a tiny grocery store from his father. M.B.'s business strategy, to give his customers value and to expand by keeping a narrow profit margin, proved spectacularly successful. By 1926 he was opening 428 Skaggs stores in 10 states.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet customer expectations, timelines with quality deliverables.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular JS and Node JS.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using Angular JS and developed responsive Web pages using Bootstrap.  • Designed and developed an application using Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Batch and Spring Data.  • Implemented logging and transaction manager using Spring AOP concept.  • Used Spring JPA and Spring Repository pattern extensively.  • Development of test framework using the Python.  • Used Spring Security to provide authentication, authorization and access-control features for Application.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot with Spring MVC flow.  • Developed Restful Services using JAX-RS with Spring Boot and Micro Service Architecture to enable Micro Services to deploy in the cloud.  • Developed Terraform scripts to create the AWS resources such as EC2, Auto Scaling Groups, ELB, Route53, S3, SNS and Cloud Watch Alarms.  • Created AWS Lambda using java to perform event driven processing.  • Provided portable APIs for developing, exposing and accessing Web applications designed and implemented in compliance with principles of REST architectural style using JAX-RS and Apache jersey.  • Extensively used Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions, Parallel operations on collections for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Automated application deployment in the cloud using Docker technology using Elastic Container Service scheduler.  • Developing internal Web Application in Groovy/Grails with Mongo DB as a data store. Using the IntelliJ Idea 15.0.4 IDE with the latest Grails 3.1.1 SDK, Java 8.  • Incorporated Basic authentication and JSON threat protection by using Apigee API gateway.  • Migrating the application to cloud environment using the Amazon web services-EC2, S3 and various services of AWS.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations.  • Used Rabbit MQ queues for implementation of multi-threaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  • Developed REST API's using Spring MVC and spring boot, hosted all micro services on Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF)  • Used Micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy micro services.  • Used Rabbit MQ as Java Messaging Service for producing and consuming data between applications.  • Connected to Data sources and performed operations using Spring Data Framework features like Spring JDBC and Spring ORM.  • Involved in Construction of UI using jQuery, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that must be stored in AWS S3.  • Developed test cases for Unit Testing using JUnit and Mockito.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking for monitoring of work assignment in the system and Log4J was used to monitor the error logs.  • Implemented responsive pages and images using Bootstrap.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  • Used Git for version control and IntelliJIDEA IDE for development of the application.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, AWS, Angular JS, Node JS, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Data, Apigee, Python, Restful Services, SOAP, Micro Services Architecture, Oracle, Mongo DB, JUnit, Mockito, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF), Gradle, JIRA, Jenkins, Unix, GIT, Web Sphere Application Server and IntelliJ. Java Developer FedEx WTC - Collierville, TN December 2014 to March 2016 Description: FedEx Corporation is an import/export company, incorporated October 2, 1997, in Delaware. FDX Corporation was founded in January 1998 with the acquisition of Caliber System Inc. by Federal Express. With the purchase of Caliber, FedEx started offering other services besides express shipping.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, design, workflow, and process flow, Development of Airline technology applications called FOCUS and CIS using Core Java and Java Swings  • Involved in consuming, producing SOAP annotation-based web-services using JAX-WS. Which includes features like WS-Security standards, role-based security to restrict access to resources  • Continuous integration using Jenkins for nightly builds and send automatic emails to the team.  • Designed and developed persistence layer build on ORM framework and developed it using Hibernate.  • Developed UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, Bootstrap, CSS and Angular JS framework.  • Involved in Secure Coding against SQL injection, XSS attacks by adding extensive validation code for all user inputs by writing JavaScript Regex Regular Expression for login validation, jQuery code combined with Angular JS ng-pristine/dirty for input validation.  • Developed well responsive single page application using React JS framework and JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards.  • Developed all the User Interfaces using JSP and Spring MVC.  • Extensively used DAO patterns, including mapping DAO objects, configure file and classes to interact with the database.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using Hibernate (ORM) framework.  • Developed rich User Interface using jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Used AJAX function calls using jQuery functions to handle the user requests asynchronously and to have faster responses from the server by directly connecting to the server.  • Obtained JSON responses to front-end using GSON API.  • Developed applications using Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping files, configured XML files, hibernate query language.  • Implemented web services using WSDL/SOAP and created web services and clients to use those services.  • Designed and Developed Rating Engine as a Web service following the top-down approach using Apache Axis2.  • Experience in using Data Access Objects (DAO), Session Facade, and Business Delegate and Factory patterns to increase the performance of the system.  • Experience in installing, configuring and deploying the application on Web Logic Server.  • Implemented build scripts using MAVEN.  • Involved in Unit Test Cases writing and having good knowledge in JUnit.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit framework and tested DAO's and Business Services.  • Clear Case technology was used for version control.  • Worked with Eclipse IDE to develop and deploy the complete application.  • Utilized SVN for software configuration management and version control.  • Used JAXB for marshaling and un-marshaling.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Functions in MySQL.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Rational Rose, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Spring Config, Jersey, Restful Web services, WSDL, JBoss, Struts, JUnit, XML, XSLT, Log4j, MySQL, SOAP, ANT, Maven, Angular JS, SQL Developer, SVN, SQL HTML 5. Java/J2EE Developer Stored Value solutions - Louisville, KY April 2013 to November 2014 Description: SVS is a global provider of gift card and stored value services. As a pioneer in the market, we are committed to be the best at measurably increasing client sales with superior stored value products and services. With nearly 20 years of industry experience.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, SAX, XSLT, JAXP, JNDI, LDAP, JMS and MQSeries.  • Implemented business layer using Core Java, Spring Beans using Dependency injection, spring annotations, and Spring Web-flow components.  • Used Spring Boot for building applications along with Spring Initializer and bootstrapping the build configuration for a Boot-based web application.  • Developed JSP pages using Spring MVC 3.0 framework and created Spring MVC components like Dispatch Servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Involved in design and development of server-side layer using JSP, JDBC, EJB and DAO patterns using Eclipse IDE.  • Developed server-side services using Java, Spring, Web Services (SOAP, Restful, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RPC)  • Research and development on scalable Linux development on AWS via Docker.  • Developed Struts Action and Form classes to access Java Beans and UI and deployed various Sessions beans.  • Involved in the Development of reporting system using Struts, Spring, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Developed the application using RAD as the IDE and used its features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation and version control (CVS)  • Redesigned Web front-end for scheduling system using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, with the jQuery library.  • Designed and build document tracking/workflow system with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript using jQuery, JSON, and a REST architecture.  • Wrote JUnit test cases to test the functionality of the code by using Mock Framework.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Spring Web Flows.  • Wrote test cases in JUnit for unit testing of classes and implemented the logging using Log4j.  • Built data access subsystems using Hibernate and Spring against stored procedures on a DB2 database  • Design Client-side architecture for UI development using Angular JS.  • Development of modules using Angular JS and HTML5.    Environment: Java, JDK 1.7, J2EE, Servlets, MVC, Web Logic, Apache CAMEL (Integration), EJB, JSP, Struts, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring AOP, JPA, Hibernate, XML, Net Beans. Java/J2EE Developer Hyderabad, Telangana November 2011 to March 2013 Description: Approsys core portfolio comprises business process services, outsourcing, development, HR consulting and corporate training. We deliver a broad portfolio of information technology and business process outsourcing services to clients in the manufacturing, financial services, healthcare, communication and retail industries and to governments around the world.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle, such as requirements gathering, Modelling, analysis, design, and development.  • XLDP is DB driven website with Struts Action Controller and SQL Server database.  • Generated Use Case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase. Used java Design Patterns like DAO, Singleton etc.  • Used Struts tag libraries (like HTML, logic, tab, bean etc., ) and JSTL tags in JSP pages.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • A Test-Driven Development (TDD) Agile Methodology has been followed.  • Implemented Multithread concepts in Java classes to avoid deadlocking.  • Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with the database.  • Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP code. Designed UI Screens using JSP, Struts tags and HTML.  • Involved in design and implementation of document-based Web Services.  • Application Developer and used CVS for version control. Designed, Developed and Implemented JSP's in Presentation layer for the Submission Application reference implementation.  • Involved in production support of the application (L3), debug/analyze the rolling logs in a production environment.  Environment: Java 1.4, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Hibernate, Spring 1.4, Struts, tag Libraries, JDBC, PL/SQL, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle 9i (SQL), UNIX, JSPs, AJAX, Eclipse 3.0, Windows XP/2000, Tomcat Server, LINUX, CVS. Web Developer Gem soft Tech Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2009 to October 2011 Description: Gem Soft Tech Solutions is an India based IT service provider that focuses on cost-effective, qualitative and timely delivered offshore software development services, business process outsourcing services and knowledge process outsourcing services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of UI/UX implementation of an internal mobile catalog application including Design, Prototyping, development and testing phases.  • Rewrote and maintained the internal library and built a structured MVC /MVVM framework by redesigning the front- end UI components.  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, and JSON with MySQL database as the backend.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested event handling logic using jQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Used Selectors in jQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Experienced in implementing Rich Internet Applications i.e., RIAs using JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX calls and JSON data from the server.  • Programmed standards-compliant HTML and CSS working with jQuery modules and JavaScript libraries.  • Worked through cross-browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS.  • Tested cross-browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE8+.  • Made changes to various CSS properties to enhance the UI as per client requirements. Wrote SQL, PL/SQL (Procedures/Functions/Packages/Triggers) to handle business functionality.  • Used XML SAX parser to simulate XML file which has simulated test data.  • Participation in meeting with the team, senior management, and client stakeholders.    Environment: HTML, CSS, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, MVC Framework, XML, J2EE, JSF, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), AJAX (8 years), jQuery (8 years), TESTING (8 years) Additional Information Skills  J2EE (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), AJAX (8 years), jQuery (8 years), TESTING (8 years), Java (Less than 1 year), Node (Less than 1 year), React (Less than 1 year), Angular (Less than 1 year)    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 8 (JDK 1.7/1.8), Python, PHP.  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets (3.x), JDBC (4.x), JSTL, Java Server Pages (JSP 2.x), JSF, MS.  Frameworks Struts (2.x.x), spring (3.x/4.x), Hibernate (3.x/ 4.x), Apache Camel (2.x), Swing, Apache CXF, Apache Karaf.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, Angular JS, Angular 2/4, React JS, AJAX, Backbone.js, jQuery, SOAP and Restful, Node.js.  Web Servers Tomcat (8.x/ 9.x), Web Logic (9.x), Web Sphere (6.x), Red Hat JBoss Fuse, Glassfish Server (4.x)  Tools Ant (1.x, Gradle (3.x), Maven (3.x), Log4j, Git (1.x/2.x), SVN (1.x), CVS (1.x.x)), JUnit (4.x), Selenium (3.x/ 4.x) Mockito), Jenkins, Hudson and Bamboo.  Databases Oracle 11g/12C, My SQL, SQL, MongoDB, Mainframes, Teradata, PostgreSQL, Cassandra.  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, BO XI R3.  Version Control Tools CVS, VSS, Rational Clear Case, Tortoise SVN, Mercurial, ANT, Maven  Testing JUnit, Log4J, Mockito, FitNesse Tests