ServiceNow Admin/ Developer ServiceNow Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> ServiceNow Admin/ Developer - Honeywell Bloomfield, NJ • A Qualified IT Professional with around 10 years of experience with 7+ years of experience as a ServiceNow Developer /Admin and 3 years of experience as the Java Developer.  • Good understanding of IT Help Desk and service management along with understanding of the ITIL, ITSM and ITOM framework.  • Great experience in Istanbul, London, Madrid, Calgary, Eureka, Fuji, Geneva, Helsinki versions of ServiceNow.  • Hands-on experience leading all stages of system development efforts including requirement, design, architecture, testing and support. And experience in creating custom Applications, Modules and Tables.  • Extensive experience in implementation of Business Rules, Data Dictionary, Client Scripts, UI Actions, UI Policies and Validation Scripts in ServiceNow.  • Responsible for the development and testing of user interfaces.  • Experience in Integrating Jira with Service-Now in Sandbox and Production Environments, Working with different aspects of Web Services REST, API's.  • Wide range of Implementation experience with many global Clients in the ServiceNow suite development including SOAP/REST integrations, Discovery, Service catalogs, Business Rules, Update sets and Workflow.  • Migrated applications to the AWS cloud and Involved in DevOps processes for build and deploy systems.  • Knowledge on Office 365 / Azure Cloud Migration. Managed On-Premise Exchange 2013 and Office 365 Hybrid infrastructure. Functional Knowledge and implementation experience of Framework.  • Managed and maintain mail flow between Office 365 tenancy and On-Premise messaging infrastructure.  • Expertise in importing and Exporting of data in ServiceNow.  • Created various Workflows for process applications for Incident Management, Change Management, Problem Management Service Requests, Asset management, CMDB, Performance Analytics. Worked as an SME for ServiceNow implementation of Service Catalog and CMDB.  • Expertise on Creation of Workflows for Service catalog items in ServiceNow. And Experience in creating and maintaining Access Control rules for securing and providing the right access to right person/role.  • Good knowledge on SMTP, Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) working process in Discovery. And Knowledge in Configuring Email Notifications and Scripting Inbound Email actions.  • Experience with Web Technologies such as HTML, JAVASCRIPT, XML and Web Services.  • Experienced in CMDB integrations and Responsible for building the CMDB integrations with the enterprise monitoring and service management tools.  • Experience with ServiceNow integration using SSO, LDAP, MS Active Directory, ADFS, and web services integrations.  • Good understanding of Helpdesk / Service Desk and hands-on experience of employee Self-service Portal(SSP) customizations.  • Experienced in managing both low and high-severity incidents across the entire incident life-cycle in accordance with Resolution and Restoration SLA's.  • Experience in developing Crystal reports and converting crystal reports to Business Intelligence and Reporting Tool (BIRT) reports for web applications.  • Experience in delivery of end to end Service Catalog and ITSM modules implementation by following the SDLC process in ServiceNow.  • Efficient team member with excellent work time management skills and good communication. Work Experience ServiceNow Admin/ Developer Honeywell - Morris Plains, NJ March 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Expertise on defining workflows in Service Catalog items, Approvals and Dynamic tasks in ServiceNow.  • Provided analysis, design and development of Service-Now ticketing and incident management systems to support the company's technical operations.  • Responsible for creating various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Problem Management, Service Requests and SLA's.  • During development worked with JavaScript, XML to create front-end and back-end components such as forms, buttons, views, pages, business rules and workflows.  • Created custom widgets, pages, themes, search sources, CSS stylesheets, angular providers etc.  • Developed a custom service portal with an intense/ambitious front-end design from scratch without using any OOTB widgets or components. Assisting less experienced staff in user specifications, coding, testing and debugging.  • Performing core configuration tasks including system policies, business rules and client scripts.  • Managing data with tables, CMDB, import sets and update sets.  • Involved in System Integration with ServiceNow using REST and SOAP API.  • Involved in Self-service portal designing, development of Home Page, Place Order for Service Catalog, Knowledge base, creating a service tickets, Alerting users on Outages.  • Worked on Angular JS for widget development to interact with server side, client side, HTML template and link function. HTML, CSS, bootstrap components were used extensively in the widgets.  • Maintained the integrity of the ServiceNow tool across production and non-production environments. Involved in production support for all the ServiceNow related issues. ServiceNow Developer Biogen - Cambridge, MA August 2017 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  • Implemented the configuration of various modules like Incident, Problem, and Change, Release, Asset, Configuration Management Modules and Knowledge Management modules.  • Supervised and designed Change Management application of the company in enabling smooth and efficient operation tasks towards ownership which involved managing tickets, workflows and templates. ServiceNow application development, including creation and configuration of Service Catalogs, Email Notifications, Data imports and exports and Reports.  • Experience in working with UI Actions, UI Policies, UI Macros and Data Policies in ServiceNow.  • Created new Business Rules/Script Includes/Client Catalog script/Client Script.  • Design and implement SLA-Service Level Agreement and the required work flow with Email notifications.  • Configured Scheduled Data Import for importing data files from remote server location.  • Co-ordinating with off-shore development team in implementation of service catalogs.  • Involved in LDAP integration with ServiceNow for obtaining users and groups.  • Configured multiple forms for Asset module using Configuration Management Database.  • Created Update Sets to migrate customizations from one instance to another instance.  • Implemented Human Resource Service Portal to stakeholder requirements.  • Designing service portal in Helsinki using HTML, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  • Created several widgets and pages for service portal development.  • Involved in design, development, administration and deployment of ServiceNow.  • Responsible to co-ordinate with stakeholders in designing, testing and post-production to ensure that our team meet their requirements. Involved in loading, manipulating and maintaining data between ServiceNow and other systems. ServiceNow Developer/Admin Varian, CA February 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implementation of Problem Management, Incident Management, Change Management, Service Catalog Management, Email Notifications.  • Involved in ServiceNow Customization, Development and Administration.  • Application Support for Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog.  • Involved in developing complex and standard workflows. Reviewed Business Rules and recommended solutions for implementation.  • Design and development of ServiceNow forms and views. Developed Scripts to invoke existing Scripts.  • Developed Import Sets to import data from different Sources.  • Developed Transform maps to map values between Import Set and ServiceNow tables.  • Involved in developing Transform Scripts to trigger events during import process.  • Worked with HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, UI and Angular JS for developing user interface.  • Customization of Incident Management, Change Management Applications. Creation of Email Notifications and Inbound Actions. Customizations Migration between Instances using Update Set.  • As per the best practices of ServiceNow, developed and configured Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Policies, Catalog Client Scripts and Client Scripts, Scheduled Jobs etc.  • Supported the team responsible for the implementation and administration of the ServiceNow installation, including managing system configurations, gathered and documented user and process requirements, developed workflow customizations, and performed quality assurance testing and user acceptance testing. Developed and maintained APIs and data integration processes between ServiceNow and other services. ServiceNow Admin Goldman Sachs, SFO, CA October 2012 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing, designing and developing business applications which involved customization, workflow administration, data imports, custom scripting using JavaScript.  • Coordinated ServiceNow environment/form back-end customizations. Notified clients and updated documentation  • Responsible for closing the open Incidents, Problems and Enhancement requests and communicating with the customer the status of the request, to ensure a timely customer satisfying result.  • Responsible for providing analysis of problems and resolutions or fixes for the production issues related to Service Now platform within the Service Level Agreement.  • Involved in providing production support for Service Catalog, Incident, Problem, Change, Release, Deployment, Task, Knowledge management modules in Service Now platform.  • Support Business departments by coordinating Moves, Additions and Changes with IT Services and Facilities.  • Involved with working in an agile development environment.  • Responsible for Berlin Up gradation in ServiceNow and also involved in the analysis of the impact on the existing customization after Berlin up gradation.  • Responsible for mentoring peers and junior curriculum developers in Service now platform. Java Developer SUNGARD - Houston, TX May 2009 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed, coded and tested key modules of the project using java oops concepts.  • Involved in Developing of Application based on J2EE using Hibernate and spring framework.  • Developed the entire application based on the MVC architecture.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Good working experience in various agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM and Pair Programming.  • Followed Spring Boot MVC Rest framework to develop the application flow for the project.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS 2, and JSON.  • Developed single page applications, components using Angular JS 2 directives, controllers, view and routing, and service modules.  • Worked on Jboss application server as a container for web/j2ee applications.  • Responsible for project design, development, and test software for Point of Sale operations using C and C++ in Unix environment  • Involved in creating http inbound outbound flows, Orchestrations, Transformations using MULEESB.  • Implemented Micro services Registration and Discovery with Spring Cloud  • Involved in designing the Graphical User Interfaces, Webpages using HTML5, Angular JS2, ReactJS, Jasmine, JSP, JS, and Bootstrap.  • Focused on architecting NoSQL database like Mongo DB database.  • Experience in DevOps tool chains and with cloud technologies like Docker, AWS, and Cloud foundry. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Xml, Android, Android sdk, Angularjs, Html5, Eclipse, Java, Mysql, Sql, Web sphere, Sdlc, Linux, R2, Frameworks, Windows server 2008, Windows server 2008 r2 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Java Script, SQL, C, C++.  Applications Eclipse IDE, ITSM Suite- ServiceNow.  Databases MySql, SQL.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, and XML.  Frameworks Android SDK, AngularJS.  Operating Systems Windows Server 2008 R2, Linux.  Software Methodologies SDLC, Agile, Scrum.  Cloud Infrastructure Tools ServiceNow, AWS  Web/Application Servers IBM Web Sphere  Platform Windows, Linux.