Product Maintenance Engineer/Tech Support Engineer Product Maintenance Engineer/Tech Support Engineer Product Maintenance Engineer/Tech Support Engineer - Medecision, PA Software Engineer with 15+ years' career at healthcare, life sciences, telecommunications, utility, financial services, and public sector employers. Extensive experience with enterprise web-based application development and support. Expertise with Agile and waterfall SDLC and ITIL processes. Java/J2EE leadership includes development, integration, and maintenance project teams. Strong communication and analytical skills. Effectively manages relationships with customers, vendors, and cross-functional partners. ITIL Foundation Certified.    ? Experience in supporting applications by communicating with end clients to obtain understanding of their issue/bugs, environment, challenges, escalation processes using best practices. Triage issue on regular basis and helping QA team in reproducing issues with findings that cause issues and problem solving. Work independently with moderate level of guidance  ? Experience in developing enterprise web-based applications based on J2EE technologies using EJB, JSP, Angular JS, JavaScript using SVN, GitHub, TFS, ANT, CVS, VSS, Maven, SQL Developer and Toad tools  ? Working experience on framework including Struts, Spring framework, and servers include WebLogic, OAS 10g, WebSphere, Tomcat, Jenkins, SonarQube, Nexus, IntelliJ, Eclipse, WSAD, JBoss  ? Experience in Design Patterns MVC, Session Facade, Singleton, Factory Patterns, Value Objects, Front Controller, Dependency Injection. Used JSON for reading URL strings to parse.  ? Experience in complex client business solutions utilizing n-tier technology, back-end (database) technologies, business application servers/logic, service-oriented architecture (SOA). Oracle11/12c, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  ? Worked on XML data exchange and strong in application integration using Web Services such as Restful, SOAP UI.  ? Worked on Microsoft Azure and Knowledge of AWS, Docker Work Experience Product Maintenance Engineer/Tech Support Engineer Medecision, PA March 2017 to Present Aerial Complex Care Management(TM) is a collaborative health care management platform for addressing case management, utilization management by providing a simplified and smart process for analyzing, applying, and automating payer-driven best practices.    Aerial Care Coordination® offers modules to help manage organization with a value-based healthcare model, including data aggregation, analytics, and reporting.    Responsibilities:  • Remote debugging on customer TEST environments to check which class the error is thrown. Manage high priority incident tickets following the escalation process.  • Working on customer projects that involve the configuration changes to application.  • Walk through the application for certain issues that customer has difficulties navigating.    • Provide support to application on SaaS cadence, resolved tickets that are been created by customer in JIRA.    • Deploying the configuration changes using SourceTree and deploy using XL Release tool. Pull code from GIT and SVN repos to local for investigation issue    • Currently working on deploying/implementing configuration changes required on customer environment follow Change Advisory Board (CAB) process.    • Currently working using Dynatrace Tool to pull user actions when required to check the using visits to application and logs from Splunk    • Work on Linux server to bounce the services or reset the connections to unmount when issue if found related to peer reset connections.    • Check the request and response SOA call using SOAP UI and write WSDL. Work on sales environment for sales teams for demos.    • Implemented critical functionalities using Oracle packages & stored Procedures    • Developed Object-Relational (O/R) mapping using Hibernate and Spring for persistence and application layers    • Worked on Angular JS on ACC project a provider portal.    • Write the Java code to pull the report from the JIRA for customer and created/update documents/procedure manuals for the issue that occur of regular basis.    • Mentor ACC team members to set goals and work toward achieving them by training about various resources available Sr. Consultant Anexinet - Blue Bell, PA November 2015 to December 2016 Goldman Sacs client project, Symphony to build a cloud-based, compliant platform for instant communication and content sharing that connects market participants securely  • Worked on integrating custom plugin for user authentication to verify with the lagoon container.    • Write client certificate generation class using bouncy castle API to generated certificate and store in H2( Java SQL DB)  • Gather requirements and documentation of SDK lagoon properties to Sphinx.  • Implemented JSON method response from the HTTP header  • Worked on framework Netty client server that use a Java library/API to request HTTP server  • Developed on Symphony Authbridge a RESTful web service helping the Symphony application to obtain authentication tokens    BDP International client project, DDS and DMS applications to migrate Oracle on premise database to Oracle running in Azure to reduce license cost. Worked on the phase one of the project: Identifying and updating the connection string of DDS web application and DMS application.    • Proposing a mitigation strategy to re-platform applications to a mix of the SQL Server database (RDBMS) and Microsoft Azure Virtual Machines running Oracle.  • Worked on Environment/App assessment and categorized each application to move to Azure.  Web Application to create page to include event-based drop downs using bootstrap, JQuery events for action on the web page, build a single-page application.  • Created AngularJS Controller to isolate scopes perform operations in UI and created custom directives (ng-app, ng-init, ng-model for initialization) for data manipulations.  • Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling Senior Specialist, Software Product Maint Accenture - Berwyn, PA March 2011 to October 2015 Engineer    ViewPoint is tool to provide a capability to manage regulatory submissions from start to finish in electronic format.  eCTD Validator/Viewer application allows users to select validation rules from a predefined list. Ability to navigate Dossiers with different view sets with enhanced search capabilities.  Quantum application is next generation of ViewPoint 4x for generation and publishing of submissions using web services with SOAP with .net as front end and Java as backend    Responsibilities:    • Collaborated with team on the requirement/code changes for applications as per regulatory publishing guidance change, when occurred for different regions EU, US, CA, CH, ZA and GCC on regular basis.  • Maintained ownership of applications, mentored and managed offshore teams    • Working on JRuby script for the Pfizer submission wizard module and setting up AccuRev source-control system for applications    • Worked on reporting subsystem by using JasperReports and worked on user authenticated in ViewPoint either through its native authentication scheme/LDAP.  • Worked on enhancement for the web Interface by using Struts framework uses a front-controller pattern to access services.  • Support internal regulatory customers by providing input/ideas that help in enhancement of development process  • Developed internal trainings and standards pertaining to submissions publishing and presented the necessary information and manage/mentored offshore team.  • Ensure that the team has completed developer's reports after every version release of the applications for the auditing purpose.  • Created technical document for new enhancements and discuss complex topics with both technical and non-technical users.  • Support applications by resolving issues that come up in the production by analyzing and get information to make decisions based on this analysis.  • Handled all identified open issues listed in OnTime tool by assigning to team members and assist in resolution process and explaining complex issue topics to team.  • Worked closely with software QA team & assist in testing, setting up environments and help other team members in setup process  • Coordinated with the business analyst to update user messages and assigning validation numbers in many scenarios where we have had to add/edit Health Authority validations    Early Career  Held multiple technology roles as Consultant with Relycom: Java Developer PJM Interconnection - Norristown, PA January 2008 to February 2011 Senior Java Developer Independence Blue Cross - Philadelphia, PA August 2007 to November 2007 Build Manager / IS Specialist Astra Zeneca - Wilmington, DE August 2005 to August 2007 Senior Java Developer SBC Long Distance - Hoffman Estates, IL February 2005 to July 2005 Java Developer Verizon Communications - Silver Spring, MD August 2004 to January 2005 Senior Java Developer Department of Revenue (MCSD) - Indianapolis, IN January 2004 to August 2004 Java Developer Food and Drug Administration - Rockville, MD July 2003 to December 2003 Education Master of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering College of Engineering, Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, Jsp, Struts, Wsad, .net, Visual studio, Docker, Git, Html, Json, Middleware, Orm, Svn, Visual age Additional Information SKILLS    Languages/Package Java/JDK1.8, Spring framework, .Net, RESTful web service, XML, XSLT, XPath JRuby, Junit    Middleware/ORM/Cloud Azure, EJB2.0, JSP, LDAP, JMS, Hibernate, Docker, Java Mail, CORBA, Documentum    Frameworks/Architecture Spring Framework, Spring Boot, AngularJS, Struts, Tiles, Maven, Nexus, SonarQube, ANT, MVC, Log4j    Web Languages: JSON, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, HTML, Applets    Web/Application Servers: Web Sphere, BEA WebLogic 10.3, Oracle 9iAS, Tomcat, Netty, Jaguar, Citrix Server, Apache web server 2.2, WebSphere MQ 6.0    IDE/Tools: JIRA, Eclipse, SVN, GIT, XL Release, FileZilla, SoapUI, Dynatrace 7.0, Splunk, DbVisualizer 10.0.15, SecureCRT 7.1, MS SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio, WSAD, IntelliJ, CVS, Rational Clear Case/Quest, VSS, SQL Developer, TFS, SourceTree, Toad 8.0, IBM Visual Age 3.02, HP Quality Center    RDBMS/NoSQL: Oracle, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, DB2, H2 database, SQL, PL/SQL    Operating System: Mac OS, LINUX, Sun Solaris, UNIX, Windows Servers