Sr. AEM Developer Sr. AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. AEM Developer - Cox Communications Springfield, MO ? Over 9+ years of experience in JAVA, J2EE and CMS applications.  ? Worked around 3 years on design and implementation of modules on Adobe CQ 5.5 and AEM 6.0/6.1. Have a solid understanding of CQ5 building blocks, CRX repository, leveraging web content management components for customization and porting of websites.  ? Implemented Adobe CQ templates, components, workflow, style sheets, JSON, JQuery, Angular JS ,Meta tagging and performed CMS administration tasks  ? Experienced in Object oriented analysis, design and development using Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSPs, JNDI, Java Beans, EJB and JDBC).  ? Extensive programming in Web Technologies likes JSP, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, JQuery and Angular JS.  ? Experienced in developing CMS based applications using Adobe CQ/AEM, Apache Sling and Apache Flex OSGI  ? Expertise in Various IDE's likes Eclipse, RAD, RSA and WSAD.  ? Experience in developing applications using three tier architectural frameworks such as MVC (Model View Controller) and STRUTS, SPRING framework and Hibernate.  ? Experience in AJAX, jQuery, ExtJS, JSON,AngularJS and XML related technologies like SAX, DOM Parsers.  ? Strong emphasis on the quality, functionality and productivity of the DAM systems  ? Experience with Bootstrap in creating responsive web-pages.  ? Strong experience with Web Services/SOA concepts.  ? Experienced in using RDBMS like Oracle, DB2, Microsoft SQL Server and MySQL.  ? Experienced in developing applications using CRXDE, Eclipse and Rational Application Developer (RAD) IDEs  ? Hands on Experience in Maven,Jenkins,Ant and Log4J.  ? Experience in using various Configuration Management tools like SourceSafe and CVS  ? Experience with Operating Systems like Windows and LINIX.  ? Prepared test case scenarios and internal documentation for validation and reporting  ? Experienced in User Support and training end users for efficient use of developed applications.  ? Versed with development methodologies namely SDLC, Agile and SCRUM  ? Experience in working with source control and versioning tools like CVS, GIT, IBM Clear case. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. AEM Developer Cox Communications - Atlanta, GA September 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Installed and Configured CQ5 Web Content management System and Apache Felix OSGI Admin Console.  • Installed CRXDE Integrated development environment and Configuration of the project with Subversion version control.  • Performed administration tasks to activate, replicate and package the changes to publish as well to be consumed by other environments.  • Assign work and explain to the main output theme to the junior level AEM developers.  • Design and development of web pages using CQ, JavaScript, HTML 5, CSS3, Ajax, ExtJS and Angular JS.  • Developed Adobe CQ templates and reusable components to be used by various pages.  • Extensively used CQ tagging features in developing components and templates.  • Worked on Author instance to help authoring complex components on pages.  • Worked on creating the components using Sightly.  • Experience with DAM customization  • Used Sightly HTML templating system for providing its syntax and a reference of available expressions, block statements and APIs.  • Involved in building, deploying the code and moving code to different environments using Replication agents.  • Implemented components using CQ tags, JavaScript and JSP.  • Implemented server side service components using Apache Felix OSGI framework and Apache sling. Implemented responsive web design using Bootstrap and Angular.JS.  • Implemented components to utilize services through sling service calls and JSP tags.  • Implemented client libraries useful at page, global and component level using CSS3 and JavaScript files.  • Extensively worked with SOA architecture Involving web service JAX-RS (REST) and JAX-WS (SOAP)  • Able to develop dynamic and aggregative adaptive form using AEM 6.1 form sets  • Developed Java for AEM 6.0/6.1 components for Web Content Management(WCM)  • Developed components that include fetching the content dynamically based on tags.  • Develop highly interactive web applications utilizing CQ5.  • Used Sightly Read Eval Print Loop (REPL) tool for live execution environment.  • Developed custom widgets and multi fields using ExtJS  • Used Rally for project tracking and defect tracking.  • Vaultclipse and CRXDE used extensively to perform development.  • Used GIT for version controlling for maintaining source code and project documents.  • Used Jenkins to deploy dynamic libraries.    Environment: AEM 6.0/6.1, Adobe CQ 5, Java, Servlets, Java Script, JSP, HTML5, XHTML CSS3, Ajax, JQuery, ExtJS, Angular JS, Bootstrap, SOAP,REST, Rally, Sightly, Apache Sling, Apache Felix OSGI, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, Jenkins, GIT, Windows and Linux AEM Developer (Sr. Java/J2EE Developer, AEM 6.0) Bank of America - Charlotte, NC August 2015 to September 2017 Description: Bank of America is an American multinational banking and financial services corporation headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. It is the second largest bank holding company in the United States by assets. This project is worked on Online Banking/Bill Pay System. This provides secure online access to customer accounts and keeps track of daily account activity like withdrawals, deposits, and facilities like inter-bank money transfer was provided by the application. It also provides service to the customers to pay the bills.    Responsibilities    • Involved in analyzing requirements, design and implementation required by the project.  • Created Technical design documents and understanding documents for business modules  • Involved in developing front end using Java, XML, HTML 5, JSP, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX and Angular JS deployed the application in Apache Tomcat Server.  • Designed the database interaction with JDBC.  • Used ANT scripts to build and deploy J2EE applications.  • Written SQL queries in XSQL page for retrieving data from the database.  • Development of Procedures, functions, Cursors and CQ Triggers in PL/SQL using PL/SQL developer.  • Experience with uploading DAM asserts.  • Used Apache Log4j for logging.  • Used SOAP and REST in Jersey 1.2 Web Services  • Performed code reviews for the peers.  • Involved in writing and execution of unit test cases.  • Experience with Bootstrap to create web-page compatible to mobile screens for enable transaction messages.  • Responsible for release management process of the project during SIT and UAT cycles.  • Provided SIT and UAT support.  • Preparation of Impact Analysis Documents for Change Requests.  • Development of CRs.  • Develop highly interactive web applications utilizing AEM 6.0.  • Involved in code sync activities  • Involved in tracking and fixing the production issues.  • Used CVS for version controlling.  • Used HP Quality Center for defect tracking.    Environment: AEM 6.0, Java, J2EE, CQ Triggers, Scene 7, Apache Tomcat, XSQL,PL/SQL,SOAP and REST Web Services, Jersey 1.2, Servlets, JDBC, HTML 5, JSP, Java Script, JSON, AJAX, Angular JS, Bootstrap, CVS, Apache Log4j, Linux and Windows CQ 5 Developer (Sr. Java/J2EE Developer, CQ 5 Developer) Symantec - Chicago, IL March 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities    • Create and maintain customer-facing Adobe CQ5/AEM content management systems.  • GIT is used as a distributed revision control system for CQ5. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer's machine.  • Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system, Adobe CQ5  • Provide estimates, designs, and specifications for CQ5 templates, components, and workflows  • Built various web pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script and JQuery.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, CQ5 dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache  • Using Angular JS to provide services to different components of portal.  • Worked on Angular JS for reading and Posting JSON data.  • Worked on CQ5 Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.  • Used GIT for version controlling  • Used Apache Maven to build and deploy J2EE applications  • Provide author training to business users to familiarize them with the design and usage of the system    Environment: Adobe CQ 5.6.1, Workflow, Scene 7, Java, J2EE, Angular JS, JSON,JIRA, Apache Maven, Servlets, HTML,CSS, Java Script, JQuery, GIT, Linux and Windows Sr. Java Developer Tech Insurance - Allen, TX October 2011 to March 2013 Description: Tech Insurance is the nation's leading online agent for IT freelancers, independent contractors, and small businesses. By connecting technology professionals with insurance agents who understand their unique risks and coverage needs, we provide a vital service that our customers can access from anywhere they have an Internet connection.  Responsibilities    • Involved in the process of analysis, design, and development of the application.  • Developed user interface using JSP, Struts and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • The entire application was developed in J2EE using an MVC based architecture with help of Apache Struts 1.3.8.  • Coded Struts Action classes, Model classes.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Singleton, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Service Locator  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Implemented client side validations using JavaScript.  • Used Form Based Authentication.  • Used Web Sphere as the application server for deployment.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, complex queries using SQL to process the data on MYSQL DB.  • Performed unit testing on various project modules using JUnit framework.  • Used Apache Ant as build tool.  • Used IBM Rational Clear Case as version control tool for maintaining source code and project documents.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring MVC, DTO, AJAX, My SQL, HTML, JavaScript, JUnit, Shell, SQL, Eclipse, IBM Rational Clear Case, Apache Ant, Log 4J, Linux/UNIX. Java Developer Net Cracker - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2008 to August 2011 Description: Catalyst Data Warehouse Application is a web application provides a web interface through which the user can put a request for activation or deactivation of an originating open digit (telephone numbers). Further the application provides various functionalities like search, advanced search, move and change of open digits  Responsibilities    • Capturing project requirements and analyzing the requirements.  • Involved in analysis, design and developing front end/UI using JSP, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Build the whole application. Application was completely build on MVC architecture using some internal custom frameworks.  • Developed Adjustment screens using JAVA and Servlets.  • Prepared workflow diagrams using MS VISIO and modeled the methods based on OOPS methodology  • Developed the Host modules using C++, DB2 and SQL.  • Responsible for creating the front-end code and java code to suit the business requirement  • Written Ant scripts for build, unit testing, deployment, check styles etc.  • Created tables, stored procedure fulfill the requirements and accommodate the business rules in Oracle 8i database.    Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, DHTML, MVC, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, SQL, DB2, C++, Unit Testing, MS Visio, Oracle 8i, Eclipse, Ant. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology J.N.Technological University Skills ANT (6 years), Apache (6 years), HTML (9 years), Java (9 years), JSP. (6 years) Additional Information Operating Systems Windows XP/7 ,Linux/Unix, AIX  RDBMS/ Databases Oracle 8i, 9i,11g, IBM DB2  Programming Language Java, J2EE  IDE WSAD, JDeveloper, Eclipse , NetBeans, CRXDE, RAD  Distributed Technologies Eclipse, CRXDE,RAD  Internet Technologies  JSP, Servlet, XML,XSLT, Java Script, AJAX, dojo, JDBC, JNDI, LDAP, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Apache Axis and HTML/DHTML, CSS, JSF, UML, JSR 168 API/JSR 286 API/IBM Portal API, Web services, SOAP, WSRP,IBM WWCM,VPN,TCP/IP, Web 2.0.    Web/App Servers Tomcat, JRun ,JBoss ,WebLogic, Websphere Application Server  Content Management System Adobe CQ5.X and AEM 5.6,Adobe CRX,AEM6.0  Design J2EE Design Patterns  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Hudson  Version Control System CVS, GIT, SVN,IBM Clear case  Logging Tools Log4j  Frame works STRUTS, Validation (Struts), Spring, Hibernate