Lead UI Developer Lead UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead UI Developer - ORGANIZATIONAL Daly City, CA Over 9+ years of professional experience in the Information Technology mainly worked on Banking, Telecommunications, Insurance domains and involved in software development life cycle processes including requirements gathering, analysis and design, development tools and technologies, release and version control. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead UI Developer Kaiser Permanente, Rockville, MD - Rockville, MD June 2013 to Present Kaiser Permanente is America's one of largest not-for-profit health care organization, serving 8.1 million members in 9 states and the District of Columbia. An integrated health delivery system, Kaiser Permanente organizes and provides or coordinates members' care, including preventive care such as well-baby and prenatal care, immunizations, and screening diagnostics; hospital and medical services; and pharmacy services.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Full life-cycle software development and interactive front-end applications using MVC paradigm, Object-Oriented analysis, distributed system design and development using N-tier architectures and involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Involved in development, design and implementation of front end part of the application and developed the User Interactive web pages by using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS as per company standards in a professional manner.  • Designed and implemented the reporting front end and backend code for the n-tier Cross Channel Web Analysis application. Used J2EE, Java, JSP, Scrum, Struts, and Ajax, JSON, PL/SQL, XML, Hibernate, spring, JavaScript, Pentaho Java-based reporting engines, Command pattern, Apache and Tomcat technologies.  • Worked on JavaScript frame work for building web pages (Angular JS, Backbone, Bootstrap, Node.JS, and React.JS) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability and developed, worked and implemented UI controls with ExtJS and Sencha JS framework.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, Ajax and jQueryUI and also developed consumer based features, applications and interactive user interface using Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, GWT, Ruby on Rails, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Designed and implemented functionality and created Front-end Applications using technologies using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests. Created an Internal Browser Based Text Editor Using Html, Css, Java script, Require.Js, Backbone, Handlebars, Jasmine.  • Design UX deliverables including Sitemap, Wireframes, Storyboard, and Process Flows using Adobe Fireworks and Balsamic Mockups.  • Created extensive wireframes, user flows and sitemaps for multiple high-profile ecommerce sites.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular.js for effective design of Web pages Worked on implementing directives and scope values using Angular JS for an existing webpage.  • Creating rapid prototypes of interfaces to be used as blueprints for technical development.  • Developed back-end stored procedures and triggers using Oracle PL/SQL, MongoJS ORM to communicate with MongoDB database and involved in database objects creation, performance tuning of stored procedures, and query plan, also manipulated data using CRUD operations and retrieved and displayed useful information using AJAX and implemented Spring JDBC Templates for database calls.  • Involved in Implementation of Oracle Coherence based on cache framework to cache the MCP organization and article universe data from multiple sources and encapsulated them in a custom data model, thus facilitating very fast response times.  • Implemented and created dynamic Web Projects using Maven Script, JQuery library and Angular, Web logic Application Server, Jenkins and cross browser functionality to create JAR, WAR, EAR.  • Developed UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Integrated Spring with Hibernate and made as Spring bean using Hibernate Template and used Apache CXF for developing SOAP & REST web services  • Implemented Hibernate Second level of caching to get fast responses, SOAP based web service using Spring CXF and jms configuring object, message driven beans, message selectors to consume messages from JMS Queue, using Http client, Jackson libraries to consume Rest based services and to handle JSON based responses.  • Used JSP and JSTL Tag Libraries for developing User Interface components. Used SVN for version control and used Eclipse as the IDE for implementing the application and implemented session beans using EJB  • Involved in developing and modifying the credit card, consumer loan business rules in ILog JRules.  • Integrate AJAX and web 2.0 technologies including PHP scripting  • Designed and created complete BPEL and OSB Processes for orchestration using different process activities in Oracle SOA Suite.  Tools & Technologies:  Java, J2EE, Spring , Hibernate, Struts, JavaScript, Node.js, Ajax, Angular.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, Oracle , CRUD, PL/ SQL, JDBC coherence , MongoDB , APACHE CXF, UX, REST, Eclipse, Web logic, Subversion (SVN), Junit, JSON, SOAP, JNDI, JMS, EJB, Perl, Agile, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, ITEXT , Jasper report , Web 2.0, SOA. Lead UI Developer Volkswagen - Herndon, VA December 2011 to May 2013 Volkswagen is one of the leading automaker. ETRACS System is a Work flow/Inventory Management system which tracks, allocates various tedious tasks to Work force, Maintains Inventory and Provides Insight for efficient management. Front End Application is designed which are used for their daily activities including plans projection, scheduling, Human Resource Management, Billing, Monitoring, Reports Generation, and Inventory Lookup etc.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Responsible for architecture, design and development of a secure, scalable, high volume transaction J2EE based application. Unified Process Methodology is adopted in the project. Rational Rose is used to generate and maintain UML diagrams and documentation in OOA/OOD.  • Developed application using AngularJS, NodeJS, JQuery, HTML, CSS and AJAX, Struts technologies, which communicated with java, SPA (Single Page Web Application) using Restful web services plus AJAX and Angular, UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery. Used JSP layout for View of MVC.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap and web presentation layer using jQuery, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Created frontend using EXTJS framework. Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Developed application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern, Hibernate as data mapping and persistence framework to implement data access abstraction and used Core Spring Framework, JQuery, HTML, Bootstrap for Dependency Injections of components and for web applications  • Implemented Ajax with JQuery to refresh results from Ajax page. Created of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQUERY  • Developed the UI panels and user interfaces using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO, JSP, Google Web Toolkit (GWT) and JQuery. Worked on front-end validation through JavaScript and back-end validation using Spring Validation Classes  • Developed drag and drop functionality using AJAX and Tile framework in Struts. Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  • Developed frontend widgets in Backbone.js and Handlebars.js. Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular.JS. Implemented MVVM in all interactive views using jQuery & Knockout.js and layouts in Bootstrap.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers and designed SOA based enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite and WebLogic.  • Responsible for UI and UX design, graphic design, assembling Flash based videos, coding XHTML, JQuery, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed internal application using Angular.js and Node.js connecting to Oracle on the backend. Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval and implemented the Connectivity to the Data Base Server Using JDBC and RDBMS using SOAP, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL on Oracle database. Used JPA with Entity Beans for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules and used Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application. Responsible for build and release the code from Subversion and Perforce.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application. Worked with ILog Jrule engine, to trigger the business rules in the rules execution engine configured in Web Logic application server.  • Designing & implementing BPEL processes, business rules, web services using IBM SOA technologies stack.  Tools & Technologies:  Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Java script, Ajax, Node.Js, Angular.Js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Oracle, Crud, Pl/Sql, Jdbc, Apache Cxf, Rest, Eclipse, Web logic, Subversion (SVN), Mongo DB, UX, Coherence, Junit, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Jstl ( Java Server Pages standard Tag Library), Servlet, Maven, Itext, Jasper Report, Web 2.0, Soa. Senior Software Developer Bite Squad October 2010 to November 2011 Bite Squad is a locally-owned restaurant delivery service. The mission was to make it easy, fast and affordable way to order all the wonderful cuisine around here without leaving the house, making a ton of phone calls to places, or shuffling through a bunch of menus. Bite squad appeals to people because it's a high-tech service that updates you about your order. It tells you when: your order is place, your order is sent to the restaurant, when they are cooking it, the quality check, and when it's on it's way to you.    There are currently over 150 restaurants participating in the Bite Squad service. Bite Squad has a strong presence in downtown and Uptown Minneapolis and has recently expanded to St. Paul, St. Louis Park, and Edina.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL  • Developed the service layer, a layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with Spring framework.  • Expertise with NoSQL databases like HBase, Cassandra, Dynamo DB (AWS) and MongoDB.  • Design UI screens using JSP, CSS, Struts Framework, AJAX, Java Script and HTML.  • Hands on experience in AWS provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Glacer, ELB, RDS, SQS, SWF, EBS etc  • Experience in implementing dynamic web applications using Apache Tomcat , IIS Web logic, Jboss, Web sphere, and Glassfish.  • Worked on developing the web services classes, WSDL using Apache Axis. Developed Web Services to retrieve data from legacy systems.  • Involved in the analysis, design, development, testing and maintenance phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of benefit shift Project.  • Developed web services components using XML, SOAP and Axis.  • Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, JavaScript, CSS, Web services, and DHTML  • Creation of database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, materialized views and packages using oracle tools like PL/SQL developer.  • Developed user-friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing login system by using AngularJS  • Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Goggle Web Toolkit (UI) and business tier  Tools & Technologies:  Java, Hibernate, Spring, XML, Tortoise SVN, JSP, DB2, MVC, J2EE, Agile, JUnit, Maven, UML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Log4J, Oracle , Vaadin, Agile methodology, JavaScript, AngularJS, Eclipse, PL/SQL, JBoss. Software Developer Informix Corporation - Menlo Park, CA October 2009 to September 2010 Informix Software was a software company which sold database products, desktop software and development tools, and information integration products. The company was active in the Unix, PC, Linux and Macintosh markets, and grew through both organic development and acquisitions.    The Informix brand and database products were acquired by IBM in 2001, and several of the most popular products remain in market and are continuing to be enhanced by IBM. For information on the current Informix branded database software products see the article IBM Informix..    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developing backend code using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Using Spring for dependency injection and for data access layer code.  • Using Collection API, generics, serialization, exception handling using Java.  • Ensure Code quality and Unit Test coverage (Junit) of the Development  • Using spring annotation for developing RESTful web service.  • Deploying application on tomcat server using U Deploy.  • Doing integration testing for application in integration environment.  • Following the Agile principles and ensure on time release  Tools & Technologies:  Java , Spring, RESTful web service, Spring data, Tomcat, Eclipse, log 4j, JSON, SVN, Oracle, Maven. Java Programmer Time Warner September 2007 to September 2009 Time Warner Center is a leading global media & entertainment company with businesses in filmed entertainment, television networks, & publishing; headquartered in New York.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Analyze requirements, involved in agile methodology approach, meetings with business team to evaluate business requirements and transform them into technical aspects.  • Developed a high performing fault tolerant data services layer using Spring/JDBC/Oracle DB /PL-SQL/Hibernate/EJB technologies.  • Developed data exchange interface between legacy systems and billing sub-systems using Open Source technologies like Apache Axis, Spring, JDBC/JMS template etc.  • Developed and consumed REST and SOAP API based Web services that allow sophisticated, effective and low cost application integration. Used JSON as the data interchange format.  • Developed PL/SQL stored procedures, cursors and Triggers in Oracle database.  • Worked on Git Hub for Configuration management, Jenkins for Continuous Integration (CI).  • Followed Agile Development methodology, attended retrospective meetings every sprint and Daily scrums.  Tools & Technologies:  Java, J2EE, JDK , Eclipse, Spring, JDBC, JMS, Web Services(SOAP and REST), CXF, JSON, SOAP UI, JUnit, XML, HTML, JSP, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, XSD, XSL, Web logic Application Server, Oracle , TOAD, Maven, Jenkins, Git Hub. Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript (6 years), HTML (5 years), CSS (6 years), Node.JS (5 years), Angular (5 years), Bootstrap (5 years), Backbone (4 years), Rest (5 years), Soap (4 years), JSON (6 years), JQuery (5 years), AEM, Angularjs, Drupal, Hadoop, Magento, Java, Node, UI Additional Information OPERATING SYSTEMS  LINUX, UNIX, Windows  PROGRAMMING TOOLS  My Eclipse, Uml, Jasmine, Qtest, JIRA, Junit, Hudson, Ant, Cruise Control,MS Visual studio, CVS, Subversion, GIT, VSS, Perforce