Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer Beverly Hills, CA A dynamic professional with 12+ years of rich experience in Technical Architecture, System Analysis, Requirements Gathering, Client Interaction, Design, Implementation, Maintenance, Support, Migration and Deployment of Applications    ? Extensive experience in delivering technology solutions for client service operations, Prime Brokerage, and client reference data maintenance. Current platforms include OTC, cash confirms processing, statements, client on boarding/client confidentiality applications, and real-time query management.  ? Experience in conception, analysis, design and development of high availability, distributed, scalable and high performance multi-tier enterprise applications in Java, J2EE on UNIX platform.  ? Systems architecture using Java, SOAP/REST/WSDL, MQ Pub/Sub, DB2, Sybase  ? Hands-on experience in project lifecycle activities like Requirement Specification Analysis, System Design, Development (Coding and Testing) and Implementation, with emphasis on Object-Oriented Methodologies (OOM) and Reverse Engineering solutions.  ? Experience in Version control systems like Perforce, CVS, GIT and scheduling tools like Autosys.  ? Proficient with different Software development methodologies including Iterative, Prototyping and Agile.  ? Adept at collaborating with clients and functional managers to identify core business requirements and leverage technology to streamline business processes.  ? Experience in various open source performance management tools like JProfiler, JMeter.  ? Knowledge of PERL scripts for web development & Reporting based programs.  ? Experience in Software Build, Configuration Management and Automation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer Inhance Digital - Beverly Hills, CA May 2010 to May 2017 QWEST: QWEST (Query, Workflow, Exceptions Services Technology) is the Operational dashboard which gathers information across multiple asset classes throughout the lifecycle of an Equity or FID trade. QWEST is used by Morgan Stanley Operations to reconcile transactional information related to the straight through processing of a trade. It provides a standardized user interface which helps streamline various workflows and business processes.  Roles & Responsibilities  • Requirement Analysis, Estimation and Prioritization of work  • Assigning Tasks (Jira) to the team  • Implementing SOAP Services to get Trade data from DB2, Mainframe  • Implementing DAO layer using Spring JDBC  • Implementing EH Caches for caching look up data  • Review and implement application and data service entitlement strategy  • Writing Junit Test cases  • Writing complex SQL queries for audit reports, writing stored procedures  • Making builds using Jenkins  • Code Review & Testing using JMeter and HP Quality Center.  • Creating Autosys Jobs  • Release Management, handled responsibility of Release Manager, Post turnover verifications  • Resolving business user's queries and issues received through Service Now tickets.  • Developer Level Production Support (L3) in NA region & resolving application outages  • Assisting team on technical issues.  • Working on improving applications from performance and automation point of view.  Tools Used: Java 1.7, Spring Apache Tomcat, DB2, Sybase, Apache Zookeeper, Quartz, EH Cache, Perl, Autosys, MQ Senior Java Developer Stanley, NY March 2010 to May 2010 Fidelity View: This project is developed to support the FIL business for Institutional customers. Fidelity View provides a host of information, accessible on demand to clients granted access to the service. The information available via Fidelity View can broadly be divided into two sections - generic and client specific. Examples of generic information include news, resources and product information - this information is currently available to all clients, with differing parts being relevant to each client. Examples of client specific information include valuations, holdings, transactions, historic reports and Fidelity contacts this information is as the name suggests, specific to the client.  Roles & Responsibilities  • Requirement Analysis, Estimation  • Development, Unit Testing, Code Review.    Tools Used: Java 1.5, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Web Services, WSAD-5.1.2, Clear case, Sybase, Oracle 10g Senior Java Developer General Electric (GE) December 2007 to February 2010 Energy Financial Services (EFS): This project had mainly two modules "AMPS" and "Company DB" which are used by GE Energy Financial Services. Application is in accordance with MVC architecture. AMPS stand for Asset Management Portfolio System where a user can create his portfolio by searching the various deals which are in 'closed-manage' state. It is interrelated with other EFS applications like Spark and Rapid. Company DB application is used to create a new company.  Roles & Responsibilities  • Requirement Analysis, Estimation  • Development, Unit Testing, Code Review.    Tools Used: JAVA 1.5, Spring, JBoss 4.2, iBatis, Oracle9i, Struts, AJAX System Analyst Standard Bank Group Ltd January 2007 to November 2007 Bank master to ERLM and AML interfaces: Bank master to ERLM and AML Interfaces are to provide different Bank master data sets to Maven and AML for Storage, Analysis and Reporting.  Roles & Responsibilities  • Implement ETL to provide data    Tools Used: Java, SQL Server, Nexus framework, XML System Analyst Dimension Data - ZA August 2004 to January 2007 Bank master to ERLM and AML interfaces: Bank master to ERLM and AML Interfaces are to provide different Bank master data sets to Maven and AML for Storage, Analysis and Reporting.  Roles & Responsibilities  • Requirement Analysis  • Development, Unit Testing, Code Review.  • Bug Fixes  • Release Management    Tools Used: Apache Struts, JSP, JAVA2, Appfuse 1.7, Tomcat 5.0, Spring Framework, Hibernate (ORXM), Oracle, Junit3.8.1, Apache-Ant-1.6. Education Bachelor's Skills Apache (9 years), Cache (7 years), Java (10+ years), Sybase (7 years), Tomcat (9 years) Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY:  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux & UNIX  Databases and Tools: DB2 (Mainframe & UDB), Sybase, Oracle, MySQL, DBArtisan, DBVisualizer, TOAD  Languages & Technologies: Java 1.7, JSP, Servlets, HTML, XML, JavaScript, Perl, JUnit  Development Framework: Spring, Struts  Servers: JBOSS 6, WebLogic 10, Tomcat 7  Web Services: Soap, Restful Web Services  Build & Configuration Tools: Ant, Maven  Development Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans  Profiling Tools: JProfiler  UML & Data Modeling Tools: Rational Rose  Object Relational Mapping: Hibernate, iBatis  Version Control Tools: Perforce, GIT & SVN  Project Management Tools: JIRA  Continuous Integration Tools: Jenkins, CuiseControl  Other Tools & Utilities: Quartz, Log4j, EH Cache, Apache ZooKeeper